18-11-2020||Jharkhand||River-cleaning drive at steel city for Chhath||Local civic body Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) on Wednesday carried out the cleaning of rivers Subarnarekha and Kharkai with 100 workers for Chhath celebrations. The state government on Tuesday rolled back its decision to ban Chhath puja at public water bodies in view of the Covid-19 situation, as a result of widespread public protests. The cleanliness drive for removing puja paraphernalia and other wastes was carried out in all the major ghats including the Subarnarekha ghat at Sakchi, Kapali in Mango, Domuhani in Sonari, Pandey in Bhuiyadih, Bhuiyandih ghat, Sati ghat in Sonari, Substation ghat at Kadma and Bodhanwala ghat in Bistupur. Members of several social associations also joined in to clean the Baroda ghat at Bagbera among others. A team led by special officer of JNAC Krishna Kumar supervised the cleanliness operation at the Subernarekha ghat in Sakchi, Domuhani in Sonari and Bodhanwalla ghat at Bistupur. These are the three ghats which attract the maximum number of devotees during the biggest festival of Bihar. “Besides cleaning, the ghats will also be levelled. We have begun the work to prepare the ghats for Chhath. All ghats would be cleansed and would be ready by tomorrow,” Kumar said. He added that streetlights and halogen lights would be set up at the river banks to make things convenient for the devotees. In Jamshedpur, the rituals will also be performed at the sprawling premises of the Surya Mandir at Sidhgora, which has two artificial ponds. "We are getting ready for the festival.   An appeal has been issued to the devotees for maintaining social distance and other safety norms while performing puja and offering arghya on both days,” said a member of the Surya Mandir committee. The celebrations will also be observed at the Dimna lake, which is maintained by Jusco. However, due to the pandemic, many devotees will be celebrating Chhath, which began on Wednesday, at their homes. On the first day, known as Nahay Khay, women devotees take bath  in the morning and cook a proper meal for themselves. Lauki (bottle gourd) bhaat, along with chana daal is a popular meal prepared by the devotees on this day. Meanwhile, apart from the markets, which witnessed seas of devotees buying last minute Chhath Puja essentials, the long distance Bihar-bound buses also witnessed a huge rush at the Sitaramdera Bus Terminus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||No one violated pollution norms during Diwali||No one has been booked in Ranchi under relevant sections of the law for violating government guidelines on checking pollution during Diwali despite blatant violation of curbs on bursting crackers during the festival and the day after, highly placed sources in the government admitted on Wednesday. “Nobody lodged any complaint with the local police against violators during Diwali. So, no FIRs were lodged. Even suo motu cases were not filed,” said an IAS rank official in Ranchi, requesting anonymity. An order issued by Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) two days prior to Diwali clearly stated that people found violating rules set by the pollution watchdog would be booked under section 188 of IPC and Prevention and Control of Pollution Act 1981. A copy of the order is in possession of The Telegraph Online. The JSPCB order set a time limit of two hours, from 8pm to 10pm, for bursting firecrackers across the state, and allowed only “green crackers” in at least 14 urban areas of Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Bokaro. But bursting of firecrackers in public places was prohibited. However, Diwali revelry started as early as 6pm on November 14 and the fireworks continued unabated till late in the night, causing noise as well as air pollution. In fact, Diwali noise this year was higher than last year in some parts of the city, JSPCB officials said. While the government permitted sale of only “green crackers” in the city, there was no effective mechanism to check whether cracker traders followed the rules, sources said. A highly placed source in the government said that the guideline for Diwali was issued too late, and it was impossible to follow all the rules when the festival was only 48 hours away. “Green crackers are not even available in all parts of Jharkhand. Most traders already had ordinary crackers in their stock,” the source said. JSPCB member secretary Rajiv Lochan Bakshi said that the pollution watchdog only issued guidelines for pollution control, and it was up to law enforcement agencies to ensure that rules were not violated. “We cannot take action against individuals,” he said. Ranchi SSP S.K. Jha said he did not have data on the number of people who were booked for violating pollution control norms during Diwali. Officials are now worried that social distancing norms may go for a toss during Chhath too, as it would be impossible to control a crowd of devotees at Chhath ghats during the festival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||Trains few, Chhath devotees forced to opt for buses ||Limited numbers of special trains during Chhath have compelled passengers to line up at Dhanbad interstate bus depot to reach their homes during the festival. Commuters have opted for advanced booking in several bus routes including Patna, Nawada, Bihar Sharif and Aurangabad, while many others were seen beelining at the counters to book tickets for reaching their destinations. However, several others have been compelled to travel in hired or private vehicles. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Bundela Travels operator Sumit Singh said, “We had maximum rush on November 16 and 17 but but it is continuing till today. But there are fewer passengers from tomorrow onwards.” Bundela Travels operates more than two dozen buses in the Patna, Aurangabad and Bihar Sharif routes from Dhanbad. “Such was the situation that we had to divert the buses meant for other places like Bokaro, Hazaribagh and Ranchi to the Patna, Aurangabad and Bihar Sharif route”, he said, adding that they were operating four buses on the Patna route two or three days earlier but had to increase it to six per day to cater to the huge rush. “We have also increased the number of buses on the Aurangabad route from four to eight, and from six to eight on the Bihar Sharif route,” Sumit said. A bus operator at Dhanbad, who wished to remain anonymous, said that the fares were hiked at about 20 to 25 percent than normal. The fare for AC buses to Patna stands at Rs 500 per person while that for Non-AC ones are priced at Rs 400. The fares for Aurangabad and Bihar Sharif routes are kept at Rs 350 and Rs 320 in non-AC buses. “We are trying to accommodate almost all passengers and the decision to increase the buses on Bihar route has been carried out accordingly,” another bus operator named Sunil Singh said. Meanwhile, reservations were full at the Bihar-bound Chhath special trains like the ganga-Damodar Express as well as the regular trains like the Ganga-Sutlej Express . Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Ravi Prakash, a resident of Digwadih in Dhanbad, said, “The journey was comfortable and being a regular visitor of my native place at Patna I experienced the most comfortable journey this Chhath as only the limited ticket bearing passengers as per seat availability have been allowed to enter the station.” Prakash was traveling in the third AC coach of the Ganga-Damodar Express to reach his hometown at Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||Maoists shoot clerk, set two vehicles ablaze at Lohardaga construction site||Members of the CPI (Maoists) shot down a clerk working at a construction site of a bridge on Tuesday night in rebel-hit Peshrar block in Lohardaga district, over 130 km from Ranchi. The miscreants also charred two vehicles on the site. This is the second incident by Maoists in the last 72 hours. After the news broke, police on Wednesday sent a team under the aegis of Lohardaga SDPO Jitendra Kumar to the mishap site, around 50km from the district headquarters to take stock of the situation while separate teams comprising district police and CRPF began a combing operation to trace and nab the extremists, said officials. The deceased has been identified as Vickey Gupta, in his early 30s and hailed from Garhwa district, said police sources. “He was a relative of the contractor Vikash Gupta, who was assigned the bridge construction work. Last year too, the deceased was among the three who was attacked by rebels during construction of a road project in Lohardaga,” said a cop. Lohardaga SP Priyanka Meena confirmed the incident while talking to reporters this morning. “Maoists have killed a Munshi was killed and two vehicles engaged in construction works were put on fire on Tuesday night. Police is investigating the incident,” she said Officer in-charge of Peshrar police station Ramawadh Karmali said that a poclain (machine for digging soil) and a tractor were set on fire at the construction site. “The same squad of Ravindra Ganjhu could be behind the incident, the motive being to instill fear and extract levy,” he said. According to information, the construction cost of the bridge over Onegada river is estimated to be at around Rs 2.5 crore. On Sunday, Maoists had killed a 55-year-old villager, Jagisr Bhagat in Mungo village under Serendag police station on suspicion of being a police informer when he along with his wife was on their way to their grocery shop at night. Rebels had first held them captive by tying the duo and then pumped bullets into Bhagat’s body while freeing his wife later on. Dreaded Maoist Ravindra Ganjhu’s squad was suspected to be behind the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||Chhath days likely to see light rain as temperatures rise||The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Ranchi and Patna centres on Wednesday said that light rains are likely in Jharkhand on November 20 -- the day Chhath devotees or bvratis will offer evening arghya to the sun god. “We are expecting light rain especially in southern and central Jharkhand covering places like Ranchi, Jamshedpur and several other districts on Friday due to convergence of westerly and north-westerly wind, which usually results in rain" said Abhishek Anand, Deputy Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He added that a cyclonic circulation, too, has formed over the southwest part of the Arabian Sea, resulting in the formation of clouds across several places in the state since Wednesday morning. Weathermen at IMD's Patna Met Centre said cloud cover is also expected to prevail in some Jharkhand districts on November 21, which is the last day of the four-day Chhath festivals. On this day, devotees offer early morning prayers to the sun god. Today's satellite reading suggested a generally cloudy sky over Jharkhand during the next 48 hours followed by light rain on Friday. There is also a possibility of moderate thunder and lightning on Friday, " said a senior weather analyst at Patna Met Centre that monitors Jharkhand’s weather. Minimum temperature in the state rose on Wednesday due to the cloud cover, with ranchi recording a minimum temperature of 16.7 degrees Celsius -- four notches above normal. The maximum temperature was as high as 20 degrees Celsius, which is four degrees above normal. Met department headquarters at Palamu recorded four degrees above normal minimum readings at Daltonganj on Wednesday. The local IMD observatory at Daltonganj recorded a minimum temperature of  17.5 degree Celsius on this day. Statistics available from the Met department suggested a rising trend of night readings in several other districts due to the adverse weather conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||Shoppers throng Ranchi markets as uncertainty over Chhath clears||A day after the Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand Government permitted Chhath rituals at public water bodies in the state, devotees thronged market places in the state capital on Wednesday to buy fruits, bamboo soops and bottle gourds to prepare for one of the largest festivals in Jharkhand, to be celebrated on Friday and Saturday this week. Meanwhile, the district administration also started cleaning water bodies across the city to ensure that devotees get clean ghats to offer Arghya, a holy ritual during Chhath. On Wednesday morning, a team from the Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) inspected the line tank lake and initiated a cleanliness drive. Ranchi Sub-divisional Officer (SDO) Sameera S said that the district administration was also planning ways to maintain social distancing between devotees during Chhath and ensure adherence to the government guidelines.  Following protests by devotees and opposition parties in Jharkhand against the government's diktat of prohibiting Chhath at public water bodies, the government had to amend an earlier guideline and incorporate changes to allow Chhath at public lakes, ponds and rivers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI to accept GRE scores for flagship course||The Xavier School of Management  (XLR) on Wednesday announced that it will accept GRE scores along with GMAT and XAT scores for admissions to its flagship Executive PGDM (General) program, starting this year. Admissions  are open for the 15-month full-time residential General Management programme  - Executive PGDM (General) at the premiere B-school of the country. The last date for registration to the course is November 30 . The program has got various prestigious accreditations, including  The Association of MBAs (AMBA) and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). The aim of the course is to augment the skill-sets and capabilities of practising managers and boost their careers. To be eligible for the course, one has to hold a recognised bachelor’s degree in any discipline and have an experience in managerial or supervisory positions of at least five years. The Executive PGDM (General) programme consists of core and optional courses designed specifically for fast track executives with work experience, and exposes them to recent trends, tools, and techniques in management. Coming with a three-month field training, the programme provides the essentials of management education with the flexibility of individual exploration in their chosen area of interest. XLRI director Fr. P. Christie said, " Knowledge and continuous learning is the mainstay amongst progressive organisations of today. To satisfy this thirst for knowledge and to become a learning organisation, XLRI has evolved a 15-month consolidated programme in general management .  The objective of the course is to provide the practising managers a substantial exposure to theoretical foundations in management as well as to provide them a holistic perspective of business in such a way that they are not only equipped with tools and techniques to perform their task effectively but also to shoulder greater responsibilities in the future as they move up the organisational hierarchy." Founded in 1949, XLRI has grown into a top-ranking business management school of international repute with a wide portfolio of management programmes and research publications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jayant Sinha, BSF jawans clean Hazaribagh lake for Chhath||Former  union minister of state for civil aviation and Hazaribagh MP Jayant Sinha on Wednesday led a team of Border Security Force(BSF) 400 jawans and officials to clean Hazaribagh lake, which was left filthy due to the Chhath festival that started on this day. The team, which came forward for the first time to clean the popular tourist spot, brought in trolleys, JCB machines and tractors to dispose of the garbage that was collected from the lake. Praising the efforts of the BSF and calling its jawans and officials sanitation warriors, Sinha urged everyone to take part in such drives in order to keep their areas clean. He also hoped that the force would come forward to participate in such missions at other important areas of the town. The MP reached the lake this morning and joined the BSF jawans to clean it. The Hazaribagh lake, a popular tourist destination, is used by devotees during the Chhath festival to perform several rituals that subsequently pollutes it. With the situation being the same at three other reservoirs as well, efforts are on to clean them all. In recent years, all the four lakes have been covered with jalkumbhi or common water hyacinths as a result of negligence, which has prompted the deputy commissioner to ask the department of fisheries to take up the cleaning work. According to Inspector General Rajiv Gandhi, paramilitary forces including the BSF have been taking part in these drives from time to time as a result of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a cleaner and greener India, which asks everyone to take part in sanitation works. Along with securing the borders the BSF has also been taking care of the residents living around the camp areas, he said. Gandhi added that on Wednesday 350 jawans and 50 officials took part in the s sanitation drive, while terming the Hazaribagh lake an ornament for any city. Other BSF officials present were deputy inspector general S Ahmad, second-in-command S Kereketta and Nalin, deputy commandants R.K. Mishra, D.K.Mishra, Sushil Kumar, Sanjay Kumar and Pawan Kumar beside assistant commandants Neeraj Kumar, Vikas Kumar and Amar Chand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 261 cases, 343 recoveries in a day||While Covid-19 recoveries outnumbered the fresh cases of infection in the past 24 hours in Jharkhand, three more casualties took the state's Covid toll up at 931 on Tuesday, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. As per a daily bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday night, at least 261 of the 16,675 people tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Tuesday – roughly 1.5 per cent – were found to be infected by the lethal virus. All the three fatalities reported in Jharkhand on the day occurred in East Singhbhum, a district which accounts for 348 Covid casualties, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, Ranchi has reported 187 Covid casualties so far, the second highest in the state. The festive season has also lowered the Covid testing rate in Jharkhand, NHM figures revealed. As on Tuesday, over 18,000 swab samples, collected over the past one week, were yet to be tested. As per government data, the government has so far collected swab samples of 38.44 lakh people and tested 48.26 lakh of them. As many as 343 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on Tuesday, taking the Covid recovery rate in the state up at 96.61 per cent. The number of active cases of infection also dropped down to 2,669 on the day. As per government data, as many as 1,02,891 Covid patients have recovered from the infection in Jharkhand since March. At least 17 of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases on Tuesday. With 86 fresh cases, Ranchi was the highest contributor to the state’s Covid caseload on the day. At least four districts – Chatra, Khunti, Koderma and Lohardaga – reported only one case each. As many as 18 of 24 districts in the state had fewer active cases of infection than 100. Ranchi, with 912 active cases, had the highest number of Covid-19 patients in Jharkhand, while East Singhbhum had the second highest. At least 470 people were battling the infection in East Singhbhum on Tuesday. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.17 per cent against the national average of 0.39 per cent. The doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in the state was 405.38 days against the national doubling rate of 178.16 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.87 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
