19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Last minute Chhath preparations in Dhanbad||Senior officials of the Dhanbad district administration and police led by deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh visited different ponds and water bodies, including Raja Talab of Jharia, Bekar Bandh and Pampu Talab, to take stock of Chhath preparations. Singh was accompanied by Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz, sub divisional officer Surendra Prasad; and the municipal commissioner. The team met with the puja committee members at Raja Talab in and instructed them to ensure observance of all guidelines issued by the state government with regard to Chhath Puja. “Besides observing the rule to maintain a minimum distance of six feet, spitting in rivers, ponds and other water bodies besides public places will also be strictly prohibited” said Singh. He also warned against installation of any stall or shop on the banks of any river, pond, lake, dam or any other water body or its vicinity. “Bursting of crackers at public places will be strictly prohibited during Chhath and similarly any musical or other cultural programmes during the festival will also not be allowed,” Singh informed. “All Chhath puja committees will have to cooperate with the district administration in the strict observance of the state government guidelines,” he remarked. Surendra Prasad will coordinate with all incident commanders of the district to ensure strict observance of the guidelines. SSP Minz on the other hand said that elaborate security arrangements will be made on all the Chhath ghats during the festival tomorrow and also the day after tomorrow. Jharia MLA Purnima Singh also visited Raja Talab and took stock of the preparation for Chhath Puja scheduled tomorrow. Interacting with the media, she said, “Though the government has allowed people to observe puja at public water bodies, people should follow all the guidelines laid down by the state in order to prevent the spread of Covid.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||CISF inspector killed, another injured in road mishap at Gua mines||A Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) inspector was killed and his driver was seriously injured as an SUV they were traveling in was run over by a huge dumper at Gua iron ore mines in West Singhbhum district, about 150 km away from Jamshedpur, on Thursday. The mishap took place when the CISF inspector, Nagendra Prasad was on his way for inspection of the security personnel engaged at the mines which belong to Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) at about 2.30 am on Thursday. The driver of the SUV, Akaash Lohra, was seriously injured and was rushed to the Rourkela Steel Plant hospital. The doctors who attended him declared that both of his legs were damaged beyond repair level and will have to be amputated. West Singhbhum superintendent of police, Ajay Linda confirmed the fatal mishap at the SAIL's Gua mines and added that the police and mining department is carrying out an investigation into the mishap. "In the mishap, a CISF inspector who was on the C-shift duty was killed on the spot and the driver was seriously injured after a huge dumper ran over the SUV, the victims were traveling in at the small hours on Thursday. The matter is being investigated," said Linda while talking to The Telegraph Online. Chief general manager, Gua Mines, BK Giri made a visit at the mishap spot along with the district mining officer on Thursday afternoon. "The CISF inspector, Nagendra Prasad (45) was killed in a road mishap while he was on duty. The driver has also sustained grievous injuries.  We are looking into exactly how such mishap took place," said Giri while talking to The Telegraph Online. Prasad who was originally a resident of Palamu district is survived by his widow and two children who study at DAV Gua. The victim's widow lost her consciousness as she came to know about her husband's accidental death in the morning. She has been admitted to a local hospital for treatment. According to police sources, the mishap took place on a hilly terrain inside the iron mines. "As the CISF inspector was moving on a mines road on the hill in an SUV, the driver had to negotiate a curve.  But from the opposite direction, the heavy dumper was approaching which has a carrying capacity of 100 tons of iron ore. As the dumper is about 20 ft high, the dumper's driver could not see the SUV and ran over it," said a police official requesting anonymity. The official said with the CISF inspector and driver inside, the SUV was smashed under the impact of the heavy dumper. "Having realized that a four-wheeler came under the dumper, the dumper driver put the vehicle on reverse gear and tried to rescue the victims. The management of the SAIL mines had to press gas-cutting equipment to take out both the victims," said the official while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||One killed, another injured in elephant attack in Chandil||A 45-year-old mahout was killed and another mahout seriously injured as a herd of wild elephants attacked them at Balidih village on Wednesday at midnight. The incident took place as a group of 18 mahouts were trying to drive the elephant herd away from the human habitat in the Chandil range, triggering fear among the local residents of Balidih and Dhunaburu villages. Those killed were identified as Haricharan Mahto and Durga Charan Mahto, both residents of Jargodih village in adjoining Ichagarh block of Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Revealing about the incident, Chandil forest range officer, Ashok Kumar said that a herd of five wild elephants had entered near the human habitats on Tuesday night, leading the residents of Balidih and Dhunaburu demanding the forest department to drive the herd away by pressing an elephant driver's team. "On the request of the local villagers, I had pressed a squad of local mahouts in the evening. Equipped with ‘mashal' and drums as well as fire-crackers, the mahouts were driving the herd gradually toward an elephant corridor leading to the Seraikela jungle from where the herd was suspected to have come. At around 11 pm, suddenly one of the elephants got berserk and started chasing the mahouts back. While 16 of them climbed on the trees to save their lives, two others, including the leader of the team who did not climb on any tree. As a result of the situation, the wild elephant first flung Durga Charan away having caught him by its trunk and subsequently trampled Haricharan to death," narrated the forest range officer, Ashok Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. Kumar said generally, elephants do not come closer to those who hold ‘mashals', but it was a deviation in the behavior of the elephant that killed the mahout. "From the erratic behavior of the lone tusker, we guessed that it might have consumed country-made liquor and under the influence of the liquor it had attacked the two mahouts who were even carrying ‘mashals' in their hands," explained the forest officer. Kumar revealed that after the elephant drivers were themselves attacked, causing the team leader to get killed by an elephant, the rest of the mahouts fled, leaving their work incomplete. "As I was left with no other option and without any elephant drivers around, I am trying to contact a team of mahouts from Bankura district of Bengal. I took immediate steps for contacting the mahouts in Bankura because it is not known whether the herd of elephants is still near the human habitat or has left the place," said the forest range officer. The injured mahout, Durga Charan (40) who sustained multiple injuries in his hands and legs has been admitted at the Tata Main Hospital where his condition is described as serious.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Anindita Banerjee’s Bengali Chhath song is a social media hit||A Bengali Chhath song, sung by Anindita Banerjee, a 43-year-old Bengali semi-classical vocalist of Dhanbad, has earned tremendous popularity on social media. The song, titled Chhath mayer koto je mohima, se-kiar mukhe bola jaye, witnessed over eight lakh viewers so far on YouTube, Facebook, etc. The five-minute video song, written, sung, and later shot at the lounge of Tata Steel Sijua Bhelatand, a residential quarter, during the lockdown, was first uploaded on YouTube on November 5 and then subsequently also uploaded on Facebook by other portals like 99 news and City live Dhanbad. The song was originally composed by Sanjay Kumar. Bokaro based musician, Mritunjay Bhattacharjee has given music for the song, and mixing of the song was carried out at Higher Octave Studio of Bokaro. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Thursday, Banerjee, wife of a Tata Steel Sijua Group Mining Engineer, Barun Kumar Banerjee said, “Music is in my gene as my father, Alok Kanti Achharya was a famous sitarist of his time at Bishnupur of Bengal and I learned Rabindra Sangeet from Maya Sen in Calcutta for several years.” “Though I was not well versed with Hindi after my marriage in 1999 at Dhanbad I learned Ghazal, Thumri, and other semi-classical music under the guidance of the noted musician of Dhanbad Balkishan Singh (popularly known as Munna Bhaiya) for more than a decade and performed in several musical programs in Dhanbad and others parts of the country including, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Coimbatore, Durgapur, Raniganj, Calcutta, etc.,” said Banerjee. “Living in Jharkhand for more than two decades I developed a lot of respect for Chhath puja and the folk song tone of Chhath impressed me a lot,” said Banerjee and added that the idea for singing a Chhath in Bengali came to her mind during the lockdown. “Sanjay Kumar Nayak, a lyricist, composed the song and after making some minor changes in the words of the original composition, I sang it at my home, and the video was shot by my daughter pursuing law course at Mumbai who was at home during the lockdown,” said Banerjee. “We uploaded the song video on YouTube on November 5 and it was an instant hit as I received a lot of phone calls. Gradually some local news portals approached us and uploaded the video on their Facebook page and the total number of viewers for the song has crossed eight lakh so far,” informed  Banerjee. Banerjee is an active member of Ramkrishna Mission Group and has performed on multiple devotional songs on their platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||New RIMS director to focus faculty vacancies||The newly-appointed director of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) Dr Kameshwar Prasad faces a challenge of filling up nearly 100 vacancies of professors in Jharkhand’s largest state-run medical college. Prasad, a Padmashree, has been busy reviewing various departments of the medical college since taking charge as director on Sunday. On Thursday he said his top priority was to fill vacant posts of professors in the college and ensure that suitable candidates make it to RIMS. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Prasad admitted there was a vacancy of 72 assistant professors, nine additional professors and 10 professors at RIMS. “We will first try and fill the vacancies for assistant professors, and then proceed with the recruitment process for other positions,” said the renowned neurologist, who was associated with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi for several years. Prasad has also decided to tighten the noose around doctors who indulge in private practice outside RIMS. However, he said that he did not believe in taking “coercive” steps in order to check private practice by doctors, and instead wanted the doctors to rely on their “conscience” to decide whether they wanted to dedicate their time and energy to RIMS or do private practice. “You cannot always deal with a situation with an iron fist. I am sure that the ones who are practicing in private will realise their mistake and stop repeating it on their own,” he said. Former RIMS director, Dr D.K. Singh is in the crosshairs of doctors for taking strict action against those who practiced privately. He even deducted salaries of staff members who could not mark their attendance through biometric system on time. A series of protests was held last year against the former director demanding his removal from the post. The newly-appointed RIMS director said that he would review the condition of diagnostics equipment in the hospital soon and take necessary steps to ensure their smooth functioning in future. Dr Prasad said he has asked doctors in clinical services to not get overburdened with administrative works and vice-versa. However, in case of an emergency, the ones in administrative duty may have to take clinical responsibilities, he added. “I am in administrative duty right now. But once this Covid situation ends, I will also take up clinical responsibilities in the hospital,” said Dr Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad's unusual collector aims for Guinness record||Collection of rare things is a unique habit and a Dhanbad-based retired development officer, Amrendra Anand is gearing up to stake claim for the Guinness Book of World Records for having the highest number of around 1200 rare cheques of over 400 different banks, around 300 of which have closed down. Not only this but Amrendra Anand (66), a resident of Kusum Vihar in Dhanbad, has also a collection of over 170 Metal Bank Tokens, which are provided by the banks to the customers for security-related checks for bank-related work. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Anand said, “While dusting my bank documents, I found personnel cheque issued by famous industrialist and capitalist of South India LT Chettiar on the occasion of Diwali in 1940 as Diwali greetings for his well-wishers." “I have been in Notaphily (collection of bank-related documents) since about 10 years ago and have a collection of a large number of passbooks, share certificates of private shareholders of these banks apart from other things like cheques, bank tokens, etc.,” said Anand and added that he is in the process of bank cheques collection of around 100 more banks after which he will approach for the registration of his collection in the Guinness Book of World Records. “My collection of bank documents date back to cheques of 1870 era when a chain of banks spread all through India,” informed Anand. “All of these banks including the Reserve Bank of India and Imperial Bank of India were private banks having private shareholders which were nationalized on January 1, 1949 and July 1, 1955, respectively,” stated Anand. He also informed that the first bank in India was established in 1906 as Bank of Bengal which was later reorganized as Imperial Bank in 1921 and finally nationalized with the merging of several small banks in 1955 and known as the State Bank of India. When asked that how he collected the rare bank documents, Anand revealed that he has purchased some of the cheques and bank tokens from some old capitalists and shareholders of these banks and other collections accumulated through exchange among each other with around 100 notaphilists of the country. The collection of Anand, a famous numismatist, includes 18 files of different varieties of coins, currency notes, cheques, hukum namas, hundi, khadi hundi, error notes, fancy notes, etc. besides demonetized currency notes, etc. His collection also includes Rs 1000 notes issued by George VI in June 1938 and demonetized in April 1946, Rs 1000 currency notes issued in 1954 and demonetized in 1978 and Rs 1000 notes issued in October 2000 and demonetized on November 8, 2016. Anand who is a member of over a dozen philatelic societies said that his pre-independence Stamp Collection includes both the Feudatory Stamps used by independent princely states and Conventional Stamps bearing the symbols of both the respective state and the British Empire. Anand has also the collection of all the postal stationeries including the envelopes, postcards, inland letters, and registered letters from 1862 to 1981 i.e. from the era of Queen Victoria to King George VI in the pre-Independence era. His postal stationeries include postcards of Queen Victoria and postcards of princely states like Jaipur and Travancore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City flouts noise norms on Diwali night||Diwali celebrations in the steel city crossed permissible noise levels this year in violation of norms, according to a report of the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) that had set a two-hour window for bursting crackers. If the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) limits noise levels to 65 decibel during day and 55 decibel during the night in commercial areas, Jamshedpur recorded levels above these limits during the 8 pm to 10 pm window and also after 10 pm as per the report of the Adityapur-based regional office of JSPCB which compiled data before Diwali (November 9) and on Diwali (November 14). The report was released by the regional office of state pollution control board on Thursday. The commercial hub of Sakchi was the noisiest. Sakchi roundabout registered 93.8 decibel between 8 pm and 10 pm on Diwali night, 96.6 decibel after 10 pm and 73.5 decibel between 11 pm and midnight. The readings were better than last year, when it recorded over 100 decibel. The findings of the survey revealed that on November 9, Sakchi roundabout had recorded 67.9 decibel between 8 pm and 10 pm and 91.6 decibel between 9 pm and 10 pm. Between 11 pm and midnight, it recorded 78.9 decibel. At another commercial centre, Bistupur (near Regal Ground), the decibel level recorded during 8 pm to 10 pm was 87.5, which was less than the 89 decibel recorded during Diwali in 2019. The area logged 85 decibel between 10 pm and 11 pm and 75.4 decibel between 11 pm and midnight. The silence zone near the new civil court at Bhuiyandih recorded 76.3 decibel during the window period, much less than last year’s 84 decibel. It registered 74 decibel between 10 pm and 11 pm and 62.2 decibel between 11 pm and midnight, indicating that crackers were burst after the window period. The survey carried out prior to Diwali on November 9 found 62.4 decibel between 10 pm and 11 pm and 74.6 decibel between 8 pm and 9 pm. Between 11 pm and midnight the new civil court area recorded 51.8 decibel. The residential area of Indira Chowk at Adityapur recorded 94.5 decibel during the window period against 93 decibel last year, both readings way above permissible limits of 55 decibel during day and 45 decibel at night. The area clocked 85.4 decibel after 10 pm till 11 pm and around 65 decibel between 11 pm and midnight. "We collected decibel data from Sakchi and Bistupur as they are commercial areas, from new civil court in Bhuiyandih as it is a silence zone and from Indira Chowk (in Adityapur) as it is a residential area,” said JSPCB’s regional officer Suresh Paswan. He admitted that the residents of steel city and neighbouring Adityapur had flouted directives of JSPCB. "We have sent the findings of the survey to our headquarters for necessary follow-up action," said Paswan, adding that noise pollution was less this year compared to last year but more than the permissible level for silent, commercial and residential zones. Sources said bursting of crackers this time mainly took place in lanes and bylanes instead of main thoroughfares because of the restrictions. The regional office has also collected data related to ambient air quality on Diwali. "We have got a directive from our headquarters to continue collecting ambient air quality data post Diwali till November 21. The report on air quality would be released after November 21, " said Paswan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Devotees opt for rooftop water tanks for Chhath||Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, many have made alternate arrangements for the arghya during Chhath festival. Vratis offer arghya to the sun god twice during this festival but first, take a holy dip into reservoirs. Due to the Covid-19 followed by warning from doctors as not to maintain negligence while offering arghya, many made arrangements at home to perform this important ritual. At many homes, water tanks have been constructed on the rooftop for the purpose. Some got a part of the land in their garden area dug to make a dobha (farm pond) like structure for this purpose. The four-day festival started on Wednesday and the vratis will perform evening arghya on Friday followed by the second one on Saturday morning which will mark the end of Chhath. Okni mohalla resident Geeta Prasad said she spent around Rs 10,000 to get a big tank constructed on the rooftop for her daughter-in-law Uma who has taken part in Chhath for the last four years. Prasad said she wanted to have this tank before as the dirty pond water leads to skin rashes which is also a common problem among all those who take a dip into it. Uma said she will do this ritual comfortably now as getting a better place on the bank of any pond was another big issue for her family. She said, from her rooftop they will also get a better view of the sunrise and sunset. Subodh Mehta, a resident of Matwari mohalla said he had purchased a children’s swimming pool made of plastic. It costs Rs 900 but it is best for this purpose. “I will keep this pool on the terrace of the house and once the festival is over, I will give it to my grandsons to play with it,” he added with a smile. One Indrani Pandey of Shivpuri mohalla said she will use the discarded plastic water tank for this purpose. A few days back, I had engaged a laborer to cut this 5000-litre capacity plastic tank into half and now it became useful for the arghya purpose, she informed. A toy shop owner on the main road, Sumit Jaiswal said he had sold 20 swimming pools of children for the arghya ritual. For whatever purpose, customers are buying it, and I am happy that it has increased my earning, he added. Meanwhile, Zilla Marwari Sammelan officer bearers including Sumer Sethi, Manoj Goyal, and Kapil Jain on Thursday announced that they will make temporary changing rooms at various Chhath ghats of the town. They said vratis face trouble while changing clothes at the ghats, so they had decided to make changing rooms for this purpose. We have obtained permission from the municipal commissioner Madhavi Mishra in this regard, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Kala Utsav goes virtual this year||Secondary level students of government and private schools will have to battle it out virtually to exhibit their creative and artistic skills during this year’s Kala Utsav 2020 as the school education and literacy department of Jharkhand has decided to conduct the centrally sponsored event online in the wake of continued lockdown of educational institutions due to the coronavirus pandemic. An initiative of the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) under Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan and NCERT, Kala Utsav began in 2015 to promote arts in education by nurturing and showcasing the artistic talent of school students across the country. Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) on Wednesday formally sent out communiqués to all the districts announcing the schedules of this year’s programme, which will be held in three stages—district, state and national level—all across the digital platform. JEPC project director Shailesh Chaurasia said that event is for students between class 9 and 12. “Students from all such schools between these classes irrespective of government, government aided or private entities are eligible to participate in the competition. Since schools in the state are still not unlocked, we will be holding the tournaments—right from performances to evaluation by expert jury panels via online,” he said. A total of 18 categories of events will be held covering various forms of performing arts, painting, traditional games such as puppetry, sculpture making among others. For the district level contest, district education officers have been asked to invite entries in photograph and video formats in each of the each category latest by November 29. “At the district level, a four member expert jury will evaluate the entries and pick two winners — a male and a female per category. Video entries in performing arts shouldn’t exceed more than six minute and can be in any form be it in pen drive/CD/DVD,” he said, adding that every district is mandated to send works of the district-level winners to the state committee (education department) latest by December 2. The state level meet will be held from December 7 to 12. “Here, district level winners will have to perform live before the state level jury as per their allotted time slots, which will be intimated to them in advance. Following the assessment, top three winners in each category will be awarded with a certificate and trophies,” he concluded. However, only one top winner comprising male and female each per category will proceed for the national level contests after  its schedules and format is announced by the MHRD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Recoveries outnumber fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||The active cases of Covid-19 infection increased in Ranchi and Bokaro on Wednesday despite a fall in the number of active cases across Jharkhand in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Wednesday night, as many as 70 people were found infected in Ranchi in 24 hours against 56 recoveries, while Bokaro reported 53 fresh cases against 16 recoveries. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum reported 63 recoveries on the day against only 16 fresh cases. Jharkhand reported 251 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Wednesday, while at least 280 patients recovered during the same period, government data stated. As per government data, more than 60 per cent of the fresh cases reported on Wednesday were from Ranchi, Bokaro and Dhanbad, which reported 29 cases on the day. On Wednesday, health workers tested swab samples of 19,786 people from across the state, bringing down the number of pending tests in the state. On Tuesday, at least 18,000 samples were pending for Covid-19 tests, and the number reduced to around 16,000. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 toll in Jharkhand continued to see a spike on Wednesday as three more patients died in 24 hours, data with the health department revealed. The three deaths – one each from Deoghar, Dhanbad and Jamtara – took the Covid-19 toll in the tribal state to 934. As per government data, there were only 2,637 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand and as many as 1,03,171 patients have recovered so far. The Covid-19 recovery rate on Wednesday was 96.65 per cent. The government has so far collected swab samples of 38.62 lakh people and tested 38.46 lakh of them. Of the over 38 lakh people tested in Jharkhand, as many as 1,06,742 were found infected. On Wednesday, only Godda did not report any fresh cases of infection. Dhanbad reported at least 29 fresh cases, while East Singhbhum and Ramgarh reported 16 and 11 cases respectively. East Singhbhum reported the highest number of Covid recoveries on the day. At least 63 patients recovered in the district. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.17 per cent against the national average of 0.37 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in Jharkhand was 412.23 days against the national average of 186.68 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
