20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Devotees observe Chhath following Covid-19 norms||A large number of people celebrated Chhath in tanks on their terrace or small water bodies in their locality itself observing the social distancing norms. However, there was some rush on the public tanks or water bodies, where the majority of people have witnessed sporting masks but the social distancing norms of maintaining a minimum six feet distance could not be observed. The maximum numbers of multi-storied buildings or apartment dwellers were those who celebrated Chhhath on their terrace and offered Arghya to setting sun in tanks or large tubs, etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Kajal Sinha, housemaker and resident of Shivshakti Apartment of Tapovan Colony under Saraidhela police station about 7 km from district headquarters said, “We used to observe Chhath in Raja Talab about 500 meters away from our locality but this year we chose to celebrate Chhath on the apartment terrace." "All the 30 flat owners in our apartment cooperated with us. Our next-door neighbor, Shilpi made rangoli at the terrace and decorated the water tub in which we offered Arghya to Sun god," said Sinha. "Being educated and well aware of the Covid-19 situation which is likely to spread during the winter, we couldn't have compromised with our health and others in the family. Thus we decided to celebrate Chhath on the terrace itself," said Sinha. Echoing sentiments Vikash Singh, a sales representative of Hirapur, said, "We used to celebrate Chhath in nearby Loco tank but this year taking the social responsibility of preventing the spread of infection we decided to construct a small water body in our colony itself in order to celebrate the festival while observing all the government guidelines. We offered arghya to the god in the three feet tank dug up in colony with the local youth," said Singh. Meanwhile, Chhath committee members at different ghats distributed mask and sanitizers among the devotees and appealed the people observing Chhath to follow the social distancing norms. Dhanbad, Sub Divisional Officer, Surendra Prasad who himself inspected many of the public water bodies where Chhath was being celebrated, said , "We visited different water bodies and appealed to the people to observe Chhath following the social distancing norms this year so that we can celebrate Chhath normally next year."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Police seize illicit liquor, brown sugar and marijuana in Adityapur and Chandil||In a major breakthrough against illicit liquor and drugs, the police recovered a huge quantity of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), brown sugar, and marijuana by conducting raids in different places in the Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Friday. While a truck-load consignment of illicit IMFL was seized from Khokrodih village under Chandil thana area in the small hours, a considerable amount of brown sugar was recovered from a house at Adityapur Muslim Bustee early on Friday morning. In a spree of the raid against the liquor and drugs, the police also swooped over a field at Barad village under Ichagarh thana area under Chandil sub-division and destroyed a huge quantity of marijuana plantations developed by one Lal Singh Munda on Friday morning. Revealing about the breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan district superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said that the drive against illicit liquor and drugs was carried out following the instruction of director-general of police, Jharkhand, MV Rao and became a huge success. "Following the instructions of the DGP, we had made separate teams of police officers for carrying out raids at different places of the district on Thursday. Having gathered intelligence inputs from the different sources, the teams started raiding the places in Adityapur and also Chandil sub-division area throughout the night and finally succeeded in unearthing the illicit liquor, brown sugar and destroyed marijuana plantation by Friday morning," said Arshi while talking to the newsmen at Adityapur. Speaking about the capture of IMFL liquor, the SP said they had got a tip-off that there was an illicit liquor godown at Khokrodih in Chandil. "Acting on the tip-off, the police team did not get any liquor godown at Khokrodih, but found a stationary truck loaded with cartons of liquors at that village about 30 km away from here. In the truck, there were 205 cartons containing 2430 IMFL bottles of a popular brand. The cost of the confiscated liquor consignment was estimated to be worth Rs 5 lakh," said the senior police officer. Arshi said another team that was acting on a tip-off against illegal plantation of marijuana raided at a field in Barad village in Ichagarh about 45 km away from Jamshedpur early on Friday morning. "As the police team swooped over the illegal marijuana plantation, the owner of the field, Lal Singh Munda appeared at the scene for the protest. The police team immediately arrested him under the relevant sections of the NDPS Act," he stated. Another team which had gathered information about the brown sugar being sold at the Adityapur Muslim Bustee, raided the house of one Abdul Karim and recovered 66 packets of the narcotic drugs from the house of the accused about three km away from here this morning," said Arshi, adding that Karim was also arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Chhath puja celebrations in full swing with restrictions||The banks of river Subarnarekha and Kharkai witnessed a large turnout as devotees (chhath vratis) along with their families and friends gathered to offer the first arghya of Chhath Puja on Friday evening. The first arghya is offered to the setting sun while chhath vratis will offer the second arghya (also known as bihaniya) to the rising sun on Saturday that brings to an end of the four-day Chhath festival. The Subarnarekha ghat in Sakchi and Domuhani ghat in Sonari drew maximum devotees, while Sati ghat/Kapali ghat in Sonari and other ghats in Bhuiyandih, Birsanagar, Bagunnagar, Baridih and Bagbera also thronged with devotees. There were over 20 ghats in the city where Chhath was celebrated. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and safety reasons, many preferred to celebrate the festival at their homes. Be it Mango, Ghorabandha in Telco, Baridih, or Sakchi several devotees made rooftop tanks or made temporary tubs with knee-deep water at their gardens and courtyard of their homes for performing the Chhath rituals. The traditional Chhath songs reverberated different localities and roads leading to various river ghats as women devotees followed men with the dalia (bamboo basket) perched on their heads. The offerings included 'thekua' (balls made of rice powder), sugarcane, radish, sprouted gram, kidney bean, turmeric, coconut, orange, sweet lime, banana, sugarcane and other fruits. The Surya Mandir in Sidhgora also witnessed a good turnout of devotees who had come to offer arghya at the two artificial reservoirs. Every year the temple committee organizes a musical concert in the evening. But, this year the musical event did not take place due to the pandemic. “This year was different because of the Covid-19 pandemic. We had taken all safety precautions and appealed to devotees to follow the safety norms. Chhath festival at the Surya Mandir has become one of the major attractions of late,” said a member of the Surya Mandir Committee. The cleaning of ghats was done by Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) and Jusco. Jusco also provided adequate lighting, barricading of the road leading up to the ghats, preparations of roads leading to all ghats, shamiyana and sitting arrangement for government officials, public address system for announcements and changing rooms for chhath vratis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Drone surveillance at 5 Ranchi ponds on Chhath days||Five Chhath ghats of the state capital have been put under aerial surveillance using drone cameras for the key two key days of puja starting with Friday evening’s arghya, according to the district administration. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said drones were being used at Dhurwa Dam, Kanke Dam, Bada Talab, Chadri Talab and Buton Talab. “Besides law and order maintenance, the idea is to also keep a constant tab and intervene when there is over-crowding. All magistrates and officials on Chhath duty have been tasked to ensure that all Covid safety protocols are followed,” he said. The five water bodies, located in different parts of the city, are the ones that draw maximum crowds every year. Overall, Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) has notified 76 ghats for Chhath. While the state government has allowed puja at public water bodies after initially banning it in the wake of Covid-19, authorities in the district administration are worried about maintenance of social distancing and other safety measures. “Chhath puja this year is being held amid immense challenge. Although we have alerted all Chhath puja samitis, briefed officials about crowd control and law and order management, enforcing Covid safety protocols will be difficult. We hope and expect the public to be responsible,” remarked another official, adding that over 1,000 officials, including policemen and sector and area magistrates, have been deployed across the city.  The traffic police have notified a ban on entry of heavy vehicles in the city from 8 am to 10 pm on Friday and 2 am to 10 am on Saturday. As per the notification issued on Thursday night, heavy vehicles bound for Hazaribagh from Pisko More will have to take a diversion from Kathithand, Kathal More and take Ring Road. Similarly, vehicles from Hazaribagh will have to take the same route to reach Piska More for heading towards Gumla and Daltonganj. Vehicles from Jamshedpur will have to take a diversion from Durga Soren Chowk in Namkum to reach Tatisilwai and Dipatoli army camp via Khelgaon to go to Hazaribagh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Seventh edition of Samvaad ends on a high note||Samvaad, a one-of-its-kind pan-India tribal conclave organized by Tata Steel Foundation, concluded on Thursday evening, ushering in an online format that brought together tribal communities from across the world. More than 3,000 people belonging to 114 tribes from 23 states, 5 union territories, and 17 countries including Sri Lanka, South Africa, Nepal, Kenya, Philippines, Thailand, and Tanzania among others participated in this year's annual conclave. The Samvaad Fellowship was bagged by six participants for various tribal projects including the initiatives to conserve the tribal culture and heritage. On the last day, a musical evening by Samvaad’s musical collection – Rhythms of the Earth – took the viewers into a melodious journey. On the occasion, two compositions created in collaboration with the folk-rock band – Atript – were also released. The first song, Ekta – The Power, highlighted the strength that the tribal communities derive from their unity, while the second song, Ansuni Kahaniyan, spoke of those unheard stories of courage from the tribal lands that the world is yet to listen to. Musical band Salem, known for their Adhunik Nagpuri songs, also performed on the occasion. During the five-day conclave that kicked off on November 15, experts and tribal leaders came together to recognize how traditional models of governance have worked during challenging times, to explore innovative ways of governance to bring communities together and to understand sync between parallel governance systems in resolving the crisis. Screenings were held at 23 locations across 8 states. These screenings were especially facilitated in rural tribal hamlets to ensure that more people got an opportunity to join the conclave. “We set out in this quest to ensure that the dialogue continues despite the pressing times and also wanted that the people of Jamshedpur who look forward to the conclave do not miss out this year. We were finally able to continue the dialogue and experts and tribal leaders from very far-off places joined us. We would like to extend our heartfelt gratitude to everyone who has helped us in making this a success,” said Sourav Roy, chief (Corporate Social Responsibility), Tata Steel. The many offshoots of Samvaad such as tribal handicrafts, tribal film screenings, tribal cuisine, and the cultural performances from various tribes that contribute significantly to the essence of Samvaad brought the traditional practices and rich heritage to the common masses through its YouTube channel. Art enthusiasts got a chance to attend masterclasses on Oraon, Sohrai, Saura, Gond, Warli, and Rajwar Bhittichitra art forms that were hosted by eminent tribal artisans. Each day concluded with cultural performances from celebrated tribal artists. As a part of the film screenings, Samuday ke Saath, Ashok Veilou’s ‘Look A The Sky’, Chentai Khiamniungan’s ‘Strength in Diversity’, and ‘Johar’ by Abhijit Patro were screened. The Samvaad ecosystem has brought together more than 30,000 people from 117 tribes across 27 states and 18 countries in the last six years and is also an event that the people of Jamshedpur keenly look forward to every year. Samvaad encourages tribal communities to take the lead in initiating a discourse on issues that govern their social sustenance and development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Unseasonal rainfall in several districts across Jharkhand||Rain brought by an ‘anti-cyclonic’ circulation over the state resulted in unseasonal showers in several districts from Thursday morning till Friday morning. Weathermen said the circulation coupled with a trough stretched from Bihar to southeast Madhya Pradesh resulted in an adverse weather condition in the state. “The anti-cyclonic circulation caused by convergence of westerly and north-westerly wind resulted in heavy moisture incursion into the lower levels of the atmosphere, bringing rain. The condition also resulted in an abrupt rise in minimum temperatures,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Met statistics revealed that while Ranchi recorded 1.8mm rain, Jamshedpur received 8.6mm. Kharsawan and Latehar topped the rain chart with 20 mm of rain recorded in each of the places. Daltonganj, the Palamu headquarters recorded 6.2 mm of rain while Bokaro and Dhanbad recorded around 4 mm of rain. Light showers were also reported from West Singhbhum, Koderma, Khunti and Giridih. Weathermen said light rain due to the impact of the circulation is likely to take place in isolated pockets till midnight, especially in southern and central Jharkhand. The adverse weather resulted in a rise in minimum readings in most districts across the state. Ranchi, on Friday, recorded a minimum reading of 18.5 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal while the minimum temperature in Jamshedpur rose to as high as 20.2 degrees Celsius, five points above normal. The minimum reading was also five notches above normal at Daltonganj, the headquarters of Palamu which recorded 19.1 degrees Celsius on Friday. Even as the minimum temperatures rose, maximum temperatures in several districts fell due to cloud cover. A duty officer at the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said that the anti-cyclonic circulation was prevailing about a kilometer above sea level. He added that the condition would persist for another 24 hours. In its long-range forecast, the Patna Met Centre predicted that the weather condition would improve only after 24 hours. “The minimum reading is expected to witness a fall of 2-3 degree Celsius from December 21, bringing back the chill,” said a weather analyst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad rail division enforces measures to avoid passenger rush||Dhanbad Railway Division has enforced special measures on around 140 stations and halts of the division to avoid the congestion of passengers on platforms during Chhath and also post Chhath during the return of a large number of passengers from Bihar to their respective places in Jharkhand. Special measures have been taken to ensure a safe and comfortable passenger movement. Instructions have been given by the Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad, Ashish Bansal through an advisory to all concerned railway officers of division and respective stations to avoid simultaneous parking of two trains side by side on adjoining platforms to evade heavy rush on the platforms during disembarking on passengers from trains. “If exit gate at the station is getting congested respective control should not hesitate in even holding a train outside for a few minutes till the congestion is reduced,” reads the advisory. The advisory further instructs the railway officials of the concerned station to make arrangements for an adequate number of wheelchairs in workable condition for the senior citizens. In order to make a special arrangement at stations, Central divisional control officials have been instructed to issue period alert notices for the days when an extra rush is anticipated. Apart from this, the station staff dealing with the passengers have been asked to inform the divisional control officials in case they find any extra rush during stations and platforms. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Senior Divisional Commercial manager of Dhanbad, Avinash Kumar Pandey said, “We have already enforced all the measures as per the advisory since yesterday and specific care will be taken to avoid the simultaneous arrival of two such trains each carrying a large number of passengers.” “Though the advisory was meant for November 19 to 21, we may extend it further as per the ground situation as passengers may arrive in large numbers from different parts of Bihar after performing Chhath,” informed Pandey. Notably, a heavy rush of passengers is expected on different prominent railway stations of the divisions including Dhanbad, Gomoh, Koderma, Barkakana, etc. during the return journey of passengers post Chhath from November 21 to 24. Divulging more details, Avinash Karosia, in charge of Railway Protection Force post at Dhanbad said, “Indeed, handling of such large number of passengers during their return journey will be a challenge and we will ensure deployment of extra personnel on station and stranding of passengers at the platform will be strictly avoided. We will ensure the speedy departure of passengers from the platform and station.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||State anticipates surge in Jharkhand Covid cases post-Chhath||Anticipating a possible second surge of coronavirus infections in Jharkhand post the Chhath festival, the state health department has asked all the 24 districts to be adequately equipped with the availability of beds in its dedicated covid hospitals and care centres along with sufficient stocking of medicines and testing kits for early detection and cure. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni has shot letters to all the deputy commissioners asking them to be prepared for a possible resurgence citing directives from the chief secretary Sukhdev Singh. The letter, made available to The Telegraph Online on Friday by the health department, mentioned that festivals and winter season coupled with multiple unlocks have already led to a resurgence of infection in some of the states and union territories in the country. Jharkhand too must now be ready for the second surge, noted Kulkarni asking deputy commissioners and civil surgeons to review the covid preparedness in their districts, availability of medicines for next two months and send details of the required assistance from the state government at the earliest to address the shortcomings. The letter read, “Ensure availability of isolation beds and oxygen supported beds in the districts as per the earlier issued protocols. Analyse the requirement of covid related medicines available with the district for the next two months and in case any shortfall or extra requirement, convey the same at the earliest.” The letter also mandated districts to keep excess beds on standby which can be operationalised within 24 hours. “Ensure sufficient ICU capacity as per the protocols and keep sufficient availability of PPEs, gloves, N-95 masks and testing kits for sample collections,” noted the letter, asking civil surgeons to ensure completion of all civil works and modifications of the hospitals/health centres regarding the Covid-19 case that is in progress, by the first week of December. The health department has also called for revisiting the established standards for contact tracing protocols to be done within the 72 hours of each positive case for early curb of the spread of the virus and mandated all the districts to ensure the proper functioning of post covid cares and counselling centres to keep chances of reinfection under control. While Durga puja which passed off in October not leading to any surge in covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, the state is yet to face consequences of Diwali which was on November 14. However, since the last two days, Ranchi has witnessed a spike in the cases as new infections reported more than the daily recoveries in the capital even though the overall cumulative of the caseload in the state continues to be on a downward trend. However, after the state government’s u-turn over its Chhath guidelines by allowing devotees access public water bodies for performing puja (arghyas) following protests by political and social outfits, the health department is wary about the upcoming situation fearing spurt in the cases. “We can’t rule out a second surge in the state after Chhath after weeks of a lull because of several emerging factors,” Kulkarni commented. Chief Minister Hemant Soren too sounded concerned over the situation after the Chhath due to excessive movement of people between Jharkhand and Bihar for the festival, appealing public to perform Chhath at homes as much as possible. Soren’s party—Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on the other hand had warned opposition BJP to own up the responsibility in case of crisis accusing the saffron camp of playing ‘cheap politics’ by raking up religious sentiments over Chhath guidelines ignoring the threats posed by the pandemic. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “BJP incited religious sentiments by orchestrating protests in the state to mislead public over state government’s earlier Chhath guidelines banning the use of water bodies despite Soren government issuing the guidelines in accordance with the norms set by the Union government. BJP must be held accountable if the covid situation goes out of hands now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Congress showcauses Furkan over his remarks on Rahul Gandhi||Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) has issued a showcause notice to former Godda MP and a senior Muslim veteran of the party Furkan Ansari over his alleged comments against party’s central leaders on Monday and questioning the leadership and its style of functioning after party’s poor performance in the recently concluded Bihar assembly polls. Congress, which fought on 70 seats as part of grand alliance in Bihar, had managed to win only 14 seats, emerging as the weakest link for RJD’s Tejaswhi Yadav led coalition, making way for BJP-JDU alliance to form government after the high decibel elections. Following the verdict, voices of dissent emerged from Congress camp nationally with many veterans including former union minister Kapil Sibal raising questions over the party leadership. Speaking to reporters in Bokaro on Monday, Ansari had grossly blamed former AICC president Rahul Gandhi for the loss and advised him to change his advisers. “All his advisers are MBA graduates who can’t understand real political situation on the ground,” he said. He also took a dig at party’s Jharkhand in-charge RPN Singh for his political acumen stating that if he had been at the helm, he wouldn’t have even considered Singh for the post of a block president. Ansari also came down heavily on Ajoy Kumar, former state Congress president, who rejoined the party in Delhi before the Bihar polls and was tasked to look after the electioneering in Bihar. Rajesh Thakur, one of JPCC’s co-working president, confirmed the showcause. “On the directions of state party president Rameshwar Oraon, another co-working president Keshav Mahto Kamlesh on served him the showcause notice on Thursday asking to reply within seven days,” said Thakur. Rameshwar is currently in a city hospital recuperating from covid-19. Ansari’s son, Irfan is currently an MLA from Jamtara and also happens to be one of the five co-working presidents in JPCC. Both father and son had been at loggerheads with the state and central units since 2019 Lok Sabha polls after JPCC then led by Ajoy Kumar gave Godda parliamentary seat, considered as stronghold of the Ansaris, to now defunct JVM-P as part of the grand alliance in Jharkhand. BJP-AJSU-P combined ended up winning from Godda and 11 other seats out of the total 14 parliamentary seats in Jharkhand while JMM-Congress-RJD-JVM-P alliance won on the two. The loss led to exist of Ajoy, who later joined AAP ahead of Delhi assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi sees spike in Covid cases, 66 patients test positive in a day||The trajectory of active cases of Covid-19 infection saw an upward trend in Ranchi for the second consecutive day as only 32 patients recovered from the infection in the state capital against 66 fresh cases reported on Thursday, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. While the number of active cases of the viral infection jumped to 960 from 926 on Wednesday, the count of active cases reduced in almost all the other districts in Jharkhand, including East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per government data, as many as 230 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced in Jharkhand on Thursday, while 264 patients recovered, bringing down the total active cases in the state to 2,600. Godda and Dumka did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, while none of the districts saw a three-digit-spike in the Covid caseload. Bokaro reported 35 cases against 55 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 33 fresh cases against 51 recoveries. At least 17 people were found infected in Dhanbad and 34 recovered there. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 toll rose to 937 after three more patients died during treatment in 24 hours, the NHM bulletin revealed. Bokaro, Dhanbad and East Singhbhum reported one Covid casualty each on the day, taking the toll in East Singhbhum alone to 349 – the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 18,543 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. While the government claims to have intensified Covid testing in the state, around 16,000 swab samples were still pending for lab test on Thursday, the NHM bulletin showed. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of around 38.82 lakh people and tested 38.66 lakh of them. Of the over 38 lakh people tested so far, as many as 1,06.972 were found to be Covid positive. At least 1,03,435 of Covid patients have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate in Jharkhand up at 96.69 per cent against the national average of 93.60 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.37 per cent. The doubling rate of the viral infection in the state was 433 days against the national average of 186.90 days. The mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.87 per cent against the national Covid-19 mortality rate of 1.50 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||2 Jharkhand institutes ink research pact||Two prestigious institutes from different fields located in Jharkhand have joined hands for collaborative research. The 94-year-old Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad, now known as IIT-ISM, Dhanbad, and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Deoghar, that started functioning in 2019, have signed a memorandum of understanding for the purpose. “We signed an MoU earlier this month for working together in research and development in certain fields,” said IIT-ISM director Rajiv Shekhar. “Both the institutes will work for research and development in the field of drug design, medical instrumentation and alternative materials such as bone substitute,” he said. Drug design or an innovative process for finding new medications often involves computer modelling techniques. Also known as computer-aided drug design, it provides a scope for medical and engineering institutes to work together. Medical instrumentation, on the other hand, is used for diagnosis, treatment and prevention of diseases in humans with the application of knowledge and technologies. The other fields the two institutes plan to work together are alternative materials for devices and implants. “We are likely to work on alternative materials used as bone substitute,” the IIT-ISM director said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Free martial arts training for Jamshedpur women||Mahila Vikas Manch (Kolhan), a women’s rights outfit, has decided to provide free self-defence training in the form of martial arts to women in Jamshedpur in the wake of rising instances of sexual assault and stalking. “We had been receiving complaints from girls and also women going to office about being stalked. There have been instances of molestation on lonely stretches of roads, too. Recently, there has been a spurt in chain snatching in city areas. After a lot of deliberation, we decided to hold discussions with a Jamshedpur-based outfit giving training in karate and form a special weeklong module on basic self-defence techniques for women to thwart such attacks. It would be completely free of cost. Participants will have to fill up a registration form costing Rs 10. They will get a certificate after completing the training,” said Nishat Khatoon, president of the Mahila Vikas Manch’s Kolhan unit. According to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) in September this year, the country on an average recorded 87 rape cases daily in 2019 and overall 4,05,861 cases of crime against women during the year, a rise of over 7 per cent from 2018. In Jharkhand, between January and October, there have been nearly 180 rape cases. Mahila Vikas Manch, which been raising women’s rights issues in the region for over a decade, will take the help of Jamshedpur-based Jharkhand Martial Art Training Centre instructors Sunil Kumar Prasad and Shilpi Das (both black belts). “We decided to have a tie-up with Jharkhand Martial Art Training Centre as they have been organising similar training camps for women in the past and has a module ready. Based on their suggestion, we will be organising a weeklong camp beginning from November 27 (till December 4) for two hours (between 2.30pm and 4.30pm) daily,” Khatoon said. There is no limitation on the number of participants as the training sessions would be organised near the sprawling area close to Sir Dorabji Tata Park and near Sacred Heart Convent in Bistupur. “We decided to begin with Jamshedpur, and based on the feedback, hold similar camps in the mining belt of Chaibasa and forest areas of Chakradharpur and small-scale industrial areas of Adityapur and Gamharia in neighbouring Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Our units in Ranchi and Dhanbad will hold similar camps soon,” Khatoon added. Mitali Choudhary, a homemaker from Jamshedpur, welcomed the idea. “The state police had last month released a WhatsApp number for each district. There is also the emergency number 100. But in the spur of the moment, one finds it difficult to call the emergency numbers, especially in cases of chain snatching and groping, which happen all of a sudden. In such situations, self-defence techniques are a must. I will be registering for the camp,” the middle-aged homemaker said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
