21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Naxals beat up workers, torch vehicles at construction site ||A naxal squad of 9-10 members thrashed laborers and torched earthmovers (JCB, mixer machines), generator, motorbike and motors at a bridge construction site in Giridih on Friday night. The incident occurred at a bridge construction site on the river Tondoya between Dharampur to Chitakharo of Khedwara Panchayat under Birni police station area. Amit Renu, superintendent of police (SP), Giridih said, “Following the incident, Giridih police have launched a massive search operation in the area. An FIR based on the complaint of supervisor of the Samridhi Construction, to which bridge construction work was awarded, has been lodged with the Birni police station.” The laborers were assaulted with sticks and punches by the attackers, however, no one was badly injured. Rohit Kumar, eye-witness and supervisor of Samridhi Construction, said, “We were relaxing after completion of work when the naxals descended there. One was in a naxal uniform holding a gun while others were in normal dress and had sticks in their hands. They first introduced themselves as ‘partywala (Maoist)’ and then asked for a contractor.” “They came to me asking the contractor, who I said was not here. Then they asked for a supervisor, which I refused saying he is also not present. They asked about me to which I said I am an operator. Then they said to provide them with diesel and thrashed the laborers and snatched their mobile phones. They poured diesel on the JCB, mixer machine vehicle, generator, motorbike parked outside along with water motors and other equipment inside the storeroom and set them ablaze,” said Kumar who is a resident of Gomo of Dhanbad. The SP, however, is skeptical about the triggering of crime by naxals. “While conducting the investigation we noticed that the majority of naxals were not in naxal uniforms and were holding sticks. In such incidents, naxal squads strike in uniform and have weapons. They also returned through the same route, through which they came to the spots. Naxals never do that and there are other notable points. We are taking it as a naxal incident, but will investigate from different angles.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Kisan special with veggies and fruits to go via Tatanagar||South Eastern Railway's first Kisan Special cargo express left on its maiden journey from Sangola in Maharashtra on Saturday, carrying vegetables and fruits to Shalimar in Bengal via Tatanagar. The train which will transport perishable agricultural products such as vegetables and fruits to the market in a time-bound manner will travel till Shalimar via the Tatanagar railway station. The train, with refrigerated containers for perishables like fish, meat and milk, will help reach the food items to the market in a time-bound manner. "The train was introduced with the objective to fulfil the commitment towards farmers. The train will run till December 31, " said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. The 00123 Sangola-Shalimar Kisan Parcel Cargo Express left Sangola at 12.15 am on Saturday. It will run on Tuesdays and Saturdays. It will arrive at Shalimar at 3pm on Wednesdays and Sundays. The Shalimar-Sangola Kisan Parcel Cargo Express will leave Shalimar at 12.15 am. It will run from November 23 to December 31. The train will run on Thursdays and Mondays and reach Sangola at 11am on Fridays and Tuesdays. The train will stop at Tatanagar, Rourkela, Jharsuguda, Bilaspur, Durg, Nagpur, Bhusaval and Manmad enroute. Maharashtra’s Bhusaval and Nagpur areas produce fresh fruits, vegetables, flowers and other perishables in abundance. Railway officials explained that these commodities would be transported to Rourkela (Odisha), Tatanagar (Jharkhand), Durg/ Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh) and Shalimar  (Bengal), among others. "Movement of freight trains in these areas is expected to offer relief to farmers struggling to sell their produce amid the pandemic," explained an official of South Eastern Railway's commercial wing. The train comes months after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget speech in which she said that the national transporter would set up  Kisan Rail via public private partnership (PPP) to facilitate a seamless  nation-wide cold supply chain for perishables like milk, meat and fish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Notorious coal trader nabbed on rape charges||Controversial coal trader of Dhanbad, Badal Gautam was sent to jail in an old case of rape of the married daughter of a former Director Technical of BCCL after being produced in the court of chief judicial magistrate, Arvind Sao. Gautam who is also accused of several other cases of extortion, threatening etc, was absconding. He was arrested by Dhanbad police with the help of Railway Protection Force of Mughalsarai from Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Railway Station (also known as Mughalsarai Railway Station)  while travelling in Down Secunderabad-Danapur Covid special train last night. Before being produced in court, he was brought to Bank More Police station today and later taken to Govindpur Police station. Senior police officers including City SP, R Ramkumar and Additional Superintendent of Police were present when he was taken to the court. Notably, the 32-year-old victim, married in 2009 to a Calcutta based engineer, who is also the mother of a 10-year-old daughter and a three-year-old son lodged a rape, abduction, threatening and loot case against Gautam in Bank More police station on September 21. Her statement was later recorded before the court of 1st class judicial magistrate of Dhanbad, Pratima Oraon on September 23 under section 164 of CrPC. The victim, who left her in law's place at Calcutta on July 11 after an estranged relationship with her engineer husband, in her FIR at Bank More police station charged Badal Gautam of raping her several times during her stay in Delhi in July-August this year. Notably, the victim revealed that she went to Delhi along with her childhood friend Sanket Krishnani, her driver Satpal Yadav and Badal Gautam (Sanket Krishnani’s friend) via car where Badal Gautam made arrangement for their stay at the flat of one of his friend Abhishek Rai. "Badal, however, one day sent Abhishek and krishanai out of the Abhishek's flat in Delhi on the pretext of bringing something from the market but used the opportunity to outrage my modesty (rape me)" claimed the victim in her complaint. She further charged that Badal also threatened her in name of kidnapping her friend Sanket Krishnani due to which she was afraid of lodging case against him. "Badal also demanded ransom worth Rs 25 lakh from the family members of my friend, Sanket Krishnani by calling them and claiming that he has kidnapped Krishnani" claimed the victim in FIR. Repeated efforts to contact Dhanabd SSP, Assem Vikrant Minz in this regard failed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Bengal mahouts reach Chandil to drive away elephants ||A 14-member team of elephant-drivers has arrived at the troubled Chandil forest region to drive away a herd of elephants that killed a local mahout in the area on Wednesday night. Haricharan Mahato, a 45-year-old mahout was killed while his associate, the 40-year-old Durga Charan Mahato was seriously injured as one of the elephants of a five-elephant herd attacked them near Balidih village on Wednesday. The herd once again entered the human settlement near Balidih village to destroy a mud-house partially on Friday night, after they hid in a nearby jungle following the killing of the mahout on Wednesday. This led the Forest Department to bring in the Bankura-based elephant drivers, who are considered experts at the job, after a team of local elephant drivers abandoned its job and fled in view of their leader’s death. Revealing the development, Forest Range Officer, Chandil, Ashok Kumar said that they had to bring in the mahouts from Bankura as the people of Dhunaburu and Balidih villagers were frightened after the marauding elephant herd attacked the local elephant driver. "The villagers were so frightened that they did not come out of their homes and refrained from bursting crackers on getting to know about the invasion of the elephant herd in the human habitat.  As a result of it, the herd partially destroyed a mud-house at Balidih village, but fortunately no loss of life took place," Kumar said while talking to The Telegraph Online. He informed that the Bankura-based team started off with their job on Friday night itself after it arrived in the evening, although they  planned to start work on elephant driving from Saturday evening. He also revealed that the locals were provided with an adequate number of crackers by the Forest Department for driving away the elephants. "The cracker is provided to the villagers for driving the elephants when they try to enter the village, but they tend to burst them at the sight of the elephants in the paddy fields with the crops grown up  which are situated a little away from the village. On being exposed to the cracker bursting, the elephants get excited and irritated, and subsequently attack the cracker-bursters. The villagers tend to burst the crackers when the herd is still away from the village, because they want to save their paddy crops from getting destroyed by the invading herd," elaborated the officer. The team from Bankura will drive the elephant herd either toward Tamar in Ranchi district or to the adjoining Seraikela jungle in the Seraikela-Kharsawan, from where the herd is supposed to have come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Early morning fog likely across state on Sunday||The Ranchi Met centre has issued an alert for fog and mist over Jharkhand during the next 24-hours. Weathermen said on Saturday that the prevailing anti-cyclonic circulation was resulting in heavy moisture incursion in the atmosphere. "This would result in mist and foggy conditions, especially early in the morning for the next 24-hours," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He went on to say that Saturday's satellite pictures also indicated a cyclonic circulation over interior Odisha which would impact Jharkhand's weather. Surface visibility was poor in various parts of the state, including Jamshedpur and other districts of Kolhan and the Santhal Pargana region due to heavy mist since Saturday morning. Jamshedpur and several other places, including Bokaro, Giridih and Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, also experienced rain on Saturday. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded 4.6 mm rain while Bokaro recorded 8 mm. Neighbouring Kharsawan recorded 7mm rain while Chaibasa in West Singhbhum recorded 21.2 mm in the last 24 hours ( 8.30 am of Friday to 8.30 am of Saturday ). Several places on the outskirts of Ranchi, Giridih, Jamtara and Khunti experienced light showers too. Minimum temperatures also rose in most parts of the state due to the cloud cover.  As per Met statistics, most places recorded minimum readings of four to five notches above normal. IMD's Patna Met Centre also issued an alert of early morning fog in Jharkhand during the next 24 hours which would reduce surface visibility. The forecast from the Patna office indicated dry and clear weather in most parts of the state from Monday, November 23. It predicted a fall in minimum temperatures by 3 to 5 degree Celsius during the next four days in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Rain mars final day of Chhath Puja for devotees||The four-day long Chhath festival came to an end today with vratis ( devotees ) breaking their 36-hours fast after offering the bihaniya arghya in various river ghats, lakes, ponds rooftop terraces and other public water bodies, early this morning. But, because of the bad weather the Sun God remained elusive. Cloud cover and light showers deprived the devotees of getting a glimpse of the rising Sun. The Sun rose at 6.03 am today. At several places, Chhath vratis waited till 6.30 am to get a glimpse of the Sun. But, as they couldn't, they completed the necessary rituals. Almost all the river ghats witnessed a good turnout of  Chhath vratis who along with their families offered the bihaniya arghya by standing in knee-deep water. Right from the two major venues- Subernarekha ghat in Sakchi and  Domuhani in Sonari, devotees also flocked to various other ghats of both the lifeline rivers - Subernarekha and Kharkai. Former chief minister Raghubar Das too offered the morning arghya to the Sun God along with his family members at the Sidhgora based Surya Mandir. Local legislator Sarayu Roy did some social work, distributing milk for offering arghya on the premises of the Surya Mandir. Both of them greeted people on Chhath, the biggest festival of Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar. Compared to previous years, this year saw a low turnout of devotees in almost all ghats and other venues because of the prevailing pandemic. Many preferred to celebrate the festival at their homes -- on terraces and gardens in artificial tubs. The Mahakaleshwar ghat on the banks of river Kharkai in Jugsalai had one of the best arrangements in terms of its management and facilities. Managed by the Mahakaleshwar Chhat Ghat Samity, this ghat in the city was equipped with changing rooms for vratis along with two makeshift toilets each for men and women. "We performed the rituals at Subernarekha ghat. The morning scenario was breathtaking. We every year make it a point to offer the arghya at that ghat. But, because of cloud and drizzling rain, we failed to get a glimpse of the Sun this year,`` said Anita Sharma, a Chhath vrati. The district administration was on their toes to ensure the festival was conducted peacefully. "The festival went off without any untoward incident. We had made adequate security arrangements in all river ghats and other venues" said Nitish Kumar Singh, the Dhalbhum SDO, who is in charge of the law and order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Police bust extortion racket in Hazaribagh, arrest 7||Police on Saturday busted a racket, which used photos of women to extort money out of them, in Kapka Village under Barkatha police station and arrested seven involved while seizing eight mobile phones from their possession. The cops were hunting for them following complaints that they were posting photographs of women on online pornographic sites and later demanding money from them to remove those. The photographs of the women belonging to well-to-do families were being taken without their knowledge from social media platforms. Revealing details of their modus operandi, the Superintendent of Police Karthik S said the accused had registered themselves as sex service providers on sites such as Oklute and Skokka. Once somebody asked them for service, they would take the money in advance and block their numbers. Meanwhile, they used pictures of women available on their social media accounts. He added that they posted the photos on the two websites and later called the girls’ families to extort money out of them in exchange of removing those pictures. According to sources in the police department, the families, who did not even know that the pictures were taken from the social media handles, transferred the amount out of fear. However, few of them resorted to the police, following which the investigation kicked off. Karthik said that the gang had made more than Rs 8-10 lakhs over the past six months in this manner, adding that details of the victims and trail of money is being traced and further investigation is underway. Sources said as complaints started coming, Karthik formed a team led by Barhi sub divisional police officer Manish Kuma,r who investigated the case taking help of the technical team and arrested seven people. Seeing the sensitivity of this case, Karthik kept supervising the case till the end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Maoists gun down coal trader at Chhath ghat in Chatra||CPI (Maoist) insurgents shot dead a coal trader while he was offering Chhath prayers at a ghat in a nondescript village of Chatra’s Simariya block, about 150 km north of capital Ranchi, on Saturday morning, triggering panic among villagers on the last day of the festival. Eyewitnesses claimed that bike-borne, masked rebels fired three rounds of from a close distance at the coal trader and fled shouting slogans glorifying their organisation. The incident led to a stampede at the Chhath Ghat. Police recovered three used cartridges and two CPI (Maoist) posters from the spot. The victim, identified as one Mukesh Giri, was rushed to a local hospital in Simarya from where he was referred to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. Giri succumbed to his injuries on way to Ranchi in an ambulance, police said. The rebels went on a rampage on Saturday in other districts too. In Giridih, they unleased violence and pasted posters in Khunti and Saraikela. Through the posters, the rebels threatened industrialists to either pay levy or perish. A poster recovered from the crime scene in Chatra warned local residents against becoming police informers and threatened them of dire consequences if they passed on information to law enforcement agencies. In Giridih, CPI (Maoist) rebels set ablaze a JCB, a bike, a miller machine and a generator at a road construction site on Saturday, police said. They also set afire to a house where construction workers were staying temporarily. However, no casualties were reported. DGP M.V. Rao rushed to Chatra after the coal trader’s murder and held a meeting with the Chatra SP Rishav Kumar Jha. Talking to the media later, the DGP said that CPI (Maoist) rebels had invited their own demise by indulging in such activities and they won’t be able to survive for long. “They have lost the ideological support of villagers. Their (Maoists) end is not far,” said Rao. While the purpose behind the cold-blooded murder in broad daylight is not confirmed, police suspect the coal trader may have been murdered for refusing to pay a levy to the insurgents. Other sources in the police department said that the CPI (Maoist) killed Giri as they suspected him to be a police informer. As per records with the ministry of home affairs (MHA), at least 19 of 24 districts are Left Wing Extremism affected in Jharkhand. The CPI (Maoist) is the most dreaded outlawed group in the state among around 17 LWE outfits, say police. Opposition parties in Jharkhand, including the BJP, have been targeting the Hemant Soren-led UPA government in the state over the deteriorating law and order situation. The government has faced the ire of Opposition leaders over rise in crimes against women and lynching incidents lately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Chhath puja celebrated with fervour, enthusiasm and devotion||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi MP opens book bank for poor students||Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth opened a book bank for underprivileged students at his office in Argora in the Jharkhand capital on Friday. The book bank, which will function from Seth’s office, on the first day had around 400 books of various subjects, mostly school and intermediate level, donated from various areas in and around Ranchi. “During my visit to rural areas, I have interacted with talented students hailing from underprivileged backgrounds who despite having the potential are not able to study due to lack of resources to purchase books. Some are not able to attend the online classes and in the process miss out on notes due to the lack of smartphones. We had been discussing with our supporters in recent months and decided to start the book bank concept on the auspicious day of Chhath festivity. “I only hope that this effort would help students from poor financial backgrounds facing problems in accessibility of reading materials. They can take the books free of cost and can return the books after finishing their studies,” said the first-term MP elected on a BJP ticket. Seth, buoyed by the first day donations, has set a target of collecting nearly 1 lakh books on various subjects by December. “We want to have a collection of nearly 1 lakh books. We are thankful to several organisations who came to deposit books in our bank after the announcement was made on Thursday. “We have also floated two landline numbers (0651-2240060 and 2240054) which would be open between 10am and 5pm daily (even on holidays). Anybody can call to deposit their books. If they are not able to come to the book bank, our staff would go to them to collect the books. Similarly, any student can contact us on the phone numbers and give us details about the required books. We would arrange to deliver the books at the doorstep of the student for free,” said Seth. The MP also said that sansad samadhan kendras (MP grievance centres) opened in each of the six Assembly constituencies can also be used to keep the books. “We would like to appeal again to NGOs, academicians, writers, researchers and even students to help poor students and donate the books in their possession after they have used it, at the nearest sansad samadhan kendras. Needy students can also get in touch with the kendras mentioning their requirements and we will arrange to provide the required books after searching in the book bank,” added Seth. Ranchi parliamentary constituency has under it six Assembly constituencies — Ranchi, Kanke, Ichagarh, Hatia, Silli and Khijri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
