22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Desperados attack Congress activist’s house in Mango||A group of bandits swooped over the house of  local Congress member Onkar Nath Singh with stones while ransacking the party office at Post-Office Road locality in Mango on Sunday morning. While there is no apparent reason for the attack, Singh along with other partymen has given the police an ultimatum of 24 hours to nab and arrest the criminals, threatening to gheraoh the Mango police station in case of failure. The incident occurred at the thickly-populated Post-Office Road area at about 3 am on Sunday, setting off a strong resentment among a section of the locals who came to know about the attack in the morning. Stones and bricks lay strewn in front of the Congress activist’s residence and a banner featuring state health minister and Congress Jamshedpur West legislator Banna Gupta was left on the ground. Mango thana OC Vinay Kumar visited the site along with a police team after getting a complaint regarding the attack on Singh’s house and the adjoining party office. While probing the case, the police also scanned the CCTV camera footage, one of which helped them identify a culprit. Satyaban Gaur was seen pelting stones at the Congress activist's house. “We have identified one of the culprits who was identified as Satyaban Gaur, a resident of the same locality. From the CCTV footage it appeared that Gaur, who is about 28 years of age, was drunk. We have registered a case against him and others and will arrest them all soon," said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The officer informed that the attackers, including Gaur, had absconded. However the police were still continuing raids at the houses of the accused. Kumar hoped that they would be nabbed soon. While Gaur, who recently returned from the prison, has a criminal record, Onkar Nath Singh is the president of the Mango Vikash Samity and has affiliation with the Congress party. Singh is also a member of the Peace Committee of Mango. This was not the first time Gaur had attacked his residence, the activist said while talking to reporters, adding that he had launched similar attacks on three occasions. "Being a peace committee member, I have to remain vigilant against all anti-social activities in the area.  Satyaban remains indulged in anti-social activities.  He might have launched the attack in apprehension that I will report his activities to the local police and administration.  Otherwise there seems no other reason behind the accused to launch such an attack on me," claimed Singh. The Congress activist added that he had no land dispute with Gaur, but he still continues to ransack his residence where Singh lives with his family. Sources in Post-Office road locality, however, revealed that there was a land dispute between the family of Satyaban Gaur and Onkar Nath Singh. "Satyaban Gaur's family had a huge extent of land at Mango and there was an enmity over landed properties between the Gaurs and the Congress activists. The real reason behind the attack by Satyaban can be established if the police carry out a proper investigation," said a local resident of Post-Office Road, who wished to remain anonymous.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand witnesses abrupt drop in temperatures||Several areas in Jharkhand, including Ranchi, witnessed an abrupt fall in the minimum readings of the temperature that plunged to around 11 degrees Celsius on Sunday. Following a warm and cloudy spell that resulted in rain over the last two days, most parts of the state saw clear skies and low humidity levels on Sunday, both conducive to lower mercury readings. What is better is that similar weather conditions will prevail for at least the next 72 hours before the temperature moves northward due to the return of easterly wind pattern around November 26, which will blow as a result of  a cyclonic circulation, said weathermen. Recording temperatures a notch below normal, Ranchi on Sunday felt shivers at 11.5 degrees Celsius. On Saturday, the capital had recorded a minimum of 17.7°C, five notches above normal. Bokaro on the other hand recorded mercury readings at 14.5 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal, contrary to Saturday’s 18.6 degrees Celsius, which is four notches above normal. Daltonganj, too, recorded a minimum temperature of 14.5 degrees on Sunday Celsius against Saturday’s 18 degrees Celsius, a fall of 3.5 degrees Celsius in the last 24 hours. Jamshedpur also witnessed free fall of temperature. The minimum readings plummeted to 16.4 degrees Celsius from Saturday’s 21.3 degrees Celsius. Saturday’s minimum reading in steel city was six notches above normal. The minimum readings plummeted to around 11 degrees Celsius in Dumka and its adjoining areas in Santhal Pargana region  today. On Saturday, most places in Santhal Pargana had notched over 16 degrees Celsius. The mercury  nosedived to  degrees 10 Celsius at Kanke in the outskirts of Ranchi  from  yesterday's 16.5°C while minimum readings hovered around  degrees Celsius in Ramgarh and Khunti. Night temperatures hovered around 14 degrees Celsius in Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Simdega, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. "The Celsius is suddenly dropping because  of the free flow of northwesterly wind which usually helps in plummeting night readings," said Abhishek Anand, Deputy Director of  Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He explained that the northern winds were being obstructed due to an anti-cyclone, which resulted in the adverse weather at Jharkhand. Anand added that the cool weather will last for at least another 72 hours due to the dominating northwesterly winds. After that, the wind pattern is expected to change to easterly, which will bring in moisture into the atmosphere, he explained. The forecast also ruled out possibilities of cloud formation owing to local effects or any system over the Bay of Bengal for at least the next three days. The regional Meteorological Centre in Alipore, Calcutta, said northwesterly winds were currently blowing over the state and would continue to dominate for the next  three  days. "Clear skies, characteristic of winter, and low humidity resulted in the Celsius plunge in Jharkhand," said a duty officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Security forces gun down Maoists zonal commander in Chatra||Maoist’s zonal commander, Alok, was gunned down in a joint operation of Cobra, CRPF and police team in Gaya of Bihar. Alok's killing came as a big relief for Chatra police who were in search of him for a long time. He was wanted in three dozens of cases lodged in Chatra including murder, extortion, and kidnapping. He originally belonged to Sikid village under Sadar police station of Chatra district. Jharkhand government had announced Rs10 lakh reward on his head. Police sources said Alok was implicated in a case related to the murder of a villager Triloki Yadav in 2004 at Sikid, when he was only 14 years old. His original name was Santosh Yadav. Villagers forced him to leave the village after his house was locked. He joined the Communist Party of India (Maoists) and got the new name Alok. On police records, he was also known as Gulshan and Ravi. After becoming an extremist, he used his position and reconstructed his damaged house in Sikid and another one in the neighboring Bhuiyandih village as well. But other rival outfits blew his two houses making him violent and targeting his enemies. About his killing, police officials in Chatra said Alok was present in an orchestra program along GT road in Mahuari village under Barachatti block of Gaya district. The program was going on in the village and in between Alok and his team had gunned down two persons including representatives of local mukhiya there. Firing made security forces alert in that area after getting a tip-off about this Maoists squad in advance. The team reached there and soon both sides exchanged bullets which ended after forty minutes killing Alok on the spot. The police team had recovered one INSAS and one AK-47 rifle from the spot. Alok was also wanted in dozen cases lodged in Gaya and Aurangabad of Bihar. Chatra superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha has confirmed the killing and said Alok, known from various names, was wanted in many cases lodged in various police stations of the district. In Chatra, Maoists had started reorganizing the outfit and made their presence felt with three incidents in the last few weeks. Other than killing a woman and a youth at two other places, Maoists had gunned down a coal trader Mukesh Giri yesterday morning on Chhath Ghat under Pathalgadda police station. With police coming under huge pressure to contain the activities of red brigade, the killing of Alok was seen as a big shock for extremists in this district, once known as the stronghold of extremists. A police officer on condition of anonymity said Alok was a big headache for police of the two states and his killing is like a reward for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad students want PG courses back, hold campaign||As many as 50 post-graduate students of the All Jharkhand Student Union (AJSU) along with other aspirants of PG courses of PK Roy College, Dhanbad on Sunday organised a signature campaign Randhir Verma Chowk of the town demanding resumption of PG teaching facility at the college. The courses at the premiere college of the Binod Bihari Mahato Koylanchal University were dropped two years ago. The students claimed that the withdrawal of the PG courses from the college located at the heart of Dhanbad will cause several difficulties for students, especially women, who come from faraway areas vying for higher studies in the near future. This is likely to happen due to the upcoming shift of the university to its new campus at Bhelatand Mouza of the town from its temporary address at Babudih. PK Roy Memorial College offered post-graduate courses in 15 subjects for more than three decades and served as the PG centre of the Vinoba Bhave University, Hazaribagh. However, with the Binod Bihari Koylanchal University being established at Dhanbad in 2017, the college dropped off the facility and instead launched its own PG departments. The classes are scheduled to be shifted from the temporary location at Babudih to its own upcoming building at Bhelatand soon. Talking to The Telegraph Online at the campaign site at Randhir Verma Chowk, Vivek Kumar, a PG student of the college said, “PK Roy Memorial College, where PG courses were being carried out since the last 34 years, is centrally located and students can easily reach the location. But after the university gets shifted to its upcoming campus at Bhelatand, which is located away from the town in a remote area, it will be difficult for students to reach there.” Vikash Mahato, a student who is completing his PG course in Hindi, seemed to have similar opinions. “We have no objection to the university launching its PG department but at the same time, we do not want  withdrawal of the PG course from PK Roy Memorial College as it is the only premiere college of the BBMKU at Dhanbad,” he said. Student leader and BBKMU unit leader of student wing at AJSU, Vishal Mahato said, “The PK Roy Memorial College earned a better ranking during the last assessment of college by National Assessment and Accreditation Council, which was conducted five years ago due to the availability of PG course facility. It may not get a similar ranking during the next assessment due the withdrawal of the PG courses during the time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Darbhanga airport takes off, Deoghar lags behind||Of the two regional airports scheduled to begin flight operations from the first week of November, Darbhangha in neighbouring Bihar has taken off before  Jharkhand’s temple town of Deoghar. Several infrastructure gaps have delayed Deoghar’s debut on the country’s aerial map by at least a few more months, even though Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, after conducting an on-site review of the two airports, had promised to launch flights from the first week of November. Bihar managed. On November 8, flight services began from Darbhanga, part of the Mithila belt, under the centrally sponsored regional air connectivity scheme UDAN. But Jharkhand couldn’t. Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri said the state government was working to make the airport project a reality soon. “Deoghar airport is also among chief minister Hemant Soren’s priority projects and we are trying to speed up the work by addressing causes behind its delay,” said Bhajantri, who took charge on November 18 replacing Kameshwar Prasad. Bhajantri said he had held a detailed review meeting with officials of Airport Authority of India (AAI), forest department and other stakeholders to speed up the process. Detailing on a few shortcomings, he said, “Work on construction of approach roads around the airport is to be done. This will require relocation of those living in its vicinity. District and AAI officials have been asked to work in tandem and begin the relocation project. This apart, some trees have to be replaced or cut, for which the forest department has been sounded out.” The deputy commissioner did not specify timelines but said all stakeholders had been activated to complete pending work in a time-bound manner. An airport official had claimed earlier that more than 90 per cent of the construction work was complete. This included the terminal building with six check-in counters, ATC tower, fire station, power station, airport station, among others. Currently, work related to drainage systems, power, communication facilities and police posts is underway. The foundation stone of the Rs 401.34-crore Deoghar airport was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 25, 2018. It is being developed by the Airports Authority of India in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Jharkhand government. The airport is spread over 653.75 acre and its terminal building is being built over an area of 4,000sqm, while the runway is 2,500 metre long. With an environment-friendly architectural design and state-of-the-art passenger facilities, the terminal building will be a composite structure inspired by the rising towers (shikhar) of the Baba Baidyanath temple. Once ready, this will be Jharkhand’s second largest airport after Birsa Munda International terminal in Ranchi and will be suitable for operation of Airbus A-320 type of aircraft. Currently, rail and road journeys are the only options for thousands who come to Deoghar annually for Lord Shiva’s darshan. Once air services begin, footfall is expected to multiply which will turnaround the local economy by strengthening Deoghar’s place as a prime attraction for religious tourism. A direct flight between Ranchi-Chennai commenced operations from Saturday.  A 180-seater Indigo aircraft made a to and fro journey to almost full capacity. The flight from Chennai with 166 passengers reached Ranchi airport at 8.05am while it returned with 155 passengers at 8.50am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad youths join efforts to save water bodies after Chhath||A group of youth, engaged in providing free of cost education to more than 2,000 students of the district launched a cleanliness drive of ponds of Dhanbad. This drive was aimed at spreading the message of round the year upkeep of water bodies, including ponds. The drive began on Sunday from Lodna pond of Jharia with altogether six members of Jharia based social organization, Samadhan. They cleaned the pond by bringing out the puja paraphernalia like garlands, cloth, flower, fruits, and also brooming around the pond ghats. The drive that began at around 11.45 am continued till around 2.15 pm. Besides bringing out the puja paraphernalia, they also collected the polythene carry bags, papers, banana branch, some idols frame of sun god immersed after Chhath and other garbage lying on the banks of the pond. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Ravindra Kumar (29), a private tutor of Lodna more area of Dhanbad, said, “Generally all attention of government, social organizations, as well as the civic bodies, is limited to the cleanliness of ponds during Chhath but post-Chhath, all the ponds bear the brunt of negligence.” “Through our drive we wanted to spread the message that being a part of the community we should not shun our responsibility towards the ponds after completion of Chhath and rather take the responsibility of their upkeep even after Chhath when the cleanliness is most required as a huge amount of puja paraphernalia and other articles are dumped in the pond,” said Ravindra, who also imparts free of cost education to the students of economically weaker section of the society under the banner of Samadhan. “We also appealed to the local residents to not dump the garbage near the pond and also not allow others from turning the pond ghats into dumping yard of garbage,” said Kumar. Rahul Kumar (24), another volunteer of Samadhan, who is a resident of Lodna More locality of Dhanbad said, “We will share the photographs of the pond cleanliness work on social media, like Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Twitter in order to encourage others towards the responsibility of pond upkeep round the year and especially after Chhath.” Uttam Sinha (45), a small-time trader of Gandhi road locality of Dhanbad, who also joined the volunteers of Samadhan in the two and a half hours cleanliness drive of Lodna pond on Sunday said, “The need of the hour is to take responsibility for the upkeep of water bodies around us by ourselves and if we keep a little care of these water bodies during the other times apart from the festival, there will be no need to be dependent on the civic bodies to clean the pond ahead of festivals like Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath.” Samadhan founder, Chandan Singh said, “We will continue the drive in other ponds of the district for a fortnight and will carry out a similar drive in Singh Nagar pond of Jharia on Monday.”  A group of youth, engaged in providing free of cost education to more than 2,000 students of the district launched a cleanliness drive of ponds of Dhanbad. This drive was aimed at spreading the message of round the year upkeep of water bodies, including ponds. The drive began on Sunday from Lodna pond of Jharia with altogether six members of Jharia based social organization, Samadhan. They cleaned the pond by bringing out the puja paraphernalia like garlands, cloth, flower, fruits, and also brooming around the pond ghats. The drive that began at around 11.45 am continued till around 2.15 pm. Besides bringing out the puja paraphernalia, they also collected the polythene carry bags, papers, banana branch, some idols frame of sun god immersed after Chhath and other garbage lying on the banks of the pond. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Ravindra Kumar (29), a private tutor of Lodna more area of Dhanbad, said, “Generally all attention of government, social organizations, as well as the civic bodies, is limited to the cleanliness of ponds during Chhath but post-Chhath, all the ponds bear the brunt of negligence.” “Through our drive we wanted to spread the message that being a part of the community we should not shun our responsibility towards the ponds after completion of Chhath and rather take the responsibility of their upkeep even after Chhath when the cleanliness is most required as a huge amount of puja paraphernalia and other articles are dumped in the pond,” said Ravindra, who also imparts free of cost education to the students of economically weaker section of the society under the banner of Samadhan. “We also appealed to the local residents to not dump the garbage near the pond and also not allow others from turning the pond ghats into dumping yard of garbage,” said Kumar. Rahul Kumar (24), another volunteer of Samadhan, who is a resident of Lodna More locality of Dhanbad said, “We will share the photographs of the pond cleanliness work on social media, like Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Twitter in order to encourage others towards the responsibility of pond upkeep round the year and especially after Chhath.” Uttam Sinha (45), a small-time trader of Gandhi road locality of Dhanbad, who also joined the volunteers of Samadhan in the two and a half hours cleanliness drive of Lodna pond on Sunday said, “The need of the hour is to take responsibility for the upkeep of water bodies around us by ourselves and if we keep a little care of these water bodies during the other times apart from the festival, there will be no need to be dependent on the civic bodies to clean the pond ahead of festivals like Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath.” Samadhan founder, Chandan Singh said, “We will continue the drive in other ponds of the district for a fortnight and will carry out a similar drive in Singh Nagar pond of Jharia on Monday.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad corporation gears up for Swachh Survekshan with town beautification drive||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) is carrying out a massive wall painting and slogan writing drive in various public places in the run-up to the Swachh Survekshan 2021. The ponds, streets, flyovers, entertainment parks in five circles of Dhanbad including Jharia, Dhanbad, Sindri, Katras, and Chhatatand are under this beautification drive. Wall painting and slogan writing around a dozen popular ponds, including two each in Jharia, Sindri, and Chhatatand circle, and three each in Dhanbad and Katras circle has already been completed ahead of Chhath. Similar beautification drives around other ponds, in 55 wards of Dhanbad, are in progress, which is likely to be completed before January next year ahead of Swachh Survekshan.  DMC meanwhile has also launched the wall painting and slogan writing drive on the railway overbridge near the Rangatand Chowk of Dhanbad as well as 824-meter bank more overbridge as part of its beautification drive. Giving details, Prem Prakash, City Manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, who is also the in-charge of Swachh Bharat Mission project of DMC said, “We had launched the wall painting and slogan writing drive during mid-October and decided to include ponds as part of our beautification drive in the last stage in view of Chhath celebration as a large number of people gather around the pond and the slogans regarding cleaning may have a better appeal there.” “We have carried out wall painting and slogan writing work on the boundary wall of Rajendra Sarovar (also known as Bekar Bandh) pond situated in the heart of Dhanbad town and similarly extensive wall painting and beautification all around the pond of Shiv Mandir in Jharia has been completed,” said Prakash.  Divulging more details, Prakash said, “We will include all the streets, flyovers and squares of the district as part of our drive in order to give a better look to the town as well as spreading the message regarding cleanliness and hygiene, environment protection, etc.” The Hindi slogans painted as part of wall writing included, Swachhata hai mahaabhiyan, swachhata me dijiye apna yogdan; Swachhata apnao apne ghar ko sundar banao; Kahin bhule to nahi swachhata ka path, aayie milkar phir se karen abhyas, etc. “Though we are also carrying out a lot of innovative work as part of the preparation for the Swachh Survekshan like decoration with the help of waste materials like used tyres and used plastic bottle regarding which we will give great details after the completion of work,” said Prakash and added that they had also developed an attractive flowering zone in the Birsa Munda Park and Rajendra Sarovar during the last year using the waste tyres and also grown decorative plant in plastic bottles and they decorated them on the boundary wall of both the parks. “We are also carrying out other welfare work as part of the preparation for Swachh Survekshan as a result of which we have installed an automatic sanitary pad vending machine at PMCH for patients of economically deprived section of the society who are being provided with pads at a rate of Rs 5 per piece,” said Prakash. Notably, Dhanbad secured 33 All India Ranking this year making an improvement over the last year ranking of 56.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Vidhan Sabha turns 20, but it has no leader of the Opposition||For the first time since the formation of Jharkhand, the anniversary celebration of Vidhan Sabha was held in absence of a leader of the Opposition on Sunday, triggering indirect jibes against the government from the BJP. Biranchi Narayan, the chief whip of BJP, the second largest party in the 81-member Jharkhand Assembly, used the platform of the 20th anniversary ceremony of Vidhan Sabha to lament over the absence of BJP-backed Leader of Opposition Babulal Marandi, the first chief minister of Jharkhand. “It would have been nice had Leader of Opposition, Babulal Marandi, attended this event. Leader of Opposition is one of the pillars of the Assembly and Babulalji’s absence gives a sense of incompleteness as we celebrate 20 years of our state assembly,” Narayan said, while addressing all the MLAs and Governor Droupadi Murmu at the Vidhan Sabha anniversary celebration. Babulal and two of his former Jharkhand Vikas Morcha-Prajatantrik (JVM-P) MLAs – Pradeep Yadav and Bandhu Tirkey – are yet to get the assembly speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato’s nod as MLAs of parties they joined after winning the 2019 elections as JVM-P candidates. While Babulal joined BJP, Yadav and Tirkey moved to the Congress party. However, the Election Commission of India (ECI) have accepted them as MLAs of the parties they joined after winning the elections. Chief Minister Hemant Soren, alluding to the Narendra Modi-led Union government, said that making stricter laws and imposing them on the citizens with an iron fist may not lead to positive changes in the society. “Imposing stricter laws on the people cannot lead to a better society. We have to create a society, wherein people respect each other irrespective of caste, community, gender and religion. Unity in diversity is the beauty of our country, and we all should stay united in order to see progress and development,” said Hemant, stating the example of the Vidhan Sabha, where every MLA was equal, he added. The chief minister also thanked his fellow MLAs for fighting the Covid-19 crisis as a team and helping Jharkhand check the spread of the deadly virus. Hemant said that the Covid-19 situation in Jharkhand was better in comparison to many other states in India, but the fight was not over yet. “Our fight against this pandemic is not over yet. I would urge all the residents of our state to abide by the rules and take necessary precautions, as that is the only way we can deal with the situation,” said Hemant. Assembly speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto conferred the best MLA award to seven-time legislator from Shikaripara, Nalin Soren, a senior JMM leader. Mahto lauded the efforts of the coronavirus-infected MLAs to stay connected with the Assembly via video conferencing even when they were battling the infection. Apart from the Soren, Joint Secretary Shishir Kumar Jha, Administrative Officers Somen Kumar Singh and Laxmi Muchwa were honoured with the late Kapileshwar Award for outstanding performance in the Legislative Assembly. Besides, Ranchi’s Civil Surgeon B.V. Prasad, ADM Law and Order Akhilesh Kumar Singh and RIMS Chief Nurse Ram Rekha Rai were felicitated for their exemplary contribution in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing the ceremony, Governor Droupadi Murmu remembered the brave tribal heroes of Jharkhand, Birsa Munda and Nilamber Pitamber. She said that Jharkhand should not only count its success, but also pay attention to the shortcomings. “In this time of globalisation, we must continuously strive to stay at par with the world. The people elect their representatives with a lot of hope and aspirations. All the MLAs must remember that their primary task is to serve the people and address their problems,” said Murmu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Six more die, 175 new cases of Covid-19 in the state||At least half a dozen people, including two from Ranchi, died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Saturday, taking the Covid-19 toll in the state up at 945, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The two deaths caused by Covid-19 in Ranchi took the toll in the district to 189. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts have reported fewer Covid-19 deaths than 100. The Covid-19 mortality rate in the state was 0.88 percent against the national average of 1.50 percent by Saturday evening, highlighted in the NHM bulletin. East Singhbhum, Hazaribag, Jamtara, and Godda reported one Covid-19 casualty each on Saturday. The latest findings by the health department take the total count of Covid-19 fatalities in East Singhbhum alone to 350, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, East Singhbhum accounts for over 30 percent of Covid-19 casualties in the state. Meanwhile, the count of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped below 2,500 on Saturday as at least 333 patients recovered from the lethal infection in the past 24 hours. As per government records, 2,430 people were battling the infection on Saturday evening. Ranchi reported 59 fresh cases against 171 recoveries, which brought the count of active cases in the district below 1,000. East Singhbhum reported 28 cases and 38 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 23 cases and 40 recoveries. At least five districts, including Koderma and Latehar, did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 infection on the day. As per the NHM bulletin, the government on Saturday collected swab samples of only 8,123 people, which is lower than the average number of swab samples collected in the past one month. As many as 12,509 swab samples, including the ones collected earlier, were tested on the day and 175 of them were found Covid-19 positive, the NHM bulletin further stated. The government has so far collected swab samples of 39.08 lakh people and tested 38.95 lakh of them. Of the nearly 39 lakh people tested, as many as 1,07,332 were found infected. At least 1,03,957 have recovered from the infection in Jharkhand. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.17 percent against the national average of 0.38 percent. The doubling rate of the viral infection in the state was 408.27 days against the national average of 183.22 days. The recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state was 96.85 percent against the national recovery rate of 93.70 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
