23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Forest department instructs NHAI to replant peepal tree in Koderma||A peepal tree uprooted in Jhumri in Koderma for the widening of Barhi (Hazaribagh)-Koderma four-lane project, have to be replanted again. The transplant order came after the tree showed signs of life with new leaves. After felling, this tree was kept on the roadside and as new leaves came, well-known environmentalist of the area, Indrajeet Samanta drew the attention of the forest department officials to this development demanding transplantation of it. Due to Samanta, the forest department had issued an instruction to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) asking them to transplant the tree soon. In the state, several thousand trees are axed for road widening project forced Samanta to file a PIL in the Jharkhand High Court in this regard. Due to the court's order, the forest department had constituted a high power committee to take immediate decisions on such issues. In the Barhi-Koderma four-lane project, out of 3518 trees, this committee asked to transplant 1727 trees. About this peepal tree, it was axed down near Jhumri village making Samanta send an email to the forest department on November 8 telling that this tree looks healthy and despite the fact that it was uprooted and kept roadside, new leaves are coming. On November 10, officials passed instructions to NHAI to transplant this tree to save it. NHAI sources said all processes are completed and the tree will be transplanted soon. Divisional forest officer of Koderma, Suraj Kumar Singh said on the initiative of Samanta, this instruction was passed to save the peepal tree through immediate transplantation. He urged others also to remain alert on environmental issues. The 27.5 km long Barhi-Koderma project is to be constructed from Rs 276 crore on which work has already started. The construction company that got the contract was given the deadline of August 2021. Company officials said it was not possible to complete the work within the given deadline as there was trouble in land acquisition of 17 km stretch due to villagers protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur to slap fines for not wearing mask||The East Singhbhum district administration launched a massive mask-checking drive on Monday amid apprehensions of a second wave of coronavirus infections post the festival season. Led by an executive magistrate, policemen were on the job at various points at Sakchi, Bistupur and other places. Though Covid-19 cases have come down significantly in East Singhbhum, the district administration does not want to take chances. Checkpoints have been set-up in as many as 10 places at Sakchi, Bistupur, Golmuri, Sonari, Kadma, Jugsalai, Agrico and Parsudih. The checkpoint on Dobo-Kanderbera Road that connects the newly constructed bridge over river Subernarekha at Sonari was set-up to keep a tab on visitors and residents returning home after Chhath. On Monday, several people, mostly youngsters who were caught at various checkpoints for not wearing masks, were released with a warning. But, from Tuesday, violators would be fined for not wearing masks as per provisions of the Disaster Management Act. Thermal scanning of passengers also resumed at Tatanagar railway station. The district health department also resumed rapid antigen tests of passengers arriving at Tatanagar railway station from various places especially those who had gone to Bihar during Chhath. Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh said prevention was the only cure for Covid-19 as of now. “Everyone should wear masks while moving around in public places to prevent transmission of the virus,” he added. On Sunday evening a team of officials carried out surprise checks at several shopping centres in Sakchi. Many people were caught without masks. Shops that were violating social distancing norms were served show cause notices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata hospital launches video consultation, home delivery of medicine||Tata Main Hospital (TMH) launched two key services on Monday, namely, online video consultation and home delivery of medicines for residents of the steel city. The new services were inaugurated online by Tata Steel vice- president (corporate services) Chanakya Chaudhary and president of Tata Workers' Union R. Ravi Prasad. Among those who had logged in were Dr Rajan Chaudhry, advisor Medical Services, Dr Sudhir Rai, GM Medical Services, senior executives of Tata Steel, senior doctors of TMH and union office-bearers. The online video consultation service would allow patients to consult doctors from the comfort of their home or office and eliminate the need for travel to the hospital. It would help for repeat consultation, revaluation and follow-up. The online video consultation is a paid facility for all. Rates would range between Rs 400 and Rs 750, depending on the specialists or super specialists sought. The facility can only be booked through the TMH Vishwas portal after online payment. Patients would receive video links on their email addresses. Initially, 14 super-speciality doctors will be available for video consultation. The video consultation slots will be in addition to their regular OPD commitments. As for home delivery of medicines, patients will need to place requests through the TMH Vishwas portal (available on Play Store or through the TMH website www.tatamainhospital.com). A charge of Rs130 will be levied for each delivery. Chanakya Chaudhary said the new services would greatly benefit patients, especially senior citizens, who could now consult the doctors through video consultation and subsequently get prescribed medicines home delivered. R. Ravi Prasad congratulated the Medical Services and the One IT teams for developing and delivering solutions based on patient’s expectations. Dr. Sudhir Rai said Medical Services would continue to leverage technology to improve its services and focus on patient's convenience and patient-centric care.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||On-spot Covid tests for those without mask in public||Ranchi district administration is planning to roll out a special drive against those who do not wear masks while moving around in public by making it mandatory for them to undertake an immediate Covid test. As a part of the administration’s strategy to curb the spread of the coronavirus amid fears of a possible second wave, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said mask-checking drives drive would be launched in a day or two. “Officials have been asked to form teams to tour different places,” Ranjan said, adding that violators would be made to undergo Covid tests at two static centres. “These centres are coming up at Sainik Bazar and the GEL Church Complex. We are also working out plans to roll out another round of mass testing,” he added. Last week, fearing a resurgence of coronavirus infections post-Chhath, the state health department asked all 24 districts to be adequately equipped with beds, sufficient stocks of medicines and testing kits for early detection. On Monday, Ranjan held a meeting with various Covid combat teams to assess the ground situation. With the recent unlocking of businesses and the transport sector, streets are once again abuzz with people with many violating basic Covid safety norms. Ranjan said, “Beds aren’t an issue at the moment as RIMS and other Covid care centres are vacant and in case of a spike, we have back-up plans. The civil surgeon has been asked to evaluate other medical requirements on priority so that required facilities are kept ready.” An official of the district health department, unwilling to be named added, “Tentatively, we are aiming to roll out mega testing drives at transit points like railway stations, bus stands and gateways into Ranchi district. Many people are travelling between Jharkhand and Bihar and other states.” Ranchi currently has 843 active Covid cases among the total 27,322 it recorded since the outbreak of the virus. There are 2,013 notified containment zones in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Soft coke industry owners protest, seek to restart business||A delegation of 18 soft coke industry owners of Nirsa area of Dhanbad led by former Nirsa MLA, Arup Chatterjee met the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Monday. They sought the deputy commissioner’s intervention for relaunching of their units, lying closed for more than eight months. The industry owners claimed that the local police at Nirsa is not allowing them to operate their respective units and also threatens them. The police also implicated one factory owner in a false case when he tried to relaunch his unit. Notably, soft coke is primarily used in hotels, restaurants for cooking purposes in ovens. Talking to The Telegraph Online after meeting with the deputy commissioner, Chatterjee said, “The DC after meeting us expressed surprise over the restriction of permission for operating the factories and instructed the Additional District Magistrate (Law and Order) Chandan Kumar to conduct an inquiry into the issue and take appropriate action, accordingly.” “Even as the government has allowed the opening of all industrial units from April 20 without making any distinction on the types of industry but the local police at Nirsa led by officer-in-charge of Nirsa police station, Subhash Kumar is preventing the opening of soft coke industry owners from opening their units,” informed Kumar. Echoing sentiments, Prem Singh, one of the soft coke industry owners, who was part of the delegation, said, “We have never faced such a situation of a financial crisis during the last 20 years as all our raw materials are lying locked in our units and money rotation is not taking place due to closure of the unit.” “Despite the closure, we are compelled to pay bank loan, EMIs, fixed charges of electricity, labour payments, etc. further affecting our situation,” said Singh and added that though some of the industries started operation after April 20, they were later forcibly closed by the police. “The police also charge us of using stolen coal as raw materials in our units but the fact remains that we purchased the coal from the coal company, BCCL and CIL by participating in the auction,” charged another factory owner and added that if the situation continues they will have no option other than to completely close down the industries. “The permanent closure of industries will affect the future of around 200 workers working with us,” said a factory owner and added that they also had a telephonic talk with the ADM (Law and Order) Chandan Kumar following the meeting with the DC Uma Shankar Singh who assured to sort out the issue within a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Congress MLA Bandhu Tirkey asks CM to order special land survey||Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, who belongs to the ruling coalition led by JMM, has alleged that poor land owners and farmers were being duped of their property by unscrupulous government officials and asked chief minister Hemant Soren to order a special survey to publish land records of both private and public owners. Addressing the media on Monday, Tirkey said, “I am coming across several cases of illegal registration of land, mutation on a daily basis. Poor farmers are facing the brunt as they are uneducated and land sharks in connivance with officials of circle office where registration and mutation takes place resort to illegal acts. In the event of litigation, poor people can’t afford to fight court cases.” Tirkey, who is in the Congress, has been raising the issue of land disputes for quite some time. “This government came to power on the plank of safeguarding jal (water), jungle (forest) and jameen (land) of poor tribals. Hence, I demand that the government publish land records (khatiyan),” he said. “In many cases the situation is such that the same piece of land is registered/mutated under multiple names leading to litigation. Those working in circle offices are hand in glove with land sharks. When the matter reaches courts, those who have money fight it out while the poor fail to defend themselves,” he said, demanding that the state government set up a redressal cell offering a one-stop solution. Tirkey won from Mandar on a JVM-P ticket in the 2019 Assembly polls in December. But he joined the Congress early this year after Babulal Marandi merged his party (JVM-P) with the BJP. Both are currently facing anti-defection cases in the court of the Jharkhand Assembly speaker and the matter is sub judice. Tirkey, despite being in the ruling Congress, has been vocal on the issue of land. In September, he was the first to speak out against the controversial Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill, 2020 after it was cleared by the state Cabinet. Ultimately, the bill wasn’t tabled in the Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Cops nab notorious criminal with loaded pistol at Dhatkidih||Acting on a tip-off, police arrested a 28-year-old notorious criminal with a sophisticated loaded pistol near Radio Maidan in Dhatkidih under Bistupur Thana area on Monday midnight. The arrested person was identified as Mohammed Jaheed and has criminal records. He was working as an air-conditioner mechanic before resuming criminal activity recently. Revealing about the breakthrough, officer-in-charge, Bistupur Thana, Ranvijay Sharma said at around 11.30 pm on Sunday, they got a tip-off that two criminals were waiting to commit some crime at Dhatkidih by sitting at a convenient corner of Radio Maidan in Dhatkidih. "Having got the information, we immediately set up a team of police officials to the spot. Led by sub-inspector Pradeep Oraon, the team succeeded in detecting the two criminals and surrounded the place where the duo was sitting. But at the sight of the approaching police party, one of them succeeded to flee through a narrow lane, whereas the other one was caught," said Sharma while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said, on checking, the police found a 7.65 MM loaded pistol from the possession of Jaheed. "On being asked, Jaheed, who is also a resident of Dhatkidih, did not reveal exactly for whom they were waiting with a loaded pistol. The criminal, however, divulged the name and whereabouts of his associate who managed to escape. We could know about the criminal's background during his interrogation on Monday," said the OC. The OC said the one who managed to escape is a resident of Dhatkidih, but presently he has taken shelter at the house of one of his acquaintances in Mango. He informed them that they are trying to arrest the one who fled and have carried out raids at his house on Monday morning. During interrogation, the accused has also revealed the name and whereabouts of the person who had supplied the pistol for taking to criminal activities. "Earlier, Jaheed was arrested in vehicle theft and assault cases registered with the Bistupur and Kadma Thana area a few years ago. After he was released from jail a year ago, he had taken to the profession of mending air-conditioners by visiting people's houses. But as the earning from the job as an AC repairer was not a lucrative one, he decided to return to his ‘old profession’ in a modified way. He did, therefore, buy a sophisticated pistol and a magazine from an arms supplier by paying Rs 27,000," informed Sharma. The police officer said they are more inclined to know about the arms-supplier and having known his name and address, the police team has also started raiding his house located in Mango locality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||BAU starts cultivation of ‘superfood’ avocado||The horticulture department of Birsa Agriculture University (BAU) in Ranchi has started research on the feasibility of growing avocados – a fruit that has gained the tag of “superfood” owing to its nutritional properties – in Jharkhand and planted seeds on the university campus in Kanke. Dr K.K. Jha, the chairman of BAU’s horticulture department, said that the climatic condition and soil quality in Jharkhand were conducive for growing avocados, but largescale cultivation of the fruit was never done in the state due to lack of research on its feasibility and financial viability. “We have planted avocado seeds here in the university campus this month. It will take around three to four years for the plants to bear fruit,” said Jha. “However, I am sure that the quality of the final yield will be satisfactory as we tick all the boxes when it comes to having favourable conditions for growing avocados,” he added. Avocados are a great source of vitamin C, vitamin E, vitamin K and B-6. They are also rich in riboflavin, niacin, folate, pantothenic acid, magnesium, and potassium. Besides, the Omega 3 fatty acids in the fruit is said to aid weight loss and improve cardiovascular health, say doctors. The fruit has become a staple of health-conscious fitness enthusiasts across the globe and is also consumed regularly by working professionals in urban India for its mood-lifting qualities, particularly useful for people suffering from depression. Researchers from BAU claim that avocados would also generate revenue for the cultivators due to its high demand in the market. According to fruit retailers in Ranchi, one kilogram of avocado was sold at the price of Rs 1,200 here, but the price varied depending on the season and demand. “Financial gains can be measured only when we start largescale cultivation of the fruit. Once this research shows positive results, we will start imparting training to farmers and then they may start cultivation of avocados in their respective villages,” said Dr Jha. Lately, he added, BAU was focussing particularly on healthy fruits owing to the growing demand of mineral and vitamin-rich fruits among health conscious people of the country. “We have also started cultivation of dragon fruit, and that project too is going pretty well,” said Jha. Jha, who is set to retire on March 31 next year, said a diverse variety of fruits can grow in Jharkhand and help farmers cater to the national and even global market. “Except apples, we can grow every fruit in the world here in Jharkhand. It would only require proper research and dedicated efforts,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI launches theme of much-awaited annual festival||Ensemble Valhalla, the annual cultural, sports, and management festival of XLRI, organised its theme launch event, IGNITO, over two days from November 20. The fest is usually held in November every year. But this year, due to the pandemic, the fest will be organised sometime in early 2021, said Abhishek Kapoor, a member of the organising committee. The theme launch event witnessed enthusiastic participation from students, faculty, and staff members. This year’s theme is “Escapade – A New Journey Awaits”, encouraging people to beat the monotony of life and daringly take off on a journey of adventure and thrill. The event commenced with a musical night by Bhuwin Khursija, a professional singer. Over 550 budding managers participated. Dean of Academics Ashis K Pani was also there. This was followed by First Impressions, the event designed to facilitate batch interaction and communication. The second day began with an event conducted to enhance batch unity and competitiveness. All the sections collectively solved a crossword based on life in XLRI. The next was team event Dare2Compete. Here, all the student committees organised different activities. The event concluded with a surprise round, where winners were chosen through voting by all the students. Ensemble, the largest management fest in the country, and Valhalla, the extravagant celebration of sports and culture at XLRI, were merged in the year 2017. Ensemble has a legacy of 20 years and has been constantly delivering great events year on year. In the past, it hosted eminent speakers like legendary cricketer Syed Kirmani, India’s first woman commando trainer Seema Rao and Supreme Court lawyer Ramakant Gaur. Valhalla, on the other hand, has been a testing ground for the sports enthusiasts and talented artists from the best colleges of the country. It used to be the year’s most awaited event for the residents of Jamshedpur. The popular 10km Jamshedpur run with participations from schools, colleges and corporates has been a unifying event for the steel city. XLRI’s flagship event, Ensemble- Valhalla, has witnessed participations from top B-schools from across the country and performances by renowned artists like Lucky Ali, Nikhil D’Souza, Vipul Gotal, Sourabh Pant and Zakir Khan. The combined fest is expected to be a grand celebration of spirit and character encompassing the values of excellence and integrity of India’s oldest business management school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad retail market banks on  wedding dates||With more than 5,000 marriages scheduled in Dhanbad during the upcoming lagan season of November-December, the market has revived for the first time this year in full swing after being badly hit due to lockdown during March this year. The sale of garments, metal utensils, jewellery, cosmetics, grocery items, etc. has increased significantly since Diwali and further picked up post-Diwali. The boom in the market can be assumed from fact that the sale of footwear which was the worst hit during the lockdown, partially due to the closure of schools has also revived for the first time. The happiest lots among all are over 500 decorators, tent house owners, caterers, band operators, florists, etc. as they are expecting to compensate for the huge loss suffered during the last eight months. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “The market has already revived to a great extent since Diwali and we are expecting it to further improve with the beginning of the marriage season beginning from November 25 and scheduled up to December 15.” “We are slightly apprehensive about the Covid-19 situation. Therefore we are making a regular appeal to all the shopkeepers and customers to avoid the heavy rush and follow the social distancing norms as the market is not likely to sustain another jolt,” said Gupta. Md Sohrab, President of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce said, “The readymade garment sellers were  disappointed over the dull market season during Durga Puja but the lagan season boom in the market is expected to compensate for all the loss.” “The jewellery market has also witnessed an upswing since Diwali and similar is the situation for cosmetics and other items required during marriage season besides garments,” said Sohrab. Pradeep Singh, President of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association, said, “As very few marriages were solemnized during the previous lagan season of June-July, around 5,000 marriages are scheduled during the nine lagan dates scheduled between November 25 and December 15 this year in Dhanbad.” “We have instructed all our association members to strictly abide by the Covid-19 norms during the functions and will be erecting open pandals as per government instructions,” said Singh and added that they are very thankful for the government which permitted the assembly of 200 persons during marriages. “Marriage function organizers will also be requested to obtain the necessary permission for organizing the functions, as permission of Sub Divisional officer is mandatory for holding marriage-related parties and functions,” said Singh. Manish Kumar, operator of Sri Durga Band said, “As the musical instruments were not allowed due to the government’s restricted permission for marriage functions during the lagan season of June-July, so we will be getting the first opportunity to perform during the upcoming lagan season beginning from November 25.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19 claims five more lives, toll jumps above 950||The Covid-19 toll in Jharkhand jumped above 950 on Sunday as the state reported at least five more casualties in the past 24 hours, taking the count of Covid-19 fatalities occurring in the past 48 hours to almost a dozen in the state, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. At least two Covid patients died during treatment in Ranchi, while Bokaro, Dhanbad and Hazaribag reported one casualty each on the day, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Sunday evening. As many as six Covid-19 patients died in Jharkhand on Saturday. So far, East Singhbhum has reported 350 of the 951 Covid fatalities, the highest in the state. Ranchi, on the other hand, has lost 191 people to Covid-19 virus. As per government data, at least eight districts in the state did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Sunday, while 13 districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases. Ranchi, which reported 77 fresh cases, was the highest contributor to the Covid caseload in Jharkhand on Sunday. The government on Sunday tested the swab samples of only 10,492 people and 137 of them were found Covid-positive, stated the NHM bulletin. However, as many as 272 patients overcame the infection on Sunday, taking the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand up at 96.98 per cent. Ranchi also reported 129 recoveries, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum reported only five fresh cases against 36 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported zero fresh cases and zero recoveries on the day. At least seven cases surfaced in Bokaro and 10 patients recovered there. The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection has dropped significantly in the past week. On Saturday, there were 2,289 active cases of infection in Jharkhand and at least 850 of them were in Ranchi. Government figures indicate that Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for more than 50 per cent of active cases in Jharkhand. At least 305 people were battling the virus in Ranchi on Sunday. The intensity of sample collection for Covid-19 test has also reduced in Jharkhand lately. On Sunday, health workers collected swab samples of only 8.014 people, which is lower than the average number of tests conducted daily in the past month. The government has so far collected swab samples of 39.24 lakh people and tested around 39.08 lakh of them. As many as 1,07,469 people have been found infected by the virus so far and 1,04,229 of them have recovered, highlights government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi’s HEC set to bag plant order at Magadh opencast project||Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC), which is based in Ranchi, is all set to bag the work order for a coal handling plant (CHP) at Magadh opencast project of Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL), that is also headquartered in the Jharkhand capital. HEC was found to be the lowest bidder at Rs 527.11 crore when the price bids for the plant were opened on Thursday. HEC director (marketing and production), Rana S. Chakravarty, said the plant would be of 20 MTPA (million tonne per annum) capacity. Chakravarty said his company would be involved in the Magadh plant’s “planning, design, engineering, construction, fabrication, erection, trial run and commissioning, besides its maintenance for five years”. “Magadh CHP of the CCL will actually be the third such order for the HEC in the current financial year (2020-21) and that’s certainly encouraging during this pandemic situation,” Chakravarty told The Telegraph. Earlier in 2020-21, HEC had bagged two more orders for construction of coal handling plants, he said. The first order was for a plant of Northern Coalfields Limited (NCL) at Rs 167.45 crore, while the second one was for a plant of South Eastern Coalfields Limited at Rs 615 crore, Chakravarty added. HEC is currently executing another coal handling plant of NCL and also the Meghahataburu project for installation of a crushing system (of Steel Authority of India Limited’s material handling division) and both are nearly complete, the official said. HEC has already executed coal and ore handling plants of upto 10 MTPA capacity for different subsidiaries of Coal India and SAIL, Chakravarty said. He claimed that HEC had been working in the mineral beneficiation sector for the past several years and is known for its competence for undertaking commissioning of bulk material handling plants for coal and ore on turnkey basis. Asked about the company’s order book position, Chakravarty said, “As on date, HEC has orders in hand worth over Rs 1,800 crore. It will go up further by 527.11 crore once the work order for the CCL coal handling plant is received.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
