24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Massive anti-encroachment drive held near Court Road in Dhanbad||In an attempt to solve the perennial issue of traffic congestion at the Court Road of Dhanbad, the district administration has made a permanent parking arrangement at Kohinoor Ground adjacent to the road. Announcements were made on a loudspeaker in this regard at Court Road of Dhanbad by a joint team of district administration and traffic police led by sub-divisional officer of Dhanbad Surendra Prasad during the morning hours at around 10.30 am, which was followed by a drive to impose fines on those parking their vehicles in the non-parking area. The team comprising of traffic DSP Rajesh Kumar Yadava, and traffic inspector Rajeshwar Verma also carried out an anti-encroachment drive in the same place during which around half a dozen street vendors putting their stalls beside the road were removed. Notably, Court Road, situated in the heart of town, is one of the busiest places of the district as it houses a large number of important government offices like the district collectorate, the office of the superintendent of police, sub-divisional officers’ (SDO) office, the office of divisional railway manager (DRM) of Dhanbad division of East Central Railway (ECR), Jharkhand Tourism Development Corporation (JTDC) office, Hirapur division office of Jharkhand State Electricity Board, Drinking Water and Sanitation Department’ Office, District Treasury office, district transport officer’s office, besides the civil court and criminal court of Dhanbad, registry office, and sale tax office. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Rajeshwar Verma said, “No vehicle of anybody, be it a car or bike will be allowed to be parked on the Court Road as it causes heavy traffic congestion and resultantly all the vehicles including the ambulances carrying serious patients sometimes get stuck.” “We have made the arrangement of parking of all vehicles at Kohinoor Ground situated adjacent to the Court Road, where the vehicles will be safe and the problem of traffic congestion will also be solved,” said Verma and added their drive will continue tomorrow and onwards to enforce to new parking arrangement. Notably, ever since the joining of the new Dhanbad traffic DSP, Rajesh Kumar Yadav has taken a host of steps to regulate the traffic of the district in a better manner and also initiated steps to minimise the causes of accidents in the district. Yadav also held meeting with officials of different road construction agency including Road Construction Department (RCD), State Highway Authority of Jharkhand (SHAJ), National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), Rural Engineering Works (REO) and discussed the steps required to minimise accident at accident-prone places and particularly on black spots. He also instructed the officials to put signage, speed restriction boards, blinkers, etc. at strategic places on the roads to minimise the possibility of accidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand signs MoU with ITDC to take over Hotel Ashok||Hotel Ashok, a loss-making entity in Ranchi’s prime location of Doranda, can soon hope to become a premier hospitality address as the Jharkhand government has formally initiated efforts to take over the property spread over 2.7 acres. On Tuesday, the state tourism department signed an MoU with Indian Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) for transfer of stakes in the presence of chief minister Hemant Soren. The hotel was set up in 1988 as a joint venture between ITDC and Bihar government on a 51:49 percentage share ratio. After the formation of Jharkhand in 2000, ITDC retained its 51 percent stakes and the rest was split between Bihar and Jharkhand on a 37:12 ratio following an inter-ministerial meeting under the chairmanship of principal secretary to the Prime Minister in 2004. Meanwhile, the fortunes of the hotel kept declining owing to lack of patronage and clash of interests between both states. The hotel finally stopped operations in March 2018. After the Hemant Soren government came to power, the state tourism department re-initiated steps to take over the hotel following a proposal by the Union government under its disinvestment plan. Dubbing the MoU signing ceremony as historic, state tourism secretary Pooja Singhal said, “Finally, Jharkhand is going to own the entire hotel and run it on its own to promote tourism and hospitality. Today, we are procuring entire stakes of ITDC. The process to take over shares from Bihar will be completed once the new government (Bihar) stabilises.” As per the terms of understanding, Jharkhand will retain all 24 employees of ITDC who are working in the hotel. “We will decide in future whether to continue their services or offer voluntary retirement following one-time payment,” she added. The MoU was signed between Jharkhand tourism director A Dodde and Ranchi Ashok chairman Piyush Tiwari. Chief minister Hemant Soren said the MoU was testimony to the state government’s priorities. “Moving away from big-ticket MoU ceremonies for mines and minerals, which has been the norm in this state so far, this MoU is different to acquire a hotel, which stood for years on our land, but we didn’t have its ownership. We have taken a strategic decision to not leave any of our assets on our land from henceforth,” he said, adding that despite having all that was required to become a global tourist hotspot, the state had failed to achieve much on that front. “I don’t want to get into details on why it never happened. But I want to assure everyone that tourism is our priority sector. We realise that developing tourism will churn out jobs and provide local livelihood. Acquiring this hotel is in our endeavour to provide tourists a place for state-of-the-art hospitality,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Huge cache of arms recovered from Chatra hideout ||Police on Tuesday recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunition from Chatra, the district where a coal trader was shot dead by CPI(Maoist) rebels during Chhath festivities recently. After gunning down CPI (Maoist) sub-zonal commander Alok in the district on Sunday, the district police along with CRPF recovered rifles looted by Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC) rebels from police patrolling teams in the past. On Tuesday, the raiding team recovered .303 bore rifle, 189 live .303mm cartridges, at least 237 live .306 cartridges and 18 7.26mm bullets, police said. Chatra SP Rishabh Jha said police made the recoveries on the basis of a tip-off from intelligence sources. A TPC rebel, arrested earlier, also passed important information to the police during interrogation, he added. “Krishna Ganju, a TPC rebel who was arrested last week, disclosed the places where they had hidden arms and ammunition which were looted from police teams,” said Jha, adding that Ganju too had a bounty of Rs 5 lakh on his head. The police have intensified operations against Left Wing Extremism in Chatra lately. However, they are yet to get a breakthrough in the killing on the day of Chhath. “Anti-naxal operations have obviously intensified here,” said Jha. While investigation is on to nab the mind behind the killing of coal trader Mukesh Giri on November 21, police are yet to get any major success. “The motive behind the murder is not known yet. But it is confirmed that CPI (Maoist) rebels killed the coal trader,” said the SP. While CPI (Maoist) is the oldest and the most dreaded LWE group in Jharkhand, TPC is one of the 17 splinter outfits active in some parts of the tribal state, say police. According to police, TPC rebels are nothing more than hired guns and thugs who have unleashed a reign of terror on innocent villagers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city plans to step up Covid testing to 10,000 a day ||Though the Coronavirus positive cases are well under control in the East Singhbhum district now, the district health facilities are preparing to launch a massive drive of sample test for the killer virus from next week onwards. The district health department is gearing up to conduct as many as 10,000 tests per day from next week which is an increase from the current test rate of 2,000 per day. The drive will start from next week as it is apprehended that majority of those who had been to their native places in Bihar, Odisha and Bengal have returned to the steel city after the festival season by then. Revealing about the step, district civil surgeon RN Jha said that the regular test of samples had dropped considerably during the festivity season starting from Durga puja till Chhath. "From Monday, we have started carrying out about 2,000 sample tests across the nine blocks in the East Singhbhum and also in Jamshedpur. But as people are still returning home in the steel city and in other places of the district after festival celebrations, we apprehend a rise of the Covid-19 positive cases with the influx of the people. We have, therefore, decided to increase the number of tests from 2,000 to 10,000 from the next week. We are mobilising the resources accordingly," said Jha while talking to The Telegraph Online. During the last 24 hours, 27 Coronavirus positive cases were detected, thus making the total number of Covid-19 cases in the East Singhbhum district to 16,591 so far. Meanwhile, the district administration has also increased the mask-checking drive in the city along with the helmet checking. On Monday, the 39 persons were caught without masks during checking at Bistupur, Sakchi, Golmuri, Jugsalai and Mango. The traffic wing of the district police has penalised all those found without masks and earned revenue amounting to Rs 19,500 from the violators of the Covid-19 norms. "We have intensified the mask-checking drive along the helmet checking from Monday. We are charging a penalty of Rs 500 from each of the violators. This is all being done as majority of the commuters have stopped wearing a mask, thinking that the Coronavirus is almost gone from the steel city," said deputy superintendent of police (Traffic) Babban Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. Singh revealed that they have carried out the drive at the points which are known as checking point, but shortly such drive will also be conducted at the roads and places unfamiliar for helmet or masking checking drive. Significantly, anticipating a second wave in the winter, a section of Congress activists and social activists in cooperation with the civic body, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) officials on Tuesday carried out an intensive drive to make those without masks to wear them at Sakchi market and making people follow social distancing in public places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid norms go for a toss at Sakchi weekly market||The East Singhbhum district administration, which has launched a massive crackdown on those who refuse to wear masks in the steel city, was unable to check violation of social distancing norms at the busy commercial hub of Sakchi on Tuesday. At the weekly fair of footpath vendors, referred to as Mangala Haat, there were huge crowds. People flocked the market in large numbers since 10 am making purchases of various household items including garments. Both vendors and customers flouted social distancing norms. Maintaining a distance of one metre is the usual norm inside the market. But no one paid heed to this norm. Several vendors and shoppers weren’t wearing masks either. The haat was open till evening. "Tuesday’s situation was horrible. When Covid-19 cases are making a comeback in other parts of the country, the local district administration should be vigilant and prevent such violations inside a market," pointed out Satya Narayan Agarwal, who owns a garment store at Sakchi. Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) has taken note of it. "Some permanent shopkeepers had approached us with complaints of violation of social distancing norms by footpath vendors and buyers. We have requested the district administration to provide an alternate place to footpath vendors for the weekly haat," said Bharat Vasani, vice-president of the trade outfit. Ravi Bharti, city manager of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), said efforts were being made to provide an alternative place to vendors to prevent crowding of the market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad witnesses increase in rail freight loading||Dhanbad division of East Central Railway has witnessed a significant increase in transport of goods through trains during the lockdown. The most significant increase in loading has been recorded from Koderma railway station which is an important station of the division. Talking to the media on Tuesday, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Dhanbad Division, Akhilesh Kumar Pandey said, “The efforts of business development unit of the division to contact the traders and other stakeholders and convincing them about the advantages of the railway mode of transport have led to an increase in the parcel loading.” Divulging more details, Pandey said that the parcel income through Koderma has increased three-fold during the current year. “Besides the increase in transport of minerals like coal and mica the division has also witnessed an increase in transport of other goods like food grains, etc. and the division is gearing up to send a railway rake full of food materials to Samalkot railway station of East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh soon,” said Pandey. Notably, the business development unit constituted as per the directive of Railway Board at divisional level across the country, comprising of senior divisional commercial manager, senior divisional finance manager, senior divisional mechanical engineer, senior divisional operating manager, and senior divisional engineer (coordination) are primarily working on all possibility of increasing the freight loading as well as parcel loading during the lockdown period. All this as the income of Indian Railways through passenger earning has been adversely affected due to the complete halting of operation of passenger trains during the initial period of lockdown and restricted operation during the later days of lockdown. “Our team of ground inspectors deputed at different stations are also working with existing as well as prospective customers apprising them about the convenience of goods transport through railways over road transport and also solving their issues, if any,” elaborated Pandey. Notably, Indian Railways has also developed a Freight Business Development portal (www.fois.indianrail.gov.in/RailSAHAY) for the convenience of freight loading customers through which they can get all the details regarding time table, freight charges, the distance between loading and unloading stations, railway routes, etc. Through the GIS-based system, the customers can also get details of the current location of their consignment through the Track & Trace system of the portal. The stakeholders also, post their suggestions with regard to transportation and freight loading system by logging on the portal which in turn helps the railway to improve the transportation work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||North-westerly winds up the chill quotient in state||It was pretty cold in several parts of the state, including Ranchi and Bokaro, on Tuesday with below-normal temperatures hovering between 8 degrees and 10 degrees. Capital Ranchi, which is in central Jharkhand, recorded a minimum temperature of 10.1°C for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Ranchi's reading was two notches below normal. In Bokaro steel city, the minimum temperature dipped to 8.6°C, seven notches below normal. Ramgarh and Gumla recorded similarly low readings. On Monday, apart from Bokaro, the two other districts - Ramgarh and Gumla - had recorded minimum temperatures of over 9°C. Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, and several other places, including Chaibasa in West Singhbhum district and Simdega, notched minimum readings of 10.6 °C on Tuesday. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas recorded around 12 degree Celsius for the second consecutive day. Tuesday's minimum reading in steel city was two notches below normal. Weathermen attributed the sharp fall in minimum readings to the dominating north-westerly winds. "The crisp and dry north wind has resulted in abrupt fall in night temperatures," said Abhishek Anand, deputy Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. However, weathermen said the chill will be short-lived as Jharkhand will be under the influence of two weather systems after the next 24 hours. The two weather systems - cyclonic storm Nivar and a western disturbance passing through Northern parts of the country - will impact Jharkhand's weather on November 26 and 27. "The cyclone and the passing western disturbances would result in cloud formation over Jharkhand. We are expecting light rains over northern Jharkhand on Thursday, November 26 and light showers and overcast conditions over central and southern Jharkhand on Friday, November 27," said Anand. The impact of the twin weather systems would wane from Saturday, November 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders want trains to Calcutta ahead of wedding season||The coal town traders are affected by the non-resumption of popular train services between Dhanbad and Calcutta like the Coalfield Express (12339/12340) and Black Diamond Express (22387/22388) through which a large number of daily passengers and small-time traders brought products from Calcutta. The biggest victim of the lack of non-availability of trains is florists who used to bring a huge stock of flowers from Calcutta. Other traders like readymade garment sellers, footwear traders are also facing the same situation. The heavy cost of road transportation of flowers is adversely affecting the flower prices, at a time when they are much in demand as more than 5,000 marriages are scheduled in Dhanbad during the lagan season between November 25 and December 15. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Raju Malakar, a florist of Court More in Dhanbad said, “Though we are bringing some stock from Shaktipunj Express (11448) but being a long-distance train running between Howrah to Jabalpur with only 10 minutes stoppage time at Dhanbad, there is a limited scope of bringing enough flowers and we have to depend on road transport also.” “The cost for a bunch of flowers used to be around Rs 450 before the lockdown which escalated to around Rs 750 to Rs 800 during the present time due to the addition of extra cost of transportation in the overall cost which used to be much low or almost negligible during normal times,” said Malakar. “The total cost of hiring a pick-up van for a trip to Calcutta is around Rs 9000 and since we cannot afford to bear the cost individually a group of florists use it as a pool van facility to bring flowers from Calcutta,” said Malakar. Echoing sentiments, Karu Malakar, another retail flower seller of Dhanbad said, “Though we are very happy that we are getting a huge demand for flower decoration during the marriage season, at the same time we are facing great difficulty in negotiating prices of flowers with the customers due to increased prices.” “The customers accuse us of taking advantage of the lockdown situation to carry out an exorbitant increase in the prices but the fact remains that the prices have gone up due to the increased transportation cost because of the unavailability of trains,” claimed Karu Malakar. Former president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, said, “The Dhanbad retail market is largely dependent on the wholesale purchase by daily passengers from Calcutta and due to lack of availability of popular trains, the market is not picking up to its full strength despite enough scope for increased activity in the marriage season.” “Though big traders are availing the road transport facility for bringing goods from Calcutta by taking orders on phone but the small traders like the readymade garment sellers, footwear traders on the roadside who could not afford to bear the huge transportation cost are suffering,” described Gupta and demanded the state government allow railways to run more trains for important places like Patna, Ranchi, and Calcutta on a regular basis to allow trade to flourish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19 recovery rate jumps above 97 per cent, 219 infected in a day in Jharkhand||The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand jumped above 97 per cent on Monday after at least 304 patients recovered in the state against 219 people testing positive for the viral infection in 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday late evening, of the 1,07,688 people infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand at least 1,04,533 have recovered, taking the recovery rate in the state up at 97.07 per cent. However, casualties caused by Covid-19 infection continued to haunt Jharkhand on Monday as two more patients, one each from Ranchi and Dhanbad, died during treatment on the day. In the past three days, at least 13 people have died of Covid-19 infection in the tribal state. After testing around 10,000 swab samples in the past two days, the government intensified its Covid testing drive on Monday and tested at least 16,591 people. More than 1 per cent of the ones tested were found infected. While Khunti and Pakur did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Monday, Ranchi reported 68 fresh cases, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The number of active cases of infection, however, dropped in Ranchi as the district also reported 109 recoveries on the day, government data highlighted. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 839 people were battling the infection in Ranchi on Monday night. Among other districts, East Singhbhum reported 27 cases against 47 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 13 cases against the same number of recoveries. As many as 29 people were found infection in Bokaro and 25 patients recovered there. At least 15 districts reported a single-digit-spike in the cases on Monday. The government has so far collected swab samples of 39.40 lakh people and tested 39.24 lakh of them. On Monday, health workers collected swab samples of 14,106 people. While the Covid-19 tally in the state was above 1 lakh, only 2,202 people were battling the infection in Jharkhand on Monday evening. As per the latest figures shared by the NHM, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.42 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in Jharkhand was 434.08 days against the national doubling rate of 164.20 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.88 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi Met spies Celsius rise||The minimum temperature, which had decreased significantly across Jharkhand over the past weekend, is set to rise again from Thursday onwards. Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, said the state would experience a rise in minimum temperature by 2 to 4 degrees Celsius on Thursday and Friday. Both the maximum and minimum temperature came down during the last weekend, marking a noticeable departure from the normal. Bokaro was the coldest place in the state on Sunday where the minimum temperature recorded was 9.1 degrees Celsius, 6.5 degrees below the normal, followed by Ranchi which recorded 10.1 degrees Celsius, which was 2.1 degrees below the normal. Even places like Jamshedpur, Daltonganj and Chaibasa recorded minimum temperatures that were below the normal. Barring Chaibasa, that recorded the highest maximum temperature of 29 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the day temperature in most of the other towns of the state were below the normal that day. “The weather is expected to remain dry and there will be no major change in temperature till November 25,” Anand said. He said the minimum temperature across the state was then likely to go up by 2 to 4 degrees Celsius on November 26 and 27. “There is also a possibility of the state experiencing light to moderate rainfall in isolated places during those two days,” he said. A depression in the southwest Bay of Bengal is expected to form into a cyclone within the next 24 hours and hit the Tamil Nadu coast as a severe cyclonic storm on Wednesday afternoon, he further said. The cyclonic system would have an interaction with a western disturbance originating in the upper ridges of Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, he added. “As a result of this interaction, Jharkhand was likely to receive isolated light to moderate rains on November 26 and 27,” Anand said. While the northwest and southwest parts of Jharkhand would receive light to moderate isolated rainfall on November 26, the northeast and northwest parts of the state would do so on November 27, he said. The minimum temperature would also then go up by 2 to 4 degrees for the next few days, he said, indicating the next weekend would not be as cold as it was the last weekend.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
