25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Passerby injured in gun attack aimed at BJP leader||A passerby was accidentally injured in a gun attack on Wednesday when a bullet missed its target, meant to be fired at the BJP mandal chief Pratappur in Chatra by a youth.The victim was immediately rushed to the Pratappur community health centre, following which he was sent to the Magadh Medical College in Gaya, Bihar, owing to his critical condition. He was identified as Ramdhir Yadav, a resident of Sherghati in Gaya. The incident took place on Wednesday evening, at Sildaha bazar under Ghorighat panchayat of Pratappur block, in view of a land dispute between BJP leader Prem Kumar and his relatives regarding a plot in the local bazaar area. Both the sides got involved in a war of words after reaching the plot, and the verbal fight escalated and a youth from the other side suddenly took out his revolver, aiming it at Kumar and threatening to kill him. Before anyone could understand anything, he fired on Kumar. However, the bullet missed him and landed on Yadav, who was visiting his in-laws in Pratappur. The youth was identified as Vikas Kumar Vicky, nephew of the BJP leader. The Ghorighat police, on receiving information, arrived at the spot and launched a probe into the incident, aiming to find the culprit who sped the spot immediately after firing. Ghorighat police station’s officer-in-charge PC Sinha said Vicky escaped to Bihar and a hunt has been initiated to nab him. According to Kumar, the accused is of a criminal background and he was creating trouble for him despite the fact that an agreement had taken place regarding the land issue. Yadav said he was on his bike when all sudden, a bullet hit one of his legs. His father-in-law, Naresh yadav, demanded punishment for the accused. In another similar incident, four persons sustained severe injuries in Mahuganyi village under Pratappur block on Wednesday afternoon. The incident took place when two sides started making claims on a 36-decimal, resulting in a verbal war. It took ugly turn when both sides attacked and injured each other. All of them have been admitted to the local health centre in Pratappur. An FIR has been lodged in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi Smart City plots to be auctioned online||The state government is going to begin auctioning land for public and private buyers at the upcoming Smart City Project in Ranchi’s HEC area to garner investment for the proposed state-of-art township, the urban development department announced on Wednesday at an introductory webinar. State urban development secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey said that so far, the government had spent around Rs 800 crore on creating key facilities like a drainage system, a command and control system and a convention centre. He said Ranchi Smart City Corporation Limited (RSCCL), a special purpose vehicle created for the project, is now getting ready to auction land to invite investments for asset creation. “Today’s (Wednesday) webinar was an interactive effort to apprise people about our intentions and explain why investing in Ranchi’s Smart City plan will be a great opportunity for the future,” he said. Ranchi is among 100 cities under India’s Smart City Mission. In 2017, vice-president M. Venkaiah Naidu had laid the foundation stone for this project. Ground work began last year which included creation of a master plan, building basic infrastructure for power, water and transportation, among others. The Smart City project is spread over 657 acres in the HEC area. Choubey said the site will emerge as a key landmark in the coming years and is well connected. “It is hardly a 6km drive from the airport, 8km from the railway station, 2km from the international cricket stadium and is open Greenfield area,” he said, adding that as per the master plan, 37 per cent of the total area has been set aside for open space and greenery. Explaining the facilities to be created at the Smart City, RSCCL’s CEO Amit Kumar said, “As far as basic infrastructure is concerned, it will have storm water drainage, smart street lighting, waste water management, 24/7 power and water covering an area of 647.08 acre, among others.” On the auctioning process, which is likely to be held in january 2021, Kumar said they would notify a date soon. Around 278.52 acres will be open for auction under various categories, like institutional, residential, commercial, public/semi-public and mixed use covering a total of 52 plots. “Under institution, 11 plots will be up for auction, six under residential, 16 commercial, two for public/semi-public projects and 17 for mixed use,” said another official. Those willing to apply for bidding will have to initially pay a non-refundable application fee of 0.01 per cent of the reserved base price of the particular plot. “After scrutiny of their application, eligible bidders will then have to pay (refundable) 5 per cent of the reserved base price before taking part in the online auction,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||RSP College gets new counselling centre in Jharia||A counselling centre of RSP College Jharia, the oldest Degree College of Dhanbad, has been launched today at the vacant Ropeway division office of the BCCL at Digwadih. The centre will be used for all official purposes including the issuance and submission of the registration form, examination form, admission etc gradually, beginning with counselling for the ongoing Undergraduate and Postgraduate admission process. Talking to the media at the site, Anjani Kumar Srivastava, Vice-Chancellor of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University said, “This is not only the launching of the counselling centre of the college but the beginning of the gradual shifting of the college from Belgarhia in Baliapur block to Digwadih in Jharia block. “As part of symbolic re-establishment of colleges admission into the undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be conducted here and though classes are being held through Online mode if any study material distribution is required will also be carried out by the college administration from here” elaborated Srivastava. “The college has a glorious history and we will extend all support to college administration to retain the old glory and further establish a new benchmark of academic excellence in future from its new campus,” said Srivastava. Jharia MLA Purnima Singh, who was present on the site, said, “BCCL has provided 7.99 acres to the college which is sufficient to its present requirement and classes  will be also conducted after the normalization of  Covid 19 situation” The students of the college will not be required to visit distant Belgarhia in Baliapur for minor official work as all the administrative work of college will gradually be performed at the counselling centre. Notably, RSP College, established way back in 1949 at Bhagatdih area of Jharia, was shifted from its original place in Bhagatdih to a two-storey unused building of Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority in Belgarhia area of Baliapur block in September 2017 due to the underground fire of the adjoining Rajapur Colliery posing subsidence threat to the College. More than 5000 students of the College of Jharia, however, faced difficulty in reaching the college at Belgarhia as it was located in a remote area devoid of any regular source of transport. The district administration, however, after holding talks with the BCCL administration, made for the shifting of the college to Digwadih in Jharia in association with Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Two-day short film festival to be streamed online||Shorts, an annual film festival organised by the Calcutta-based Take 5 Communications and Jamshedpur based social organisation Society for Promotion of Professional Excellence (SPPE), will give the opportunity to film lovers for watching short films this year by going online. The screenings will be streamed on November 27 and 28, where a plethora of short films will be shown to the audience. The films will largely range from a duration of three to 16 minutes during the two-day festival. While the organisers try to accommodate fresh entries each year, the 13th edition of Shorts will only screen a collection of the best films from the previous year. The movies will be screened on Cisco Webex between 6 pm and 7 pm. "We did not want to break the continuity so we thought of organising it online. This time we did not invite fresh entries due to the pandemic but have made a collection of the films that were screened in the past. Completing 13 years is an achievement. Only if times would have been normal, we would have organised it in a much better way. As of now movie lovers can watch it online," Take 5 Communications CEO Tathagata Bhattacherjee said. The two-day affair will have a collection of 15 films. Seven Hindi films, three English, one Bengali, one Arabic and three silent films will be screened over this time. They have been directed by filmmakers from Mumbai, Delhi, Calcutta, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur. The movies, predominantly in English, Hindi and Bengali languages, have already been presented at several national and international film festivals, and address major social issues like education, cleanliness, and menstrual hygiene. Films to be showcased on the first day include Jihad, My Little Steps, Dupatta, Reason, Sound of Silence, Rangrez, I Love India, and The Best Gift. The second-day films include Mind Matters, The Waltz, Gandh, Hum Mehfooz Nahi, Smile Vs Smileys, Abandoned, and Bande Hain Hum Uske.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Betla elephant gets surprise visit from friend||Juhi, the 70-year-old elephant at the Betla National Park, had a surprise visitor on Tuesday -- her old caregiver Arjun Baraik. The oldest captive of the national park was undoubtedly delighted as she hugged Baraik passionately with her trunk upon his arrival. Baraik, who was a ranger of Betla’s Palamau Tiger Reserve till 2004 before leaving for Dalma sanctuary, had a sweet rapport with Juhi until he was there. As soon as the 57-year-old called the elephant by her name on Tuesday, she ran to him “like his daughter”. While talking to The Telegraph Online, Baraik dubbed elephants as the most beautiful and intelligent animal, and said that Juhi had wit par excellence. Boasting of the elephant, he said she had an outstanding memory as she recognised him by just his voice. He added that Juhi befriended his wife and daughter as well. Juhi, although given fruits to eat, never left her eyes off him, Baraik said, as she knew he would be gone soon. According to him, while many people think wild animals are raw and untamed, they will return the love with vigour and strength if they receive the same. Talking about his sorrows, the former ranger, who became one at 23 and was the youngest at the time, said he would have been a divisional forest officer by now but that was being denied to him. It is remembering the wild creatures that still make his life better when he feels sad, Baraik said. Baraik, an assistant conservator of forest at Khunti, Jharkhand, recounted his old days at Betla, saying that there was a time when the forest had just three female elephants. All three were named after Bollywood heroines such as  Rajni Juhi and Anarkali, he reminisced. He said Rajni and Anarkali died of natural causes and Juhi is the last surviving female elephant of the trio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Police crackdown on commuters for not wearing masks||As promised, the East Singhbhum district administration started cracking the whip to ensure use of face masks, deploying policemen at various checkpoints on Wednesday and slapping fines of Rs 500 on each offender. "The move is aimed creating awareness. Wearing a mask is mandatory. This, along with following social distancing norms, helps in preventing the transmission of the coronavirus," said an executive magistrate manning a check-point near Keenan Stadium in Bistupur. Those entering Mango through Jai Prakash Narayan Setu without face masks were stopped near the Khudiram Bose statue at Mango Chowk and fined. On Tuesday evening, officials of Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC) went around Dimna Road asking commuters to wear face masks. The district administration began the ongoing mask checking drive on Monday, November 23. Check-points have been set-up in 10 places at Sakchi, Bistupur, Golmuri, Sonari, Kadma, Jugsalai, Agrico and Parsudih. During the last two days, those without masks were stopped at these check-points and then let-off after a warning. At some check-points, offenders were asked to kneel down. Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh has given instructions to officials to ensure that people comply with the rule to wear masks when outdoors. "The drive will continue for a week. Depending on the situation, we will extend the drive," he said. The district health department has also intensified rapid antigen tests for passengers arriving at Tatanagar station from various destinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad trade unions gear up for Thursday’s nationwide strike  ||Several collieries of BCCL, ECL and SAIL witnessed gate meetings, burning of effigies and demonstrations on Wednesday as a precursor to Thursday’s nationwide strike against privatisation of public sector units, commercialisation of mines, new labour and farm laws. Talking to the media on Wednesday, national vice president of Rashtriya Colliery Mazdoor Sangh A.K. Jha, said, “All 10 trade unions including, namely, Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC), are united in their resolve to make the strike a success.” Attacking the Union government for bringing in changes in labour laws, Jha said, “Altogether 44 labour laws related to workers have been changed to suit capitalist forces, and the rights related to carrying out strike and demonstrations have been drastically curtailed.” Jha said the government did not consult workers while making changes in  the laws. “At a time when unemployment is at its peak, public sector units are being sold to favoured capitalists at lower prices, aggravating the situation of unemployment,” he added. On mining, Jha said the government’s move to allow commercial mining was intended to help capitalist forces which were always the favoured lot of the BJP- led Central Government. “Nationalisation of coal mines carried out by the Central government in the early ’70s has made coal workers free from the oppressive practices of private miners. But now we are apprehending the return of same days of exploitation, oppression and reckless mining with private players coming into the scene,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Weddings light up hospitality business in coal town||Dhanbad’s hospitality business is gaining momentum amid a host of factors including revival of business sentiments and the mega wedding season over the recent weeks, with more than 70 per cent occupancy rate being witnessed at hotels in the town. The wedding season, which will take place from November 25 to December 15, has prompted over 5,000 marriages being scheduled at Dhanbad, giving the hospitality sector in the town a hope to revive the industry. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Senior General Manager of Skylark Hotel, Anutosh Bagchi, said, “We have almost 70 to 75 per cent occupancy on all the dates during the wedding season of November 25 to December 15.” “The banquet halls are also booked for all the nine lagan dates scheduled between November 25 to December 15,” he added. Citing the example of Tuesday, when 18 out of 37 rooms of the hotel are booked for corporate customers, Bagchi said, “Besides the marriage related bookings we are getting good corporate bookings due to revival of business sentiments.” “We are also getting direct bookings by some of the guests arriving during the wedding season from other places to the district to attend marriages of relatives, friends and so on,” the manager added. “We are strictly observing all the Covid-19 norms in the peak season and intensive sanitisation is being carried out across all the 37 rooms, reception, banquet halls, and lounge” said Bagchi, adding that once the guests occupy their rooms, hotel staff do not enter in them. “We have also made a mandatory provision for thermal scanning of all the guests inside the banquet halls during the weddings. No  guests will be allowed inside the banquet hall without masks,” he clarified. Sandeep Narang, owner of 17 Degree Hotel, Dhanbad, seemed to be echoing sentiments. Indeed the hospitality business has renewed to some extent due to various factors including the revival of business sentiments and we are also witnessing good booking ranging upto to 40 per cent.” “The bookings during the season have increased significantly and we have also received more than 60 per cent bookings for the entire season”, Vinay Singh, owner of Ramson Hotel, Dhanbad, said. Revealing the key factor for the increased number of bookings, he added, “The main reason for the increase in bookings during this wedding season is the huge number of marriages  scheduled in Dhanbad. During the previous season of June to July, only a few people had got married. Also, after December 15, also there are no lagan dates till next June or July.” “The increased awareness about personal safety during the pandemic era has prompted several guests arriving from outside during this season to make their own arrangement of safer stay in the hotels instead of stay arrangements made by the hosts” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel aims to use CSR to touch 2 million lives by 2025||Tata Steel has declared that it hopes to reach out to at least two million people annually through its CSR activities and make a meaningful difference to their lives by 2025. In the 2019-20 financial year, the company had reached out to 1.4 million people living in and around its operational areas and made a positive impact on their lives through its continued and rigorous focus on CSR activities. "Tata Steel’s signature CSR programmes are designed to create replicable, large-scale models to address the most pressing community challenges on areas such as education, healthcare, tribal identity and livelihood generation," said a statement issued by the company. It further said that focussed programmes on agriculture, water conservation, rural sports, nutrition and urban slum development were aimed at empowering local communities. "The idea in the long-term is to create a lasting impact on  communities," the statement added. Notably, deep relationships with communities has enabled the company to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic wherein it has meaningfully reached out to more than half-a-million lives across the country. The company is also committed to co-creating scalable solutions for the communities it serves. “Tata Steel’s overarching vision of an equitable and enlightened society where every individual realises his or her potential with dignity guides the company’s partnerships with, and services to, communities, the statement said. Sometime back, the company undertook an extensive exercise to understand the perception of communities it intends to serve over the next 10 years. The insights gathered helped the company develop a long-term CSR strategy. The statement went on to say that rejuvenated CSR strategy was designed keeping three objectives in mind. First, to actualise change models to address core development gaps in Jharkhand and Odisha, while being replicable on a national scale. Second, to enable significant and lasting improvement of communities living in and around the company’s operational areas through identified community development programmes. And third, to embed a societal perspective in key business decisions as an enabler to ensuring community interests. The new strategy has enabled the steel major to make more focussed interventions in identified domains for the larger benefit of communities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid test on priority for those with comorbidities||Those with comorbid conditions and/or suffering from non-communicable diseases will be tested for Covid-19 on priority in a bid to avert sudden fatalities and put a check on the rapidly rising number of patients, officials belonging to the National Health Mission (NHM) said on Wednesday. State NHM director Ravi Shankar Shukla said the state health department will identify people who were more likely to have severe symptoms of the infection due to underlying ailments and test them for Covid-19 in order to reduce chances of fatalities. “People suffering from comorbid conditions and non-communicable diseases will be prioritised for Covid testing,” said Shukla, adding that the government would also run special campaigns for those suffering from diabetes, cardiac ailments, kidney diseases, cancer and pulmonary disorders. As per government data, as many as 955 people have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far, and a majority of them suffered from some or the other comorbid condition. Figures compiled by NHM highlight that more than 76 per cent of Covid victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years and had comorbid conditions. At least 727 of the 955 victims were above the age of 50 years, while 224 were in the age bracket of 11 to 50 years. The Covid fatality rate in Jharkhand was, however, lower than the national average. After a significant drop in the Covid-19 testing rate during the festive season, the government has again stepped up testing. A senior official from the health department said the drop in testing rates during the festive season was due to fewer cases surfacing in the state. “Most of the tests are done on the basis of contact tracing. So, once the number of fresh cases surfacing on a daily basis reduces, the number of fresh samples collected also drops,” the official said, requesting anonymity. He added that very few people in Jharkhand volunteered to get tested for Covid-19 unless they suffered from symptoms or were forced to undergo tests by family and friends. Many people who came in contact with infected people also avoided getting tested due to the fear of being isolated, the official said. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand is still lower than the national average. It stands at 0.16 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.42 per cent in the past one week, as per government data. By Wednesday morning, the Covid-19 tally in the state was 1,07,921 and at least 2,242 people were yet to recover.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||BJP accuses Lalu of trying to influence Bihar Speaker election||In the backdrop of Wednesday’s election for Bihar’s Assembly Speaker, the BJP unleashed an online campaign against incarcerated RJD supremo Lalu Prasad for allegedly attempting to lure party MLAs by telephoning them from Ranchi. On Tuesday night, former Bihar chief minister Sushil Modi tweeted: “Lalu Yadav making telephone calls (8051216302) from Ranchi to NDA MLAs & promising ministerial berths. When I telephoned, Lalu directly picked up. I said don’t do these dirty tricks from jail, you will not succeed.” The number mentioned in the tweet belonged to Lalu’s aide—Irfan Ansari. Lalu, who is serving prison terms for being convicted in fodder scam cases, has been lodged at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for about a year now, undergoing treatment for various ailments. Since Wednesday morning, Jharkhand BJP launched an online campaign using an audio clip, purportedly of Lalu asking a ruling NDA MLAs to skip the House proceedings for the election of Speaker and, in return, promising him a ministerial berth. Leader of the BJP legislature party in Jharkhand Babulal Marandi used the clip in a tweet. “Lalu Prasad Yadav isn’t getting bail from the court, but under the patronage of the Jharkhand government, he has access to mobile phones to horse trade MLAs. While the instances of rape, crimes and lawlessness is on rise, but the state government is busy serving a convicted prisoner,” he wrote. Jharkhand BJP president Deepak Prakash added, “Why is the honorable CM Hemant Soren keeping his eyes shut on this matter?” Jail IG Birendra Bhushan did not answer calls for comments. State BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said they have been alleging brazen violation of the jail manual in case of Lalu ever since the JMM-Congress-RJD government has come to power. “This is just a testimony to our claims of how Lalu Prasad has been violating jail manual day in and day out. A jailed person who is convicted of looting public money is being given preferential treatment by the Hemant Soren government. The government must answer why it is scared of Lalu Prasad? Do all convicted prisoners get treated the same way in Jharkhand?” he said. Shahdeo cited how the newly appointed RIMS director, Kameshwar Prasad, was running the show without staying in official quarters. “He (Kameshwar) is living in a guest house since his appointment because the government has lodged Lalu in the RIMS director’s bungalow,” he pointed out. Lalu, who is being treated for multiple ailments at RIMS, was shifted out of the paying ward to the director’s bungalow, also known as Kelly’s Bungalow, in August following doctors’ advice as a precautionary measure in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. NDA’s Vijay Kumar Sinha was reported to have won the Speaker’s election in Bihar Assembly after defeating the RJD-led grand alliance’s nominee, Awadh Bihar Chaudhary, on Wednesday amid Opposition claims of rigging. Sinha got 126 votes against Chaudhary’s 114.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Church: Help ecology and others this Xmas||The Catholic Archdiocese of Ranchi has appealed to the faithful to celebrate Christmas with sobriety, ecological responsibility and generosity to the less fortunate in view of the pandemic. “This year has been a difficult year marked by challenges, difficulties and suffering. Covid-19 and the enforced lockdowns have brought untold misery and hardships for the common man. An economy in distress, growing joblessness and increasing poverty stare in our face as winter sets in,” said the Advent and Christmas Pastoral letter released on Sunday. The letter, signed by Ranchi Archbishop Felix Toppo and auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas, will be read at all Masses in cathedrals and parishes. The Church will begin the Advent season — the time to prepare for the celebration of the birth of Jesus — on November 29. The archdiocese also stressed on an ecological Christmas. “In view of the protection of the environment, and as a measure against air and sound pollution, we strongly request you not to use firecrackers during this festive season. The money you would burn by bursting crackers can be given in donation for the poor,” it said. Another suggestion is for sobriety and modesty in the celebrations and expenditure. “We call for sobriety and modesty in celebration and expenditure while celebrating Christmas in remembrance of the poor and recommend that each family and religious community contribute towards charity to help those who have been affected in Covid and the lockdown,” said auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas. At a meeting in Ranchi on Tuesday, bishops from the other eight Jharkhand dioceses — Jamshedpur, Hazaribagh, Gumla, Khunti, Daltonganj, Dumka, Simdega and Port Blair — were also requested to adopt the letter. The letter commended that people become “angels of mercy to the poor, the hungry, the afflicted and the weary migrants returning home in miserable conditions” during the lockdown. The letter said: “Through your efforts, the Catholic Church in Ranchi was in the forefront of relief services bringing hope, consolation and comfort to thousands of people and their families.” The prelates have urged the faithful to continue the same spirit of charity based on deep spirituality in their preparations for Christmas. The infant of Bethlehem “wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger because his parents could not find a room in the inn is the symbol of our Christmas celebration this year”, the letter said. It said Infant Jesus “represents the poor who go to bed hungry because they have no food, the homeless that sleep on our streets because they do not have a roof, the unemployed who struggle to maintain their families because they have lost their jobs, those affected by Covid and other diseases and do not have money to pay for their medicines, parents who struggle to educate their children because they cannot provide them the necessary means”. The letter urged the faithful to strictly maintain the standard operating procedures stipulated by the government. The letter said the archdiocese had sent guidelines to parishes and mission centres to provide as many services as possible in the main churches as well as village chapels and centres “so that the faithful have an opportunity to actually be present for the Advent and Christmas Eucharistic Celebrations”. It allows priests to offer as many as three Masses daily, if required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
