26-11-2020||Jharkhand||National Metallurgical Laboratory celebrates 71st Foundation Day||City-based leading CSIR lab-National Metallurgical Laboratory (NML), celebrated its 71st Foundation Day and the Constitution Day on a virtual platform on Thursday. To highlight CSIR-NML’s glorious journey since its inception in 1950, the program started with the NML film ‘Beyond the boundary’. The foundation day program was presided over by S. C. Mande, director-general of CSIR (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research). The chief guest of the function was T. V. Narendran, CEO and managing director of Tata Steel. Prof. Indranil Manna, vice-chancellor BIT Mesra was present as the guest of honour. Indranil Chattoraj, director of NML, in his welcome address, briefly mentioned the contribution of NML in the development of our nation over the past 70 years through various technological developments and pioneering works. Prof. Manna delivered a lecture on ‘Perspectives and Prospects of Additive Manufacturing’ in which he highlighted how additive manufacturing is becoming relevant to many industries by making production processes cost-effective with minimum waste. He mentioned that this industry is growing rapidly and is likely to rise to $120 billion by 2025. As highlighted in his presentation, this manufacturing process has several advantages and is ideal for the production of high-value low volume engineering components and devices, which find applications in automotive, defence and aerospace industries. At 11 am, the preamble of the Constitution of India was read to celebrate Constitution Day. The annual awards were also declared on the occasion. Chief guest, T.V. Narendran, delivered the Foundation Day lecture on ‘Creating an Ecosystem for Innovation in Materials and Manufacturing’. In his speech, Narendran mentioned that the biggest challenge in India’s target to reach 300 million tonnes of steel production by 2030 is the government regulations related to the environment. He discussed the Chinese approach of having dedicated universities and institutions for research and handling issues in the production of steel and other materials. He emphasised the need for new technologies for carbon dioxide capture and utilisation and production of green electricity and green hydrogen. Before delivering the presidential address, S. C. Mande released two issues of the Journal of Materials Science and Metallurgy (JMMS). These special issues are on ‘Advanced materials’ and ‘Specialised and smart coatings’. The issues of the journal include the contribution of various eminent researchers in the areas of advanced and functional materials in the fields of health, environment, and energy. In his presidential address titled ‘CSIR: Past, Present & Future’, Mande mentioned a few pioneering works of CSIR in the past and elaborated on the present ongoing works and achievements of CSIR to combat the current situation of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city joins nationwide trade union strike||Banking, insurance and postal services in Jamshedpur and the entire Kolhan region comprising of three districts – East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan were affected on Thursday as various trade unions joined the nationwide strike to protest the policies of the Narendra Modi government, including the new labour and farm laws. All public and private sector banks, except for the State Bank of India, remained closed. The offices of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) and post offices also kept their shutters down and did not transact any business as workers joined the strike. Various central trade union organisations participated in the strike including Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA) and All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU). The BJP-aligned Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) did not participate in the strike. Members of various trade unions with placards and banners assembled at the Ambagan grounds in Sakchi. They raised slogans against the policies of the central government. Later, they formed a human chain. Veteran trade union leader Rakeshwar Pandey also participated in the human chain opposing the policies of the centre. General secretary of AITUC Ambuj Thakur, who was leading the stir at the Ambagan ground said, “We got an overwhelming response of the strike in Kolhan. The strike was called to oppose the policies of the centre which is anti-labour. We are against privatisation public sector units, commercialisation of mines, new labour and farm laws.” The strike failed to have any impact on production activities at factories based on steel city and Adityapur industrial area in adjoining Saraikela-Kharsawan district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Four Palamu college students attend pre Republic Day Parade training at Agra||Four college girls and boys from Palamu went to Dr B R Ambedkar University, Khandari campus at Agra in Uttar Pradesh for the pre-Republic Day Parade training. The two girls – Swati Kumari and Shewta Kumari – are from Yodh Singh Namdhari Mahila College, Daltonganj and A K Singh College, Japla respectively. The program coordinator of the National Service Scheme of the Nilamber-Pitamber University whose four students have gone for the Pre Republic Day Parade at Agra, Dr. Vijay Kumar Prasad said pre-Republic Day Parade training has started from November 25 and will last till December 4. Prasad said it is a big thing as parents of the four students especially the parents of the girls have shown great courage in sending their children to Agra during the pandemic. Palamu is coming out of its age-old rudiments where girls are fighting for equal space. The two Palamu's college boys are Aniket Kumar and Ravi Ranjan. Prasad also said a total of 30 college students from 8 universities of Jharkhand have gone to Agra. State regional director of National Service Scheme, Patna Vinay Kumar, had written letters to the program coordinator of National Service Scheme of 8 state universities namely Ranchi University, Ranchi; VB University, Hazaribag; S K M University, Dumka; NPU, Daltonganj; Kolhan University, Chaibasa; B B Mahto University, Dhanbad and BIT Mesra to send a team of four students for the Pre Republic Day Parade at Agra. The students have taken with them four masks and a pair of gloves besides black leather shoes and white shirts and pants. As Agra is a cold place students have also taken with them sufficient warm clothes. Prasad said our team went to Varanasi by road, where they joined the Jharkhand contingent and then all went to Agra by train. Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India conducts Pre Republic Day Parade in different regions of the country and converge in Delhi for the mega show on the Republic Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Anti-Corruption Bureau arrests cop for accepting bribe||A team of Anti-Corruption Bureau of Dhanbad carried out a raid in the Govindpur area on Thursday and arrested an assistant sub-inspector of police, Munesh Tiwari for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 50,000 from a coal trader. Ramesh Pandey, a coal trader of Jharia has complained to the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) a couple of days back about ASI Munesh Tiwari. He complained that ASI Munesh Tiwari of Govindpur police station is demanding a bribe of Rs 50,000 from him in order to clear the name of his two own brothers namely, Ganesh Tiwari and Mantu Tiwari, in a police case related to the operation of an illegal coal dump in Govindpur on November 11, 2020. The ACB found the allegation of bribery demand true during the preliminary inquiry as to the complainant, Ramesh Pandey, has also provided an audio recording of his telephonic talk with the accused Munesh Kumar Tiwari in which Tiwari was demanding a bribe of Rs 2.5 lakh from him – Rs 2 lakh for DSP Sarita Murmu and Rs 50,000 for himself. The accused ASI instructed the complainant to provide Rs 50,000 to him immediately and provide Rs 2 lakh for the DSP later. Notably, Munesh Tiwari is the Investigating officer of the coal dump operation case lodged in Govindpur Police station on November 11. The ACB laid a trap and asked Pandey to give the money to Tiwari near a betel shop in Govindpur on Thursday. After Pandey handed over the money to Tiwari, the ACB team present there arrested him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Nationwide trade unions strike gets lukewarm response from Dhanbad mines||The nationwide strike call, given by 10 different unions in protest against several issues, including privatisation of PSUs, commercial mining, changes in labour laws and farm laws, evoked a lukewarm response in over 80 mines of the district. Production remained almost normal in all the mines. Only road and rail despatch was affected to some extent in different areas like Kusudna, Bastacola, Block II, Block IV and Chanch Victoria area. Notably, the contractual workers working with different private contractors engaged by coal companies have been exempted from the strike by the trade unions. The Coal India management had also forewarned the employees against the strike and also threatened about the days’ salary cut for those participating in the strike. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Rajendra Paswan, area secretary of Bihar Colliery Kamgar Union affiliated to Central Industrial Trade Union (CITU) said, “We have reached at the CK railway siding area since early morning at around 5 am and stopped loading of coal in the railway rake in order to disrupt the rail transport of coal.” “The message of our protest is clear that we are not going to allow the commercialisation of coal mining which is aimed at benefitting the capitalist forces,” said Paswan. Echoing sentiments, district president of Central Industrial Trade Union, Hari Prasad Pappu said, “Our activists steered the workers everywhere to stop work as we are fighting against the anti-poor or anti-worker policy of the central government being executed through different steps like privatisation of public sector units.” He, however, charged the other trade unions of not making active participation in today’s strike and said, “Only CITU leaders were present on the ground in different collieries leading the workers but others were not in the sight.” Meanwhile, the employees of Life Insurance Corporation of India under the banner of Insurance Employees Association and postal department employees also took part in the strike along with the sales representatives of different pharmaceutical representatives. Hemant Mishra, Joint Secretary of Insurance Employee’s Association said, “We will protest against any attempt of the government to carry out the disinvestment of LIC of India as it the backbone of Indian economy which has a customer base of more than 40 crore people,” and added that they also demanded the review of the revision of salary of LIC and GIC employees through their strike on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dilapidated Jharia-Baliapur Road a nightmare for commuters||Travelling on the 8 km Jharia-Baliapur main road is a nightmare for a large number of commuters as large number of potholes and boulders are dotting its surface. More than one lakh residents of different parts of Jharia, Baliapur, and Nirsa block are compelled to risk their lives to pass through the road in routine. The worst condition of the road is on the 3 km section from Ghanudih in Jharia to Jairampur in Tisra Police Station area. The road is still awaiting its concretisation by coal company Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) for several years. Aggrieved over the situation, local residents in association with a joint front of different trade unions have served an ultimatum to the BCCL management to carry out immediate repair of the road failing which they will be compelled to carry out disruption of coal transportation work from November 30. Talking to The Telegraph on Thursday, Yuddheshwar Singh, a local resident and area secretary of Bihar Colliery Kamgar Union affiliated to Central Industrial Trade Union said, “Not only the residents of Jharia and Baliapur but also the residents of neighbouring Bengal who visit the Jharia wholesale market using this road face the brunt of a bumpy ride on the road risking their lives.” “We are demanding the improvement of road condition for the past several years but only the stop-gap arrangement is made by BCCL management by filling the potholes occasionally with stones, earth, and soil which again meets the same fate,” said Singh. General Manager of Bastacola Area of BCCL in Jharia, Soumen Datta said, “As a large section of the road falls in the coal-bearing area from where smoke arises so we can’t make a permanent structure in the area but we have forwarded a proposal to our headquarters for the comprehensive repair of the road.” Echoing sentiments Tulsi Rawani, another resident of Jairampur area said, “Though the situation of the road from Jairampur to Baliapur is slightly better as the state government has concretised the road but Ghanudih to Jairampur section is worst hit.” “A large number of school students on school vans and buses pass through the road, along with ambulances carrying patients from remote areas,” said Rawani. “After the massive protest carried out in 2017, the BCCL management carried out reconstruction of the road and agreed that they will be carrying out the concretisation of the road after developing a diversion but no headway was made in this regard in the last four years,” said Rawani. “We will be using WBM technology which also known as Water Bound Macadame technology. Since this involves huge cost, it is taking some time to be cleared but we are hopeful that the project would soon see the ground,” added Datta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Deoghar frames building norms keeping airport in mind||Construction of buildings in the Deoghar municipality region will now be regulated in view of the upcoming international airport in the temple town to facilitate smooth flying operations. Officials of Deoghar Municipal Corporation and Airports Authority of India on Thursday jointly announced the introduction of a color-coded zoning map in the entire region as per norms prescribed by the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). After missing the November deadline, flight operations from Deoghar airport is now expected to begin in the next couple of months. Talking to the media, Deoghar town commissioner S.K. Lal said the entire municipal area has been divided into seven colour-coded zones. “In red category, no civil work can take place without the prior approval of AAI. In yellow zone, maximum height of a building has been capped at 265 metre above the mean sea level, 275metre in pink zone, 285metre in grey zone, 295metre in blue zone, 325metre in orange zone, 355metre in green zone and 385metre in light blue zone. Any kind of construction will now have to abide by these restrictions and due clearances from AAI and civic body as and where needed.” Lal said the initial survey conducted in the entire municipal area revealed that currently none of the buildings are violating the colour coded norms. “Once the airport starts operating, there will be a boom in purchase of land for setting up hotels, resorts around its periphery and elsewhere. To curb unmindful construction in the interest of safe flying, we are gearing up to streamline the expansion of such activities,” he said, adding that the survey has identified a handful of obstructions in and around the airport which will be cleared on priority basis. For example, in Bhandarkela village in ward 34, a few structures are now in the red zone. “There is a toilet building of the municipal body, about 25 small residential houses and a 15-year-old private school. We have informed AAI. Based on their feedback, we will move to relocate them to other places,” said Lal. The town commissioner said the colour codes would be publicised through various media soon. “Thereafter, any construction which is found to be violating the colour-coded norms will be razed by the administration, besides initiating legal and punitive action,” he said. In September, the Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri had announced flight operations from Deoghar and Darbhanga—two regional airports centrally funded under UDAN scheme _ from the first week of November. While Darbhanga airport commenced operations, Deoghar lagged behind due to infrastructural gaps. However, earlier this week, deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri, after reviewing the project, said the state government had prioritised clearing of all bottlenecks. The foundation stone of the Rs 401.34-crore Deoghar airport was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 25, 2018. It is being developed by the Airports Authority of India in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Jharkhand government. The airport is spread over 653.75 acre and its terminal building is being built over an area of 4,000sqm, while the runway is 2,500 metre long. With an environment-friendly architectural design and state-of-the-art passenger facilities, the terminal building will be a composite structure inspired by the rising towers (shikhar) of the Baba Baidyanath temple. This will be Jharkhand’s second-largest airport after Birsa Munda International terminal in Ranchi and will be suitable for operation of Airbus A-320 type of aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||PIL filed in HC against Lalu over ‘phone call’ to BJP MLA||A PIL was filed in Jharkhand High Court on Thursday against incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad after a purported audio recording of his alleged phone call to a BJP MLA to persuade him to join the UPA fold in Bihar went viral. Lawyer Rajeev Kumar filed the PIL to seek the court’s intervention since the use of a mobile phone by a prisoner was a blatant violation of the jail manual. The petition alleged that Lalu was making phone calls to BJP leaders with the intent to destabilise the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in neighbouring Bihar. Soon after the PIL was filed, Lalu was moved from Kelly’s Bungalow, which is Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) director’s official residence, to the paying ward. Lalu was staying in the director’s palatial bungalow since September, and the newly-appointed RIMS director, Dr Kameshwar Prasad, has had to put up at a guest house. Kumar’s PIL also pointed out that the high court in the past had taken cognizance of instances wherein RIMS cottages were used by high-profile convicts for the purpose of enjoyment. Lalu, who is serving jail terms after his conviction in fodder scam cases, has been undergoing treatment at the state-run RIMS. He was shifted out of the paying ward to the director’s bungalow, also known as Kelly’s Bungalow, in August following doctors’ advice as a precautionary measure in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Opposition parties criticized this move, claiming that Lalu was not being treated as a prisoner. On Thursday, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan issued a 24-hour ultimatum to the superintendent of Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, asking him to state categorically how and under what circumstances a mobile phone reached Lalu at RIMS. IG (Prisons) Birendra Bhushan said he had ordered an inquiry after hearing the purported audio recording of the conversation between Lalu and a BJP MLA in Bihar. “A prisoner is not allowed to use mobile phones. If the authenticity of the audio recording is proved, then an investigation will be initiated to find out how a mobile phone reached Lalu,” said Bhushan. Senior BJP leader and former deputy chief minister of Bihar Sushil Kumar Modi blew the whistle on the incident on Tuesday night after he claimed that Lalu had access to mobile phones, and followed it up by sharing an audio recording of a purported telephone conversation between Lalu and BJP Pirpainti MLA Lalan Paswan. A CBI court on December 23, 2017 convicted Lalu in a fodder scam case related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 89 lakh from the Deoghar treasury from 1991 to 1994 and sent him to jail. A month later, he was convicted in another fodder scam case and sentenced to five years imprisonment. Lalu was admitted to the cardiology wing of RIMS the next year after he complained of discomfort while serving imprisonment in the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi. Since then, he has been undergoing treatment at the hospital. In 2018, he was referred to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi from where he was later discharged and sent back to Ranchi. A hearing is scheduled on Friday on a bail petition filed by Lalu in a fodder scam case. His lawyer had earlier told the court that Lalu had served more than half of his imprisonment term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Cyclone effect: overcast sky, light showers at several places||A light drizzle amind an overcast sky replaced the dry and crisp northwesterly winds across Jharkhand on Thursday with the weather taking a sharp U-turn because of the severe cyclonic storm Nivar which originated from the Bay of Bengal and had landfall in the Tamil Nadu coast on Wednesday night. Several places including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Daltonganj and Bokaro woke up to overcast conditions on Thursday. Some parts of northern Jharkhand, including Latehar, Garhwa, Godda and Chatra, experienced light showers on Thursday. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre also issued a forecast of light rain in central Jharkhand on Thursday and Friday. Deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said easterly winds were dominating over Jharkhand and that such a pattern was expected to continue for another 48 hours. "Jharkhand is under the influence of the severe cyclonic storm Nivar which is resulting in cloud formation and heavy moisture incursion. An induced cyclonic circulation over north-west Rajasthan was also impacting Jharkhand's weather. The twin weather systems would result in light rain at isolated places over Jharkhand during the next 24 hours, " said Anand. The Met department forecast also suggested a gradual fall in night temperature (by two to three degree Celsius) after 48-hours. Because of the adverse weather, days have become cooler while night temperatures have increased by a few notches. Statistics available from the Met department revealed that apart from Ranchi, night readings also witnessed a rise in Jamshedpur, Daltonganj, Bokaro, Dhanbad and many other districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: premiere schools see dip in admissions||With no sign of resumption of classroom teachings in school, admission counters of the premiere schools of the district witness lesser rush for the admission of the next session beginning from March next year. The situation can be assumed from the fact that only one third to half of the LKG admission forms have been sold so far compared to last year of premiere CICSE affiliated schools. Admission into some of the CICSE affiliated schools including Carmel Schools and De Nobili Schools, observes maximum rush every year. Only around 600 LKG admission forms of De Nobili School, CMRI, have so far been sold since November 23, which is less than half compared to last year’s sale of over 1,400 forms. The school has 250 seats in LKG and form distribution is open till Saturday, November 28. Similar is the situation in other schools like Carmel School, Digwadih; Carmel School, Dhanbad and all ten branches of De Nobili School situated across the district. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Principal of De Nobili School, CMRI, KA Joseph said, “Though we are the expecting more people to come during the next two days for taking the admission forms but there is no denial of the fact that the response of parents about admissions is relatively poor compared to last year.” “The only reason for this is the uncertainty regarding the resumption of classroom teaching in the schools during the next academic session as classroom teaching could not be held this year and only online teaching was conducted,” added Joseph. “We are fully prepared to launch classroom teaching at any point of time observing all the social distancing and Covid-19 protection norms but it will ultimately depend on the government’s decision and also the decision of the council (Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations),” stated Joseph. Echoing sentiments, Tanushree Banerjee, Principal of De Nobili School, Sijua said, “Yes indeed the form distribution this year is comparatively less. On November 23, the first day of form distribution, we had a large number of parents but the graph started diminishing gradually.” “The apprehension among the parents is quite palpable. Those who are coming to take forms have a lot of question like when the classes will be held, whether they have to pay the fee all at once or in installments, what will be fee structure, etc.,” said Banerjee and added that they are also not sure when the classroom teaching will begin. “We are, however, hopeful that things will improve gradually and by January a clearer picture will emerge. The majority of the parents feel that having the strong foundation of their children is quite important for their career,” said Banerjee. Ravi Ranjan Kumar, a resident of Bekarbandh locality who took admission form of Carmel School, Dhanbad for his daughter on Wednesday said, “Many of parents are indecisive as they are not sure whether classes will be held next year or not and others are not coming as family income has been affected. It is one of the most difficult times of our life.” Satyam Lala, another parent who took the LKG admission form of De Nobili School for his son said, “As classroom teaching could not be conducted this year in all schools due to Covid-19 constraints so all the parents are apprehensive about the situation and thus very few are coming for taking forms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi Express to start services from Saturday ||The Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi Express will resume services from November 28, Saturday, and go via Tatanagar station. The office of chief transportation traffic manager of South Eastern Railway issued a circular and time-table of the train which will run daily as It will run as Howrah-Barbil Special. The train, No. 02021, will leave Howrah daily at 6.20 am and reach Barbil at 12.55 pm. In its return journey, the train, 02022 Barbil-Howrah Special will leave Barbil daily at 1.45 pm and arrive at Howrah at 8.55 pm. The Up train will reach Tatanagar at 10 am while the return train will come to Tatanagar railway station at 4.42 pm. The train will have four AC chair cars and 14 general chair car coaches. The train will stop at Kharagpur, Ghatsila, Tatanagar, Chaibasa, Dongaposi, Noamundi and Barajamda stations between Howrah and Barbil. The return train will also stop at Santragachi. Notably, South Eastern Railway withdrew the train in September this year due to poor occupancy. The occupancy of the train was reduced to as low as 15 percent due to the pandemic and this was severely affecting railway revenues. " A decision was taken to resume the train as the situation has improved now. We are expecting a good number of passengers in the train like Steel Express which is currently running between Howrah and Tatanagar, " said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Jan Shatabdi was the only train available for people travelling between Jamshedpur and Calcutta till the second week of September. The train was withdrawn on September 12. Two other signature trains for a quick trip to Calcutta were the Steel Superfast Express and Ispat Express. Steel Express resumed services before Durga Puja last month, while the service of Ispat Express, between Howrah and Titlagarh via Tatanagar, is still suspended. Chhotanagpur Passenger Association expressed happiness over the decision to resume Jan Shatabdi. “Many passengers travelling between Jamshedpur and Calcutta opt for Jan Shatabdi because of its convenient timing. Regular passengers were feeling handicapped in the absence of the train, " said Arun Tiwari, general secretary of the association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Recoveries outnumber fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped below 800 on Wednesday in Ranchi, the worst affected district in Jharkhand, while the count of active cases in East Singhbhum jumped to 309, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. As many as 237 fresh cases of infection surfaced in the state on Wednesday, while 316 patients recovered, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi reported 92 fresh cases against 161 recoveries, which brought the total number of active cases in the district to 797. A month ago, there were around 1500 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi. Barring Chatra, all districts in Jharkhand reported fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day. However, at least 17 of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a single-digit-spike in Covid caseload, government data highlighted. Only three districts – East Singhbhum, Ranchi and Bokaro – had more than 100 active cases after Wednesday’s test results. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 17,593 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. Health workers also collected 15,205 swab samples in 24 hours. As per government data, around 17,000 swab samples were pending for tests in Jharkhand. While the trajectory of active cases saw a downward trend, fatalities caused by Covid-19 virus continued to haunt Jharkhand on Wednesday. At least three Covid patients – one each in West Singhbhum, Deoghar and Hazaribag – died during treatment in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in the state to 958, the NHM bulletin further stated. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.42 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus was 440.05 days against the national doubling rate of 167 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.88 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 39.83 lakh people and tested 39.65 lakh of them. The Covid-19 tally in the state was 1,08,158 and at least 1,05,040 patients have recovered from the infection so far. The Covid recovery rate in the state was 97.11 per cent against the national average of 93.70 per cent, and at least 2,160 people were still battling the viral infection in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
