27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren visits native village on grandfather’s death anniversary||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Crackdown on illegal sand mining in Dhanbad||Dhanbad district administration in an association of district police conducted a raid at an illegal sand mining den at Gol building chowk of Dhanbad and seized altogether six sand laden vehicles. The district administration conducted the raid with an attempt to control the increasing prices of sand in the district and also to prevent illegal sand mining and trade. The raid conducted during the morning hours at around 7 am also led to the recovery of a huge amount of smuggled sand from an illegal sand depot. The team led by Surendra Prasad, Sub Divisional officer of Dhanbad and comprising of district mining officer PK Singh conducted the raid during which the operators of the illegal sand depot fled away but the vehicle and sand consignment was seized. Prasad then instructed the district mining officer to lodge cases against the illegal sand depot operators and also the vehicle owners whose vehicle were engaged in the illegal sand transport. Talking to the media after the raid, Prasad said, “We conducted the raid on Friday on the basis of complaints of the high price of sand caused to illegal mining and sand smuggling.” “Though there is no restriction of legal sand trade but we will not allow the illegal sand mining and sand trade, without valid documents,” further said Prasad. Notably, this is second raid in the district within a month as a team of Dhanbad police led by City SP, R Ramkumar raided at the same spot on November 4 this year during which six sand-laden vehicles were seized and a sand smuggler, Lav Bharti and the driver of truck engaged in the transport of an illegal sand consignment, Shaktipad Mandal was arrested by the police. Dhanbad district administration in an association of district police conducted a raid at an illegal sand mining den at Gol building chowk of Dhanbad and seized altogether six sand laden vehicles. The district administration conducted the raid with an attempt to control the increasing prices of sand in the district and also to prevent illegal sand mining and trade. The raid conducted during the morning hours at around 7 am also led to the recovery of a huge amount of smuggled sand from an illegal sand depot. The team led by Surendra Prasad, Sub Divisional officer of Dhanbad and comprising of district mining officer PK Singh conducted the raid during which the operators of the illegal sand depot fled away but the vehicle and sand consignment was seized. Prasad then instructed the district mining officer to lodge cases against the illegal sand depot operators and also the vehicle owners whose vehicle were engaged in the illegal sand transport. Talking to the media after the raid, Prasad said, “We conducted the raid on Friday on the basis of complaints of the high price of sand caused to illegal mining and sand smuggling.” “Though there is no restriction of legal sand trade but we will not allow the illegal sand mining and sand trade, without valid documents,” further said Prasad. Notably, this is second raid in the district within a month as a team of Dhanbad police led by City SP, R Ramkumar raided at the same spot on November 4 this year during which six sand-laden vehicles were seized and a sand smuggler, Lav Bharti and the driver of truck engaged in the transport of an illegal sand consignment, Shaktipad Mandal was arrested by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Adityapur households get ready to cook with piped gas ||At the behest of Adityapur municipal corporation (AMC), Gail India held a session on gas pipeline project at a meeting of the civic body at Auto Cluster auditorium in Adityapur on Friday. This is a process of putting the township into the map of the piped cooking gas supply system to the households. Revealing about the step, AMC's mayor Vinod Srivastava said they are bringing the facility of cooking gas to the households in Adityapur and the presentation made by Gail India about the proposed project was a part of its preparations. “The management from Gail India made a presentation of the cooking gas pipeline-laying system among the authorities of AMC and its corporator on Friday. They also made all those who attended the meeting talk about the benefit of piped gas in place of the conventional supply of the LPG cylinders during the presentation,” said Srivastava while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said that the facility of piped gas supply will be provided to all the households in Adityapur and parts of the adjoining Gamharia, which also comes under the AMC. “As per 2011 census the population of the Adityapur and parts of Gamharia was 1.73 lakh.  In 10 years, the population must have doubled that figure, making over 40,000 households. We will provide piped gas to all the households," he pointed out. The mayor said that they had submitted an application for launching the gas pipeline project in Adityapur to the AMC commissioner, Girija Nandan Prasad in October and the Friday's meeting with Gail India management was in the sequel to getting a nod to the application. “On Friday, the meeting was held between all the 33 corporators and representatives of Gail India.  Within the next few weeks, a board meeting of the AMC will be held over the gas pipeline project.  Subsequently, we will hold a meeting of all the stakeholders, including the Adityapur Housing Board, Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority regional office - Adityapur and Adityapur Small Industries Association. Then only we will give a final shape to the gas pipeline project here,” Srivastava stated. AMC has already put two major projects concerning drinking water supply and upgrading the sewage system in Adityapur and parts of Gamharia, work of which is in progress at a snail's pace. Significantly, Om Prakash, president of a local NGO, Jan Kalyan Morcha (JKM) said that it is a pleasant thing to know that the residents of Adityapur will be able to use the piped gas at their homes, but they will have to bear a lot in the event of the third project involving digging work. “The roads and lanes have been dug extensively as water and sewage pipeline works are being carried out by government agencies. If the gas pipeline laying work begins, then the residents are bound to face greater problems while coming out of their homes, though the project of the gas pipeline is a pleasant thing to happen in Adityapur,” said Om Prakash while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||BSNL to boost high-speed air fibre internet in steel city||Bharat Sanchar Nigam (BSNL) has decided to provide 5,000 new high-speed air fibre internet connections across Jamshedpur in the next four months. General manager of BSNL's Jamshedpur secondary switching area (SSA) Sanjeev Verma said, "The work from home culture is becoming popular in the prevailing pandemic like online classes and meetings. BSNL's Bharat Air Fibre Service which provides high-speed broadband connectivity of the order of 100 Mbps is acting as a true enabler in synergising this culture along with seamlessly providing e-education across the country.” He went on to say that Bharat Air Fibre Service, known as FTTH: fibre-to-the-home, is handy in areas where laying cables is difficult and time-consuming. Figures available from BSNL office suggest that every month, 2000 FTTH connections are being added in the Jharkhand circle. In Jamshedpur, where the Bharat Air Fibre service was launched in August, 900 connections are being added per month. The telecom major offers several promotional plans in the FTTH service, both in entry-level and high-speed plans. Verma said BSNL will hold melas in housing societies in Jamshedpur as a part of BSNL's Aap Ke Dwaar (BSNL At Your Doorstep) initiative. "This is a special drive which will be carried out in December wherein BSNL teams along with its empanelled partner will conduct focused melas in housing societies for booking new FTTH connections," he said. Among the areas where such melas will be held are Kadma (Prakriti Vihar, Professional Flat, Green Enclave, Dindli Enclave), Sonari (Ashiana Garden, Sangam Vihar, Golden Town, Kharkai Enclave), Telco (Apna Angan, Alok Vihar, River View Enclave, Vijaya Garden). In addition, shop-to-shop visits in Sakchi and Bistupur market area would also be initiated to promote FTTH services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Coalfield Express to resume service from Dec 1||Indian Railways plan to resume the operations of Coalfield Express from December 1. Coal town residents, who were facing a lot of problems in visiting their nearest metropolitan city Calcutta, rejoiced as the Coalfield Express is one of the most popular train travelling between Dhanbad and Calcutta (12339). The happiest lot among all are small-time traders, daily passengers, florists, street hawkers, etc. who are dependent on the products of Calcutta. Their earnings were greatly affected due to the suspension of the train operations to Calcutta. Coalfield Express leaves Dhanbad daily at 5.55 am and reaches Howrah at 10.30 am and during the return journey it leaves Howrah at 5.20 pm to reach Dhanbad at 9.40 pm. Notably, the train will resume operation from Howrah on December 1 on its scheduled time and again continue operation from Dhanbad from December 2. Talking to The Telegraph, Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, senior divisional commercial manager of Dhanbad said, “Everything is ready at our end. The train service will resume its operation on December 1 from Howrah at 5.20 pm as the rake at present is at Howrah.” Md Sohrab, president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, while expressing joy over the news of the train service resumption, said, “A large number of readymade sellers, footwear traders, cosmetic sellers were facing the most difficult time of their life for the last eight months of lockdown due to the suspension of train operations. Their entire trade was dependent on the products purchased from Dharmatala and Bara Bazar in Calcutta.” “We are thankful to the railway administration. The timing of the service resumption is most appropriate because of the ongoing lagan (marriage) season and will help to ensure the return of much activity in the local retail market of Dhanbad as marriage-related cosmetics, puja articles, readymade garments, etc. are available at a much cheaper rate in Calcutta,” added Sohrab. “Though all seats will be reserved and travellers will have to book the ticket in advance but even that will be much cheaper and convenient in comparison to the lockdown period difficulties when shopkeepers had to pay more than triple the train fair in buses to reach Calcutta through which they could bring only limited products due to limited space in buses,” said Malakar. Echoing sentiments, Lallan Malakar, a florist of Dhanbad while welcoming the railways' decision for the resumption of Coalfield Express, said, “The biggest sufferer of the train operations suspension during lockdown were coal town florist as the entire coal town flower requirements are met through the Calcutta products.” “We had to hire mini trucks or pick up vans as pool vehicle to bring flowers from Calcutta but the huge transport cost of these vehicles at Rs 14,000 to Rs 9,000 per trip was too heavy and adversely affected our profits,” explained Malakar. Notably, besides the Coalfield Express, Dhanbad residents are also happy over the railway announcement of the resumption of Howrah Mumbai Mail (via Gaya) from December 1, as a large number of patients travelling to Tata Memorial Centre in Mumbai for cancer-related treatment was also facing difficulties due to the suspension of train operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Unemployed protesters hold dharna in front of BSL head office||Over a hundred protesters of a displaced group on Friday carried out a demonstration in front of the Bokaro Steel Management (BSL) headquarters, as they clashed with the security who tried to stop them from entering the building. Later, the demonstrators staged a dharna, sitting in the middle of the roads in front of the Ispat Bhawan gate for several hours. As a result, traffic flow in the area got disrupted. The protesters, under the banner of the displaced Apprentice Association, shouted slogans against the BSL management, demanding employment. Arvind Kumar, a member of the union, said all of the agitators had pursued apprentice training at BSL, a unit of the Steel Authority of India (SAIL). He claimed that the BSL authorities had earlier said that they could not be directly employed by the company and had to become an apprentice to get the job. Following this, they had also done their apprenticeship. “It has been a long time since we have done apprenticeships but we have not been provided employment by the BSL. Also, no initiative is being taken by the management to give us employment. This forced us to demonstrate even in the times of the Covid-19 pandemic to catch the attention of the authorities,” Kumar said. “We are going to intensify our agitation if our demands are met,” he added. Chief of Communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan, said they are looking into the matter. Of late, the BSL’s headquarter has become a site to hold agitation despite the area being declared as prohibited by the administration. Over the past month, about half a dozen small and big demonstrations took place in front of the headquarter creating hurdles for commuters and employees. In the past four days this was the fourth demonstration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Lalu’s bail hearing deferred till December 11||Hearing on a bail plea by incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad in a fodder scam case was deferred until December 11 by the Jharkhand High Court on Friday. Lalu’s advocate Prabhat Kumar said bail was sought on the grounds that the RJD chief had already served half of the imprisonment term awarded to him by the court in connection with illegal withdrawal of Rs 3.13 crore from Dumka treasury. “The bail plea was opposed by the CBI counsel, therefore both the parties have been asked to get the claims verified by a lower court,” said Kumar, adding that according to their calculation, Lalu had already served 42 months and 28 days in prison, which is half of the total imprisonment term of seven years. However, the CBI said in court that Lalu had served only 34 months and a few days of imprisonment and eight months were left for him to complete half the term. The former Bihar chief minister has so far been convicted in four out of five fodder scam cases involving the illegal withdrawal of several cores. These include two cases related to withdrawal of money from Chaibasa treasury, one related to Deoghar treasury, one to Dumka treasury and one to Doranda treasury in Ranchi. Barring the Doranda treasury case, he has been convicted in all the remaining cases. A special CBI court, in 2018, had sentenced Lalu to 14 years of imprisonment – seven-under IPC sections and seven more under Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act – in the Dumka treasury case. The court had said that both the terms would run consecutively. However, Lalu’s lawyers are hoping that the court would strike down the former order and allow Lalu to serve both the terms of seven years each, simultaneously. On Friday, supporters of the RJD chief formed a beeline outside the paying ward of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) anticipating a decision in favour of Lalu’s bail petition. However, they turned away disappointed after the court deferred the hearing till December 11. On Thursday, a BJP leader had moved a PIL against Lalu in Jharkhand High Court over a purported audio clip of his alleged telephonic conversation with a BJP MLA in Bihar going viral on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Prohibitory orders imposed at East Singhbhum collectorate||The East Singhbhum district administration imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC at the district collectorate in Sakchi on Friday to discourage demonstrations in violation of Covid norms. With this order in place, no social or political organisations can hold dharnas, demonstration and processions near the district collectorate which, apart from the deputy commissioner's office, also hosts several government departments. Restrictions have been imposed on the assembly of five or more persons in the 50-metre radius of the district collectorate located along the Subernarekha Link Road. Entry at the district collectorate without a mask had already been prohibited in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh, who issued the order as an executive magistrate, said, "Of late, we have been observing that members of several political and social outfits have been staging dharna and demonstrations at the district collectorate without paying heed to Covid protocols. We were, therefore, prompted to impose prohibitory orders which will help prevent crowd. Necessary action as per law would be taken against those violating the order,” he said. The prohibitory orders will continue till a further notification issued by the office of Dhalbhum SDO. A drop box has been provided near the entrance gate of the collectorate so that people can submit their complaints/ grievances. Even though Covid positive cases are under control in East Singhbhum, the district health department is getting ready to start a massive testing drive from next week as a precautionary measure. It plans to conduct as many as 10,000 tests per day from next week targeting those who have come back from their Bihar and elsewhere after Chhath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand|| 1 million winter garments to be distributed among poor in Ranchi||Ranchi district administration along with other civil society groups have joined hands to offer warmth to hundreds of underprivileged and homeless across the district this winter by rolling out a unique campaign titled — #RanchiCares - Mission One Million Smiles — an initiative under which 10 lakh warm clothes will be distributed among the needy. Although such distribution drives are usually held by individual social organizations every year during winter and by the administration as well, this move becomes more significant this year amid the raging pandemic because of its sheer size of the distribution target by bringing different groups on a single platform to crowd-source relief materials, said officials. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan on Thursday night formally kicked off the drive at a low-ceremony from his office appealing citizens to donate discarded/unused winter wears, blankets, and the likes at earmarked donation points to be part of the mission. “The troubled times are also an opportunity for everyone, cutting across caste and creed to join hands to tide over the crisis. While the world is battling the Covid-19 pandemic, it has also led to lots of sufferings globally. Ranchi district administration is working on various ways to act as facilitators for those who need a helping hand. This initiative is an addition in that direction,” said Ranjan. Additional collector Sanjay Kumar said that several points have been set up across the district to collect donations (winter utilities) from the public. “We have already started receiving collections from the public through our partner organisations. From Friday, distribution will begin,” he said. Atul Agarwal, Convenor of Doranda Old Xaverians (alumni of St Xavier’s school), a partner outfit for this mission, told reporters that around two dozen collection points have been established across retail and business establishments in the city. Some of the collection points included outlets of Spykar (Sujata chowk), Spring City Mall (Hinoo), Firstcry (Kanke and Lalpur), Firayalal Next (Argora), Hill View Hospital (Bariatu) among others. Agarwal also said that the initial response has been encouraging as even before the formal kick-start of the distribution drive, they had received around 3,000 collections of winter wears from individuals and groups. “Every item received are being duly cleaned and sanitised keeping the Covid-19 protocols in mind before distributing,” he said, adding that the distribution drives will be held through block offices in the district. “Rather than holding random distribution camps, the plan is to set up camps at block offices in Ranchi or at points determined by the block development officers (BDOs) as they happen to be the first contact for the public at block levels and are aware of the needy. Both collection and distribution will continue simultaneously,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Archery association to introduce sports science||Archery Association of India (AAI) which got back the Union sports ministry recognition on Wednesday, after almost eight years, for failure to conduct elections in accordance with National Sports Development Code has made plans to involve sports science for enhancing performance of archers ahead of the 2021 Tokyo Olympics. Jharkhand MP from Khunti and former state chief minister, Arjun Munda, who took over as president of AAI in January this year, told The Telegraph that the federation will be soon be attaching sports psychologists, bio mechanist, video analyst and data analyst for the archery teams at the national camps. “We will be going all out to win the elusive Olympic medal in archery in 2021 and after consultations with experts we will be involving sports science in a big way to enhance performance of our archers for the Olympics. We will be taking help of sports psychologist, bio mechanist, video analyst and data analyst for archers selected in the ongoing national camp for Olympics at Pune,” said Munda. Sources in the Sports Authority of India (SAI) high performance unit for archery informed that the decision was taken after studying the shortcomings of the archers in the last few Olympics. “We have seen that our archers have performed well in the world championship and even in Asian championship against even Korean and Chinese archers. However, in Olympics psychological pressure get the better of the archers at crucial junctures leading to their failure and this is where sports psychologist and sports science would be playing a role to help the archers maintain their form during the Olympics,” said a veteran international archer of repute who is currently associated with SAI high performance unit. The AAI has also decided to keep the archer selected in the national camp for Olympics get away from competition fear. “In Korean countries top ranked archers selected for Olympics take part in at least 10-12 major competitions annually and are not affected by competition fears. Keeping this in mind, we will be arranging a senior national competition in mid-March, 2021, which would be held in Jamshedpur. We will also be bidding for maiden Asia Cup in Archery tentatively scheduled in end-March-April and plan to hold it in Jamshedpur. This apart, our teams will compete in the three World Cups between April and June to be held in Guatemela, China and France respectively,” said Munda. Meanwhile at the end of the three-day national selection trial for the ongoing preparatory camps for Tokyo Olympics scheduled for July 2021, Sangeeta (Haryana), Komalika Bari (Jharkhand), Ishita (Petroleum Sports Control Board) and Prachi Singh (Rajasthan) were selected in the women section while Yashdeep Bhoge (Maharashtra), Sukhchain Singh (Services), Amit Kumar (Madhya Pradesh) and Atul Verma (Services) in the men section. These archers would join the core group of eight men and eight women archers who were selected before the postponement of the Tokyo Olympics and undergoing preparation at ASI Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||BJP leader seeks probe into Lalu Yadav jail amenities||A BJP leader in Ranchi has moved Jharkhand High Court seeking a probe into facilities being allegedly offered illegally to Lalu Prasad in judicial custody, a day after the RJD chief was accused of getting access to a cellphone to try to influence the Speaker’s election in neighbouring Bihar. In his PIL, former BJP Kisan Morcha vice-president Anuranjan Ashok Singh alleged that although Lalu is a jailed convict, he had flouted the prison manual to use a cellphone, that too for the purpose of attempting to topple a democratically elected government. Lalu, in jail since 2017 in fodder scam cases, is receiving treatment in custody at Rajendra Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Jharkhand, ruled by the JMM that is part of the UPA. The Jharkhand government has ordered a probe into the allegation that Lalu had called up Bihar BJP legislator Lalan Paswan asking him to abstain from voting during the Speaker’s election. An audio clip of the purported phone conversation has been widely shared. The jail manual does not allow the use of phones by those in judicial custody. If the charge is proved, the accused can be sent back to jail. Lalu was on Thursday moved back to the RIMS paying ward from the director’s bungalow, known as Kelly’s Bungalow. Lalu, who had been incarcerated in Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Central Jail in December 2017, was shifted to the hospital in 2018. He had been moved to Kelly’s Bungalow in August this year after some guards at the paying ward had tested positive for the coronavirus. In Patna, Paswan filed an FIR against Lalu accusing him of trying to lure him to abstain from voting and suggesting that he falsely claim that he had Covid-19. Singh’s PIL has also alleged that Lalu is receiving other facilities such as the services of an attendant, who the BJP leader feared could have given the former chief minister access to the cellphone. The PIL has cited high court rulings in connection with the grant of facilities to political prisoners at RIMS in violation of the jail manual. Jharkhand IG (prison) Virendra Bhusan on Wednesday constituted a committee comprising Ranchi deputy commissioner Chavi Ranjan, Ranchi senior superintendent of police Surendra Jha and Birsa Munda Central Jail superintendent Hamid Akhtar to probe the allegation that Lalu had used a cellphone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
