28-11-2020||Jharkhand||Encounter with rebels in West Singhbhum, arms recovered||Huge cache of arms and ammunition were recovered by security forces during an encounter with rebels in the deep forest under Bandgaon police station in West Singhbhum. The encounter in which security forces were led by West Singhbhum police and Jharkhand Jaguar against People Liberation Front of India (PLFI) took place on Friday evening following which the recoveries were made. Acting on a tip-off that PLFI leaders Dinesh Gope and Jidan Gudiya were hiding in Manmaru forest the security forces launched an attack. Later, a few rounds of firing took place as well between the security forces and the rebels which lasted for about an hour. DIG (Kolhan) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said that encounter took place between security forces and PLFI ultras in Manmaru forest under the jurisdiction of Bandgaon police station late on Friday evening. He said that after several rounds of firing, the rebels fled deep inside the forest. “After the search operation, we found traces of bloodstains at the spot of the encounter. We suspect that during the encounter some of the rebels who were trying to flee might have sustained injuries,” said the DIG. The security forces recovered an SLR, a light machine gun, an assault rifle, six country-made pistols, 169 cartridges, knives, walkie talkies, blankets, thermal scanners, mats, PLFI literature besides other things. West Singhbhum SP Ajay Linda said the rebels fled taking advantage of the darkness. According to him, the recoveries were made during a search operation carried out after the operation. Sources informed that the police team was led by the assistant superintendent of police cum sub-divisional police officer of Chakradharpur Nathu Singh Meena. Additional security forces were rushed to the site of the encounter. They are camping at the spot. Meanwhile, the West Singhbhum district administration has intensified police patrolling on the bordering areas. Para-military forces began combing operation in the deep forest cover since the wee hours of Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||30-year-old youth killed in road accident on NH-33||A 30-year-old youth was killed when the bike he was riding was hit by an unknown vehicle on NH-33 early on Saturday. The accident happened at Saharbera under Chandil thana area of the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, about 25 km away from Jamshedpur. The victim, identified as Gunjan Kumar, was killed within one minute of his conversation with his father, PK Lal over the phone. Chandil thana OC, Uday Prasad Gupta confirmed that an unidentified vehicle had caused the mishap, resulting in the death of the youth. “Several heavy vehicles pass through the NH-33 every minute, but some local villagers had heard a sound resembling a mishap. On reaching the spot, one of the villagers found the youth was lying in a pool of blood. The villager had first informed the Chandil police and subsequently made a call on the number the victim had made his last call to. Incidentally, the call was received by the victim's father,” said Gupta while talking to The Telegraph Online. A resident of Baradwari locality of the city, Gunjan had come out of his house at around 4 am without informing his parents about his visit to Chandil for some work. At about 6 am, his father called asking him about his whereabouts when Gunjan said he was on his way to Chandil and presently he was at Saharbera. The victim also begged pardon of his father for not informing anyone in the family as all were in deep slumber then. But within two minutes, Lal's phone rang again and on receiving the call, which was from his son's number but the voice was that of a stranger. The stranger made some queries and finally informed Lal that his son was killed in a road mishap. On getting the information, Lal rushed to the spot, about a half-an-hour drive from Baradwari to find his son's body lying in a pool of blood and his bike lying beside. The helmet was found tucked on the rear side of the vehicle's rod, suggesting that the victim was without a helmet. By the time a police party from the Chandil thana had also reached the spot and seized the body. The OC said the youth might have been knocked down by some heavy vehicle soon after he started his bike following his conversation with his father over the phone. He said the victim had not put on his helmet and said had he done so might have survived the mishap. Gupta also said they are trying to identify the vehicle that caused the mishap taking the CCTV footage, but it is unlikely that they would get any positive result from this angle as there was no such electronic gadget near the mishap spot. "But we will still try to detect the vehicle that caused the mishap by putting our resources and trying to find out any eyewitnesses of the incident," said OC, adding that they have recovered the body and sent it to the Seraikela Sadar Hospital for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||Mayor mulls law tweak to punish traders for Covid violations||Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) is thinking of amending trade licence and other rules pertaining to commercial establishments to allow punitive provisions for violation of Covid safety norms, mayor Asha Lakra announced after holding a marathon meeting with trade organisations on Saturday. The civic body has decided to roll out an aggressive week-long awareness drive to reinforce Covid safety norms among traders and shoppers from Sunday. Lakra said she would hold another meeting early in December to chalk out modalities of including punitive provisions in the Jharkhand Municipal Trade License Regulations-2017 and other rules for shops and markets. “Saturday’s meeting was aimed at seeking traders’ cooperation to enforce Covid safety norms with shops and business establishments. We have asked them to follow the principle of ‘no goods without mask’ and display this message prominently at their establishments. We are also going to launch a week-long sensitisation drive across the capital through banners, posters and public announcements,” she said. Lakra said the RMC would hold another meeting in the first week of December to devise ways to introduce punitive provisions in the municipal act. “These may include fines, cancellation of trade licence, among others,” she said. While the district administration has launched a mask checking drive since Wednesday, the civic body is also gearing up to step up the vigilance in markets under its command areas to curb the spread of coronavirus amid fears of another wave of infection. “The situation in some markets is such that widespread violations are taking place. It is time for tough action. If awareness and appeals don’t help, then one has to instil fear to enforce rules,” she opined. Police and the district administration have so far slapped 1,000 people with fines for not wearing masks, collecting close to Rs 5 lakh since Wednesday, according to an official communiqué. Close to two dozen shops were sealed and seven were served notices for violation of Covid norms. Out of 2,162 active cases in Jharkhand now, Ranchi accounts for 769, the highest in the state. Since the outbreak, Ranchi recorded 27,720 cases of which 26,757 were cured and 194 died. The district has 2017 active containment zones as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||Rapid test conducted on 5,000 in East Singhbhum through the day||The East Singhbhum health department carried out 5,000 rapid antigen tests on men, women and children at markets and various other places to combat the spread of Covid-19. The health department, which has set a target of conducting 10,000 on-the-spot tests on Sunday, carried out the testing drive at Golmuri, Sakchi, Mango and Bistupur. "The drive was also carried out in different rural blocks of the district," said R. N. Jha, the district civil surgeon. According to Jha, they have set a target to carry out 15,000 tests in two days - Saturday and Sunday. He said they had intensified rapid antigen tests as a precautionary measure to prevent a possible second surge of infections after the festive season. During Saturday’s drive, all visitors to Bistupur market had to undergo rapid antigen tests. Commuters and those without face masks were also stopped at Golmuri, Sakchi and Mango, and asked to undergo rapid antigen tests. The drive which began at 10 am continued for about nine hours till 7 pm. It was supervised by Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh and special officer of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) Krishna Kumar. As many as 300 medical personnel were engaged for the drive. A rapid antigen test detects the presence of viral proteins (antigens) expressed by the Covid-19 virus in a sample taken from the respiratory tract of a person. The result of the test is made available within 15 minutes. But a confirmatory RT-PCR test is recommended for those who test positive. The East Singhbhum district recorded 24 Covid positive cases and one death on Friday. The count of Covid fatalities in the district is now 351. East Singhbhum has accounted for the highest Covid casualties among all the 24 districts of the state so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Main Hospital to charge for Covid-19 treatment from Dec 1||Tata Main Hospital (TMH) has declared that Covid-19 treatment will be a paid service from December 1. The charges will range from Rs 8,000 to Rs 12,000 per day depending on the condition of the patient. Tata Main Hospital, which is a Covid-19 hospital run by Tata Steel has provided treatment to 3,986 patients free of cost. During an online conference call in the city on Friday, Dr. Rajan Chaudhry, advisor, Medical Services, Tata Steel, said, “Patients admitted to the hospital till November 30 can avail free treatment. But, from December 1 Covid-19 patients will have to pay for the treatment cost. This is as per the government guidelines.” Chief of Corporate Communications of Tata Steel, Kulvin Suri informed that Tata Steel has spent Rs 100 crore for the treatment of Covid-19 patients and controlling the pandemic in Jharkhand. He also stated that apart from the treatment cost of Covid-19 patients, the company has also spent on awareness drives to control the transmission of the virus. Dr. Chaudhry also informed that the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients at Tata Main Hospital has improved from 89.20 percent to 89.3 percent, which is almost 90 percent. Till date, 3,986 Covid-19 positive patients have been admitted to TMH. Chaudhry said the next 10 days was crucial. “Though the impact of the virus has reduced we need to be careful. The next 10 days are going to be crucial as it will indicate whether a second surge will come or not. People should continue to take all precautionary measures for their safety. Avoid going to crowded places, wear masks and maintain social distance,” he said. TMH, a leading heal hub in steel city has a total of 1028 beds. Of this 413 beds have been dedicated to Covid-19 positive patients. The private hospital is equipped with 83 ventilators for critical patients. TMH has recently started an on-demand RT-PCR, antigen and antibody tests. The idea is to give more flexibility and facilitate enhanced ease of testing. The charge for RT-PCR test is Rs 1,000; antigen is Rs 500 and the antibody test is Rs 250.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||State police release cyber security awareness handbook||In a first of its kind, the Jharkhand Police have released a cybersecurity awareness handbook on Friday, sources have said. It was released by the DG headquarters Ranchi Ajay Kr Singh in the state capital. The Telegraph Online managed to access a copy of the 35-page handbook, written in two languages. A senior police officer, who wished to remain anonymous, said it took a month to prepare the handbook. According to sources, around 500 cases of cyber crime are registered annually in Jharkhand, an act that prompted DGP MV Rao to instruct the police to prepare the handbook. The Telegraph Online spoke to a victim of cyber crime who lost a huge amount of money following a fraud call.  He said that such criminals speak a lot at one go and do not give the listeners a chance to even breathe, let alone analyse the situation. While the handbook has illustrations to drive the point home, apart from separate notes for men, women and children, it does not have any story of the duped man and his trauma. Likewise, it has no story of any person who has outwitted and defeated a cyber criminal’s  game plan. Sources said this juxtaposition of the two the victim and the one who took the cyber criminals for a ride in the police handbook would have made it far more worth reading. The handbook is available on the website of the Jharkhand Police, sources in the department said. The police are also working on plans to carry out related programmes in boys and girls’ schools, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||The north wind is back, mercury set to witness a plunge||Dry and crisp north-westerly winds made a comeback on Saturday after two days of gloomy weather with most parts of the state witnessing a drop in temperature. Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad and several other parts of the state woke up to clear and bright weather. Most places also experienced winds blowing at speeds between 15kmph and 20kmph. "The flow of dry north wind has been restored and this was preventing moisture incursion into the atmosphere. The chill is here to stay for another two to three days, with most places witnessing plummeting night readings,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of IMD’s Ranchi Met Centre. According to Met forecasts, the minimum temperature is expected to witness a fall of two to three degrees the next 48 hours. "Clear skies mean low humidity and lower minimum temperature. Readings will plunge depending on the intensity of the winds. We are expecting a fall of minimum readings by at least three degrees in the next 48 hours,” said Anand. The Met department also issued an alert of shallow to moderate fog in the next two days, hampering visibility just after sunrise. Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 13.7 °C on Saturday. As per Met forecasts, a sub-0 chill is expected to prevail in the capital after the next 48 hours. The minimum temperature also witnessed a drop in Jamshedpur which recorded 15.8 °C on Saturday. Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, Bokaro and Ramgarh, recorded around 14°C. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum saw a minimum temperature of 12.6 °C. Minimum readings in Hazaribagh, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Dumka, Simdega, Gumla, Khunti, Seraikela-Kharsawan and several places in Santhal Pargana witnessed a downward trend too. Anjan Choudhary, a resident of Bistupur in Jamshedpur, said he ended up wearing woollens for the first time this season on Saturday morning. “It felt as though the chill had intensified when I went out for a morning walk today (Saturday),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||Less than 1 per cent of tested samples found Covid positive in Jharkhand||Less than 1 per cent of the 19,000-odd people tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Friday were found infected, while nearly 200 patients recovered from the infection on the day, causing a marginal rise in the Covid recovery rate in the state and a fall in the number of active cases, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As many as 189 people, including 71 from Ranchi and 24 from East Singhbhum, were found to be Covid positive on Friday, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). Of the 195 people who overcame the viral infection in Jharkhand on the day, at least 65 were from Ranchi and 27 from East Singhbhum. These two districts account for around 50 per cent of active Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, one more person from East Singhbhum died of Covid-19 infection, taking the count of Covid fatalities in the state to 962 and that in East Singhbhum alone to 351. The district has accounted for highest Covid casualties among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand so far. While Chatra, Khunti and Koderma did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, at least 17 districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases, the NHM bulletin stated. Dhanbad reported three fresh cases against 16 recoveries, while Latehar reported 14 fresh cases and no recoveries in the past 24 hours. As per government data, of the 2,162 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand, at least 774 were from Ranchi and 314 were from East Singhbhum. Barring Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro, all the remaining 20 districts had fewer active cases than 100. The government on Friday tested swab samples of 18,966 people, but over 16,000 swab samples were still pending for Covid tests, government data revealed. Health workers have so far collected swab samples of 40.21 lakh people and tested around 40.04 lakh of them. Of the over 40 lakh people tested, as many as 1,08,577 were found infected and 1,05,453 of them have recovered. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.12 per cent against the national average of 93.60 per cent. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.40 per cent, while the doubling rate of the infection in Jharkhand was 420.71 days against the national average of 172.42 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.88 per cent against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
