29-11-2020||Jharkhand||Adityapur households to get proper sewage system by March 2021||Adityapur residents are likely to get a proper sewage system in their households from March next year, something which was a long-cherished dream of the people of this township. As the ongoing work of a mega sewage system is nearing its completion, over two lakh residents of Adityapur and parts of adjoining Gamharia that fall under Adityapur Municipal Corporation (AMC) will get rid of the septic tank in their houses. But this ambitious project will provide the service to only 75 percent of the households as work in one of the four proposed sewage treatment plants (STPs) remains yet to begin due to the encroachment hurdle. Revealing about the Rs 255 crore worth sewage project, AMC's city manager Ajay Kumar pointed out that over 90 percent of the project work has been completed and that by the end of March 2021, a proper sewage system will be in place in over 50,000 households herein Adityapur and parts of Gamharia. "Under the sewage project, the executing agency Shapoorji Pallonji was to set up four STPs and lay a sewage pipeline across the AMC area. The construction of the STP near the railway station in Gamharia, Surya Mandir and Sapra both in Adityapur are almost complete, but the work of another STP proposed to be set up at Saldih Bustee, also in Adityapur, has not begun yet due to encroachment problem," said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The city manager said the plot of land at Saldih Bustee where an STP was to be set up has encroached. He pointed out that 17 houses have been built on the government land without permission and the encroachers are resisting the administration's step to remove the encroachment for setting up the STP there. "The AMC has, therefore, decided that the STPs whose work is almost complete may be made functional by the end of March, providing the sewage facility to over 75 percent of households. The work at the Saldih Bustee site will begin only after the place is made free from the encroachment," said the city manager. He informed that the executing agency has already been given a one-year extension for completing the STP construction at Saldih Bustee. Significantly, sources revealed that the work for the STP at the Saldih site is unlikely to begin in the near future. "The issue of setting up STP at Saldih Bustee site has become politically entangled. Earlier when BJP-led government was in the state, the former chief minister Raghubar Das did not permit the local administration to use force against the encroachers, given the assembly elections in 2019, but after the Hemant Soren-led coalition government came to power, the encroachers got further emboldened as they are JMM supporters and Adityapur being represented by senior JMM leader Champai Soren. Under the present circumstances, the local administration is reluctant to even think about dislodging those who have encroached upon the government land at Saldih Bustee," said a source in the AMC. The commencement of a sewage system in Adityapur is certain to give a face-lift to the township which is considered stinky and shabby in absence of a proper sewage system. "We had never thought of a toilet at our house with a proper sewage system like the one set up in the adjoining steel city. But now our Adityapur will become a cleaner town," said Ram Gyani Sahee, a resident of Adityapur while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi police lapses led to Lalu getting a phone, says jail probe report||Birsa Munda Central Jail authorities have blamed policemen deployed RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s security at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for violating the jail manual, which eventually led to Lalu gaining access to a mobile phone while in judicial custody. However, the jail authorities did not specify if the voice in the viral audio clip released by BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi was that of Lalu. Birsa jail superintendent Hamid Akhter submitted a report to Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan on Sunday, basically saying that Lalu may have got access to a mobile phone due to lapses in his security – a responsibility of Ranchi police. None of the jail officials was willing to speak to the media about the issue on Sunday, claiming the matter was “sensitive” and under investigation. However, a senior jail official, requesting anonymity, said the mobile phone reached Lalu exactly the way mobile phones reach jail inmates across India. “It is mostly due to poor checking by security guards that mobile phones reach jails in India. The same thing happened in Lalu’s case as well,” he said. The Ranchi deputy commissioner had on Friday sought a report from the jail superintendent within 24 hours on the circumstances under which Lalu got access to a mobile phone. As per the jail manual, a prisoner is not allowed to use mobile phones while he or she is in judicial custody. The jail superintendent’s report states that the policemen deployed for Lalu’s security should have frisked all visitors properly. Cops deployed at the gate of Kelly’s Bungalow, where the former Bihar CM was staying, should have also kept an eye on the activities of those visiting Lalu, the report further states. A controversy over alleged phone calls by incarcerated Lalu Prasad to BJP MLAs in Bihar was triggered after former Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Modi released a purported audio clip alleging that one of the voices in it was that of Lalu. In the audio clip, one person is heard making assurances of a ministerial berth to BJP MLA Lalan Paswan in return for support to the RJD during voting for the Bihar Assembly Speaker. “Be absent from the Assembly on the day the Speaker is chosen. Tell people that you have Corona,” the voice in the audio clip says. “If the speaker is on our side, then we will topple the government,” it further states. A PIL was also filed against Lalu in Jharkhand High Court over the audio clip. The next day, the high court deferred the hearing for Lalu’s bail plea to December 11. A CBI court on December 23, 2017, convicted Lalu in a fodder scam case related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 89 lakh from the Deoghar treasury between 1991 and 1994 and sent him to jail. A month later, he was convicted in another fodder scam case and sentenced to five years of imprisonment. Lalu was admitted in the cardiology wing of RIMS the next year after he complained of discomfort while serving imprisonment in the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi. Since then, he has been undergoing treatment at the hospital. In 2018, he was referred to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi from where he was later discharged and sent back to Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
29-11-2020||Jharkhand|| Eviction drive in coal capital to remove vendor kiosks ||The district administration in Dhanbad on Sunday, along with the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and the police conducted a massive anti-encroachment drive on a 2 kilometers stretch between Park Market to Hatia, which is located less than a kilometer away from the district headquarters. During the drive, extension and projection of shops were removed. The drive began at around 12.30 pm under the leadership of  Sub Divisional Officer Surendra Prasad and continued till around 3 pm. More than 100 shop owners had themselves removed their extensions during this time, while the encroached portion of around 30 of them were removed by the municipal corporation workers and policemen. Talking to reporters after the drive, Prasad said, “We have been running information campaigns all through the area since the last three days, appealing to the shopkeepers to remove their respective installation from the encroached portion of the road.” “Majority of the shopkeepers had themselves removed their installations from the road before the beginning of the drive while some others removed the same after we began. However, for only a few, we had to use force,” he added. The SDO was accompanied by Assistant Commissioner of Police Manoj Swargiyar and circle officer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation Ritesh Kumar. “The main problem in the area is that the shopkeepers extend their installments by putting furniture like benches, boxes, and shades outside their shop leading to the narrowing down of road. This creates a lot of difficulties in traffic movement as well as parking of vehicles of the customers coming to the market,” Prasad said. He also informed that the authorities will carry out similar drives in all market areas to avoid traffic jams. Earlier on November 24, the district administration also conducted a drive at Court Road area of Dhanbad adjacent to Hirapur, Hatia and Park Market. During this, they had removed several parked vehicles from the non-parking zones. Both the drives were aimed at regulating the traffic in areas which witness large footfall of people. A large parking zone has also been developed by district administration adjacent to the court to facilitate parking of vehicles away from the court road, which houses a large number of government offices beside civil and criminal courts of Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||NCC wants to set up marine unit, seeks state govt support||The Jharkhand unit of National Cadet Corps (NCC) is keen on launching a naval unit for marine training, group commander Brigadier Manish Tripathi announced on Sunday while addressing the concluding ceremony of Constitution Day celebrations in Ranchi on Sunday. Speaking at the gathering at Audrey House in the presence of chief minister Hemant Soren, who was the chief guest, Tripathi said, “We are currently running seven NCC units including one fully dedicated to female cadets. We have units of land and air training and are working to soon start a naval unit too.” Tripathi said all they now needed was access to “a water body and some land” to commence the unit at the earliest. “Other required infrastructure and manpower is being readied by us. NCC headquarters have already given a go-ahead to our plans,” he added during his address at the function held to commemorate Constitution Day, also known as National Law Day, which is celebrated on November 26 every year to mark the adoption of the Constitution of India. There are five NCC units in Ranchi as of now. They are 3 Jharkhand Battalion, 19 Jharkhand Battalion, 3 Jharkhand Girls Battalion, 3 Jharkhand CT Coy and 2 Jharkhand Air Squadron. This apart, there are girls battalions in Dumka, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Koderma, Palamau, Gumla and East Singbhum. Tripathi said NCC cadets have always answered the call for help from the state government or district administrations. “During the Covid-19 lockdown, our young cadets worked day and night to assist district administrations to create awareness, enforce social distancing norms. “During the recently concluded Chhath festival, our cadets swung into action in barely five-hour notice to man ghats, which was commendable as we instill in youths a sense of responsibility, discipline, and dedication,” he said. Tripathi said the NCC was the only force across the globe that had been formed solely to channelise youths to become leaders of tomorrow. Chief minister Hemant Soren hailed the contributions of NCC in Jharkhand and assured all possible assistance from the state government for expansion of the force. He also asked the NCC to consider setting up its regional headquarters in Ranchi. “I am told that the NCC regional headquarters is currently in Patna. I request you to consider setting up a regional headquarter in Ranchi (Jharkhand) too so that NCC can intensify its activities by engaging more youths of the state and motivate them to choose the right path. As far as NCC’s request for setting up of the naval unit is concerned, I welcome the move… we have all the required facilities to suit their requirements,” he said. Tripathi said during the three-day Constitution Day celebrations that began on November 26, NCC cadets held various programmes at their camps across the state to create awareness about the Constitution among the people. In Ranchi, NCC cadets also held a 10-minute play to enumerate the significance of the Constitution. They also put up an exhibition to highlight NCC activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
29-11-2020||Jharkhand|| Coal town survey on for Swachh Survekshan 2020  ||Officials of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation are conducting surveys of hospitals, government offices, resident associations, muhallas, hotels and market associations in the run up to to the Swachh Survekshan 2020. The scrutiny is being conducted across 55 wards of five circles of the district including Dhanbad, Jharia, Sindri, Katras and Chhatatand to assess their cleanliness scenario. The winners of all the categories would be given certificates after the conclusion of the Survey on November 5. City manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and the Swachh Bharat Mission incharge Prem Prakash said, “Our team members are giving marks to prepare the ranking  lists of each of the facilities as per the different parameters  fixed for them.” He added, “Winners  at the district level of all the categories  will also be competing in their respective categories at the state and national level.” For ranking of hotels, the parameters included placement of twin bins, waste processing facility like composting machines, placement of dustbins in rooms, mandatory sanitisation arrangements all over the hotel as per Covid-19 norms and floor cleaning. Similarly, in the category of Hospitals, Resident Welfare Association, government offices, market associations, the survey for preparing ranking is being  made by allotting marks on different criterias like waste segregation facility, waste processing facility, placement of different bins in the  premises, separate toilet facility for men, women and also different abled persons, basic cleanliness and sanitation. Prakash said, “The survey aims to foster the spirit of competition among different institutions like schools, hotels, hospitals besides government offices. We have also made previous announcements regarding the survey, every year through newspaper notices. Preparations have also been made by participants of different categories after filling up forms.” He added that they began the survey by making up survey teams and choosing the officers on Saturday. “As part of the awareness drive we have already launched massive wall painting and slogan writing drives since October end around all the major ponds. Works are still  going on at more flyover railings and walls at an accelerated pace,” he said. The authorities are using waste materials like tyres, bottle caps and others to decorate the areas. The logo of Dhanbad as well as Jharkhand has been made with plastic bottle caps generated at the different bottled crushing machines installed at Bank More, bus depot and the railway station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||Low-key Guru Nanak Jayanti in steel city ||This year’s Guru Nanak Jayanti celebrations by the Sikh community will be a low-key affair. The Central Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee has decided to cancel the grand procession for the first time this year due to the pandemic. The 551st Guru Nanak Jayanti also called Prakash Utsav held on Kartik Purnima every year will be celebrated on Monday, November 30 this year. Mahendra Singh, president of Central Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee, Jamshedpur said, “Because of the prevailing pandemic and safety reasons, we took a decision to skip the grand procession.” There will be no langars too wherein community kitchens serve meals of rice, chapattis, tadka dal, and pickles to visitors in gurudwaras. A senior functionary of Central Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee, Satnam Singh Gambhir, who is also a national general of All India Sikh Students Federation had recently launched a campaign on Facebook seeking suggestions from the community members on whether to organise the nagar kirtan this year. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Gambhir said, “Majority people said no in their comments. Out of 250 comments, 240 responses were negative – against hosting the nagar kirtan because of safety reasons.” He also said to mark Guru Nanak Jayanti on Monday as gurudwaras will hold the concluding rituals of the three-day customary Akhand Path which had kicked off on Saturday, November 28. Sarabjeet Kaur, a housewife in Bistupur said, “This will be the first time that the streets of steel city will miss the festive fervour on Prakash Utsav, where thousands of members of the Sikh community participate in the nagar kirtan. We also enjoy the langars in gurudwaras during the jayanti celebration. But, this year we will be deprived of that.” This year the Prakash Utsav procession was supposed to be taken out from Jugsalai Gurudwara. Last year, the grand procession was taken out from the Baridih Gurudwara and after traversing over 5 km the procession culminated at the central Gurudwara in Sakchi. Jamshedpur has 36 gurudwaras located in various parts of the city while the population of the Sikh community is around 2.25 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||Drone-mounted cameras keep vigil on Betla National Park||Betla National Park under the Palamau Tiger Reserve is using drones with an aim to keep poachers and hunters away from the park. The drone is being flown mostly before the sunset. This operation is overseen by N Kumar, a 2018 batch Indian Forests Service officer, who is on his probation here. Betla range is spread over 48.49 sq km and the park area is less than half of the total area of the Betla range. The drone covers one-kilometer radius of the park. Kumar Ashish, deputy director, North division of Palamau Tiger Reserve said that they are using the drone to keep off dubious elements away from the park and it has also started to show its effects. He also informed that people with evil intentions sneak into the park during the sunset, hence they have decided to fly the drones around that time, as it is a deterrent to such poachers and hunters. “We are planning to have a drone that can be flown at night, which would be an advanced version of the present drone,” said Ashish. Apart from the drone surveillance, Betla National Park has been fitted with over a dozen live cameras which our forest personnel scan round the clock at the range office at Betla, stated Ashish. He also said that the installation of the live cameras has helped to improve the management of the park. Ashish said that the park environment is gradually looking up. He said, “Our main thrust now is to connect the villagers to the park making them feel that the park and the wildlife need to co-exist with them.” According to sources, the rebels who were very suspicious of the cameras in the Palamau Tiger Reserve thought it to be a tool of police to take note of their presence and movement and the cameras pose no problem to them. But the change of the stance of the rebels has everything to do with the business of the Palamau Tiger Reserve, which is neither pro-rebels nor pro-police but all pro-active of the wildlife.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway extends festival specials till December 30||In an attempt to cater to the extra rush of passengers, South Eastern Railway has decided to extend the services of the existing festival special trains to different destinations till December 30, observing all safety protocols. The trains which travel via various stations of Ranchi and Chakradharpur divisions include Santragachi-Pune Special (via Tatanagar); Hatia-Yesvantpur (Bangalore) Special; Tatanagar- Yesvantpur Special; Hatia-LTT Special; Tatanagar-Danapur Special; Hatia-Purnia Court Special; Tatanagar-Chhapra Special; Tatanagar-Howrah Special; Hatia-Islampur Special and Ranchi-Howrah Special. All special trains will continue to run as per existing timing and routes, said a notification issued by the office of chief passenger transportation manager at Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway. “The decision for extending the running of special trains was taken considering the overwhelming response from the passengers and surge in berth occupancy,” said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Notably, improvement in berth occupancy rate prompted the South Eastern Railway zone to resume the services of Howrah Barbil Jan Shatabdi Express from Saturday, November 28. The train runs via Tatanagar railway station. According to the chief public relations officer, booking of tickets and reservations in the special trains (Up trains only) are available at all PRS (passenger reservation system) counters and through the internet. “Passengers are requested to strictly follow all safety protocols before undertaking a journey in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. Chhotanagpur Passenger Association, the largest outfit of the state which works for passengers’ welfare hailed the railway decision. “We were happy to know that the South Eastern Railway has extended the running of all festival special trains. This will help passengers avoiding the rush and plan their journey conveniently,” said Arun Tiwari, general secretary of Chhotanagpur Passenger Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||Red Paws foundation holds pet adoption camp||For the first time, a stray pup adoption camp was organised in Jamshedpur to motivate people to adopt Indian stray puppies who otherwise face the wrath of busy streets or merciless humans. The Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation organised the first-ever stray pup adoption camp at the Circuit House Area just opposite the Durga Puja ground on Sunday with a positive response. With more than 10 volunteers, the Jamshedpur Red Paws Foundation came up with 30 pups that were lesser than three months out of which 22 got adopted on the first day. Animal lovers and animal rights activists do face a lot of problems when it comes to the adoption of Indian stray puppies. Without a proper animal shelter in the city, people most of the time fails to arrange for homes for these pups. The adoption camp thus was a possible way towards ensuring that people do adopt them which will be followed by proper monitoring. The adoption of pets required submission of ID proofs, address proofs, and contact details which will help the organisation and volunteers to pay surprise visits to check the condition of the pets later. The foundation has also taken the responsibility to provide anti-rabies vaccines to the adopted pets every year. De-worming medicines were also administered on Sunday post the adoption process along with proper counselling. “I had this idea in mind as we face a lot of trouble while arranging homes for strays but I was not very confident if this will work. The first time response was overwhelming. However, we have only allowed adults to adopt and not children. There were a lot of children who wanted to take the pups home but this is a perennial problem as later if the family denies keeping it, they find their way again on the busy streets and forage for food,” said Aniz Patel, founder of the Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation. The foundation is now aiming to organise such camps regularly for better awareness among the denizens of the city. Those who adopted were happy as they took home those bundles of joy. “The best thing with Indie pups is the easy adaptability to our climate and low maintenance which is not the case with breeds of the western world. They too can be excellent guard dogs and can love you till the last breath of their life. I had no plans to adopt but as soon as I saw them by the roadside, it reminded me of my grandfather who kept feeding strays and spoke about their selfless love and loyalty. So, I adopted one who is going to be at my farm in Galudih near Ghatshila,” said Alok Sikandh, an M.Tech student who resides in C.H. Area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
