30-11-2020||Jharkhand||CM Hemant Soren visits Luguburu Ghantabari to offer prayers||On the occasion of Kartik Purnima, chief minister of Jharkhand, Hemant Soren visited Luguburu Ghantabari and performed puja at the holy shrine of the Santhals. Luguburu Ghantabari is situated on the Lugu hill under Gomia block in Bokaro. The largest religious gathering of the Santhal tribals, organised every year on Kartik Purnima, was not held this year due to the ongoing pandemic. The CM said that Luguburu is the religious centre of deep faith. Every year the occasion was arranged with great pomp, but this time due to Coronavirus the event was cancelled. Security was beefed up, as the area is Maoist prone. DC, Bokaro, Rajesh Singh; DIG, Koylanchal, Prabhat Kumar; SP, Bokaro, Chandan Kumar Jha and other officers and political leaders were present at the occasion. Soren prayed for the well-being of the people and wished that the residents sail safely through this moment of crisis. At the same time, he also appealed to the people to follow the norms of wearing a mask and social distancing in the prevention of the Covid-19 virus. He also met members of the Dharamgarh Committee during his visit. Santhals are the largest tribal community in the country. Lakhs of Santhal tribals from across the country and abroad used to assemble for a two-day religious gathering organised every year on Kartik Purnima at Luguburu. The decision was taken on November 26 in a meeting held between the administrative officials and Dharamgarh Committee at Shyamali Atithi Bhavan of TTPS, Lalpania. The arrival of outside devotees at Luguburu Ghantabari Dharamgarh was banned as well. Dharamgarh committee appealed to the devotees to worship at their respective homes on the day of Kartik Purnima in view of the pandemic. Santhals visit their most sacred shrine once every year to worship Lugu Baba and perform religious rituals. Tribals used the gathering to discuss the development of their Santhali culture. Every year a huge fair was organised on the occasion which drew large numbers of residents from local areas, but this year the fair was also banned. “This is our biggest religious gathering. The Santhals from Nepal, Manipur, Orissa, Bihar, and other states participate in the function,” said Babuli Soren. Lugu Baba temple is situated in the vicinity of hills and is adorned with natural beauty. The devotees have to walk more than six kilometres on foot climbing the hill for the darshan of Lugu Baba. There is a big natural cave atop the hill inside where devotees offer puja to Lugu Baba. The Lugu hill is about 70 kilometres from the district headquarter and has a dense forest cover.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Police lathi-charge to quell protestors||Local transport and work were disrupted due to the day-long chakka jam organized by local job seekers, outside the Associated Cement Plant of Sindri. The protest turned violent when protestors began to pelt stones, following which the police lathi-charged those assembled before the cement plant. During the clash, several policemen including Dhanbad’s sub-divisional officer, Surendra Prasad received minor injuries. Following which district administration imposed section 144 in the area. Around three persons were arrested from the site. A first information report (FIR) has been lodged against several individuals responsible for the stone-pelting episode. Notably, over 500 local job seekers of Sindri carried out a chakka jam to disrupt the transport system of the cement factory, since early morning. The protest was organized under the banner of two different organizations ‑ Bhartiya Mazdoor Sharmik Sangh and Tiger force. The protestors had a single demand - the creation of more contractual jobs for the local residents of Sindri. When sub-divisional officer, Prasad, reached the site at around 2.30 pm, he tried to initiate talks with the demonstrators led by district president of Tiger Force, Dharmjit Singh (sitting outside the ACC Sindri plant) and the ACC administration. During the discussion, the protesters agreed to have another meeting with ACC Sindri management on December 4. However, things turned ugly when an unidentified demonstrator hurled stones on one of the policemen deputed at the Dharna site. This, sparked tension between the police and the demonstrators, following which some of the demonstrators began pelting stone. To quell the unruly mob, the police lathi-charged and even arrested a couple of the protestors. Talking to media, SDO Prasad said, “The negotiation concluded on a happy note. We had even fixed a date for the next meeting. But some persons resorted to stone-pelting.” He added, “We are not going to spare any trouble maker. Those who were present during the meeting will also be held accountable for the violence that took place, as they were equally responsible for maintaining peace.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Women leaders share idea of success, courtesy CII||The Jharkhand chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry-Indian Women Network (CII-IWN), in association with India@75, organised a session with women professionals who shared their success stories and the ups and downs of their entrepreneurial journeys. Titled, "Will to Succeed, Will to Win - Women Leaders of the New Era", the session was held on Monday afternoon on a virtual platform in collaboration with India@75, an industry-led movement that brings together various stakeholders of society. The session deliberated on women professionals and entrepreneurs of today who are chartering unknown territories fearlessly to achieve their goals. Addressing the session, Atrayee Sarkar Sanyal, the newly appointed vice-president-Human Resource Management (Designate) of Tata Steel, said that the fire within an individual should never get extinguished. “…with great enthusiasm one should be focused towards one’s goal irrespective of what comes until one achieves his/her desired goal with proper planning and execution,” she said. Saumya Singh, head, Department of Management Studies and Centre of Innovation, Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of Mines), Dhanbad, said that even though things had changed, the glass ceiling was still there. "But if I try to recapitulate my experience, things are certainly improving. With the moral conditioning we have been brought up with, we are often found to be asking questions to ourselves about who we are, how strong we are, what have we been able to achieve and what could we have achieved more had the situation been more favourable. Can we make situations more favourable for our daughters who are going to take the lead further?" she said. Dr Rupali Basu, managing director and CEO, Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital, Calcutta, stressed on qualities like technical intelligence, integrity and unhindered focus that lead to success. Swastika Basu, chairperson, CII-IWN Jharkhand Chapter and chief-Enterprise Risk Management, Tata Steel moderated the session. “These women of substance have forayed paths not only for themselves but also portrayed success stories for their peers. Their stories are stories of grit, determination and positivity and the courage that is inherent in a woman to face the challenges of life, the courage to break stereotypes and the courage of not limiting their ambitions”. Kanchan Kumari, vice-chairwoman, CII-IWN, Jharkhand chapter, and DGM (Quality), Tata Cummins, also attended the virtual session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||State plans tie-up with FICCI to help revive trade and employment||The Jharkhand government has decided to rope in Federation of Indian Chamber and Commerce & Industry (FICCI) as its national industry partner to facilitate and guide policies in trade and commerce to create jobs in the post-Covid-induced lockdown period. Officials in the state industry department said an MoU would be signed with FICCI soon, while state industries secretary Pooja Singhal confirmed that chief minister Hemant Soren, who also holds industry portfolio, had given his consent for this. “The purpose of a tie-up with FICCI is to help and advise the state government towards economic revival during the post-Covid period to bolster investments and create jobs. They (FICCI) will also be helping us devise plans and policies for optimal utilisation of resources in priority sectors identified by the state,” she explained. After coming to power in December last year, the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance has been highlighting the fact that it inherited empty coffers because of lavish spending by the former BJP-led state government. While the pandemic-induced lockdown further dented state revenues, the return of about seven lakh migrant workers who had lost their livelihood added to the burden of the state government. Now, after several months, a section of migrant workers is beginning to return to their places of work outside the state. Yet, economic hardships for most still remain. Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), the state’s apex trade body, has admitted that markets were yet to revive. “In Jharkhand, many sectors are still reeling under a crisis due to late unlocking and lack of liquidity. As a result, new jobs aren’t being created. There is a need for a fresh push and out-of-the-box initiatives to boost jobs and livelihoods,” said FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani. He welcomed the move to rope in FICCI for assistance but said that unless the government’s work culture changed, nothing would change on the ground. “Just by roping them (FICCI) and hosting a big-ticket MoU ceremony will not make any difference unless things are simplified at the ground level to win the confidence of investors,” he said, citing Momentum Jharkhand, investment summits held by the previous BJP government where MoUs worth lakhs of crores were signed but nothing much came of them. “Jharkhand has seen several MoU ceremonies for trade and investment but unfortunately red tape and cumbersome processes turned investors off. The previous government brought in several policies and plans but the reality today is that a majority of the MoUs signed three years back didn’t succeed. In this year alone, three to four big textile players have virtually shut shop in Jharkhand only because of the bureaucratic hassles they were facing,” said Ajmani, suggesting that the government turn to tourism, hospitality, textiles and medium and small scale sectors to boost jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Satyendra Dubey lives on, thanks to his friend||A real friend is one who walks in when the rest of the world walks out. This has been proved by Vikram Kaul, a US-based technocrat friend of Satyendra Dubey, an engineer of National Highway Authority of India who sacrificed his life in 2003 for the sake of honesty. To commemorate the values of Dubey, Kaul has funded the establishment of a library-cum-computer training centre for school students at a remote village Kohair in the naxal-affected Tundi block of Dhanbad. Kaul wants to inspire the next generation to follow the ideals of the honesty of Dubey, who was killed by a nexus of corrupt politicians, contractors and bureaucrats The Centre is established with the coordination of Rameshwar Prasad, a retired officer of Associated Cement Company, Sindri, who is presently a full-time social worker. The Centre, which is a single-storey building equipped with a bench, desk and a computer, will be operational every day for four hours. Talking to The Telegraph Online Prasad said, “The building was earlier being used by us for operating a single teacher school to educate children. Since the establishment of a government school in a nearby locality, the school has lost its utility. So now we have converted it into a library-cum-computer training centre with the help of Kaul. He is engaged in a lot of philanthropic activity and particularly funding the education of students of the economically backward section of the society, through different organisations like Foundation for Excellence with his friends.” “Though the fund for furniture, etc. has been provided by Kaul, a roommate of Dubey at IIT Kanpur but the local villagers have donated their labour to construct the building, etc.,” said Prasad. “Satyendra Dubey was a very honest and sincere officer employed in the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). He was posted at Koderma,” said Prasad. “A native of Siwan district of Bihar, Dubey was very good in studies since his early days and topped in 10th and 12th examinations. He did his B.Tech from IIT Kanpur and M.Tech from Banaras Hindu University. Satyendra Dubey didn’t go abroad like his other friends for a job. He wanted to stay in India and serve the country honestly,” further elaborated Prasad. During his posting at NHAI in Koderma, he tried to expose a corruption nexus in NHAI right from the contractors to the officers, politicians, ministers, etc. He suspended some corrupt contractors and officers working in NHAI as well. He also sent a confidential letter to PMO to apprise about the widespread corruption. He was however assassinated by miscreants at Gaya on November 27, 2003, on his birthday. “We lost a great person who wanted to see India corruption free and established a library-cum-study centre in his memory at Kolhahir Tundi which is a very small tribute for his honesty,” said Rameshwar Prasad. “I am sure it will inspire the people and students to follow his ideals and never compromise with honesty,” added Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI group reaches out to Raipur kids with English lessons||A students’ group at XLRI made use of the lockdown by imparting virtual English lessons to children of SOS Youth Homes in distant Raipur and the results were very fulfilling. The group, SIGMA-oikos Jamshedpur, conducted the programme, titled Basic English Learning Program-(BELP), in virtual mode over four months from August and concluded it successfully on Sunday. Each session was organised by team SIGMA with the help of volunteers from XLRI, who took classes for the kids every weekend. "The sessions were aimed at imparting basic knowledge of English grammar and improving communication skills so that the children would become more comfortable with the language. This would help them in the future, " said a volunteer who was part of the initiative. On the last day of the programme, easy-to-read storybooks and chocolates were sent to the students as a token of appreciation. SIGMA continues to collaborate with SOS in its efforts to provide students with opportunities for a brighter future by preparing them for competitive examinations and admissions to renowned schools across India. SOS Youth Homes was founded in Raipur in July 2005 and it started its activities in 2007. Currently, there are around 130 children residing with 14 mothers and three aunts, who take care of and provide a loving family to the children under the SOS Family Based Care programme. SIGMA-oikos Jamshedpur, which works under the guidance of XLRI Prof Raghu Ram Tata, chairman FACES (Fr Arrupe Centre for Ecology and Sustainability) and Prof Madhukar Shukla, has been providing academic support to underprivileged students every year. "Educational courses in English and computer literacy are a regular activity conducted by the group, along with extra-curricular activities like dance, singing, and art and craft sessions. This year, the programme had to be scaled to a virtual format due to the pandemic, " said Prof Shukla. The activities of the social group also include blood and stem cell donation camps, paper recycling, and food wastage prevention drives, spreading legal literacy amongst village inhabitants across Jamshedpur. SIGMA also executes research projects in association with national NGOs such as Goonj and international NGOs such as OIKOS to help impoverished communities become self-sustaining through sales enablement services and supply chain optimisation. SIGMA also ties up with corporate houses such as Tata Steel to hold case study competitions where the best minds from top tier B-schools across the country come together to solve national problems such as water conservation and renewable energy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: Devotees take holy dip on 'Kartik Purnima'||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Mahto lung transplant successful, weaned off breathing support ||State education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who underwent a lung transfer following a coronavirus infection that kept him bedridden for nearly two months, has overcome the ailment and is now good to lead a normal life again. Mahto is now able to sit on his own and also stand with support, doctors from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in Chennai said on Monday, adding that the minister would be able to attend Vidhan Sabha sessions from January onwards. Dr. Suresh Rao, Co-director of the Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation & Mechanical Circulatory Assist Device at MGM, said Mahto has started breathing without any artificial respiratory assistance from machines. But, he will take around two more weeks to start walking without support. “His lungs are fine. The oxygen saturation is also optimum. Right now, he is undergoing physiotherapy and should be able to walk soon,” said Rao, adding that the minister would be able to lead a normal life from the beginning of 2021 if everything went well from here. “He can lead a normal life, but he has to be careful and avoid any infection in his lungs,” said Dr. Rao. The 54-year-old Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) legislator from Dumri constituency in Jharkhand underwent lung transplant surgery at MGM on November 10. While he remained in the ICU, he was recovering fast and conscious since the surgery, doctors said. His party, the JMM, the largest party in the state Assembly, has started preparing for a grand welcome ceremony for Mahto, a son of the soil. The first-time-minister in the Hemant Soren Cabinet, Mahto is a popular figure among JMM supporters. Before getting infected by the coronavirus, he was in the news for taking admission in intermediate (class 11 and 12) and presenting cars to the toppers of class 10 and class 12 board exams in Jharkhand. Mahto tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was admitted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in the state capital on October 1 and put on non-invasive ventilation. The minister was flown to Chennai on October 19 after his lungs showed no signs of improvement and was put on life support. Doctors from the hospital said that Mahto’s lung transplant surgery cost the Jharkhand government around Rs 30 lakh and his treatment altogether will cost roughly Rs 80 lakh. However, there was no official confirmation on the amount quoted by the hospital for the minister’s treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Researcher spots two rare insects at Canary Hill, Ramgarh Ghati ||Independent researcher Mritunjay Sharma has discovered two rare insects, one at the picturesque Canary Hill in Hazaribagh district and other at Ramgarh Ghati on Ranchi-Patna Highway. The first is a rare golden tortoise beetle seen at Canary hill and the second one is painted grasshopper who only eats poisonous plants. Sharma said Canary is full of surprises and apart from his recent discovery, he had found the Peacock Pancy, one of the world's most beautiful butterfly, and India's largest anthill. "The golden tortoise beetle belongs to the leaf beetle family. In this area, so far only its two colours have been spotted-green and orange. In insects, the orange colour is very rare and hardly seen,"  Sharma said talking to The Telegraph Online, adding that there are over 3,50,000 species of beetles in the world. About the painted grasshopper Sharma said, "It is very rare and he had spotted it for the first time in his long years of research. Scientists wanted to know as to how this grasshopper which only eats poisonous plants digest it and stay safe. Research is on to crack this mystery and if decoded, it will help scientists save the life of those who consume poison." Sharma added that Jharkhand forests have many surprises and the tourism department needed to focus on nature tourism to attract tourists. "If better facilities provided I am sure people will like to visit Jharkhand," he said. Sharma's name was incorporated into the Limca Book of Records a few years ago for finding the largest anthill of India at Canary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 198 fresh Covid cases||The Jharkhand government on Sunday tested swab samples of over 93,000 people for Covid-19 and as many as 198 of them, roughly 0.21 per cent, were found infected, figures compiled by the health department stated, highlighting how intensifying Covid testing did not trigger a major spike in the Covid caseload in Jharkhand. However, despite the rise in testing rate, around 18,000 swam samples were still pending for Covid test by Sunday evening, revealed government data. On average, the government tested around 15,000 people every day for Covid-19 in the past week, and less than 300 cases surfaced daily. While at least five of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 on Sunday, as many as 14 districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases. By the end of Sunday, there were 773 active cases in Ranchi and 307 active cases in East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts in the state. Ranchi and East Singhbhum accounted for more than half of the Covid-19 cases that surfaced in Jharkhand on Sunday. While 69 people were found infected in Ranchi, 29 fresh cases of infection surfaced in East Singhbhum. However, the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped in East Singhbhum and rose marginally in Ranchi. East Singhbhum reported 47 recoveries while 56 patients recovered in Ranchi in the past 24 hours. At least 214 Covid patients recovered from the infection across Jharkhand on Sunday, bringing the count of active cases in the state down at 2,138 and the recovery rate up at 97.15 per cent. Jharkhand did not report even a single Covid casualty on Sunday, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). So far, 963 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand and 351 of them were from East Singhbhum. Ranchi has reported 195 Covid casualties so far. The government has so far collected swab samples of 41.52 lakh people and tested 41.34 lakh of them. Of the over 41 lakh people tested, as many as 1,08,984 were found to be Covid positive. However, at least 1,05,883 of patients have recovered in the state so far. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.17 per cent against the national average of 0.39 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 405.58 days against the national average of 177.89 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.88 per cent against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand business airs Covid penalty grouse  ||The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and industries (FJCCI), the apex trade body of the state, has alleged that the business community was being made a soft target for violating Covid norms. “Though we are in favour of observing the standard operation procedures as specified by the government and also do so, the authorities are punishing the businessmen for violation of those norms,” FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani alleged. Many shops have been sealed whenever more customers were found gathering in those, he said, adding that Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) has also proposed a fine up to Rs 25,000 to be collected from shop owners in such cases. “Observing Covid norms should be a responsibility of all and shopowners alone shouldn’t be penalised for that,” Ajmani further said, wondering if government offices would also be fined if many people gather there. “Shop owners keep sanitiser and also wear masks,” added FJCCI general secretary Dheeraj Taneja, adding they could at the most request the customers to observe social distancing. Meanwhile, the RMC, at a meeting held on Saturday, asked FJCCI representatives to direct shop owners to refuse to entertain such customers who approach them without wearing masks. “The meeting was meant for discussing ways for conducting a week-long special awareness campaign from today (Sunday) when they said it,” said Amit Sharma, chairperson of FJCCI’s municipal sub-committee who attended the meeting. The administration has also launched a special drive for imposing Covid norms so that the viral infection is not spread further. In Ranchi alone, 1,073 persons who were found to be moving at public places without wearing masks in four days till Saturday were fined Rs 500 each. The health department also launched a special drive for Covid testing on Saturday and Sunday for detecting the spread of new infection after Diwali and Chhath. Though the result of such tests conducted across the state on Sunday would be known late in the night, the same of Saturday did not indicate any major spread of infection. Of the total 32,584 samples tested on Saturday, only 209 accounting for 0.64 per cent of the total samples were found to be positive. Jharkhand had 2,154 positive cases on Saturday of which Ranchi district alone had 768 cases that accounted for 35.65 per cent of the total positive cases. The recovery rate in the state stood at 97.13 per cent which was better than the national rate of 93.70 per cent and mortality rate of 0.88 per cent was also much less than the national rate of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
