01-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Invisible pride||Two Indian athletes have won gold medals in quick succession at javelin throw events in Tokyo. The first was Neeraj Chopra, who won the Olympic gold; the second is Sumit Antil, who won the coveted gold at the Paralympics event. Mr Antil is not the only Indian athlete to clinch a gold medal at the ongoing Paralympics; the Indian shooter, Avani Lekhara, brought the nation’s gold tally up to two at the women’s 10-metre air rifle standing SH1 event. She also became the first Indian woman to win gold at the Paralympics. The prime minister was profuse in his praise for India’s showing at the Tokyo Olympics and said that the momentum that India has gained in sports cannot stop. The scope of this momentum, however, ought to be extended to include Paralympians, who have consistently done the nation proud. In 2016, the Indian contingent at the Paralympics had a better tally than their fellow athletes at the Rio Games. And yet, the national broadcaster and private television networks did not cover the competition live, ostensibly on the grounds that the event would not garner enough viewership. Matters may have marginally improved five years on, owing to the advent of live streaming platforms for sports — and, once again, the Indian delegation of Paralympians continues to better the tally of Indian Olympians — but the tradition of rendering differently-abled athletes and citizens invisible continues. While administrative support has been extended to some para-athletes — the high jumper, Sharad Kumar, has been training in Ukraine since 2017 under the government’s Target Olympic Podium Scheme — it has been inconsistent. The silver-winning discus athlete, Yogesh Kathuniya, said that he is still training without a coach. Is that because the prevalent mindset does not allow for reconciling the idea of athleticism with alternative forms of physical capacity? This could be why para-athletes are passed over in favour of their able-bodied counterparts for sports-related endorsements. Embedded prejudice and a dearth of inclusivity in terms of policies and opportunities are some of the main challenges for India’s differently-abled constituency. To eliminate such forms of exclusion, the disdain for physical infirmity must be tackled and the glory brought by Paralympians turned into capital to generate accommodation for the community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
01-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Lathi-charge on farmers in Haryana||Brutal tactics Sir — The purported directive of the Karnal sub-divisional officer, Ayush Sinha, to police personnel to break the heads of protesting farmers to enforce law and order was cruel; it was an open call to violence. The justification for this — the SDO reportedly did not sleep for two consecutive days — is bizarre. It is a shame that an Indian Administrative Service officer doubling as a duty magistrate thought that this was the best way to deal with protesters. He could not have been unaware of the constitutional right to protest. His action might have been emboldened by the hope that the state government would protect him. The use of force on farmers for blocking a national highway and causing congestion was completely unjustified. It was disturbing to watch farmers being felled to the ground. A farmer is reported to have died in the aftermath of the lathi-charge. It is unfortunate that the chief minister of Haryana, Manohar Lal Khattar, has not been receptive to the farmers’ demand for the dismissal of the SDO and the policemen responsible. In fact, he endorsed the measures taken by saying that ‘strong action’ was needed. He was expected to have some sympathy for the farmers even though he heads a state ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, which passed the three new farm laws. Repressive measures are unlikely to deter the farmers from continuing their struggle for the repeal of the laws that threaten their livelihood. The farm laws were bulldozed through Parliament without consulting the primary stakeholders — the farmers. The prime minister should go beyond his offer to suspend the laws and repeal them to do justice to the slogan, “Jai Kisan”, if his government is to be known as ‘pro-farmer’. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The lathi-charge by the Haryana police on agitating farmers is heart-breaking. The duty magistrate clearly misused his power and provoked the police with his orders. His command was inhuman and should be condemned, irrespective of political affiliations. The Haryana government should initiate an impartial inquiry into the incident and take stern action against the guilty. A.K. Mukhopadhyay,Hooghly Sir — After the lathi-charge on the agitating farmers, the deputy chief minister of Haryana, Dushyant Chautala, said that the SDO of Karnal could face action. This is too little too late. Chautala, now part of the ruling party, has forgotten his responsibilities towards the farming community. The farmers are aware of this, and are unlikely to fall for the pretence of care. Both the state government and the Centre will have to pay heavily for passing the farm bills without the farmers’ consent and then refusing to take them back in the face of stiff opposition. The arrogant dispensation will be overthrown. The governor of Meghalaya, Satya Pal Malik, could be a major help — he has demanded that the Haryana chief minister apologize to the farmers. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The brutality perpetrated on farmers by the Haryana police needs an independent, court-monitored inquiry as the police and the government are clearly hand in glove. Photographs suggest that the police did, in fact, break the heads of the farmers following the SDO’s orders. However, the BJP leader, Varun Gandhi, has raised questions about the authenticity of the video that shows the SDO making the remarks under the guise of expressing his anguish. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam  Game over Sir — After its crackdown on foreign cartoons on prime-time television and certain karaoke songs, China has come up with a new restriction — minors will henceforth be prohibited from playing video games for more than three hours each week. This is ridiculous. While addiction to gaming is harmful, especially for children, surely there are better ways to discourage them. They could instead be inspired to take up interesting hobbies — collecting stamps, painting, learning a musical instrument. Children already have enough rules to follow; such orders will only weigh them down further. Pranay Ghatak,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
01-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Chapter closes||Having failed to midwife the birth of a robust, inclusive democracy in Afghanistan, the United States of America has now retreated from that war-scarred land after two decades, leaving the country in a far more chaotic state. The mess in Afghanistan has numerous manifestations. A humongous humanitarian crisis is unfolding, with countless Afghans battling death, hunger and displacement. The shadow of reprisal hangs heavy over the nation as the Taliban, Afghanistan’s new masters, conduct a witch-hunt against their opponents in spite of an announcement of granting general amnesty. Reports of extrajudicial killings, abductions and intimidation of civilians — women, journalists, members and employees of the former regime and, as usual, ethnic minorities — are not uncommon. Worryingly, the spectre of terrorism — this has ramifications for India’s borders — seems to have mutated, as was evident from the chilling attack on Kabul airport by the Islamic State-Khorasan. Splinter fundamentalist outfits with shadowy patrons that remain opposed to the Taliban could pose a long-term threat to the stability of the region. Other local formations, such as those resisting the Taliban in Panjshir, are unlikely to settle for a peaceful resolution either. These divisions in Afghanistan are being mirrored in the deep chasms in the international fraternity. Russia, China and Pakistan have moved quickly to press for international assistance — recognition? — for Afghanistan’s new overlords, while India and the United States of America are among several democratic countries that have desisted from reaching out the hand of cooperation just yet. These fissures in the coalition of global nations would, undoubtedly, affect Afghanistan’s ground realities adversely. The challenge, therefore, is for stakeholders, including competitors like India and Pakistan and the US and China, to arrive at a consensus to usher in stability in the country. This is easier said than done given the conflicting geo-strategic interests of the stakeholders. Yet, the signs of a thaw between the Taliban and the international fraternity cannot be ruled out entirely. Recently, the United Nations security council dropped a reference to the Taliban from a statement that called on Afghan groups to renounce terror. India was a signatory to the statement. This outreach can be beneficial mutually: the Taliban needs the comity of nations for legitimacy and to rebuild Afghanistan while the fledgling camaraderie could open up newer avenues of cooperation for the West and the Taliban to hunt down common scourges such as the IS-K. Prioritizing peace and people’s welfare on the part of Afghanistan’s rulers and the world would be instrumental in ushering in new equations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
01-09-2021||Opinion||The Age of Dissatisfaction||Karl Marx continues to be debated for his critique of capitalism. One of his important critiques, alongside that of growing inequalities under capitalism, was of the growing sense of alienation. His early writings referred to alienation of a spiritual kind where the “species-being” that had inner morality and compassion remains disengaged and suppressed under capitalism. However, the ‘later Marx’ began to emphasize a more structural and technical aspect of alienation, wherein the workers are divested of the process as well as a sense of satisfaction, pride and identification with their product; instead, the division of labour pushes them into mechanical and repetitive work in order to improve efficiency at the cost of human sensibilities and the urge for recognition. The anthropologist, David Graeber, pointed to the phenomenon of what he termed as “Bullshit Jobs” under capitalism. ‘Bullshit Jobs’, he argues, are “a form of paid employment that is so completely pointless, unnecessary, or pernicious that even the employee cannot justify its existence even though, as part of the conditions of employment, the employee feels obliged to pretend that this is not the case.” Such jobs do not add to the self-worth of the employee and are, on the contrary, meaningless. They are more about the perceived need to manage the workforce. But one could extend this to argue that this malaise of meaninglessness and worthlessness has become all-pervasive, and that it is only set to grow further with the rise of automated work and the introduction of Artificial Intelligence in the years to come. The sense of satisfaction in what we do is depleted because we become a tiny, unremarkable part of the process, often referred to as the ‘cog-in-the-wheel’, where the work is repetitive, boring, and does not generate curiosity and creativity. The sense of something being spontaneous is being replaced by algorithmic, arithmetic and financial considerations. The historian, Yuval Noah Harari, says that ‘algorithm’ is the single- most important word of the 21st century. This is further compounded by what the development economist, Guy Standing, refers to as the new precariat working conditions of being on time-bound contracts with the declining number of permanent jobs that offer such benefits as pension and medical care. Work, thus, becomes a source of both insecurity and meaninglessness. Many scholars, including Standing and Graeber, have identified universal basic income as one possible alternative to the phenomena of ‘Bullshit Jobs’ and precarious working conditions. However, as Amartya Sen has argued, employment is not merely about income; it is also about self-fulfillment and satisfaction. Under modern capitalist conditions, the sense of self and recognition are being replaced with or compensated by what the Marxist geographer, David Harvey, refers to as “compensatory consumerism” wherein the market is flooded with products that give us temporary, but instantaneous, gratification. Consumption has become the new leitmotif of life, and it continues to drive our instincts and appeals to our sensory and visceral needs. The question of satisfaction and meaning keep getting back at us, while we tend to ward them off through newer gadgets, technological innovations, and modes of communication. Spiritual questions are being displaced rather than being answered. Newer modes of consumption — Harvey refers to these as non-exclusionary modes and cites the example of Netflix — have emerged where the product can be consumed simultaneously by many and also instantaneously. New kinds of shopping experiences in malls create newer spatial experiences — Frederik Jameson refers to these as being neither public nor private — that leave behind a sense of depravity, transforming consumption into a repetitive, boring, banal act. Marx had predicted this loss of control over sense and sensibility, a time when we will come to see, mediate and replace human relations with commodities. It is a condition where exchange-value dictates the use-value of goods: he referred to it as ‘commodity fetishism’, which, in turn, adds to the sense of alienation propelled by the working conditions and the nature of the jobs. The modern condition of alienation, however, is not limited to market, jobs and consumption. It extends to social, personal and political life as well. The State and its notions of sovereignty and territoriality are markers of their own versions of alienation on the populations they govern. Contemporary democratic means of representation have pushed forth centralization of power, exceptionalism and exclusion. Representation has become more a condition of alienating the collective rather than of mediating collective interests. Recent global protests, from ‘Arab Spring’ to ‘Occupy Wall Street’, are reminders of alienated collectives struggling to identify with the political life of the nation. This has led to varying demands — from electoral reforms to direct democracy to blatant forms of authoritarianism. The underlying sense of alienation from the collective is, today, articulated as the ‘crisis of representation’ and anger against corruption. There is a need to explore the relationship between ‘compensatory consumption’ and the ‘politics of presence’ characterized by sectarian identity politics. The underlying condition for both seems to be a lasting and gnawing sense of alienation from self and collective. The new modes of imagining durable solidarity that is secure and meaningful has become a pressing need to fight capitalism and preserve democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
01-09-2021||Opinion||A sickening deal||A few weeks ago, I was asked to write on the gendered communal ire faced by Muslim women in light of the ‘Sulli Deals’ incident. I wrote a few paragraphs and realized that this would be the first time I would be writing as a Muslim woman. Identity is a strange word when you think of it in isolation, suspended on a sunbeam bereft of the granular structural differences we grow up with. An intersectional identity essentially means our social identities are multi-dimensional, creating a prism of experiences that is the sum of our parts. Let us understand this as a gradient of the human rights theory that argues in favour of acknowledging the multiple facets of our identity that come together to form one compound identity. This new definition of identity includes the convergence of factors that really make us who we are. Let me assert at the very beginning that this essay is not a dialogue on gender identity. Neither is it about the struggle to assert religious identity. It is about free will and deterrence. Women, anywhere in the world, are not a homogenous group and India is no exception to this. While it is a fact that Muslims form the largest minority in the country, a discourse on the identity of Muslim women in India is not as linear as it might appear. We may contextualize this by considering our domestic socio-political situation. It was an ordinary day when the words, ‘Find your Sulli Deal of the day’, caught my attention on social media. Unaware of the fact that ‘sulli’ is a word with pejorative connotations, I clicked on the link which went on to display a real-life photograph of a Muslim woman. Psychologists have long argued that personally relevant stimuli can successfully attract our attention owing to their relevance to our lives. Naturally, my first reaction was to find out if I’m a deal meant for some random man browsing through my blithely smiling pictures. And then it dawned on me why talking about identity in our society is seemingly benign but actually extremely dangerous. We have been taught to not bring our identity to the playground, to not wear it on our sleeve. But what alternative does one have when we are so easily, and quite often, pigeonholed in the name of identity that is both facile and demeaning? The difference between the two statements is one of volition. I may choose not to wear my identity (stemming from my caste, class, gender, religion, race) but this intersectional label (of religion and gender) attached to me without my consent and diametrically opposed to my self-interest is bigger than an ethical transgression. Pared down and put simply, consider this: one minute you are an urban Indian woman worthy of a voice and the next you’re a commodity on sale. In her groundbreaking work, “The Fetishism of the Woman’s Image”, Mariana Meloni talks about how the female body has been used to excite sexual desire for an exclusively male audience while also allowing for passive voyeurism. Putting the word, ‘sulli’, into perspective, Zehra Kazmi, a PhD scholar and researcher on South Asian Muslim writing at University of St Andrews, Scotland, is of the opinion that “The use of language has always been gendered, for example property (zameen) is feminine and anger (ghussa) is masculine which is why Sulli Deals is an instance of sexualised bullying.” Kazmi goes on to elaborate that this reduces Muslim women to pieces of meat which ties into how we consume language and images of women. Having said that, how does one put into words this feeling of being reduced to one’s biological orientation and the cardinal direction of their prostration? After trying and failing to do so, I instead decided to trace the ontology of ‘Sulli Deals’ to argue why it is less jarring than it ought to be. On the one hand, we are on the precipice of change for the global feminist movement and, on the other, women are targets of systemic sexualized hatred. At this juncture, a host of questions arise — is this incident a euphemism for another radicalized rape threat? Is it a simplistic, malevolent form of intimidation or a toxic stew of organized misogyny? To me, it seems ‘Sulli Deals’ is not mutually exclusive of any of the above. Perhaps because at its very core, ‘Sulli Deals’ is actually an ineffective deterrent rooted in perverse animosity. Law of Crimes teaches every law student the importance of a jurisprudential tool called deterrence. A deterrent is a sub-bracket of threat that follows an imposition of punishment. It is the system’s way of repressing unacceptable behaviour by creating an inhibition in the mind of the individual practising this behaviour and also of other silent subscribers to such impermissible conduct. The operative principle here is to prohibit the potential pursuit of this behaviour but by using one individual as an example for others. In psychology, aversive conditioning is a tool to modify the subject’s response to any given situation by exposing it to an unpleasant stimulus. The goal here is to create a painful response that elicits avoidance of the behaviour by the subject. A form of associated learning, aversive conditioning is simply an apparatus to stop unwanted behaviour. Let me also point out that in this context there is a conjunctive that weaves together the threads of sexualized hatred and communal perversity — shaming the Other. But this isn’t the first time a deterrent of shame and ‘Othering’ has been used. In her work, the author and literary historian, Rakhshanda Jalil, shows how bodies of women and girls have historically been the site of violence. The Partition of 1947 witnessed an overwhelming need for revenge, retribution, reprisal against women of the ‘Other’ community. Explaining this link between gender and religion in the current socio-political set-up, Rohini Sen, assistant professor at the O.P. Jindal Global University and a PhD candidate at Warwick Law School, says, “This is a concept of saving ‘our’ women and violating ‘their’ women because a woman’s body has been viewed as the site of honour or male virility.” Here, we must understand that the exoticization of women, especially of ‘Other’ kind of women from a different class and religion, is indicative of asserting ownership over their body. Lastly, is this incident not symptomatic of the larger societal mentality? For the average Indian woman, to exist in a world of space-age technology is to acknowledge the forces of patriarchal hostility without conceding to them. One may argue that by aiming to instil a degree of apprehension and fear in the minds of young Muslim women, what this incident intended to do is take away all prerogative, agency, and capacity they have built over a long time. But speaking to Maliha Khan, a marketing consultant based out of Delhi, has given my analysis a new shade of grey. “All it does is show me the hatred at play against Muslim women, the kind especially palpable against working Muslim women. My name is Khan (literally) and that is enough for the people who made that app.” Stoic and unperturbed, she ends by saying, “they can never really touch me no matter what app they make.” The moral of the story? Women ceding digital space, given its inherently unequal and unsafe nature, is to give power to this scaremongering. What we truly need to develop is a specific legislation that allows for prompt action and redressal of abusive content and criminal intimidation. Merging the complex issue of cyber-bullying with the wider periphery of existing laws on obscenity, hacking, impersonation, sextortion, and malicious distribution will permit an inclusive approach towards tackling this menace. Aaliya Waziri is a lawyer, presently working as a Consultant with UN Women India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
