02-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Eyes wide open||Big Brother is watching. Digital technology has been used in India in a limited way for some time now. But the evolution of the tools of surveillance and their gradual incursion into public space are leading to growing concern about privacy. Consider the employment of facial recognition technology. A number of State-owned agencies are now integrating FRT with closed-circuit cameras to identify citizens on a real-time basis, purportedly to track criminals, aid law enforcement and facilitate business. These range from the Airports Authority of India — at present it is testing this technology in Varanasi — to educational institutions — at least a dozen government schools in Delhi were reported to have been using FRT. The profusion of FRT in a country like India that is yet to have adequate data protection laws in spite of a threefold increase in cybercrime in 2020 merits introspection. While the personal data protection bill is yet to be passed by Parliament, the Information Technology Act, 2000 is no longer adequate to address the newer challenges that have arisen on account of state-of-the-art technology. The lack of proper regulation to control the collection, storage and utilization of FRT data is problematic for several reasons. First, consent is not respected in many cases — a State-owned agency, the National Thermal Power Corporation, reportedly adopted the policy of disregarding employee consent while implementing FRT to record attendance. Second, given the poor state of digital literacy in India, the idea of ‘informed consent’ is itself doubtful: most people are not even aware of the ramifications of having their personal and biometric data recorded or when their right to privacy is violated. Ethical concerns regarding the use of FRT persist even when it is used by law enforcement agencies. Last year, the Delhi police, which is directly under the control of the Union home ministry, used facial recognition to profile 1,100 ‘rioters’ — incidentally, the Delhi High Court has expressed concern with the nature of the investigation. Furthermore, in the age of increasing spyware attacks and data harvesting, there is the additional concern of collated personal data falling into the wrong hands, threatening individual and even national security. There is, then, an urgent need for a comprehensive law defining the fair use of FRT so that transgressors can be held accountable. Given the technical nature of the problem, this can only be realized through a collaboration between policymakers and experts in the field.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
02-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Congress plagued by internal strife ||Problems within Sir — The Congress has for long been plagued by internal strife which has led to its decimation in national politics (“House trouble”, Aug 27). With the party holding power in just three states — Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh — many had hoped that the Congress high command would introspect and focus on internal governance. On the contrary, infighting within the Congress state units seems to be escalating by the day. Just last year, Sachin Pilot — he was the deputy chief minister of Rajasthan at the time — and his supporters rebelled against the chief minister, Ashok Gehlot, pushing the state government to the brink of collapse. Although the feud was finally brought under control, the differences between the two have remained. Similarly the problems between the chief minister of Punjab, Amarinder Singh, and his former cabinet colleague, Navjot Singh Sidhu, have been simmering for a while. It was thus surprising that the Congress leadership thought it wise to elevate Sidhu to the post of the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. Unsurprisingly, the Punjab Congress is now facing a massive internal problem just six months before the assembly elections. The Congress has announced that the party would fight the upcoming polls under Singh. This is bound to complicate matters further. Sidhu has been vocal about his displeasure with both the chief minister and the Congress high command, declaring that he ‘won’t spare anyone’ unless he is allowed to take decisions. This misstep will cost the Congress dearly in the 2022 Punjab polls. More trouble is brewing in Chhattisgarh between the health minister, T.S. Singh Deo, and the chief minister, Bhupesh Baghel. The situation is only getting worse for the Grand Old Party. The leadership vacuum at the top has emboldened warring factions to ignore directives from above. It is time the Gandhis — especially Rahul Gandhi — took concrete measures about electing a new full-time party president. Unless there is a strong leadership at the helm nationally, state units will continue to witness such internal problems. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — It is shocking that even after taking charge as the PCC president, Navjot Singh Sidhu continues to speak without considering the repercussions. He has a propensity to take a dig at those he does not agree with, even within his own party. Recently, Sidhu issued a veiled threat to the Congress after one of his key advisors, Malwinder Singh Mali, was compelled to quit his post when his controversial comments on Kashmir and several Congress members came to light. Sidhu warned that if he is not allowed to take independent decisions, he would certainly fight back. The heightened infighting has many worried that the Congress may not emerge victorious in the upcoming Punjab assembly polls. Unless the Congress high command finds a way to mitigate such internal problems, the party will continue to lose relevance nationally.N. Mahadevan, Chennai Sir — Punjab is facing immense political instability. But it is not simply because of the new PCC chief. Although Navjot Singh Sidhu and Amarinder Singh have their own tiffs, many in the growing list of dissidents insist that their displeasure stems from the chief minister’s over-dependence on bureaucrats at the expense of ministers and legislators. Singh must try to placate his party members if he hopes to win the next elections. No amount of intervention from Delhi will improve matters unless he makes concerted efforts to build bridges. M.R. Jayanthi, Coimbatore Sir — Recently, the National Records of Scotland issued guidelines allowing people to answer the question identifying sex in Scotland’s 2022 census based on how they identify themselves rather than according to their legal status. Transgender persons can, thus, provide an answer different from what is on the birth certificate even if they do not possess a gender recognition certificate. This is a huge step forward for LGBTQIA+ people who are often invisibilized by the State machinery. Unless governments have concrete data on different constituencies — especially the marginalized — it will be impossible to legislate appropriately. Mohana Sengupta,Calcutta  Valuable lesson Sir — In a welcome move, Nike has given its head office employees in the United States of America a week off to de-stress from the pressures of the Covid-19 pandemic. An increasing number of companies, such as Bumble and Citigroup, have taken similar steps. In contrast, most Indian companies are working their employees to the bone. Worse, many people have reportedly felt that unless they put in extra hours, they might lose their jobs. Indian companies must treat employees with empathy and implement similar initiatives. After all, stress is not conducive to productivity. Rishab Mehta,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
02-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Showtime||The edifice of history is built on facts. Yet, history can be rendered malleable — hence vulnerable. The transformation of history — from fact to fiction — can be achieved in numerous ways. The most common is through revisionism, something that authoritarian, right-wing dispensations, such as the one in power in India, have been accused of many times. Another, equally insidious, way is desecration. Desecration need not be understood as a wilful show of disrespect. It can take place, ironically, through projects that seek to ‘preserve’ sacred relics. One such instance of insensitive ‘conservation’, historians allege, has taken place with the renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh complex, the site that witnessed an unprecedented act of colonial barbarity on Indian citizens. The prime minister recently inaugurated the ‘restored’ complex, unveiling unacceptable changes to the venue. The constricted alley, through which General Reginald Dyer’s soldiers had marched before unleashing terror, has been embellished with tacky murals as well as a gleaming floor. The Martyrs’ Well, too, has not been left unscathed: it is now enclosed within a glass wall. These refurbishments — Punjab’s Congress chief minister finds them tasteful — have been conducted under the benign gaze of the Archaeological Survey of India with the Union cultural ministry pulling the strings. The garish transformation of Jallianwala Bagh — Rabindranath Tagore had renounced his knighthood in protest of the massacre — has, understandably, led to accusations of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government being complicit in a disquieting initiative to engineer a break with the past. There is, however, a deeper crisis that has gone unnoticed. The aesthetics of memorials are integral to commemoration enterprises. Around the world — be it in Hiroshima in Japan or Auschwitz in Germany — conservators have been mindful to protect, or recreate, a sense of solemnity to force visitors to contemplate on the sufferings inflicted by oppressors. A planned assault on such aesthetics, the fount of reflection, is now leading to the metamorphosis of heritage into recreation. This ‘Disneyfication’ of history and heritage, and perhaps a nation’s destiny, warrants immediate public attention. This is especially so because other sacrosanct precincts in India — M.K. Gandhi’s Sabarmati ashram in Ahmedabad is an example — may meet a similar, grisly fate soon. A parallel need is to grant autonomy to institutions skilled in conservation, such as the ASI, so that they can go about their work without meddling from the powers that be. History and its spaces must be protected from the ravages of time and spectacle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
02-09-2021||Opinion||Where the mind does not matter||Another Bollywood production, another setback for issues related to mental health. Srijit Mukherji has come out with his take on Satyajit Ray’s work. He begins the anthology on a wrong-footing. The first episode of the series, “Forget me not”, is a retelling of Ray’s short story, “Bipin Choudhury’r Smritibhrom”. The protagonist loses his touch with reality after a lifetime of waywardness and arrogance, ending up in a modern psychiatric facility which is still “dark, prohibiting and dehumanizing”, just as it was in Ray’s own time. Mental health services have progressed beyond what is shown in the short film. Yet, the plot clings to age-old stereotypes such as mental breakdowns being the result of bad karma that leads one to inhospitable facilities. This is a painful reminder of contemporary storytellers being out of touch with the realities of mental health. Another recent television series, The Family Man (Season 2), makes light work of couples therapy and counselling. Here, a couple confronts interpersonal issues in their marriage and the wife wishes to avail of a counsellor’s guidance. Her husband, like most people, is hesitant to bring another person into the matter. Nonetheless, he signs up for it. But the whole therapy plot descends into a comedic cesspool thereafter and, ultimately, ends up being a ridiculous affair. The counsellor/couple therapist is caricatured: he tries to be smart, with his funny quotes and aphorisms, but is shown to be money-minded, forcing patients to buy his books. In a country battling monumental ignorance concerning therapy and counselling, the plot is unlikely to encourage Indians to seek help from mental healthcare professionals. Seeking help for mental health, something that is hard to achieve, takes quite a few steps backwards with such portrayals even if the latter are merely for comic relief. Little wonder then that citizens prefer visiting a faith healer or even a quack instead of seeking help from a psychiatrist or a counsellor. The portrayal of mental health issues requires thought and empathy. However, the show business has been averse to addressing mental health and has even mocked mental healthcare workers. Sadma and Dilwale portrayed the sufferers as clown and conniver; in Damini and Kyon Ki..., the mental health provider is incompetent, and apathetic; My Name is Khan and Black had reductionist depictions of developmental disorders; Dear Zindagi provided a rather unrealistic view of psychotherapy. This triviality is mirrored by society and successive governments. Cinema has the ability to influence collective thought and beliefs as much as social media. It is worth mentioning that the film, One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest, single-handedly brought the practice of electroconvulsive therapy to a complete halt in most asylums in the United States of America with its negative, punitive and inhumane portrayal of the practice. However, ECT is a potent, life-saving tool in the treatment of patients with suicidal tendencies and acute depression and it has made a comeback of sorts in the past couple of decades as a mode of treatment. Of late, Hindi film-makers have tried to be empathetic in their depiction of mental illness. But movies like Taare Zameen Par, Hichki or Karthik Calling Karthik, to cite a few examples, are few and far between. Reel and real lives are reflections of each other. The far-reaching effects of the silver screen are well-known; it has the ability to cut through cultural, social and federal boundaries. Therefore, films as well as the messages they send out are weapons of subliminal thought dissemination. To some, the message can be heresy, for others, it could be epiphanic. We must make scrupulous efforts to not reduce matters of the mind to a rhetoric of mockery and spectacle. The onus is upon the avant garde to lay the foundations of a society that not only believes in integration across the lines of race, caste and economy but also humanizes physical and mental illnesses. Mayank Rai is a psychiatrist at AIIMS, Rishikesh. Debanjan Banerjee is a psychiatrist at NIMHANS, Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
02-09-2021||Opinion||Troubling times||Last Tuesday, The Times (London) published a revealing report on the present state of the erstwhile military base of the United States of America, built at a cost of $68 billion, in Bagram on the outskirts of Kabul. The base — more akin to a self-sufficient township — has a 3,600-metre runway and, according to the report, is “capable of landing the Lockheed C-5 Galaxy transporters and Boeing C-17 Globemasters”. In addition, there are staff quarters, a fully-equipped field hospital, and even a prison that, at its peak in 2011, housed some 3,000 Taliban prisoners. At the dead of night on August 15, the US forces abruptly evacuated Bagram, leaving behind sophisticated arms and ammunition, hundreds of vehicles, combat helicopters and much more. Today, this military facility is in the control of Taliban forces that took pride in organizing conducted tours for the handful of Western journalists that remained till the last evacuation flight home. Speaking to The Times, Maulawi Hafiz Mohibullah Muktaz, a 35-year-old religious preacher and fighter from Kandahar, couldn’t conceal his glee. “Never in our wildest dreams,” he confessed, “could we have believed we could beat a superpower like America with just our Kalashnikovs…When you do jihad all doors open. Our lesson is that we defeated America with our faith and our guns and we hope now that Bagram can be a base for jihad for all Muslims.” The triumphalism of this mid-level Taliban functionary who was once incarcerated by the US forces in Bagram was warranted on two counts. First, the speed and the scale of the Taliban victory were dramatic. The regime of President Mohammad Najibullah had held out for nearly three years after the last of the Soviet troops departed from Afghanistan; the Ashraf Ghani regime collapsed barely two weeks after the evacuation of Bagram by the US. The remaining US and Nato forces that left by August 31, along with those lucky Afghans who managed to board the evacuation flights, did so after being guaranteed safe passage by the Taliban. The humiliation of the Western powers, but particularly the US that had poured an estimated $2 trillion into the Afghanistan project — more than what had been spent on the rebuilding of Europe after World War II — was total. Secondly, the humiliation in Afghanistan has, predictably, been accompanied by a wave of political recriminations against those believed to be responsible for the debacle. The ire has naturally been directed at President Joe Biden, who has been charged with imbecility, cowardice, selfishness and worse by his critics at home and abroad. The anger is particularly marked in the United Kingdom and France, with influential voices in both countries expressing the view that the special relationship with the US that had endured since 1941 was nearing its end. The feeling that the non-aggression pact negotiated by the Donald Trump administration — and endorsed by his successor — with the Taliban at Doha in February 2020 has left Europe vulnerable to jihadi attacks hasn’t helped matters either. Additionally, there is concern that a sizeable chunk of the five lakh or so Afghans intent on fleeing Taliban-controlled Afghanistan will make their way into Europe, adding to the existing social tensions over immigration. As the German defence minister, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, expressed it: “Afghanistan is also about our identity as a nation, a nation that wants to stand up for and do what is right.” The clear implication was that what the US had done was indefensible. Despite what the Taliban functionary told The Times about Afghanistan resuming its role as the epicentre of a global jihad, there may not be any immediate security threat to the West. The new rulers in Kabul are likely to devote their immediate attention to bringing about a measure of internal coherence, putting in place a structured leadership, putting down pockets of resistance, and imposing its vision of social control. There are indications that the Taliban will be loath to engage in bouts of adventurism before they have time to consolidate their rule. Of course, this does not preclude a chunk of the weaponry abandoned by the US from finding its way into Kashmir through Pakistan. It also does not rule out the establishment of terrorist training camps run by groups such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad, targeting India. The return of the Taliban to power in Afghanistan has been a big victory for Pakistan and Islamabad will leave no stone unturned to use this ‘strategic depth’ to target its historic enemy—India. For India, the challenges are formidable. Although New Delhi’s capacity to influence the situation on the ground in Afghanistan was very limited, it was perhaps the only power in the region that was uncompromising in its opposition to the restoration of Taliban rule. All other regional powers — particularly China, Iran and Russia — had either assisted the Taliban militarily or encouraged them in other ways. They were united in using the traditional Afghan antipathy to the presence of foreign troops to undermine the US. As of now, the exercise has been a resounding success as America stands diminished before the world, with even its allies questioning its ability to shoulder global responsibilities. The next few years may witness a churning in the US as it tries to discover a new role for itself that doesn’t involve either playing the world’s policeman or imposing its version of nation-building on countries that have other political traditions. Such an existential dilemma may also confront the European Union, which, too, has its own version of universality that it seeks to implant all over the world. The puncturing of both American and European certitudes doesn’t, however, imply that all grandiose empire-building projects have been rebuffed. The undermining of the US’s political and military influence globally, not to mention the signs of the breakdown of the mould of America’s domestic politics, has come at a time China is on the ascendant. Its ambitious Belt and Road project is certain to get a big fillip with the presence of a friendly regime in Afghanistan. The gains will be all the more if economic inroads, including lucrative mining concessions in Afghanistan, are matched by the Taliban’s ability to rein in the Uighur insurgents in Xinjiang province. Like the US once did, China has its own hegemonic strategy for Asia. For the moment, Beijing’s ambitions are not directly in conflict with Russia which, under President Vladimir Putin, is intent on pursuing two goals: undermining the influence of the US in Europe and recovering the influence of the erstwhile Soviet Union. Neither objective has been undermined by the turmoil in Afghanistan. There is, however, one big imponderable. The turbulence in Afghanistan was also, in many ways, a civil war involving doctrinaire mullahs, tribal society and modernist Muslims. The decimation of the modernists at the hands of those who flaunt their rejection of all contemporary notions of social progress is bound to cause tremors in different parts of the Islamic world in the same way as the Islamic revolution in Iran did in the 1980s. It is impossible at present to predict how this will play out, but it will not be surprising if the Taliban 2.0’s notions of Statecraft draw more from Pakistan’s Jamaat-e-Islami and Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood than from the ideals of Mullah Omar and the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq. The sectarian suspicion of Shias rules out Iran having more than a marginal influence on players in Afghanistan. The so-called liberal version of universality has received a severe blow, but alternative projects based on either theological certitudes or Middle Kingdom fantasies are also filling in the void. This is certain to make India and its neighbourhood very troubled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
