03-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Signature scents||Melbourne is telling the world to stop and smell the Vegemite. This iconic Australian breakfast spread has for long been a bone of contention — some tear up at its harsh aroma while others choke up with emotion at the mention of this delicacy made with brewers’ yeast extract. The Melbourne city council has now recognized this distinctive fragrance as ‘intangible heritage’, something that is part of the identity of the Port Melbourne region where the factory manufacturing Vegemite is located. Indeed, any space is a dynamic identity shaped by a combination of cultural, economic, social, political, environmental, and geospatial factors of which intangible elements, such as festivals and rituals, languages and customs passed down generations, smells and sounds, are an intrinsic part. These elements have been identified in the Unesco’s Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity, which has such diverse entries as Enkipaata, Eunoto and Olng’esherr (rites of passage for Maasai men), bobbin lace-making from Slovenia, Jamaican reggae, Turkey’s whistled language, Kumbh Mela, Chhau dance and so on. Interestingly, except the art of perfume-making in France, this list is devoid of signature smells that constitute the heart of a landscape — spatial or cultural. Yet, smells form an inherent part of any setting — can one imagine Mumbai without the stench of drying bombil, Kerala without the whiff of ripe jackfruit or even Calcutta without a myriad smells — those of the tanneries near Tangra, of flowers, incense and mildew in North Calcutta households or of the musty river near Prinsep Ghat? Significantly, intangible heritage can have real-life economic implications. The distinctive smell of the Vegemite factory — it is impossible to avoid a pungent whiff in that Melbourne neighbourhood — is likely to influence property prices in a region that is witnessing a boom in real estate. Yet cultures, especially urban sensibilities, can have a way of turning up the nose at scents and dins that are organic to specific neighbourhoods. Some time ago, vacationers in France had complained about the morning cry of a rooster and the clamour of church bells. This marginalization of sounds, sights and smells integral to natural settings may have something to do with the human propensity to imagine heritage as concrete. The intangible, therefore, remains peripheral, not just in the imagination but also to policy when it comes to the conservation of topographies. Is this not why conservators spend righteous energy on protecting ancient monuments and mansions but scarcely think of the fading call of hawkers and sparrows, or the scent of bel flowers — signature sounds and aromas that once constituted the identity of another Calcutta? The challenge, therefore, is to disseminate the tangible advantages of a wider, more supple comprehension of heritage. The preservation of intangible heritage — Unesco has recognized Singapore’s hawkers too — could, in turn, bolster local economies and tradition. This confluence of trade and tradition, the tangible and the abstract, can not only galvanize public demand to strengthen heritage but also make the latter truly inclusive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
03-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Kohli needs to reflect on his identity as skipper & batsman||Do better Sir — On Thursday, during India’s fourth Test against England, Virat Kohli overtook Sachin Tendulkar to become the fastest cricketer to score 23,000 international runs, achieving the feat in just 490 innings. Making the milestone even sweeter was the fact that he hit the fateful runs off his arch-nemesis, the England pacer, James Anderson. However, these are just personal records; Kohli has, of late, been struggling to perform as a batsman. The upswing his career took in 2016-17 has not been replicated in recent years. Even though he is one of the greats of the game, Kohli needs to reflect on his identity as a captain and ace batsman, and live up to his reputation. Shekhar Kundu,Mumbai Huge waste Sir — It was shocking to read that even in a developed nation like the United States of America, at least 15.1 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been wasted since March. Such huge wastages are attributed to factors such as damaged vials, errors in diluting the vaccines, problems related to freezing, hesitation among the public with regard to getting vaccinated and so on. The shock at the news stems from the fact that many nations around the world are finding it difficult to acquire enough doses to fully vaccinate their populations. As far as India is concerned, although there are reports of vaccines getting wasted, it is also a relief to hear that several states are attempting to make full use of their vaccine stocks. Public awareness, hassle-free distribution, good storing facilities and the administration of vaccine doses in the most meticulous way can certainly prevent such precious resources from being wasted. The Central and the state governments also have a vital role to play in ensuring that Covid vaccines — on which the global population as a whole is depending to eventually bring about an end to the pandemic — are not wasted. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — With the horrors of the second wave of Covid-19 in India — including the acute shortage of vaccines that many states complained of at that time — still fresh in our memory, it was deeply distressing to learn that the US has wasted more than 15 million doses of the Covid vaccine since March. While some vaccines, especially those that are produced in bulk, are bound to be destroyed — vials can break or the viability of the medicine can get affected during transportation — there is no good excuse for a nation like the US, with all its resources, for wasting such large quantities of a vaccine that is so highly coveted by less-privileged nations around the world. It was reported in March that the US bought enough coronavirus vaccines for three times its adult population, effectively creating shortages for poorer countries. To waste such a valuable drug is nothing short of criminal. Anindya Basu,Calcutta Hard to tell Sir — In the last 11 months, the collection of the goods and services tax has mostly been over Rs 1 lakh crore, with the federal government attributing the development to a speedy financial restoration and improved compliance ranges. Economists, however, are unable to analyse these tax numbers as a lot of important information is not being shared by the Centre. Till December 2020, when the month-to-month GST collections had started, the official assertion from the Union finance ministry often included particulars of the variety of the GSTR-3B returns filed by taxpayers as well as a state-wise break-up of revenues. Now, the state-wise income tendencies have been shared for less than four of the eight months since then. The final month for which the federal government shared the variety of the GSTR-3B returns — abstracts of an agency’s GST liabilities for every month — filed was January. A professor at a Delhi-based financial analysis institute said, “With the present particulars accessible for GST, there can’t be any type of evaluation besides to say the revenues went up or down”. How, then, are economists supposed to form an accurate picture of India’s financial recovery, or ascertain if there has, in fact, been any significant recovery at all? Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
03-09-2021||Opinion||Afghanistan now, Uganda then: there are parallels||Unequal fate Britain has committed to taking 20,000 refugees from Afghanistan. For a better understanding of the practical, psychological and emotional problems refugees experience when forced into permanent exile from the countries of their birth, I talked to Neema Shah about her novel, Kololo Hill. The novel recalls Idi Amin’s 1972 expulsion of 90,000 Asians from Uganda — of whom 30,000 settled in Britain — through the tale of one family: Motichand, his wife, Jaya, their sons, Pran and Vijay, and Pran’s wife, Asha. It was heart-wrenching to lose a country as stunningly beautiful as Uganda. Its lush vegetation, red earth and the smell after heavy rain when I went there reminded me of Assam. Neema, who was born in Britain to parents who lived in East Africa, reminds me that “the hot weather allows for a way of life that you don’t get certainly in places like the UK — being able to sit out in verandahs late at night.” In the novel, Motichand collapses and dies before the family can leave Uganda. On the way to the Entebbe airport, Asha is sexually molested by Amin’s thuggish soldiers, leaving her traumatized. In Britain, while she finds freedom in a new job, her marriage disintegrates. Pran hankers for a return to Uganda, however unsafe the country. For him, India, which has refused to accept Ugandan Indians with British passports, is a foreign land. The women appear to adjust better to life in Britain. Financial independence means they are less subservient to the men. It will be the same with the even more conservative Afghan refugees, since many of the women are educated. “Definitely there are parallels,” agrees Neema. A dream world It is my ignorance entirely that I hadn’t heard of Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain and the English short story, “Sultana’s Dream”, that she had written in 1905 until I was told about the author from what is now Bangladesh last week by Piers Masterson, a freelance journalist with ArtAsiaPacific. Masterson revealed to me that he had come across Begum Rokeya, a “Bengali feminist thinker, writer, educator and political activist”, while researching on science fiction written by Indians. In “Sultana’s Dream”, which I would recommend to everyone, Begum Rokeya imagined a ‘Ladyland’ in which roles are reversed and women rule while men are confined to purdah in “mardanas”. After reading “Sultana’s Dream”, I am not at all surprised that Masterson compared Begum Rokeya to Jules Verne. In her story, cooking is done by trapping the sun’s heat, water runs down pipes connected to clouds and travel is by air-cars fuelled by hydrogen. Boots on the ground Kim Sengupta has certainly had “a good war”, as foreign correspondents like to say. We were once colleagues who sat opposite each other at The Daily Mail and occasionally gossiped in Bengali. These days, my adventures are confined to local supermarket trips while Kim has been filing and tweeting daily from Kabul as the defence and security editor of The Independent. Earlier this week, Kim — “I have been covering the most recent Afghan war since its inception,” he said in The Independent — wrote a valedictory piece from Kabul: “Every single foreign journalist on the ground has received desperate pleas from those trying to get away; everyone has tried the best they could, getting out individuals and families with the help of sympathetic troops and officials... ” He added: “There is a deep concern for our Afghan colleagues in the media. They have been the real heroes in covering this conflict. We, the foreign media, have come here over the years, done our stint, and then gone back.” Kim recounted how Ahmed Wali Karzai, the former president’s brother who ran Kandahar, “was a Chelsea supporter and a great admirer of John Terry and wondered if I could get him a signed shirt of the then Chelsea captain. I managed to get one... A week later he was shot dead by one of his bodyguards.” Inside story The British are very good at writing biographies. But more often than not people get trashed when their biographies are written by those who know them best: their own children. The Daily Telegraph carried an obituary of the biographer, Lady Susan Chitty, who died on July 13, aged 91. She was good at discovering the “guilty secrets” of her subjects. Her most devastating biography, Now to My Mother, was of the novelist, Antonia White, which began: “Antonia White was not a good mother to me. She conceived me out of wedlock, put me in a home for the first year and a half of my life and handed me over to nannies and boarding schools for much of my childhood... a friend once referred to her as a rivet in a cream puff.” “Susan loathed her mother and lived in terror of her volcanic rages,” the obituary continued. “As young children Susan and her half-sister plotted to murder their mother and bury her body with a stake through the heart.” So engrossing was the obituary that I missed my train stop. Footnote The broadcaster, Rajni Kaul, who died this week, aged 93, was married for 63 years to Mahendra Kaul, who was once the face of Asian TV programming on the BBC. Rajni used to joke that her husband managed to get interviews with Margaret Thatcher by flirting with Britain’s first woman prime minister, “and she loved it”. As Thatcher came down the stairs on one occasion, he exclaimed, “Wow! You look beautiful.” Her delighted response was: “Do you think so?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
03-09-2021||Opinion||Shared trait||As Afghans who failed in the desperate stampede to flee the country are forced to come to terms with their lot, their new rulers face an even more excruciating challenge. But in reconciling their austere ideology of denial with promises of a less illiberal dispensation, they can find a disingenuous exponent of the art of quietly replacing hoary institutions with monuments to their own glory in India whose drift towards some form of Hindu Talibanism is spiced with the populist political tactics of Europe before the Second World War. Afghanistan’s pictorial history illumines the dizzy road to its present trauma. Elizabeth Butler’s poignant painting of reputedly the lone survivor of an invading force of 4,500 soldiers and 12,000 civilians Britain sent to the First Afghan War is a reminder that the American evacuation of August 15 with its echoes of Dunkirk (1940) and Saigon (1975) was by no means an isolated triumph. It was the first bloody nose Afghans gave to the world’s three mightiest military powers. The Soviets fled next, tail between their legs, in 1989; the Americans, who long ago distorted Tom Paine’s noble pledge “to begin the world all over again” into a formula for hegemony, brought up the rear. Even Afghans who abhor fanaticism and yearn for the constitutional democracy that the 1978 Saur Revolution devoured must thrill to the triple achievement. While Jawaharlal Nehru hoped to promote a scientific temper by advising newspapers not to publish astrological forecasts, photographs suggest Afghanistan’s instrument of change was sartorial. A 1918 portrait of King Amanullah’s three sisters shows them in European frocks. A decade later, his beautiful wife, Soraya, the first Muslim queen to appear in public with her husband, faced the camera in short skirt and high heels, a wispy veil fluttering from the brim of her cloche hat in token concession to Islamic orthodoxy. Amanullah not only encouraged European attire but made it compulsory in the fashionable parts of Kabul, thereby playing into the hands of mullahs, tribal chiefs and the British who were accused of morphing pictures of the queen in scanty attire. Their outspoken 92-year-old daughter, Princess India (she was born in Bombay), maintains the burqa  is “not an Afghan garment and is not even an Islamic garment” but that did not save Amanullah. Other pictures more tellingly recall the Afghan elite’s trek to a modernity that the Taliban despises and denounces and which must have played a major part in the series of tumultuous events culminating in Mullah Hibatullah Akhundzada being anointed supreme leader. It began in 1923 when Emir (previously only Sardar) Amanullah had himself proclaimed “His Majesty the King”, and climaxed two years later with a costume ball where everyone pretended that Afghan dress was as exotic as kilt and kimono, somewhat like the Indian fad of referring to indigenous garments as ‘ethnic’. Cultural posturing provoked protests in 1928 and, eventually, the rebellion of 1929 that overthrew and exiled Amanullah. In the one photograph I have seen of the rising’s leader, a sandalled Tajik peasant, Habibullah Kalakani, he looks no different from any unkempt Taliban foot soldier even though he lived and died — executed actually — 65 years before the Taliban was born. Not much may have changed in the intervening years. When Amanullah’s great-nephew, King Zahir Shah, Afghanistan’s last monarch, and Queen Humaira visited India in the late Fifties, Her Majesty tiptoed (as if still in high heels) around Tipu Sultan’s palace at Seringapatam where shoes were not allowed. A friend in Mysore who acted as honorary lady-in-waiting said it was as if the queen had never laid a bare foot on Mother Earth and didn’t know how to. Despite Zahir Shah’s constitutional reforms, the ruling elite seems to have remained as estranged as ever from Asia’s arid reality. Dynastic feuds, tribal strife, superpower stratagems and the tidal wave of Muslim resurgence were additional complications. Laced into them were whispers of highly-placed members of Ashraf Ghani’s regime making secret deals with the relentlessly advancing Taliban and of the Taliban cutting through administrative structures and political alliances by appealing to the 14 tribes “and others” that the Constitution mentions. The former evoked Indian memories of 1857; the latter warns of the mischief ahead if the 25,000 sub-castes into which our four main castes are supposedly divided really get going. That is without counting Dalits whose ritual status outside the hierarchy doesn’t mean they are strangers to caste politics. The most significant picture is political. While Mahatma Gandhi’s loin cloth astutely identified the leader with the multitude, politicians in monarchical Afghanistan had to dress up, not down. Jackets, waistcoats and neckties were mandatory for those who attended the loya jirga or grand council in September 1928. My picture includes even a high-ranking courtier sporting the cutaway coat and striped trousers that dominated 19th-century European chancelleries but were last seen on Japanese dignitaries. Although a scattering of European felt hats can be glimpsed above the photograph’s bearded visages, there isn’t a single floppy turban in sight. Nor is there a woman in the group, save for Soraya herself enthroned with her husband. Times had changed by 2002 when another loya jirga chose Hamid Karzai in his tribal cloak and lambskin hat as interim president. Most of the men in that picture wear robes and turbans but a scattering of suits also testifies to the diversity of contemporary Afghan life. A number of female delegates confirmed how much Afghanistan had changed since 1996-2001 when the Taliban forbade girls to go to school and women to work. It claims to have changed but the first international leader to be granted the privilege of meeting Abdul Ghani Baradar, who will head the government under Akhundzada, was Ismail Haniyeh, whose Hamas controls the Gaza Strip. Predictably, Haniyeh drew a link between Baradar’s victory over “American occupation” and the continued “Israeli occupation of Palestine”. A Taliban seeking international respectability cannot afford terrorist activities. It cannot even follow the example of Zahir Shah’s military assistance to the short-lived Turkic Islamic Republic of East Turkestan that Chinese Muslim troops quickly liquidated in 1934 but which China has never forgotten or forgiven. Even vandalism, like the 2001 destruction of the sixth-century Bamiyan Buddhas, is bound to alienate donors. With food running out and money in short supply, a landlocked, poverty-stricken Afghanistan denied access to its own foreign exchange reserves is forced to be circumspect. That includes not openly reneging on promises of inclusive governance, amnesty for adversaries, women’s rights and not to promote jihad. All the more reason, therefore, for keeping the Taliban’s radical credentials shining through unobtrusive gestures like tampering with syllabi, discarding respected texts, promoting propaganda, adopting local equivalents of teaching astrology in universities, exalting sacred animals, and prescribing cow dung and urine for coronavirus. Parallels abound. Afghan warlords are medieval versions of the robber barons of modern industry. Afghan presidents are as fond of flamboyant apparel as democratically elected prime ministers. An overwhelming majority makes the minority inconsequential. Converting the India-built Parliament building into an Islamic council will avoid squandering millions of dollars on monstrous statues and the extravaganza of a Central Vista project or flogging the family silver through a monetization pipeline. The emirate of Afghanistan was abolished in 1923. Reviving it means drooling over a fabled past that elsewhere supposedly witnessed plastic surgery and genetic innovation while sophisticated radar, superior to anything modern man knows, operated space shuttles. The wellspring for such fancies is understandable. But the movement is into a dead-end future. The Taliban has something in common with its Hindu cousin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
03-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Jallianwala Bagh revamped||Poor decision Sir — The prime minister, Narendra Modi, seems to be bent on leaving a mark by distorting history (“Showtime”, Sep 2). A lot of measures have been adopted to revamp the historical Jallianwala Bagh during the last 100 years. But the latest renovation of the memorial — kitsch murals now adorn both walls of the main entrance — that was unveiled by Modi, has effaced the all traces of the massacre. This has drawn sharp criticism from scholars across the world. The martyrs’ well, into which people had jumped to save their lives from the brutalities of the British — the then brigadier-general, Reginald Dyer, had ordered his troops to open fire on peaceful protesters — has now been encased in glass walls. A lotus pond around the memorial structure and a ‘light-and-sound’ show have also been added. In the name of a facelift, Modi has done a great disservice to an edifice that has thus far borne testimony to one of the most tragic episodes in the nation’s history. Jallianwala Bagh is a site of grief; the pompous look that the government has bestowed on it does not correspond with its solemn spirit. The venue should not have been tampered with. The renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh began in its centenary in 2019. But the project — it cost over Rs 20 crore — has ended up desecrating history. Rabindranath Sarkar,Calcutta Sir — Sixty years after the Jallianwala Bagh memorial was inaugurated by the former president, Rajendra Prasad, to honour the martyrs of the 1919 massacre, the Narendra Modi government decided to turn them into protagonists of a sound-and-light show. Even the famous ‘shahidi khu’ or martyrs’ well is now enclosed in a glass shield, and the entrance has been covered by murals. Can this be called renovation? People are naturally angry about this development. They want to ask the prime minister if this is how he wishes to protect the country’s history. How can his government inspire the younger generation after erasing the last traces of such a historic event? This is an insult to freedom fighters like Udham Singh. But not much can be expected of the ruling dispensation in India. After all, it is common knowledge that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological antecedent of the Bharatiya Janata Party, contributed little to the country’s freedom struggle. The Centre must not forget that Jallianwala Bagh is not a place of celebration; but one of mourning and of deep, abiding grief. The attempt to turn it into a tourist site is shameful. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Lost star Sir — It was heart-breaking to learn that the author, Buddhadeb Guha, died of post-Covid complications at the age of 85. This has left a deep void in Bengali literature. Guha’s passion for forests was reflected in many of his works — Kojagar and Madhukari, for instance. His novels played a crucial role by presenting a true picture of the plight of tribal communities. His bold writing style will surely inspire future generations. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — The demise of Buddhadeb Guha, the eminent writer, is a colossal loss to the literary and cultural fraternity of Bengal. Guha’s early travels left a profound imprint on his mind, which found expression in many of his works. Guha donned many hats. Besides being a literary stalwart, he worked as a chartered accountant, and was also a noted classical singer, a proficient illustrator and painter. Like his fictional characters, Guha desired to lead life on his own terms. He wrote over 150 books, including novels, short stories, poems and travel literature. Guha also achieved fame as a writer for children. His characters — Rijuda, a hunter-turned-conservationist, and his side-kick, Rudra — are still popular among young readers. But Madhukari, a novel on honey-gathering, is arguably his best work. During his lifetime, he won a number of awards — including the Ananda Puraskar, Shiromani Puraskar and Sharat Puraskar. It will be difficult to fill the void he has left behind. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur Take a bow Sir — Cricket fans across the world are shocked to hear that the South African fast bowler, Dale Steyn — fondly called Steyn Gun by his fans — has announced his decision to retire from all forms of cricket (“Steyn ends his long & fine spell”, Sep 1). Steyn has a record of  439 wickets in Test cricket, 196 in one-day internationals and 64 in Twenty20 matches. His skills will be thoroughly missed on the field. Uddipta Sen,Calcutta Sir — It is saddening to think that we will now be deprived of watching Dale Steyn’s famous run-up live. However, one must thank him for his contributions to the game — after all, an economy-rate of 3.65 is no mean feat for a pacer. One hopes that he continues to inspire the youth, and enrich cricket as a coach, commentator or administrator. Anshuman Sinha,Howrah  Make a plan Sir — The demand for the reopening of educational institutions is on the rise. To this end, students from a premier university in Calcutta are holding classes out in the open. While, reopening classrooms without adequate planning would entail an enormous risk — especially with the recent spike in Covid cases — students cannot be indefinitely deprived of classroom teaching. The government, in collaboration with educationists, should come up with an alternative. Allotting safe, sanitized spaces for students, especially those who cannot afford online education, could be one way of dealing with the problem. Karabi Mukherjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
03-09-2021||Opinion||Editiorial: Centre forward||Centralization, ironically, seems to be the flavour of the season in a country whose prime minister has, on several occasions, loftily claimed that his regime stands for ‘minimum government, maximum governance’. This has been evident in the growing instances of encroachment on the independence of India’s institutions, whether political, administrative or educational. The phenomenon appears to be contagious; in a new turn of events, a proposal to give the vice-chancellor of Delhi University the absolute authority to name new institutions — from a pre-approved list of names no less — has been accepted by the university’s academic council. The implications of this development are ominous on several counts. Until now, new institutions were named only after consultations with the university’s academic council and executive council. This is a robust practice, as debate and differences of opinion ought to be encouraged in honour of the democratic ethos. The approval of the proposal constitutes an infringement of the mechanism of autonomy within the administration of a university. Moreover, there are concerns that the ‘absolute’ power vested in the vice-chancellor might even lead to a reduction of the role of the office to that of a nominal head as well as encourage the culture of quid pro quo. Such fears are not unfounded: the conduct of vice-chancellors of several universities — Visva-Bharati is one example — has been distinctly partisan. The threat to another kind of representativeness is manifest in this measure. It would not be unreasonable to surmise that the list of approved names from which new institutions under the university can be named enjoys political approval — not only does it include the names of the right-wing’s patrons like V.D. Savarkar and other stalwarts of the Bharatiya Janata Party but, interestingly, it also excludes the name of Jawaharlal Nehru. That the name of India’s first prime minister — he is credited with setting up several institutes of higher education in independent India — does not merit a mention on a list of names for new colleges points overwhelmingly to a rise in ideological and political meddling in sovereign institutions. India’s universities have to deal with diverse adversities. The paucity of funds, periodic interventions in curriculum and the pandemic are some such examples. To this long list must now be added the vector of centralization that seeks to impose the unilateral views of the powers that be on an entire centre of learning through a pliant vice-chancellor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
03-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: For the nation||The debate on the line separating nationalism and patriotism is an old one. But it endures. No less than Rabindranath Tagore had scoffed at the scourge of narrow nationalism, calling it “carnivorous”. In recent times, the eminent social scientist, Ashis Nandy, has been equally critical of modern nationalism, emphasizing the need to hold the line. There is, indeed, a need to resist such a conflation at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party, India’s dominant political formation, has successfully fused the concept of patriotism with regressive nationalism. Love for the nation is natural and should never be hindered. What is unnatural is a nationalism that focuses on identifying — prejudicially — imaginary enemies of the nation. In the Indian context, minorities have borne the brunt of this toxic Othering. The need to revisit the debate has been occasioned by the Aam Aadmi Party’s decision to use patriotism as political fodder. The AAP’s objective is noteworthy. This is because India’s Opposition, including the Congress, has failed to challenge the BJP’s aggressive, but exclusive, nationalism with an effective counter-narrative. The AAP — it has eyes on political territory in the north and west of India — is attempting a different fusion, seeking to disseminate patriotism through populism. It has, for instance, planned to proceed with a ‘Tiranga Yatra’: it is expected to stop at Ayodhya and at the site of the Ram temple. Arvind Kejriwal’s government is also putting up the Tricolour all across the capital. But the AAP’s cocktail of populist nationalism is unlikely to gain traction for two reasons. First, the AAP’s tepid opposition to the saffron dispensation, ideologically and on matters of policy, has earned it the moniker, ‘BJP’s B team’. A more robust history of confrontation with the BJP may have helped the AAP’s cause. Second, and more important, fidelity to patriotism requires ideological clarity. The only template of patriotism that should receive political endorsement, whether it is from the BJP or its rivals, is one that recognizes the plural, accommodating character of the republic. Respect and equality for all is the true essence of not only patriotism but also nationalism. Until India’s Opposition learns to embrace and educate citizens about this expansive notion of deshbhakti, the BJP’s ploy of wedding love for the nation with hate for its ideological opponents would continue to break new ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
03-09-2021||Opinion||Justice in health||The Supreme Court recently sought the Centre’s response to a plea seeking direction to operationalize the provisions of the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 in order to ensure affordable and quality healthcare for all. It covers public and private establishments in every stream of healthcare. Its objective is to streamline health services while ensuring that hospitals do not engage in unethical practices. Pursuant to this, the CEA prescribes for mandatory registration of all clinical establishments, standardized services, price caps on facilities being provided, and the requirement of making the billing process transparent by displaying the rates of OPD services, diagnosis and surgical procedures in a templatized format. The states were supposed to adopt the CEA under Article 252 (1) of the Constitution. Yet, it has not been notified in 18 states even after 11 years of its passage. This is because the bigger private hospitals have significant influence to coerce the government into not notifying the CEA or relaxing its rigours. A classic example of this was seen in Haryana where the government had to exempt hospitals having less than 50 beds from its rigours after the Indian Medical Association suspended the OPD services in all the private hospitals in opposition. Similar protests have also been witnessed in Uttarakhand and Andhra Pradesh. Many corporate owners are associated with organizations like the Federal Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry as well as the High Level Group for the Health Sector under the 15th Finance Commission that are also vested with the responsibility of framing regulations for the private sector. Stringent regulation of the medical industry becomes difficult owing to such conflicts of interest. Ironically, the government aims for universal healthcare, but not at the cost of antagonizing the private players. Although it has the power to withhold to force the corporates into complying with the CEA, it is still reluctant to exert pressure on them. This approach is also reflected in the National Health Policy of 2017, which is silent on such aspects as price fixation and the quality, rationality and strict enforcement of patients’ rights. However, the government must regulate the medical industry owing to differential market realities. The information gap between the doctors and patients is immense because of the hyper-technical nature of the medical industry. This becomes even starker in the Indian context owing to significant illiteracy among patients and the dearth of doctors. Patients, especially in cases of medical emergencies, are unable to look for medical service providers that fit their medical needs and budgets because time is of the essence. This is a particular problem in India where patients avoid hospitals till push comes to shove. Even when patients have the requisite time, resources and information, they are unlikely to prioritize affordability or quality when it comes to choosing doctors or treatment procedures. Instead, they prefer doctors with reputation. Although the government passed the Drugs (Prices Control) Order, 2013 to regulate the prices of medicine, data from the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority show that 45 per cent of the patient’s expenditure goes towards treatment procedures that are covered under the CEA. The CEA is resisted by corporates. They argue that standard pricing will impact revenue detrimentally. Universal healthcare is a national goal. Given the immense potential of private hospitals, shunning them or letting them adopt a discriminatory approach towards the rich and the poor is impractical and unfair. Private hospitals ought to be made partners in the project of universalization of healthcare, especially since the medical industry is fraught with problems like overbilling by up to 1700 per cent which plunges 55 million people below the poverty line annually. The Supreme Court has taken a positive step towards realizing universal health. The ball is now in the government’s court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
03-09-2021||Opinion||Ceaseless conflict||In an irony of sorts, the Taliban, which had sheltered the leadership of al Qaida and were in power when the United States of America was struck by terror attacks on September 11, 2001, came back to power in Afghanistan days before the twentieth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. President Joe Biden had opposed the military surge in 2009 in Afghanistan as the then vice-president and there was little doubt that  he would honour the agreement that was reached with the Taliban by the former president, Donald Trump, in February 2020. However, Biden is facing mounting criticism as thousands of Afghans are trying to flee that country desperately. At least 150 people, including several US troops, were killed after suicide bombers attacked Kabul airport even as people continued to try and leave the country. The New York Times reported that “[m]ore than a million Afghans who remain in the country... could be eligible for expedited immigration status.” It added that these are people “who worked with the U.S. government or American organizations over the past 20 years and their families are eligible for special visas” on account of possible “retribution from the Taliban”. Implicitly, this means more than 2.5 per cent of the country’s population belongs to this category. The failure in Afghanistan is multi-dimensional as there are non-military vectors that have contributed to the ongoing mess. First, the current domestic political polarization in the US can skew both the substance and the pace of foreign-policy decisions by the incumbent president in a particular direction even though this is the first year of the Biden presidency. Given that the memory of the Trump presidency has not faded completely, including his disregard for institutional checks and balances, the stakes are high for the Democratic Party not to concede any political space to the Republicans. In this context, foreign policy would not be immune to the ongoing existential battle between the two parties. Among swing voters in the American mid-West, where a large number of locals join the army, the appetite for foreign wars and risk is minimal. Trump’s decision to withdraw from Afghanistan was favoured in the mid-West and he did well in this belt in the presidential elections of 2016 and 2020. From an immediate standpoint, the ruling Democratic Party faces a challenge of retaining a narrow Congressional majority in the upcoming mid-term elections, which are just over a year away. In this environment, Biden rushed through the withdrawal of the American troops without calibrating the decision with the fast-changing adversarial conditions on the ground. The decision to withdraw by a specific date hints at domestic political calculations. Second, the assumption that the Taliban were prepared to reconcile with others, including Pashtun and non-Pashtun leaders of Afghanistan, proved to be wrong. The dialogue with the Taliban had started under the watch of the former president, Barack Obama, with Richard Holbrooke appointed as the first special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan (2009-2010). His tenure was nearly a non-starter as Obama never developed a liking for his style and approach, particularly his reported comparison of the situation in Afghanistan to the US campaign in Vietnam in the 1960s. After protracted negotiations, it was the Afghan-American and veteran of several Republican administrations, Zalmay M. Khalilzad, who facilitated a poorly negotiated agreement with the Taliban in Doha in February 2020, toeing Trump’s instructions to withdraw troops by a certain deadline. Meanwhile, in line with the Doha agreement, Taliban spokespersons have repeatedly said that Afghanistan’s soil will not be used against any country. The reality, however, is quite complicated. In an ecosystem of fragility, anarchy and religious extremism, Taliban-ruled Afghanistan can potentially act as a magnet for other terrorist outfits. A June report of the United Nations security council sanctions regime under Resolution 1988 — relating to the Taliban — as well as a July report of the sanctions regime under Resolution 1989 — pertaining to the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (Daesh) and al Qaida — have, on the basis of inputs made by member states, underscored the same view in different words. The common objective of all non-State actors is to grab power. But the presence of al Qaida and Daesh provides an extra layer of complexity to the situation in Afghanistan. The Taliban are mostly Pashtuns. Their foot soldiers belong to the larger Ghilzai tribe present in the southern and the eastern parts of the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. They are products of Deobandi seminaries in Pakistan and in Afghanistan. Founded in 1866, the Darul Uloom in Deoband, India, was one of the first seminaries to train in Deobandi Islam. Deobandi clerics had refused to seek funding from the upper echelons of society or even the State and, instead, sought funds from the lower classes. The class appeal of Deobandi Islam was one of the potent instruments that helped it to spread to various parts of the subcontinent. One such area was the Pashtun-inhabited territory on both sides of the Durand Line. (Deobandi scholars in India had emphasized to this author a few years ago the differences in the contemporary syllabi and orientation between those in India and the ones in Afghanistan and Pakistan.) De facto, some of the sub-groups of the Taliban, including the Haqqani group, have connections with al Qaida given the intersections in their ideologies, familial connections and shared struggles in the past. The regional affiliate of the ISIS, the Islamic State-Khorasan is relatively more takfiri in doctrinal terms — narrower in the interpretations of the sharia — and considers non-conformist Muslims to be apostates. Although the organization in the region is presently led by the Iraqi national, Shahab al-Muhajir, most of the cadre are from Afghanistan and Pakistan, with a few recruits from India and Bangladesh. The Taliban recently assassinated the imprisoned IS-K leader, Mawlawi Zia-ul-Haq, who hailed from the Kunar province near the border with Pakistan. The Kabul airport attack has been attributed to the ISIS’s regional affiliate, which surfaced in 2015 in Afghanistan. This opens up new possibilities of covert cooperation between the US and the Taliban to degrade their common enemy, the ISIS, in the region. The US exit leaves behind a far more complicated landscape in Afghanistan, with the country turning into a cesspool of numerous non-State actors cohabiting, and at war, with one another. As the recent developments bear out, the upcoming twentieth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks has not quite ended the US’s ‘war against terror’ in Afghanistan and in the region. Luv Puri is the author of Across the LoC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
