05-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: No candles or cakes||India’s prime minister is a gift to the nation. Or so insist the Bharatiya Janata Party and his legion of admirers, impressed with the pledges that Narendra Modi has made to Indians in the course of his years as the premier. It, therefore, stands to reason that Mr Modi’s birthday — the event is imminent — should be a joyous occasion and that the man of the moment would soon receive innumerable gifts as tokens of appreciation for his unparalleled leadership. After all, what is a birthday without gifts? Strangely, the script seems to have gone awry this year. Yuva Halla Bol, a national movement by the youth, has decided to observe Mr Modi’s birthday as ‘Jumla Unemployment Day’. The plan, apparently, is to make some noise — pots and pans will be banged, just as the prime minister had directed the nation to do to lift the morale of health workers during last year’s lockdown. Only this time, all that clanging is intended to remind India of the long list of promises that Mr Modi has failed to keep. Among these, the members of the youth fraternity insist, are the prime minister’s assurance of depositing a hefty sum of money into the bank account of every Indian, a gift that citizens are yet to receive after seven years of Mr Modi’s rule. There is also another gift that has gone missing from Mr Modi’s basket of promised goodies: mass employment. India’s unemployment rate is hovering over 8 per cent, according to the latest data. Mr Modi would be assured to learn that there is, indeed, a tradition of sending ‘mean gifts’ and that — this is the bit that he would probably like the most — the high and mighty are often recipients of cruelty wrapped in kindness. Meanness has, occasionally, been quantified. One examination of mean gifts pegged the total value of unwanted merchandise that was returned to retail outlets in the United States of America during the holiday season some years ago at an astounding 60.84 billion dollars. The figure is likely to send a chill down the spine of kind souls. But can unkindness be righteous at times? The query merits reflection. Mr Modi has been elected leader of the people — twice. In a democracy, this implies a compact between a leader and the people: it is a compact of trust. The electorate exercises its franchise in the hope that the leader would keep his word. Mr Modi, undoubtedly, has failed to keep his, be it on employment, public health, or even on the protection of an inclusive social fabric. It can be argued that the prime minister has bestowed upon the people numerous unkind gifts. Things have now come full circle: the people, at least one segment among them, have now reciprocated Mr Modi’s gesture by delivering not-too-kind a cut.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
05-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Eye-catching wall art is a breath of fresh air||Sir — Calcutta has always been synonymous with all things artistic. Lately, several prominent corners of the City of Joy have seen a makeover with the help of colourful, eye-catching wall art, which has come as a breath of fresh air for passers-by who are struggling to breathe under their masks. The New Town subway, the Park Circus tram depot and the outside of the Phoolbagan Metro station are some sites where such art can be spotted. One must laud these artists — many of whom remain anonymous — for celebrating art’s true purpose: elevating the human soul. Srikanta Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — Human civilization cannot exist detached from science. Disregarding scientific facts is thus unacceptable. Unfortunately, in India, unscientific beliefs seem to be gaining more and more ground of late. These beliefs are being given credence by people in positions of power and those with the ability to influence public opinion. These days, a majority of Indians seem eager to veer away from the vision of the country that its first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, had envisaged. Nehru passionately advocated the cultivation of a scientific temperament for the creation and progress of a modern, forward-looking nation state. Promoting superstitious ideas has become a trend under the current dispensation. Who can forget that the prime minister himself said that Ganesha had had his head transplanted by plastic surgery? The pandemic only made a bad situation worse. Claims were made about cow dung and urine having the power to cure Covid-19; some of those who opposed such untruths were even sent to jail. The latest instance of such a blatant propagation of unscientific belief has come from a learned judge of the Allahabad High Court, who said that the cow is the only animal that both inhales and exhales oxygen. Such patently unscientific statements will come as a shot in the arm for cow vigilantes. Scientists who are fighting day and night to save humanity and ensure the progress of the race will soon be left to wallow in neglect. Worse, how can a judge, who is supposed to be learned enough to make decisions on life and death, make such an observation? What does this say about the justice system in India and those who run it? S. Sarkar, Berhampur Sir — The prime minister of Japan, Yoshihide Suga, has made it clear that he will be stepping down and shall not be contesting for his party’s leadership in the upcoming elections. His popularity has declined among 90 per cent of the Japanese population, mostly because of the way he handled the Covid-19 pandemic. It did not help matters that the Olympics were organized against the wishes of the Japanese people. It is almost certain that he would have lost the elections had he contested them. The fears of the Japanese people are not unfounded. Across the world, it seems nearly impossible to control the coronavirus, which mutates quicker than scientists can come up with a cure. Vaccination campaigns are not being able to keep pace with the virus the world over, especially in countries like India. The decision taken by Suga, then, indicates that he is taking moral responsibility for his failures. This is admirable. The situation was worse than Japan in many countries, with patients dying outside hospitals owing to Covid mismanagement and the lack of medical oxygen and beds. Can anyone forget the images from India’s second wave? Should not the heads of those countries resign as well? Jang Bahadur Singh, Jamshedpur Sir — The allegations made by the Rajya Sabha member of parliament, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, against the growing misuse of Central agencies by the saffron party are serious. If Ray’s claims prove to be true, legal steps should be taken to stop the high-handedness of the party in power at the Centre. Arun Gupta, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
05-09-2021||Opinion||Politics + religion = Taliban, says Digvijaya||With the Taliban and Afghanistan having become the subject of discussion the world over, Bihar could not fall behind. Cutting across party lines, politicians in the eastern state have risen to the occasion and shown their prowess in using the two terms to attack each other. As the Janata Dal (United) pitched the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, as ‘prime minister material’, the Opposition, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, hit back. Its spokesperson, Bhai Virendra, reportedly remarked that the only vacancy for the top job right now is in Afghanistan and suggested that Kumar should go there to satiate his lust for power. The RJD also equated the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh with the Taliban, prompting the Bharatiya Janata Party to retaliate by accusing it of turning the state into Afghanistan during its 15-year rule between 1990 and 2005. Soon afterwards, the Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Digvijaya Singh, arrived in Patna to gleefully give out a formula: ‘politics + religion = Taliban’. He refused to answer when people asked him if he had any particular party in mind. People are now waiting eagerly to find who fires the next ‘Taliban’ shot. Bhupender Yadav, recently inducted as a cabinet minister in the Narendra Modi government, seems to be the new rising star. He has two important portfolios — environment and labour — and holds the post of party national general-secretary in charge of two key states, Gujarat and Bihar. Yadav is known to be one of the most trusted associates of Amit Shah. Many feel that it was Shah who brought him into the government. Shah is believed to be getting his loyalists into the government to strengthen his position. Yadav is being promoted as a key face of the party in the ‘other backward classes’ domain. Recently, Yadav undertook a ‘yatra’ to take the blessings of the people of his state. This saw him travelling across two states — Haryana and Rajasthan. Haryana is his birthplace and he represents Rajasthan as a Rajya Sabha member of parliament. His yatra fuelled speculations of him emerging as a chief-ministerial face in both the states. In Haryana, none other than the chief minister, ML Khattar, said that young faces like Yadav should take up the leadership baton from ageing leaders. Khattar is 67 years old. In Rajasthan, speculations in party circles led reporters to ask Yadav about being the CM face. Yadav, as expected, termed the speculations as baseless. In party circles, however, the buzz is that Yadav was indeed eyeing the CM’s chair. Now this could be fraught with pitfalls for the budding leader. Who said the Lingayat strongman has been weakened after being made to vacate the chief minister’s seat? At least the 78-year-old BS Yediyurappa does not agree; and that has caused much heartburn in the BJP, whose leaders are reportedly tearing their hair out to convince him not to undertake his much-touted statewide tour to “strengthen” the party ahead of the 2023 state polls. The party wanted him to simply retire and enjoy the fruits of his labour, but Yediyurappa is in no mood to idle away. The BJP leadership is worried that the tour might send the wrong signal to the people and give a handle to the Opposition to label it as evidence of Yediyurappa strengthening his camp rather than helping the party since it is too early to start the 2023 campaign. The pre-poll grand alliance against the BJP in Assam is in tatters. But the Opposition parties are making efforts to come together before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The key players — the All India United Democratic Front and the Bodoland People’s Front — in the alliance formed earlier this year are out after the Congress accused them of cosying up to the BJP after the recent polls. The impact of the decision will become clear after the upcoming bypolls for six seats. But the BJP had stolen a march over the Opposition even before the mahajot cracked, with the defections of two Congress and one AIUDF member of the legislative assembly within three months of assuming power. More seem keen on switching sides. But most agree that the Congress-led alliance could have toppled the BJP-led one with more tact and time. The mahajot won 50 seats while the BJP-led front won 75, but the difference in vote share was less than one per cent. This did not translate into seats for the mahajot mainly because of poor candidate selection, lack of a cohesive campaigning and controversies with communal overtones, which were exploited by the BJP. The newly formed regional parties — Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad — also cut into the Opposition votes. The Opposition must avoid these mistakes if it wants to mount a serious challenge to the BJP in 2024. Naveen Patnaik’s love for sports seems to have influenced the Uttar Pradesh CM, Yogi Adityanath. Taking a cue from Patnaik, whose sponsorship of Indian hockey produced spectacular results at the Tokyo Olympics, Adityanath announced support for the Indian wrestling team till 2032 by pumping in Rs 170 crore. The president of the Wrestling Federation of India, Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh, said that he had approached the CM. Clearly, Adityanath hopes to enhance his public image before the polls next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
05-09-2021||Opinion||Blood brothers||“Your grandfather left us to live with termites for all the times to come.” This is what a man told me in an email after an article of mine, published on another platform, had evidently needled him. In that article, which was sparked by the prime minister’s call for a day to remember Partition’s horrors, I had asked whether Muslims were included when Narendra Modi used the words, “sisters and brothers”. Why am I offering this reflection on that email through The Telegraph? Because Calcutta was where the first day of Independence-cum-Partition found my grandfather, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. Calcutta was also where, in the first week of September 1947, Gandhi fasted for fraternity among Hindus and Muslims. Again, Calcutta was where, during that same week, the young lives of Sachin Mitra and Smritish Banerjee were extinguished because they protected sisters and brothers from the ‘other’ community. And because Calcutta is synonymous with Tagore, whose Kabuliwala has shot back into our minds following Afghanistan’s cascading events. And because Calcutta is synonymous also with Subhas Chandra Bose, whose comrades in the battle to reach Delhi with the flag of Azad Hind were Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs, and whose older brother, Sarat Bose, strove so hard to prevent the division of Bengal in 1947. We all know that horrors accompanied the Partition. When we are honest, we also know that the horrors were all-sided. Heroism, too, showed its face in 1947. Numerous people, known and unknown, joined Sachin and Smritish in displaying humanity, whatever its risks. Before looking at another word starting with ‘h’ that sadly permeates the sentence quoted at the start of this article, we may ask, “Was Partition itself a horror?” And a connected question: assuming that Partition was a horror, would we want the subcontinent re-unified, if that were possible? Those seeing India as a Hindu rashtra were far fewer before August 15, 1947 than they are today, but they existed then too. Then, too, they criticized Partition, as they do today. A re-unified subcontinent controlled by Hindu nationalists may be their wish, but a re-united India where individuals are free and regions are autonomous is certainly not. In 1947, Hindu supremacy over the entire subcontinent was a hard goal that very few pursued. Some might desire it today; most would call such a goal senseless. On the other hand, a South Asian confederation of autonomous regions and free individuals might, in theory at least, seem wise to many. In practical terms, however, the idea is quite unrealistic. Saner relations across South Asia’s existing borders is the sole sensible goal in 2021. For Hindu supremacists, to term Partition a horror would, therefore, only be a hypocritical yell. A re-united India where individuals are free and the regions autonomous is the last thing they would want. In such a rearrangement, ‘termites’ would be swarming in even larger numbers. I am assuming that the sender of that email is a ‘good’ man. I have no knowledge that he is ‘bad’. Although he supplies a name, I don’t know him. Sadly, hate pervades his message. I wonder if he has ever gotten to know any of the people of whom he speaks with such ill-will, contempt, and fear. If he were to look again at his remark to me, he will find that the dislike in it permits of no exception. It is genocidal in scale. Who can help people who think and speak like this ‘good’ man? A candid rebuke from someone he respects or likes, a political leader perhaps, or a family member, might work, but going by recent history, our political leaders are not likely to offer a reprimand. As for family members, they may not be aware of his expressions. Or they may be fearful of him. Might he listen to a guru or an exponent of Hindu texts? Perhaps, but we haven’t seen hate or bigotry denounced from any venerated Hindu platform. A solitary exception was Swami Agnivesh, who died last year. It is the everyday citizen who has to speak up and supply the corrective. Researchers know that during the Partition horrors large numbers of ‘ordinary’ Indians on both sides bravely hid, protected, and sent to safety members of the ‘other’ community who were at risk. This resentment that ‘they’ exist, this hate of a visible but segregated mass of the unwanted who dare to share India’s space with ‘us’, cannot be healthy. If history is any guide, this hate is bound to recoil on sections of the hater’s own community. If Muslims are the targets of today’s wrath, Hindus of another caste, maybe your caste, will be tomorrow’s victims. Pol Pot’s Cambodia, the Rwanda of 1994, the China of the Cultural Revolution, and the Balkan killings of the 1990s are only some examples of the impossibility of restricting hate to a marked community. No, my good man. This mindless hate (a phrase that Mr Modi himself recently used) will not help you, or those you may love, or India. Moreover, if we can’t respect the humanity and autonomy of fellow Indians, what message will we have for Afghanistan — or for Myanmar? As I think of the rich Hindu, Buddhist, Christian, and Muslim worlds served or covered by The Telegraph — including West Bengal, Assam, the rest of the Northeast, and also Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, and Myanmar — the region’s multiple, oft-bitter divides also confront me. But then I recall Kabuliwala’s bond between an Afghan who sells dry fruits on Calcutta’s streets and a conservative Bengali family; the insaniyat that Sachin and Smritish painted with their blood in September 1947; the passion for Hindu-Muslim partnership that came across both from a marching Netaji and a fasting Mahatma; the qualities of present-day individuals I know across the region; and a certain election result in May of this year. My faith is renewed. Rajmohan Gandhi is currently teaching at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
05-09-2021||Opinion||Dyer Consequence||Reports and emerging visuals of the recent restoration of Jallianwala Bagh have led to outrage. The ministry of culture insists that the effort was carried out with the “utmost respect”, while historians cry “insult”, “corporatisation” and “erasure”. Traumatic heritage places such as Jallianwala Bagh (India) or Auschwitz-Birkenau (Poland) or the Hiroshima Peace Memorial (Japan) or Robben Island (South Africa) have to negotiate the burden of a traumatic community memory and the responsibility of inserting it into the present, constructively or instructively. Days before the Jallianwala massacre, Marcella Sherwood, a mission doctor, was assaulted in Amritsar. Days after gunning down hundreds of Indians in Jallianwala Bagh, General Dyer issued the "crawling order". Any Indian wishing to cross the narrow street where Sherwood had fallen would have to crawl its entire length. Dyer said, “Some Indians crawl face downwards in front of their gods. I wanted them to know that a British woman is as sacred…” At Auschwitz-Birkenau, the concentration camp-turned-memorial and museum, they preserve among other things human hair. Prisoners’ hair was routinely shorn at Nazi camps. It seems the hair was processed and packed and sold to companies as material for haircloth and felt. The hair at Auschwitz was the harvest from dead prisoners. The memorial’s decision to display nearly two tonnes of human hair met with severe criticism. But in the end, the hair stayed in keeping with the museum philosophy of preserving authenticity, and there it will remain till it disintegrates naturally. In 1989, however, the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, in Washington, D.C., received a consignment of artifacts from Aushwitz, among which was human hair. After much deliberation, the museum decided to instal a wall-length photo mural of the hair on exhibit at Auschwitz. In 2010, nine years after the 9/11 tragedy, the National September 11 Memorial & Museum was opened to the public. The design chosen from thousands of entries is called "Reflecting Absence". It has two pools where the North and South Towers of the World Trade Center used to be. Names of the dead are inscribed on bronze parapets edging the pools. There is a Memorial Glade in honour of those who got sick or died “from exposure to toxins in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks”. Among its collection on display are a fire truck, a concrete-and-granite-covered staircase, an elevator motor, a steel remnant from the facade of the North Tower. There are more than 30 pairs of shoes. When the museum opened, visitors were horrified to discover that a tour was to be a ticketed affair. There was uproar too when it was discovered that the gift shop was selling US-shaped cheese platters with hearts marking the spots where al-Qaeda terrorists crashed planes. And, in 2014, a VIP cocktail party was also hosted on the premises. The sister of a 9/11 victim tweeted the next day: “Did you enjoy having drinks on top of my brother's grave last night?” As for Dyer, he was cremated. According to his biographer, Nigel Collett, there is no memorial stone made to Dyer and no known resting place for his ashes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
05-09-2021||Opinion||You see, this is called a daymare||This happens, let me assure you, and this happens when you might believe your eyes are wide open. And you might believe right; this happens with eyes wide open, but it’s the stuff of what usually happens by night, eyes tight shut, the nether lashes quite in the clasp of the upper lid. But such things have begun to happen at other times, and it has been a while. Wonder if anyone has noticed, but odd things. More than odd things actually. Things that might qualify as abstract or not-everyday literary instruments. Unbelievable arcs of them, leaps of what could only be imaginary, albeit imaginary in ways that they would seem to belong in macabre, even malafide, minds. Like in some netherdom ruled by a villainous gnome — short, gnarled, glassy-eyed and hirsute beyond measure or proportion to person or position. That sort of gnome. Not the sort of gnome that nightmares would permit, not the sort of gnome you wake up from. The sort of gnome you’d want to flee to sleep from. So you see, that sort of gnome. But you see, you see that sort of gnome. In your daymares. It’s what makes daymares what they are. Things that you wouldn’t want to dream of. Think for a moment, you’re a cattle rearer and often rove about with your cattle for roving does them good. Think of what may happen to you, though: roving with cattle may not do you quite as much good as it does cattle. Or, think you make and market bangles. Bangles that add to dainty wrists or mask a flabby forearm. Think what those bangles might bring upon your person, the sheer hawking of their virtues, oh it can turn into a thing of vice. There is, come to think of it, no end of things to be imagined and what the consequences of those could be. Presume you were native of Mirkash, for instance, and presume to feel for five minutes, no more, like a native of Mirkash feels, if you can get yourself to feel any of that. Wake up in Mirkash and you’ve entered the daymare of the gnomes. Each and every single day. They are all over, it’s a daymare that will seduce your permanent residence with the worst nightmare imaginable. Not every path is fortunate with a fork somewhere along it. That you may choose this one from that and then be able to revel in your choice, or repent in it. There are paths that don’t need to wait for finders, they found them. Such are the paths in this netherdom of the gnome, and they all lead you to this daymare or that. Between this daymare and that there may yet lie a choice, but there may be all there is. If and when you do wake up Thinking it’s only a dream Get real, or, rather, get a pup And tell it the curdled is really cream.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
