06-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hot death||The urgency of the threat of climate change-induced disasters has been confirmed with the release of the latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change which warned that warming of 1.5 degrees Celsius or more above pre-industrial levels is likely to occur by 2040. Such a forecast does not bode well for several metropolitan centres; Calcutta, in fact, has been identified by the report as having recorded the maximum rise in warming over the past seven decades. A map in the IPCC report shows that from 1950 to 2018, the Calcutta area recorded the highest rise of 2.6 degrees Celsius among the cities and regions studied. This grim turn of events can be attributed to several factors, not least of which is the rapid, chaotic urban development that the city and its surrounding areas have witnessed over the past few decades. This is evident in the mushrooming of real estate projects, big and small, that led to significant tree-felling as well as in the unabated encroachments upon the city’s natural ecosystem. Calcutta’s disappearing wetlands — the city’s kidneys — are a case in point. Exacerbating these challenges is a spike in industrial emissions, vehicular pollution, population pressure and creaking drainage facilities — the city’s British-era drainage system is highly silted. The future is bleak. Apart from temperature rise, the frequency of compound events — climate-related phenomena occurring in unison — will increase, with higher precipitation, a rise in sea level and high-intensity cyclones wreaking havoc together. The city, with its unsustainable infrastructure, is ill-equipped to deal with the resultant climatic impact. The seriousness of the threat cannot be overstated. There is likely to be massive collateral damage in the form of death, displacement, poverty and migration. Countering the problem is proving to be especially difficult because addressing climate change — astoundingly— is yet to acquire the requisite political urgency. A concerted public effort — citizens, the media, philanthropic entities and political parties — must be undertaken to galvanize resources — funds, technology and so on — to find remedial measures. Modernizing infrastructure, encouraging climate-resilient construction, greening transport, providing sops for non-polluting industries, cutting emission — a myriad steps need to be taken on a war footing to mitigate the disaster on the horizon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
06-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Poison ivy||The concern expressed by a bench of the Supreme Court headed by the Chief Justice of India about the communal content disseminated by some media outlets deserves a thorough introspection. The apex court bench was equally scathing about the absence of regulations for social media outlets which, the bench rightly pointed out, collude with the powers that be and serve as the fount for a divisive, toxic agenda. India, a secular republic, is given a bad name by these institutions. The context for the Supreme Court’s indignation must also be made clear. The wise judges were responding to a petition by the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind that is seeking an injunction against mischievous segments of the fourth estate that had attributed the spread of the coronavirus pandemic to a religious function organized by the Tablighi Jamaat last year. A shrill, complicit media — sizeable sections of it — had joined the chorus to denounce, indeed demonize, India’s largest minority community. The medieval witch-hunt at the time of a public health crisis was both unprecedented and morally untenable. The points raised by the Supreme Court need to be taken further for examination. Unregulated social media platforms can, indeed, be a menace. Worryingly, in response, the Centre seems to be willing to tar every digital entity with its brush of intimidation — the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 have been accused of infringing on media freedom. Moreover, regulation may not serve as an effective deterrent on every occasion. Several television channels — they are supposedly better regulated than entities on social media — were part of this chilling campaign of vilification against Muslims. The problem — crisis — therefore is deeper. It indicates the communalization of the wider ambience in which society and media function. The State is, undoubtedly, the source of the contamination. Tragically, an overwhelming number of media outlets in every conceivable form — television, print, digital — have capitulated to the State’s encroachment. The motives could be pecuniary or ideological, or both. The Supreme Court’s anguish must be complemented by a national conversation on leeching the poison from the body politic of the nation. This enterprise must be truly public in character, encompassing the media, the State and, most importantly, citizens. The collective cleansing — healing — is the need of the hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
06-09-2021||Opinion||Bitter taste of Old anger||China has 1.01 billion netizens in a population of 1.43 billion people. Their clout can be enormous, or negligible, depending on how the Communist Party of China perceives it. Last week, the authorities of the coastal city of Dalian decided to pay heed to netizens and shut down a commercial street, part of a new township called “Tang Little Kyoto”, which is being built by a Chinese firm. As the name suggests, the township is a bid to recreate Kyoto, especially the old streets around the famous temples of Japan’s ancient capital. The prefix, “Tang”, signifies the influence of China’s Tang Dynasty on Kyoto’s architecture. The promotional video describes the project as a means to recall the glory of the Tang Dynasty, whose reign is considered a golden age of Chinese arts and culture. That touch of appeasement proved to be yet another irritant for netizens who jeered at the “low EQ” of those behind the project. Apart from the historical animosity towards Japan, which colonized parts of China in the 19th century, Dalian, particularly, has bitter memories of Japanese occupation and of the Port Arthur (renamed Lushun) massacre of 1894, in which the victorious Japanese army killed thousands of Chinese soldiers and civilians. In spite of this past, the Dalian authorities have been giving incentives to Japanese investors for more than a decade now, and they unhesitatingly approved this six billion yuan project covering 148 acres. Dalian’s mayor attended the signing ceremony of the project in Tokyo in 2019. The firm’s vice-president had exuded confidence then, as Japanese-style villas built by the company elsewhere in China had proved popular. She wasn’t wrong: in spite of last year’s pandemic, the villas completed in the first phase were sold out. The commercial street also attracted many visitors during the 10 days that it functioned. Given the nature of the project, Japanese restaurants and brands such as Panasonic had outlets there. What happens to their investment now? Much the same that’s happened to those who invested in Japanese-themed streets elsewhere. Foshan’s Ichiban Street, replete with Japanese-style bus stops, road signs and cartoon characters, proved a major tourist attraction when it opened in August last year. But then on China’s National Day, celebrated on October 1, the authorities thought it fit to remove the Japanese flags on it, and within two weeks, the entire street was shut, partly owing to copyright issues as well. On Suzhou’s Japanese street, shops renting out kimonos had women flocking to them. But when a Chinese can be refused a Covid test for wearing a kimono, as happened in Xiamen city (she was a waitress in a Japanese restaurant nearby; the kimono was her uniform), how could girls wanting to be photographed in kimonos be tolerated? The Suzhou street hasn’t closed down, but the kimono shops are deserted. Anger against the Japanese is both a real and a whipped-up sentiment in China. The super-rich buying Little Kyoto’s villas and the ordinary Chinese thronging Foshan’s Ichiban Street can hardly be called unpatriotic. But such is the power of online media that a rumour that only Japanese companies were allowed to do business on Little Kyoto’s commercial street was enough to provoke those who were already angry with its presence. The rumour was false; Chinese brands also had outlets on the street. But when outrage against “cultural invasion” is trending online, and the 80th anniversary of Japan’s invasion of Manchuria is near, who bothers about dry facts. Will this outrage extend to the rest of the 1,300 villas and 83 hotels planned in Tang Little Kyoto? More importantly, will it be allowed to by the government?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
06-09-2021||Opinion||The case for a fairer force||The honourable Supreme Court allowed women to take the National Defence Academy examination, which was to take place on September 5 but has now been rescheduled to November 14. It admonished the government and the armed forces for not doing enough since its previous order, underlining that equality is a constitutional guarantee that cannot be denied based on gender. The NDA, a male bastion with around 2,000 young men, would need to be ready for women by January 2022. In 2018, the then chief of the army staff, Bipin Rawat, had stated that women soldiers weren’t serving in frontline combat positions because “a woman would feel uncomfortable at the front line.” He had also asserted that maternity leave was an issue, women needed more privacy and protection, and that India was not yet ready to accept “body bags of women” killed in combat, further adding that women needed to be “cocooned” from the eyes of subordinate soldiers. Predictably, Rawat’s comments sparked considerable outrage and were shrugged off by women officers. Captain Yashica Tyagi (retd) served during the Kargil War while five months pregnant. Another lady officer agrees: “I have gone on night patrols, managed issues like uncomfortable sleeping quarters and sanitation facilities. I find the objections to expanding the role of women in the forces immature. As for physical fitness, it depends on your training.” A retired male general concurs: “the right of a woman to serve in any role in the armed forces must be equal to a man’s as long as the physical and qualitative standards are not compromised.” Historically, although the Indian Military Nursing Service was formed in 1888, it was only in 1992 that the Indian army permitted women to serve for five years via the ‘Special Entry Scheme’, later converted into Short Service Commission. It’s worth noting what’s been achieved in the 29 years since. Women have worked as doctors, nurses, engineers, signallers, administrators and lawyers. They’ve treated soldiers on battlefields, handled explosives, detected and removed mines, and laid communication lines. By 2008, permanent commission was extended to women in Judge Advocate General and Army Education Corps. In early 2020, the Supreme Court urged the government to consider lifting the military’s ban on women in combat roles: “test them on the same footing as men. Do not exclude them (women officers) as a class. Change of mindset is required [sic].” The government’s stand — that women officers have physiological limitations — was rejected by the highest court as being based on “sex stereotypes” and “gender discrimination against women”. Women have now been granted permanent commission in all 10 branches where they are inducted. Women were kept out of command positions due to the reasoning that the male-dominated rank and file tend to have problems with women commanding officers. But all this is set to change as they’re now eligible to occupy all command appointments on a par with male officers. However, women have still not been inducted into combat arms like the infantry and the armoured corps. In early 2021, the Indian navy deployed four women officers on warships. India’s only aircraft carrier, INS Vikramaditya, and the fleet tanker, INS Shakti, have been assigned their first women crew. The army inducted the first batch of 83 women into the corps of Military Police in May 2021. The women have joined the military in the non-officer cadre — a rare first. Still, numbers don’t lie. The armed forces are pathetically gender disparate. A total of 9,118 women are serving in the defence forces. The army has 12,18,036 men against 6,807 women constituting 0.56 per cent; the air force has 1,46,727 men against 1,607 women forming 1.08 per cent; and the navy has 704 women or 6.5 per cent of the force. On August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that Sainik schools will admit girls. Despite the armed forces being on high alert due to border tensions, the three services chiefs made a hasty visit to the NDA on August 21, purportedly to assess facilities needed for training women cadets. Many questions beg answers. Why have the Indian armed forces not been made ready to accept women during these 29 years? Could military and Sainik Schools, which typically provide 25 to 30 per cent of the cadets joining the NDA, have been turned into co-ed facilities with gender parity, like the National Cadet Corps, in 1992 or earlier? Could the armed forces have gradually sensitized its soldiers and worked at removing the patriarchal mindset from November 1, 1958, when the first woman doctor was inducted into the Indian army? Could female commandos have been trained and all-women battalions created, ready to be integrated into frontline divisions? The armed forces pride themselves on being fair and secular. All soldiers are treated equally. Caste, language or race are not given special importance. Courage and leadership are highly respected. By the same analogy of equality, the inclusion and respect for women who prove themselves in combat cannot be an insurmountable task. Women in combat would face the same hazards as their male counterparts and, therefore, must be trained and tested with identical parameters. There cannot be any compromise with national security. It is noteworthy that the United States of America, Israel, North Korea, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Australia and Canada employ women in front-line combat positions. In deference to the orders of the Supreme Court, the Indian armed forces would go through radical changes. That said, the armed forces mirror the societal mindset. The responsibility for bringing gender sensitivity and radical change to a patriarchal society lies primarily with the political leadership. This legal directive will be a gamechanger for India’s future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
06-09-2021||Opinion||Going West||The West has got virtually all its own people out of Afghanistan. Very many of their Afghan workers and supporters (including those holding citizenship of Western countries) are left facing calamity, having passed their sell-by date. The British left behind the addresses of some local staff. The Americans bequeathed ampler data to the Taliban (not to mention a huge arsenal), and US military retaliation is killing children alongside terrorists. America is a blessedly prodigal nation. It throws away 40 per cent of the food crowding its supermarket shelves and home freezers. It also stocks its larder of international acquisitions with territories, peoples and properties, cleaning out the marketplace of the nations. It crams its fridge without borders with goodies from — and in — all countries, consumes them at will, then trashes them when they grow rancid or simply boring. This great global tuckbox attracts people from everywhere. The whole human race hankers after the luscious contents of America’s transnational larder. They ally with America, they settle there, they visit and interact with the country. At the very least, they try to savour something of its delights in their own homelands. All of us, myself included, stand somewhere in that line of distribution. Now comes the catch: the consumables in this larder are none other than ourselves and our communities, our economic, political and cultural existence. We unthinkingly assume that other nations and individuals will pay for the dinner — in fact, be the dinner — while we sit at table with America, even if at the far end with a poor choice of dishes. We might well achieve this happy state; but also, conceivably, end up like the rooster in Sukanta Bhattacharya’s poem, that longed to reach its master’s table. So it did — not to eat but to be eaten. This is so horrendously the fate of today’s Afghans that we may feel light-years removed from their plight, as indeed we are; but how totally from the underlying condition? To properly answer the question, we must define it more closely. America is not simply a territory but a metonym for the West and what we associate with the West. America is the branded, almost vulgarized, epitome of an ethos and a state of mind that we prize for many reasons, right and wrong. The right ones must be hailed: they add value to the human condition, laying out a template for more ordered, productive and fulfilling lives than in almost any other option open to us. Again the Afghan predicament is prototypal: the choice of Taliban rule is so unthinkable that it makes hitherto sane men cling to flying planes in the urge to escape. The alternatives are seldom so starkly opposed. In fact, they are adeptly bridged by many communities. Terrorist groups operate out of the West, exploiting its imperfect but genuine commitment to free speech, privacy and personal liberty that the terrorists themselves despise. At the other extreme, deeply law-abiding ethnic majoritarians (notably including Hindutva acolytes) embrace minority status in outlandish climes to encash the latter’s promise of freedom, opportunity and efficiency, and use the proceeds to advance contrary causes in their homelands. Alongside, and often opposed to them, a hyper-articulate intellectual class acutely analyses the defects of the Western order, but finds it opportune to do so from Western campuses. For all these groups, citizenship of a Western country is an unquestioned asset for their otherwise contentious agendas. It is this evident openness, countering any alienation owing to location and culture, that makes the world look Westward and travel there. With time, people might discover the limits to such inclusiveness; even so it seems, and often is, markedly wider than the confines back home. The desperate crowds outside Kabul airport are qualitatively different from the old overnight queues and today’s online wait-lists at visa offices; but is there a visceral link somewhere? Where in the middle ground should we place indigent South Asians paying more money to people smugglers than they might earn if they ever reach their goal? Or the unabating tide of people pouring across Latin America to the US border, or braving the Mediterranean in leaky boats? For such people, the dream of a hospitable West often dies on the journey even if they themselves do not. But the collective myth does not die. It is sustained by a modicum of acceptance in the host countries; by real and fictitious get-rich-quick stories; by deprivation at home, or what is viewed as such; by the global media and consumer culture. Higher up the social and educational ladder, the myth is more often validated by success; but it remains a rarer inflexion within the same paradigm. Does the high-flying NRI feel a stab of affinity with his displaced compatriot selling umbrellas on the street, or those demonized migrants — invisible, undocumented, toiling in farms and sweatshops — whom he might never encounter? After the partition of India, translocated Bengalis who had improved their lot felt unsettling twinges of kinship with those still adrift. Does something of the kind happen among the diaspora? We were shaken to see parents handing over their children to strangers across the wall at Kabul airport. The circumstances remain unclear. A common explanation is that they were abandoning their offspring in the forlorn hope of wafting them to a better life. Is this utterly different from beleaguered villagers in the Global South consigning their somewhat older progeny to a journey into darkness, at the tender mercies of human traffickers? Looking farther, might we draw a moment’s mad parallel with the middle-class family whose plans, funds and fears have the sole object of propelling its younger generation permanently abroad? No doubt I am raving. The footage from Afghanistan shows the deranging outcome when two civilizations implode on contact with each other. The images impose themselves on familiar untroubling scenarios, and others that don’t trouble us because we don’t think about them. Once we do, they can disorient our notions of the world. Sukanta Chaudhuri is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
