07-09-2021||Opinion||Formula driven bi-annual domestic natural gas prices to double from October 2022||The formula driven bi-annual domestic natural gas prices are likely to double from October 1 from the present $1.79 per mBtu (million British thermal unit) following a spike in prices at the benchmark global hubs, analysts said. “Domestic gas prices are expected to almost double in the next revision owing to increase in prices at various international hubs,” rating agency Icra said in a research note. For the first half of the current fiscal, the price was notified at $1.79/mBtu (GCV basis), the lowest since the introduction of the modified Rangarajan formula. However, the upstream players were making losses at such low prices.. The current domestic prices are the lowest since 2014, when the nation began to link the price of locally produced gas from old fields to a formula tied to global benchmarks, including Henry Hub, Alberta gas, NBP and Russian gas. Low natural gas prices affect the earnings of producers Oil and Natural Gas Corp and Oil India Ltd. Asia’s spot LNG prices have soared to multi-year summer highs owing to strong regional demand and surging prices in European gas hubs and have exceeded Rasgas term LNG price significantly. Henry hub prices have risen to $4.2/ mbtu levels in August 2021 from $2.4/ mbtu in April 2021 owing to strong exports and heat waves in the US. BPCL  doubts Fitch Ratings on Monday said uncertainty over the bidder consortiums and process complexity, including valuation, may lead to potential delays in privatisation of India’s second-largest fuel retailer, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL). Affirming BPCL’s rating at ‘BBB-’ with a negative outlook, Fitch said it continues to treat the potential divestment of the company by the Indian government as an event risk. “We believe the risks of further Covid-19 waves and global oil and gas companies’ increased focus on energy transition lead to additional uncertainty over the timing and valuation of potentially large acquisitions in the sector,” it said. Fitch said it will review the ratings once significant progress is made. The government is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL for which three expressions of interest, including one from Vedanta Group, have been received.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
07-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Clear the air||Times change; so do the challenges they bring with them. This is why India is set to update its national ambient air quality standards, which would consider more pollutants, including ultra-fine particulate matter. Interestingly, experts would also factor in India’s geographical position and meteorological conditions. This is particularly relevant in light of a recent report, Air Quality Life Index, by the University of Chicago, which shows that India’s air pollution levels have expanded geographically over time. The Indo-Gangetic plains remain central to the country’s air pollution problem — its emissions are responsible for 46 per cent of the premature deaths in the country linked to PM2.5 — but the toxicity has now spread to western and central Indian states such as Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, decreasing the life expectancy of the residents by two to three years compared to early 2000s. Even Bengal’s average annual PM10 pollution showed an upward trend from 2017 through 2019 — it rose to more than one-fifth in three years. In 2019, India’s average particulate matter concentration was seven times the World Health Organization’s guideline level. Not only have studies linked air pollution with dementia and lung cancer in adults, but research also shows that nearly one out of every three schoolchildren in Delhi has asthma and airflow obstruction. This, in spite of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act and the Environment (Protection) Act. Clearly, laws alone will not solve the problem: they must be complemented with public awareness. But this is not possible unless there is complete transparency on the part of pollution control agencies, the majority of which do not share adequate information with the public. The use of green technology, too, must be encouraged. For instance, the rise in the number of vehicles on the road — India has registered a threefold increase over the last decade — must be met with a push for affordable electric vehicles, an industry that is still at a nascent stage in the country. Further, the ambit of reparative action and monitoring must be expanded. While most measures are city-centric — last month, Delhi installed India’s first ‘smog tower’ — data show that in many cases levels of air pollution in rural areas rival, or even surpass, those in urban centres. This is because practices like stubble burning and use of fossil fuels are primarily rooted in rural areas. Air pollution is not merely an environmental or health hazard. It raises deeper questions about human consumption and ethics. Collaborative, mitigatory action — legal, political, policy — among stakeholders is important. But these must also be complemented by contemplation on modern templates of production, the true ambit of individual need and the threat of avarice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
07-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Bama, Sukartharini and Mahasweta Devi out of DU syllabus||Muffled voices Sir — The removal of works by two Dalit authors, Bama and Sukartharini, as well as of Mahasweta Devi’s “Draupadi” from the undergraduate English syllabus of Delhi University on the flimsy ground of “culture and ethics” is indicative of institutional bias against certain kinds of writing (“Far from epic”, Aug 31). According to the registrar, who defended the decision, the syllabus cannot include works of literature that may “hurt the sentiments of any individual” or have the potential to make “students hate the military”. If the university is worried that certain works might hurt the sentiments of the upper castes, then by that logic the works of Munshi Premchand, especially “Sadgati”, which is a scathing commentary on the caste system in India, should not be taught either. Mahasweta Devi’s “Draupadi” is crucial in exposing institutionalized violence faced by tribal communities in India. Replacing the works of Dalit writers with those of an upper-caste writer — Ramabai in this case — will result in a further exclusion of marginalized voices. The university must rethink its decision to remove these texts. Students should be exposed to a wide range of literary works so that they can have a greater understanding of the social realities in India. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — The deletion of Mahasweta Devi’s short story, “Draupadi”, and the works of two Dalit writers, Sukartharini and Bama, from the English honours syllabus of Delhi University is unfortunate. “Draupadi” is a disquieting account of the plight of a Santhal woman, Dopdi Mejhen, who is captured on suspicion of being a Naxal and is raped by the military. The seminal work was eventually translated by the literary theorist, Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, and has been a part of the DU undergraduate syllabus since 1999. The reach and importance of the work is such that it had inspired Manipuri women to strip in public in 2004 to protest against the rape and killing of a woman by the armed forces. These works have now been replaced by Begum Rokeya’s “Sultana’s Dream” and the life and works of an upper-caste writer, Ramabai. In response to this decision, 15 members of the university’s academic council have rightly submitted a dissent note against the functioning of the oversight committee. Several academics as well as politicians, including the chief minister of Tamil Nadu, M.K. Stalin, have condemned this decision. The history of the Indian subcontinent is rife with shameful instances of oppression and violence. The removal of these works amounts to the silencing of marginalized voices. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur Sir — Removing certain texts from the syllabus cannot erase India’s contentious past. DU must include the works of Dalit writers if it hopes to provide a well-rounded education. Amita Saha,Calcutta  Unsafe city Sir — Two Indian cities — New Delhi and Mumbai — were recently featured on the Safe Cities Index 2021. While both were ranked at the bottom, it was nonetheless a surprise to see New Delhi included at all. Those of us who have lived in or travelled to Delhi know how unsafe it is, especially for women, compared to cities like Calcutta or Pune. Delhi may rank higher in parameters such as health or infrastructure, but none of this can make up for physical safety. In that aspect, Delhi is unlikely to feature on the personal safety list of Indian citizens. Meghna Basak,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
07-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Stick lovers||In an address on the occasion of the 51st anniversary of the foundation of the Bureau of Police Research and Development, the Union home minister made an important observation. The freedom to express opinion, Amit Shah said, was integral to democracy and this freedom — this is significant — is predicated upon a modernized police force. In other words, Mr Shah attempted to draw an organic link between the success of democracy and an effective law and order machinery. Unfortunately, it is the police and their political masters who have been instrumental in encroaching upon civil liberties, most notably since Mr Shah’s party attained political ascendancy. There is evidence to support this conjecture. Students’ protests in campuses, be it in Jawaharlal Nehru University or Jamia Millia Islamia, have faced the brunt of police excesses. Participants in anti-government demonstrations have been accused of hatching conspiracies against the State by the Delhi Police that is subservient to the Union home minister. The police, perhaps in their enthusiasm for crossing the line, have been found to be deficient in their primary duties. The judiciary has taken note of this and other transgressions. To cite one recent example, an additional sessions court commented tersely that the Delhi riots would be remembered as a monumental abdication of duty by the police. Mr Shah agonized over the fact that the good work done by the police seldom merits attention. The discrepancy perhaps has to do with the bunglings by investigators, something that has prompted the Supreme Court to contemplate assessing the performance of the Central Bureau of Investigation. This demand for accountability must be turned into a public campaign with the judiciary, civilians, media and, most important, politicians pressing for the police to function within the ambit of the law. For policing to complement democracy, the police — the government’s proverbial stick to beat opponents with — must reform itself. The first task would be to depoliticize the police: minimal intervention from the government would help policemen serve as custodians of justice. The template of police modernization should also pay adequate attention to the sensitizing of personnel to the need of being fair and transparent. Only then — why is Mr Shah oblivious of this? — can the police become the do-gooders that they are mandated to be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
07-09-2021||Opinion||Darwin’s dead||The Central Board of Secondary Education has ‘rationalized’ the curriculum for the 10th and 12th standards, keeping in mind the loss of school hours for the last one and a half years due to the pandemic. It seems to have given ‘evolution’, along with other important topics, the miss in this curtailed syllabus for biology for both classes. ‘Evolution’ has been a cause of debates, discourses and disagreements in the academic world. Several countries choose to leave this area of science out of the high-school syllabus considering religious sentiments. However, there is colossal evidence in support of the theory of evolution. There is no denying the fact that we are yet to discover the value of ecocentrism. Moreover, the wisdom of keeping two academic batches unaware about the process of evolution at a time when the Covid-19 virus is mutating defies logic. At this point, the new generation should already start asking questions like ‘How are such a large variety of lethal pathogens being formed?’ Or ‘Can such pathogens surface again?’ Unfortunately, we are suppressing such questions from cropping up in young minds. Students have the wisdom to understand that human beings are not the most evolved of species. They appreciate that the environment can subject us to extreme conditions which, in turn, can inflict upon us the same fate as that of dinosaurs. I was astounded when a 16-year-old pointed out, “If we do not learn about evolution, we cannot ask the primary question that we always do — why are people like this?” Such analytical minds are being restricted to knowledge-gathering rather than being encouraged to ask searching questions or go into the depths of reasoning. Today, the world is fighting Covid-19 by producing vaccines and encouraging ‘herd immunity’. How do we intend to explain ‘herd immunity’, ‘mutation’, vaccine testing on phylogenetically-related animals and vaccine production without them having the knowledge of phylogeny, genetic drift, natural selection, and so on? Our curriculum aims at nurturing creativity and perceptive thinking in learners. Therefore, it needs to include topics that demand meticulous analysis. Unfortunately, there is a line of thought that believes ‘evolution is history’ and that it is not essential for competitive examinations. The entire focus of teaching high-quality, advanced, and stylized biology has shifted from evolution to biotechnology, molecular biology, and genetics. These topics are of importance, but the foundation of all of these lies in the way we adapt and react to the dynamic nature of our environment. The CBSE has clarified its rationale, stating that the measure was meant to reduce the stress of examination. Was this the best solution to reduce examination stress? Alternatively, the chapter on evolution could be included in interdisciplinary essays/presentations/projects. Learners would then have the option to correlate evolution with two or three subjects like mathematics, history, arts, economics, sports, geography, civics, and so on. This would help them widen their areas of interest. It is time that we decentralized the curriculum and allowed schools to take charge of the specific needs of learners. That way, we can move towards a future where an examination is not stressful and evolution not obsolete to the curriculum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
07-09-2021||Opinion||Changes in the heartland||Agra’s majestic Mughal heritage illustrates the ideological contestations shaping urban politics in the heartland state of Uttar Pradesh. Hindu nationalist ideologues portrayed the Mughals as foreign invaders. The former chief minister, Mayawati, sought to capitalize on Agra’s heritage as a tourist entrepôt; even the Taj Corridor scheme faltered. The Samajwadi Party supporters celebrate Mughal Agra as the ‘Pride of India (Hindustan ka Naaz)’. Agra’s propaganda value aside, the city’s transformation from a bastion of the Bahujan Samaj Party into a Hindu nationalist stronghold vividly reveals the state of politics in UP today. The Yogi Adityanath government utilized Agra’s Mughal heritage as a backdrop for its flagship metro rail project inaugurated in 2020 that would connect the Taj Mahal’s East Gate to Sikandra, an enchanting monument complex, which hosts the mausoleum of the Mughal emperor, Akbar. The state government’s sponsorship of metro rail projects in Agra, Kanpur as well as the Aqua Line metro in Gautam Buddh Nagar at Delhi’s doorstep signals the rise of influential interest groups of urban voters whose politics have changed one of India’s largest states. Agra’s Dalit citizens have always been more empowered and assertive than their rural counterparts. They may have benefited from empowerment but they remained deprived of public-works projects, tarred roads and reliable electricity despite decades of the regional politics of caste assertion, which effectively ended Congress rule. It is now nearly five years since Uttar Pradesh became a State-sponsored laboratory for Hindutva politics. At first glance, it would appear that Narendra Modi’s popularity and charisma convinced UP’s voters to abandon two decades of caste-identity assertion in favour of a Hindu nationalist politics that is acceptable to traditional elite, urban, upper-caste voters. Agra’s political identity was transformed dramatically over this time period. Agra, a bastion of the BSP’s Dalit politics, became a Hindu nationalist stronghold. Agra’s voters articulated unhappiness with crony capitalism, which they blamed for urban blight and environmental disasters. Agra’s erstwhile mayor, Inderjit Arya, a Bharatiya Janata Party politician with a history of working for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, advocated ‘municipal Hindu nationalism’, incorporating the Hindutva ideology of the traditional elite as well as championing Hindutva Dalit assertion within municipal settings. Regional politicians, whose assertion eroded the Congress in its heartland bastion of Uttar Pradesh, no longer impressed voters for whom economic change increasingly indicated the blurred boundaries between the preferences of urban and rural voters. Modi capitalized on these altered allegiances, using demonetization as a wedge issue, gaining control over the news agenda just ahead of the crucial 2017 state polls. He was particularly adept at appealing to voters once swayed by the identity politics of the SP and the BSP. The militant agitation championing the destruction of the Babri Masjid shaped a political coalition of the urban, traditional elite with historically marginalized social groups united under the umbrella of Hindutva. Municipal politics in Agra, Ghaziabad, and Lucknow as well as in the pilgrimage centres of Varanasi and Ayodhya shaped religious solidarities, thereby creating urban bastions for the BJP over the past two decades. This systematic political incorporation of elected representatives from marginalized castes at the city, state and national levels transformed the BJP. However, Adityanath’s ability to hold together an electoral coalition under the saffron umbrella will be tested. This is on account of, first, the rampage caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and, two, the inherent volatility of electoral politics in India’s most populous state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
07-09-2021||Opinion||Poisoned fruits||There is a difference between lying and making bad decisions, but the two are often intimately connected, especially in public life. As children, almost all of us have been told that lying is bad, that we must always tell the truth. But there often is a gap between what we are told and what we are taught: as we grow from infancy to childhood, we start to see that people around us — of all ages — lie all the time; when a child brings this up, she or he is immediately told that lying is still a bad thing but, occasionally, there are exceptions, acceptable transgressions, which are to be decided by people older, wiser and smarter than you. Soon you realize that the full form of the ‘don’t ever lie’ rule actually goes ‘don’t ever lie to me but I may need to lie to you and others from time to time, and that’s alright’. Sooner or later we all learn to lie, in the same way we blink to keep the dust from getting into our eyes or swat away insects from biting us. The grown-ups around us understand this and, sometimes, even reward our lying. Every upbringing is partly shaped by what level and what kinds of lying are tolerated by parents and immediate circles, and where the two overlapping red lines are drawn: this kind of lying is not acceptable between us; this kind of lying is not acceptable in any situation whatsoever, period. If an individual has been fortunate during the formative years, they would have witnessed people who’ve had the courage to recognize and admit the mistakes they have made, people who, without hiding behind dissimulation, simply say: “This was my decision. It was the wrong one. I take responsibility for the damage it has caused. I will now do whatever I can to contain and repair the damage.” More often, what a child sees while growing up is the opposite: adults shying away from the consequences of their choices and actions. Soon we begin to notice the connection between lying and bad decisions; falsehoods following in the wake of some sort of mistake; rather than owning up to a blunder or wrongdoing, the person responsible makes up a fictional backstory that justifies or minimizes the act; parents, teachers and others with power and authority fabricate stories, mixing half-truths and full whoppers to give themselves moral or situational alibis. At other times, concocting and telling an untruth is itself the bad decision. Often, a first lie gathers ancillary lies around itself, one or two of which can grow bigger than the initial falsehood, each gathering its own entourage of new lies, spawning and multiplying all the way to disaster. As children, we first see these patterns in our own families, our schools and friend circles; as we grow older, we begin to recognize the signs in larger contexts, the dirty dancing between default and deceit sometimes affecting the lives of millions of people. For example, watching the tragedy play out in Afghanistan, it is useful to, once again, trace the family tree of the mendacities that have brought us here. The parent lies were put in place in the late 1970s when the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan was seen by the United States of America as ‘an opportunity’ to drag the Russians into a ‘Vietnam-type quagmire’. This meant turning a blind eye to the brutal regime of General Zia-ul-Haq in Pakistan and arming and supporting Islamic fundamentalists, all in the name of ‘freedom and democracy’. When the American objective of a costly defeat for the Soviets was achieved, a new lie about ‘not interfering with the internal affairs of another country’ was put in place to enable the Americans to cut and run. As we know, this backfired badly with the Pakistan-backed Taliban first taking over Afghanistan and then providing a safe base to the terrorists of al Qaida and other Islamist groups; simultaneously, a decade of Zia’s rule also saw deep and enormous space being created in Pakistan for Islamist fundamentalism. When these factors and others led to 9/11, the US and allies invaded Afghanistan with two claims: first, they wanted to rid the country of the Taliban and all terrorist groups; second, they were there for ‘nation building’. The first claim was truthful, the second claim was a lie — the Americans and allies didn’t really give a flying fig about the people of Afghanistan (or Pakistan, or India). A bad decision, which was also a whopping lie, soon fed into this toxic genealogy: instead of working to fully rid Afghanistan of the Taliban (which required more far more than military might and mountain-busting bombs), the shady firm of Bush, Rumsfeld & Cheney decided to turn on Iraq with a completely fake claim that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. This spreading miasma of lies and subterfuge then turned the Middle East into the massive hell it is today and led to the humiliating withdrawal of the Americans from Kabul. Naturally, even this withdrawal sprouted its own set of new obfuscations and dissimulations, chief among them being the claim by President Joe Biden that he was locked into the pull-out by Donald Trump’s deal with the Taliban (by which logic Biden should also have been locked into staying out of the Paris Accord by Trump’s withdrawal). For us in India, there are many things to be learnt from this, and not only to do with the international arena. The first thing to note is the lessons our own political leaders have learnt from watching how George Bush and his associates operated, from what Barack Obama couldn’t or didn’t do, and from the spectacularly shameless circus of falsification and disinformation that Trump then set in motion. Let us make our own family trees of various politicians’ lies and the poisonous fruits with which those branches are now bombarding us. On its 20th anniversary, let us look at how 9/11 and the American reaction were helpful in setting up the Gujarat killings of 2002. Let us see how the United Progressive Alliance government’s misuse of the security agencies in its campaign against real and supposed Maoists became a prototype which the current regime expanded and ‘improved upon’. Let us look at how truthful the claims were — around demonetization, around the Pulwama attack and the ‘surgical retaliatory strikes’, around the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir, with the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens, with the farm laws, with the response to the Covid pandemic. When we are children, we can’t do anything about the adults who lie to us. As a society of thinking people, we have a choice whether to order from the menu of falsehoods being offered to us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
