08-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Heartless||Ignorance and the prejudice it begets need not be blissful. They almost cost a life recently when an organ transplant authorization committee in Kerala rejected the application for a kidney transplant because of the alleged ‘criminal antecedents’ of the donor. As always, it was the judiciary that came to the rescue. The Kerala High Court intervened in favour of the recipient, observing that there is no “criminal kidney, liver or heart” in the human body. Unfortunately, the regressive mindset of the committee is far from an aberration — it is commonplace for discrimination and bias to supplant scientific outlook in New India. In this particular case, the incident revealed two problematic aspects. First, criminality has come to be regarded as akin to a contagion, capable of ‘contaminating’ the human body through transmission. This can be attributed to India’s complex socio-cultural approach towards the body — it has, over the years, been a site of conflict given the history of targeting the bodies of certain social groups based on caste and religion. These embedded notions of purity and pollution cannot be rooted out without inculcating a scientific temperament. Second — this is an attendant challenge — is the shocking absence of public awareness about organ donation in India even though decades have passed since the Transplantation of the Human Organ Act came into existence. The status of organ donation is grim to say the least — around five lakh people die annually in India waiting for a transplant. The infrastructure for facilitating donation and transplant remains far from adequate. Given the short life-span of harvested organs, the lack of efficient delivery mechanisms and storage facilities poses a major hurdle. The administrative will to confront and resolve these challenges is also lacking — only 13 states and Union territories currently contribute to the deceased donor transplantation programme, which aims to harvest functional organs from cadavers. Little wonder then that India has the poorest deceased donation rate in the world. The existing bottlenecks have led to the emergence of a thriving, illicit trade in organ donation. The way forward is evident. There is an urgent need to streamline procedures, implement a centralized, transparent online registration system for recipients, and encourage voluntary organ donation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
08-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor:  India beat England by 157 runs at The Oval||Magnificent win Sir — The manner in which India beat England by 157 runs at The Oval in the fourth Test match of the ongoing series must be lauded (“Captain takes pride in team’s character”, Sep 7). As a result of this victory, India has now taken a 2-1 lead in the five-match series. Every single day of the match was spectacular. The scintillating performance of the Indian bowling unit restricted the runs made by the English batsmen in their first innings; at the same time, the England pacers made the most of the situation as well. In this crucial match, the assertive thinking of the captain, Virat Kohli, inspired his team-mates. Rohit Sharma’s swashbuckling innings of 127 runs — he made his first overseas Test century — put India in a strong position. Adding to this were the performances of Jasprit Bumrah, Umesh Yadav and Shardul Thakur, who cemented our victory by a wide margin. Sharma was adjudged the Player of the Match for scoring 138 runs overall. If India can keep up this performance, it will win the Pataudi Trophy. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — Virat Kohli and his team must be congratulated for their remarkable comeback at The Oval after being crushed in the third Test at Headingley. The match that concluded on Monday was a display of teamwork — everyone, with the exception of Ajinkya Rahane, chipped in on their way to script the historic victory. Rohit Sharma’s patient century and the healthy opening partnership of 83 runs in the second innings laid a firm foundation for India to score a mammoth total of 466. Later on, the 100-run partnership between Shardul Thakur and Rishabh Pant took the wind out of the sails of Joe Root and his men. After setting a stiff target of 368, the Indian bowlers took over. They worked in tandem to decimate the English batting line-up, that too on a flat, docile wicket that was favouring batsmen. This victory should definitely boost the morale of Team India to go in for the kill in the final Test at Manchester. Although Kohli might be tempted to play the final Test with the winning combination from the fourth match, I believe that Rahane ought to be rested. In his place, Kohli could either take a batsman or even finally pick Ravichandran Ashwin who, apart from his bowling heroics, is capable of scoring at least 50 runs in a Test. It was unfortunate that the head coach of Team India, Ravi Shastri, tested positive for Covid-19 and has been isolated along with three other members of the support staff. However, when the secretary of the Board of Control for Cricket in India, Jay Shah, reportedly wrote to every team member before the series asking them to be cautious and refrain from attending crowded events, why did the head coach attend the launch of his book — even Kohli went to the event — at the team’s hotel? The BCCI is likely to ask Kohli and Shastri for an explanation. One hopes that appropriate action will be taken. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — History repeated itself after 50 years at The Oval with India winning the thrilling fourth Test against England with 157 runs. The victory can be attributed to the unprecedented century of Rohit Sharma and the phenomenal bowling of Shardul Thakur, Umesh Yadav and Jasprit Bumrah. This match did not merely create history but also witnessed the making and breaking of records: Virat Kohli became the fastest player to cross 23,000 runs and Bumrah became the fastest Indian pacer to take 100 Test wickets. Indians ought to be proud of this team. Md. Yousuf Kamal,Muzaffarpur, Bihar Sir — After a dramatic fifth-day finish at The Oval, India ended its 50-year wait for a win at the venue with a 157-run victory against England on Monday. The last time that India won at the iconic cricket ground was way back in 1971 when, under the leadership of Ajit Wadekar, it stunned the hosts by beating them by four wickets to clinch its first series triumph in England. India first played at The Oval — the oldest international stadium in England — in 1936 and lost the Test by nine wickets. India has drawn a Test at the venue on seven occasions in 1946, 1952, 1979, 1982, 1990, 2002 and 2007. It had also lost on its three previous tours in 2011, 2014 and 2018. Virat Kohli’s men went into the fourth Test on the back of a crushing innings defeat at Headingley. Put in to bat by England, India were all out for 191. England took a 99-run lead on Day Two before Rohit Sharma’s magnificent century put India back in the contest. His 127 was aided by Cheteshwar Pujara’s 61 and Kohli’s 44 before a lower-order surge from Rishabh Pant (50) and Shardul Thakur (60) helped the visitors set a 368-run target. England began the final day needing 291 to win with the openers, Haseeb Hameed and Rory Burns, at the crease. However, India chipped away at England on a flat wicket to wrap up a convincing win and take a 2-1 lead in the series. The team truly outplayed England in every department of the game. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai  Hammer blow Sir — The totalitarian actions of the Chinese government seem to know no bounds. After banning children from playing video games on weekdays and restricting their access to the activity to just three hours on weekends, Xi Jinping’s regime has now targeted “effeminate men” and all things “overly entertaining” in the entertainment industry. While the propaganda department of the Communist Party of China accused some figures in the industry of having a ‘bad influence’ on young people, this crackdown amounts to more than just an impingement on the freedom of expression; it is a direct, bigoted attack on arts and culture. Does the Chinese government want to mirror the Taliban in its actions? Debalina S. Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
08-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Soft target||Once may be a coincidence; twice, however, cannot be happenstance. Panchajanya, a publication associated with the sangh parivar, recently targeted Infosys, hurling insensitive, flimsy charges at one of the pioneers of India’s information technology revolution. Infosys was accused of being complicit, along with “Naxals, Leftists and the tukde tukde gang” — the favourite terms used by a thuggish political ecosystem — in destabilizing the Indian economy. The reason sighted for the slight is astounding: technical glitches have affected the functioning of the income tax digital portal that the IT company has developed. No less than the Union commerce minister has also been on record making disparaging remarks about indigenous industrial behemoths. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh is now trying to wriggle out of the sticky situation but a worrying pattern is evident. After the sustained vilification campaign against critics and dissenters — students, activists, political opponents — aided and abetted by a supine media and toxic social media platforms, the metaphorical dog whistle has now been blown to malign India Inc. Several vexing issues merit attention in this context. Be it Infosys or the Tatas, the contribution of Indian domestic industry to the cause of economic regeneration of the country is indisputable. In fact, their role in shepherding India’s growth story — the tale is imploding under the watch of the Narendra Modi government — as well as supporting innumerable philanthropic missions dedicated to public welfare reiterates their passion for and commitment to the national cause. What is worrying, however, is that Indian industry has been found wanting in its response to such viciousness. The captains of the industry must speak up against the opprobrium and, indeed, against the bullish economic policies pursued by the Centre. The Indian economy is in doldrums. At a time of deep slump and rising unemployment, the signals emanating from the government towards Indian businesses are deeply worrying. India’s prominent entrepreneurs have amassed enough public goodwill to resist this vilification fearlessly. An additional issue pertains to Mr Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharat rhetoric. It seems that instead of making India self-dependent, the slogan is increasingly being used to take India back to an era of government control and protectionism. Those resisting this ploy are being marked out. An even playing field for big business seems to be shrinking with the government patronizing a few at the expense of others. There is also the — philosophical — matter concerning slander. Engineered hate is all-consuming. It needs new sacrificial lambs to feed itself. Would some of India’s most domestic businesses — the pride of the nation — be forsaken at this macabre altar?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
08-09-2021||Opinion||A world under watch||The Pegasus scandal is, by no means, the first and it certainly won’t be the last in which a political entity has been accused of surveilling rivals and critics. Although it has been termed as ‘India’s Watergate’, it is unclear how the controversy would change either legislations regarding data protection or provide an incentive for entities — political or private — to refrain from such transgressions. Furthermore, NSO, the Israeli company which owns Pegasus, has shown that there is a lucrative market for firms whose goal is to infringe upon user-privacy. Pegasus has claimed that it sells its spyware to governments only — such as those of India, Hungary, Azerbaijan — to combat terrorism and criminal activities. Such a statement does not assuage concerns about firms like NSO selling spyware to high net worth individuals or corporations for profit. Edward Snowden, the privacy crusader, has stated that to stop the spyware industry from thriving, there must be a global moratorium on the same, much like the one on nuclear trade. Even though this technology is being selectively used to allegedly target certain political figures, its scale, Snowden argues, is such that every citizen can be put under surveillance soon enough. To ensure that the non-proliferation of spyware comes to fruition, there is an urgent need to reframe privacy as an issue so that it strikes a chord with one and all. When the Supreme Court was adjudicating whether the right to privacy was a facet of the right to life, the government had argued that privacy is an elitist concern and, thus, cannot be declared a fundamental right. This argument — it was not accepted by the Supreme Court — is one of the two principal reasons why Snowden’s suggestion of a ban on spyware trade will, possibly, remain a forlorn hope. Unlike the idea of a nuclear Armageddon, which conveys an existential threat to humanity, the invasion of privacy is met with apathy at best and ignorance at worst. As consumers, we are habituated to the idea of trading our privacy for services. This leads to a culture that normalizes infringements on privacy and, subsequently, surveillance. The ordinary citizen is not concerned with the differences in the manner a tech company — Facebook, Google and so on — harvests data against that by the State. This is a dangerous slippery slope, but one which needs meaningful engagement so that privacy is taken seriously at the grassroot level. The list of high-profile names released by Amnesty International who were potential targets of surveillance do not resonate with the common man. Privacy — especially digital privacy — unlike other fundamental rights, such as freedom of movement or the freedom to practise one’s religion, does not have a tangible value attached to it. Consequently, we do not perceive any real harm from its violation. Lastly, and possibly most worryingly, at least in the Indian context, the public has tacitly and, at times, actively encouraged the invasion of privacy by the State. This usually occurs when the police selectively leak private WhatsApp conversations and emails of people accused of crimes to create a certain narrative about the alleged criminals. Cumulatively, these factors result in weakening a broad-based demand for the preservation of privacy. Governments, too, do not have any reason to push for stronger data protection legislations. A national legislation would, anyway, not be of much help as surveillance cuts across borders. Secondly, the development of surveillance tools does not come with the caveat of mutually assured destruction. Preserving privacy and attempts to stop a surveillance State require an ambience in which privacy is valued by people. The public’s first brush with privacy is through tech companies that harvest users’ data. Any resistance has to begin with a strong pushback against unchecked data collection by such companies. Once the idea that some kinds of data are absolutely sacrosanct and cannot be collected takes root, only then would the larger populace take offence at the idea of a surveillance State. There is also the need to protect whistleblowers so that people such as Snowden do not have their lives upended for bringing the surveillance by the State to light.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
08-09-2021||Opinion||The new abnormal||Kashmir has become a raging disquiet in stolid resolve to spurn any plumbing of the depth of it, like a malignancy that has chosen to mask its potential for peril. There likely isn’t a geography more reduced, relegated and rampaged over in this country than the Valley. There likely isn’t a populace so choked in the carotids with grievance and grief. Grievance that has been tossed out on its ears as illicit. Grief that has mostly been rejoiced over. They’d rather not bare wounds if salt it is that will fall on the baring. They’d rather their sullenness say it all. I spent a week in Kashmir last month, my first visit since I extracted myself from the executive blitzkrieg that sundered Jammu and Kashmir and left the Valley guillotined under lockdown in the August of 2019. Does it say something that the preponderant majority of Kashmiris I spoke to upon returning — politicians, bureaucrats, businessmen, doctors, journalists, friends — either said it was futile talking or requested anonymity: don’t quote me, don’t put my name to anything I have said. A former minister had me over for breakfast and spoke bitterly and at length about the “demolition” of the Kashmiri sense of being, of an “enslavement” he saw no way out of. As I prepared to say my goodbyes, the elderly man put his palm gently on my back and pleaded: “Please do nothing that will send me back into lockup, you know there wouldn’t be any point in doing that. I have said what I had to say in good faith, but there exists no good faith between us and New Delhi.” What he was most broken for was this: Kashmiris expected an apology for what has been wreaked upon us following August 2019, but all we have heard is applause around our beating. People I have known for decades politely begged off, or agreed to a meeting and then said sorry, best to avoid it. Within a couple of days of arriving, I got used to the difference between an appointment made and an appointment not made good. Venues were shifted last minute, often not just once: “Let me think of a place... no not my office and not home, and not a public place, not a good idea.” For quite a while now, Srinagar has boasted a Press Club located down an alley off the tony Polo View bazaar. It is the last place a journalist might wish to meet you. They are wary of ‘farishtas’, or angels, the local euphemism for plainclothesmen and informers. They watch who meets who and says what. Journalists know. They have come to learn the hard way. It is routine for a journalist on the job to be spanked and abused, routine for equipment to be smashed or seized, routine to be summoned to the police station and threatened, routine to be charged with sedition, routine to be booked under the UAPA. The list of those ‘under watch’ or officially charged runs into dozens, it is long enough a list to fashion a handy muzzle. “Initially we kept such intimidation under wraps because talking about it made things worse,” a senior Kashmiri scribe told me — he had picked out a small bakery in the suburbs for our assignation — “But then some of us said we should talk, otherwise we will end up normalizing such tactics. I know of colleagues who have been called in and coldly told they either mend their ways or be prepared to be shot.” Kashmir is normal, Kashmir has been fully integrated, there should be no other story for a good journalist to tell. Tourists have become an insurrection on the street, milling belly loads of them disgorging at the Humhama airport, the portal to paradise. The Valley’s famed nooks of idyll are exploding with the click-and-roll of cameras, leisure has become a diesel-fumed scurry, bumper to bumper, from one destination to the other — Sonmarg today, Gulmarg tomorrow, Pahalgam the day after, shoot and scoot, load your cameras, feed your Instagrams and be gone before ‘something happens’. The gardens of Nishat and Shalimar are under footfall that would have shuddered the Mughals. The Dal boulevard is a mad toss of ‘shikaras’ and, by twilight, a flaming parade of roasted corn and kebab vends. The pictures are all paradisal, nobody wants darkness in their albums. Sun-swept lakes, meadows gone teal in curtains of distant rain, a riot of tulips, caravans of cuddly sheep, conifered slopes gazing down adolescent streams, a melting glacier, an iridescent sunset, a solitary woodbridge, a padded copse, a rippled houseboat. Kashmir is captivating at the moment, never mind the capturing siege descended on it. Those cameras wouldn’t be lying. But if cameras snap, they shut out too. Each frame means two images, what’s captured, what’s left out. Within stone-shot of the hectic holiday revelry being unpacked in Srinagar sits a city of ashen aspect. Its habitations lie denuded by time and violent tide, crumbled masonry and boarded timberwork, witness to recurrent paroxysms between disputed ambitions of State and subject. Rubble roads and manic dogs run through its warren habitations. A river weaves along, so slowed by its burden of sewage it does not seem to run at all. Its banks are piled with garbage on which kites swoop to snatch what they can in their skirmish with dogs. Slowly but inexorably, commerce has begun to relieve this dreariness — a spanking mall, a glass-front corner café, a snooker dive, not a bar yet but yes a sheesha joint, a shimmering SUV squeezing through lanes that weren’t cut for vehicles of such girth. Some of the cash rolling off the tourism turnstiles has begun to wash up and put a shine on this dilapidated town. But above the daily humdrum floats a pensive, unassuaged air so insistent it makes prayer sound like a dirge. By twilight, it has risen from the houses of god and become a shroud that defies cameras as well as it defies banishment. If Kashmir has indeed become ‘normal’ under the ministrations of August 5, 2019 and the sustained post-operative care, here is a fine example of it. When a nonagenarian adversary of the State dies, rendered frail beyond measure by chronic illness, his mortal remains are shoddily confiscated in a late-night jackboot raid and consigned to a grave not of the choosing of the departed man or the family. The last rites, filmed as a PR effort under as much light as cellphones can cast, recall all the antonyms to dignified as might exist. Severe restrictions on movement are imposed, communications are disabled, another flowering of concertina ordered for the streets, so Syed Ali Shah Geelani can be hustled six feet under. Such is the peace that has come to descend upon Kashmir, the peace of the commandeered grave. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
