09-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Diverse noise||A significant contributor to India’s multicultural fabric is the multiplicity of languages spoken by its people. The Constitution of India accords official status to 22 languages. Thousands of others exist — some even flourish — in spite of their unofficial status. An illustration of this was evident in the findings of an analysis of the 2011 census by a Delhi-based academic. The highest number of languages are spoken — no less than 107 — in the district of Bangalore, including 22 scheduled and 84 non-scheduled languages. The two other districts where over 100 languages are spoken lie in the Northeast: Nagaland’s Dimapur and Assam’s Sonitpur. The findings are heartening, not least because the multitude of tongues in a district’s speaking population contributes directly to the longevity of these languages. This longevity and diversity are also crucial when it comes to sustaining the edifice of pluralism — a defining characteristic of the republic. The data, however, also warrant a deeper reflection, especially in the light of the complicated nature of India’s linguistic and political domains. According to the 1961 census, India had 1,100 living languages. In 2017, the findings of a study carried out by the Vadodara-based Bhasha Research and Publication Centre showed a steady and alarming decline: the passage of 56 years since 1961 had witnessed the death of 250 languages, with the study predicting the demise of another 400 in the following 50 years. This would effectively leave India with only about 450 languages from the total recorded in 1961. Several factors play a role in the living and dying of languages, of which economic dominance and policy-based support are particularly important. The languages of economically weaker communities — coastal, nomadic or mountain-dwelling populations who are increasingly being pushed to the periphery of welfare and State imagination — are at risk. The disappearance of local languages is also augmented by children being forced to eschew their mother tongues in favour of learning English or Hindi, the principal languages of communication in educational institutions. There is also an implicit threat from political ideology. For instance, the pursuit of cultural homogeneity has forced the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party to patronize Hindi as part of its problematic ‘one language, one India’ formulation. It is true that the imposition of Hindi is being resisted fiercely, especially in the south and the east. There is thus a case for a similar energetic campaign to protect India’s dying languages. Educationists, policymakers, researchers and the people must be stakeholders in this initiative. After all, the future of Indian pluralism depends on the survival of multilingualism in letter and spirit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
09-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Infosys under attack||Biased opinion Sir — Many of us are unable to comprehend what led the right-wing magazine, Panchajanya, to accuse Infosys of working against the interests of the Indian economy (“Soft target”, Sep 8). It is even stranger that such a serious accusation seems to have been made merely because of technical glitches that affected the functioning of the income tax digital portal, which was developed by Infosys. This is simply outrageous. It was only last month that the Union minister of commerce, Piyush Goyal, had gone on a tirade against India Inc, especially the Tata group, accusing the latter of being self-serving and acting against the well-being of the nation. Goyal faced intense criticism which eventually led to the government asking the Confederation of Indian Industry — the remarks were made at its annual meet — to remove the video from YouTube. But it seems like the sangh parivar has learnt nothing from the backlash. The article in Panchajanya not only hurled insensitive accusations at the tech company but also, remarkably, admitted that it does not have any solid evidence to support its claim. Since then, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has tried to distance itself from the publication with the national media and publicity in-charge, Sunil Ambekar, tweeting that Infosys has made a “seminal contribution” to the progress of the country and that Panchajanya is “not [a] mouthpiece of the RSS”. But that is too little too late. It is time that the government and its supporters understood that companies such as the Tata group and Infosys have been contributing to the progress of the nation from long before the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power. These companies have provided employment to generations — in the case of Tata, also helped build townships around its industries — and have led India towards liberalization from the forefront. To call such giants of the industry anti-national is an immense folly. It is becoming increasingly clear that only those companies which cosy up to the sangh parivar will be deemed legitimate in India. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — It is baffling that Panchajanya thought it would be prudent to accuse the Indian tech giant, Infosys, of being anti-national. The prime minister claims to be an advocate for indigenous industries and, yet, said nothing when a magazine affiliated to the sangh parivar vilified Infosys. As is the case with any IT endeavour, technical glitches are bound to occur. Infosys has built its reputation as a stalwart of the industry over decades with quality output and innovation. The publication sought to malign the goodwill and image of Infosys for no valid reason. It is hoped that the magazine will withdraw the editorial and extend its unconditional apology as early as possible. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — Nothing can be more injurious to investment than vicious attacks on private companies by those in power. Weeks after Piyush Goyal slammed the Tata group for working against the interests of the Indian economy, the right-wing magazine, Panchajanya, accused Infosys of being in collusion with “Naxals, Leftists and the tukde tukde gang” to destabilize the economy. If the company’s products were facing prolonged technical issues, then it should be held accountable for that. But it is outlandish to label a company anti-national over such glitches. A protracted and unjustified attack on businesses will only create an atmosphere of fear which will harm the country in the long run. Anushka Panwar,Ujjain New trouble Sir — The outbreak of the Nipah virus in Kerala in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic has put everyone on edge (“Nipah easier to contain, say experts”, Sep 7). So far, the death of a 12-year-old boy has been attributed to the virus and at least 32 others have been categorized as high-risk. The chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, and the health minister, Veena George, must remain on their toes from now on. M.R. Jayanthy,Mumbai Sir — As Kerala faces yet another health crisis, we cannot help but remember the contributions of the former health minister, K.K. Shailaja. Hopefully, Veena George will be able to tackle the situation as well as her predecessor. Janani Iyer,Kochi  Ominous signs Sir — After wresting power in Afghanistan, the Taliban had assured that women will be allowed to pursue an education. But when private universities resumed classes, photographs emerged of female students segregated by a curtain from their male counterparts in a classroom. The education authority further mandated that women must wear an abaya and a niqab in universities, that they cannot be taught by male teachers and must use separate entry and exit points. These are ominous signs. The Taliban is likely to prohibit women from occupying public spaces soon. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
09-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Foreign hand||The Taliban claimed ‘independence’ after the hasty withdrawal of the troops of the United States of America and its allies from Afghanistan. But is this really the case? It appears that the regime has not been able to sever the umbilical cord that binds it to its patron — Pakistan. The ‘strings attached theory’ has gained further credibility with the announcement of the formation of an interim government in Kabul. A cursory glance at the composition of this dispensation would reveal Rawalpindi’s invisible, but firm, imprint. For instance, New Delhi has detected a disproportionate presence of elements from the Haqqani network and from the faction of the Taliban based in Kandahar in the power hierarchy atop which sits the hardliner, Mullah Mohammad Hasan Akhund. The segment that negotiated the peace treaty in Doha and with which there has been some contact at New Delhi’s end has, worryingly, been relegated to the sidelines in the course of this jockeying for power. The implications are obvious and ominous. The relative insignificance of those segments in the Taliban that appeared to be willing to engage with the international fraternity raises the prospects of a return to the medieval, theocratic rule in Afghanistan. This regression would deliver cruel blows to such causes as women’s empowerment and civil rights. Little wonder then that Kabul has witnessed courageous demonstrations led by women, both against the Taliban and Pakistan. Islamabad’s firmer grip on Afghanistan would deepen the frown in New Delhi. India has notable development projects in Afghanistan; their future could become uncertain. The more formidable challenge would be on the security front. The Taliban already have made discomfiting noises on Kashmir, and there is a possibility of the Taliban’s handlers encouraging the government in Afghanistan to depute non-State actors to heat up the border with India. The challenge for the global fraternity, including India, would be to wean the Taliban away from its dependence on Pakistan. The carrot and stick policy could be employed in this context. Afghanistan’s survival depends on aid — food, medical supplies, finances, reconstruction. The world must loosen its purse strings and facilitate humanitarian aid but these measures must be made contingent upon the Taliban’s ability to not allow Afghanistan to be transformed into an epicentre of global jihad. But international pressure can only work if the global powers find themselves on the same page. China has adopted a rather placatory position. Beijing should be made to fall in line so that Pakistan and, in turn, the Taliban refrain from adventurism elsewhere.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
09-09-2021||Opinion||The war on women’s bodies||The Assam government is planning to bring a “population army” to the Char-Chapori areas. Chars are river islands that are unstable and undergo constant formation and destruction. Mostly inhabited by Assamese Muslims of East Bengal descent, the chars are known as spaces where the fertility rate among the people is high. The high fertility rate is for a variety of reasons, such as low literacy, early marriage of girls, and greater dependence on agriculture that is labour-inducive. What is problematic about this initiative is that birth-control measures are specifically targeted with women in mind, indicating a view that the responsibility of controlling population in these communities rests solely on women. In a speech to the legislative assembly in July, the chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, spoke of the need to induct 10,000 additional Asha workers to provide contraceptives and birth-control measures to women in Char-Chaporis. Why does the State want to make women the engines of this initiative? Why does the intervention not involve men? After all, condoms, unlike oral contraceptives, hardly have any side-effects. In my two years of fieldwork in the char areas of Barpeta district in Assam, it became apparent to me why it was mostly women who would be ‘enlightened’ about the benefits of having a small family. On my numerous trips with the mobile Boat Clinic team members who visit the chars providing basic medical facilities, I witnessed how the monthly camps would be visited mostly by women. Medical staff, more often than not, would distribute oral contraceptives instead of condoms. In fact, the linguistic knowledge around birth-control suggests that for char-dwellers birth-control is equivalent to an oral pill. In the conversations with the medical staff of the Boat Clinic and Asha workers, the char women would use ‘Mala bori’ to refer to birth-control measures. While a condom was an alien idea, the ‘Mala bori’ has become a hushed but household term. Certain terminologies, the ‘Mala bori’ is an example, not only reflect but also shape the mindset of the users, showing how narratives around birth-control in Char-Chaporis are being woven around women’s bodies. This initiative by the Assam government is also an example of the nexus between a corporatized medical sector and a patriarchal State. In 2019, the Narendra Modi government decided to tweak the law and exempt oral contraceptive pills as a Schedule H drug. This meant that they could be sold without a doctor’s prescription. HLL Lifecare Limited, the firm tasked with selling contraceptives, including Mala-D, on behalf of the government, had, in a letter to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, mentioned how their sale had been greatly affected. Is the easy availability of oral contraceptives really a manifestation of freedom of choice and greater control over bodies as far as the women in char areas are concerned? Does not the absence of access to all kinds of contraception and knowledge of birth-control curtail choice and control over women’s bodies? Moreover, the women are unaware of the many side-effects that oral contraceptives can have on their young bodies. Does not the body of a marginalized, ignorant woman then become the site of a profiteering State? The greater availability and use of oral contraception are emblematic of embedded patriarchy. Sex thus becomes a narrative for the display of masculine power in which the woman’s role is limited to being a provider of pleasure. When the State endorses a template of population control by focusing on women as the targets of birth-control measures, it is actively contributing to this deep-seated, patriarchal narrative The womb has always been a site of contention and control by the State, be it France’s Vichy regime or Ireland that passed the anti-abortion laws. In Assam’s char areas, a lop-sided birth-control programme is infringing upon the voices and choices of Muslim women over their bodies. The deployment of 10,000 additional Asha workers will not help because being residents of the areas themselves, they are entrenched in similar notions of shame and fear when it comes to conversations around sex with men. Patriarchy, in the garb of empowerment, therefore, becomes a convenient weapon to target women’s bodies. Bhargabi Das is a Research Scholar at the National University of Ireland and an Irish Research Council Scholar (2019-22)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
09-09-2021||Opinion||Poor economics||The Narendra Modi government has announced a plan of “asset monetisation” worth 6 lakh crore rupees. This is in addition to its proposed privatization of public sector assets. Asset monetization is supposed to be different from privatization as it involves no transfer of ownership. But if a public asset that was earning Rs 50 crore per year earns Rs 500 crore by being handed over to private management that uses it for unbridled commercial purposes, such as railway platforms becoming advertisement spaces and high-rise malls coming up above roadways, then this move, per se, while squeezing out ordinary users, does not help the government. What matters to the government is the amount it gets for such a handing over, whether on long leases or only for a certain period. Asset monetization is thus analogous to sale, although for varying periods of time. However, what I say below holds, no matter for how long the asset is handed over. My point is that it has absolutely no economic rationale. The claim that it represents an alternative, less harmful, way of financing government spending compared to a fiscal deficit is wholly mistaken. Let us compare three ways of financing, say, Rs 100 of government spending, and assume for simplicity a closed economy (relaxing this assumption would only complicate, not negate, our argument). The first is through a fiscal deficit. Since in a closed economy investment must equal savings, a fiscal deficit, which by definition represents an excess of government investment over government savings, must be matched by a corresponding excess of private savings over private investment. Since private investment, determined by past decisions, remains unchanged during the period, private savings must increase by the amount of the fiscal deficit. A fiscal deficit increases demand, which raises output (if unused capacity exists) or prices relative to money wages (if there is no unused capacity). Private savings increase either way: larger output means more savings as do larger profit margins. A fiscal deficit thus puts into private hands the very extra savings (over the initial level) that the government borrows. Since savings represent addition to wealth, a fiscal deficit invariably puts extra wealth into private hands quite gratuitously. John Maynard Keynes had called this extra wealth a “booty”, which lands on the “lap” of the capitalists. Now, consider a tax on wealth, or on surplus (the source of private savings). The government, whose spending of Rs 100 would otherwise have put extra wealth of Rs 100 into private hands (if financed by a fiscal deficit), now simply takes away this extra wealth through such a tax, which leaves the private sector no worse off than prior to the government’s fiscal intervention. An increase in revenue from a wealth tax or a profit tax to finance larger government spending does not represent any sacrifice on the part of the surplus-earners. It only takes away from them the extra wealth that would have otherwise gratuitously accrued to them if the spending had been financed by a fiscal deficit. Now consider the third option: selling public assets to finance government spending. This is actually no different from the first option, namely, using a fiscal deficit to increase government spending. In the first case, the increase in private wealth corresponding to increased government spending takes the form of an addition to private holding of government IOUs (securities), while, in the third case, it takes the form of private holding of public assets. Thus, only the form in which the increase in private wealth is held changes, otherwise the two cases are identical. In Keynes’s language, the “booty” on the capitalists’ “lap” takes the form of public assets rather than government securities. Two specific aspects in which the cases are identical should be noted. First, the very resources with which public assets are purchased by private surplus-earners are put into their hands by government spending; and this is entirely because of the government’s decision on how to finance spending, not because they have done anything to “earn” them. It represents a gratuitous transfer to their pockets by the government. Second, private savings go up and add to private wealth for precisely that section of the population which does the overwhelming bulk of private savings anyway and hence holds almost the entire private wealth. (In fact, well over half of the population in India has an income so low that it can scarcely afford to save.) This has the effect, therefore, of adding to the wealth of those who already have massive wealth. This entire fiscal exercise engineers a gratuitous increase in the wealth of the already wealthy. This, and not the usual argument advanced against it, is also the problem with financing government spending through a fiscal deficit. The usual argument is that a fiscal deficit causes excess demand and hence inflation. But in an economy characterized by massive foodgrain stocks and unutilized industrial capacity because of insufficient aggregate demand, an increase in the fiscal deficit would have no inflationary consequences of this sort. The inflation that is currently occurring in the Indian economy is caused not by excess demand, but by “cost-push” factors, primarily higher indirect taxes on petro-products and their cascading effect. Hence, the real reason why direct-tax-financed government spending is to be preferred over fiscal-deficit-financed government spending is not that the latter is inflationary, but that the latter puts more wealth in the hands of the already wealthy. This is also true for government spending financed by the sale of public assets. A point must be noted here about the argument that the resources used for buying public assets are handed to the surplus-earners by government spending itself. The resources, amounting in our example to Rs 100, are put into the hands of the private surplus-earners as a whole; but not all of them buy public assets, only some do. Among the surplus-earners, therefore, there is a redistribution of resources whereby those who buy public assets do so by borrowing, directly or indirectly, from others within this surplus-earning class. The buyers of public assets may do so by borrowing from banks, other financial institutions or financial markets, but the resources they borrow are equal to what other surplus-earners have got. A set of complex portfolio adjustments, involving financial intermediaries, are made, through which the Rs 100 that the government obtains from the sale of public assets is actually put into the hands of those who buy them, by the government’s own spending. It may be thought that those who buy public assets, because their debt goes up for doing so, will consume and invest less than if government spending had been financed by a fiscal deficit; that is, our case three will be less expansionary for the economy than our case one. But this is untrue. Investment, determined by past decisions, remains unchanged anyway in the period under discussion; and consumption, typically a given fraction of surplus-earners’ income, has no reason to be different between cases three and one. Selling public assets thus is no less expansionary than running a fiscal deficit. All this has been known for almost nine decades, ever since the Keynesian Revolution, but the Modi government remains unaware of it. Public asset monetization, like public asset sale, for financing government spending betrays as much a poverty of economic thinking as a shamelessly pro-rich bias on its part. Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
