10-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Golden grease||Sir — From the crisp corners of a samosa to the lip-puckering, spicy oil in achaars, fat can make or break dishes. But while fat is the great unifier when it comes to delicious food, fat itself can be deeply divisive. While both desi ghee and tallow are animal fat derived from the cow, the two are separated along strict religious lines. Traditional recipes often call for the use of specific kinds of fat. But the urban Indian kitchen has no space for such segregation — given the potent smell of animal fat and growing health concerns, most food is now cooked in tasteless soyabean oil, or worse, olive oil. Barnali Ganguly, Calcutta Sir — It was heartening to learn that Madhya Pradesh recently amended its draconian, colonial-era Excise Act, 1915 to legalize and profit from heritage liquor — another name for local liquor produced by tribal communities. The production and consumption of alcohol is central to the culture, religion and economy of several adivasi as well as nomadic communities, which were originally listed as ‘hereditary criminals’ under the Criminal Tribes Act of 1871. In the eyes of the raj, tribal alcohol consumption was a social ill. Consequently, the Excise Act, 1915, was a product of colonial morality, imposing state monopoly over the production and sale of alcohol, and criminalizing alcohol possession and public drinking. Yet, instead of helping marginalized communities,   the latest amendment has added leverage to the police’s powers over them by introducing the death penalty for producing spurious liquor. Excise policing is steeped in institutionalization of caste prejudice — this is not exclusive to Madhya Pradesh either. It is this that needs to change, along with amendments in legislations. Otherwise, tribal and other marginalized communities will continue to suffer at the hands of the State machinery, while so-called ‘heritage liquor’ lines the state coffers and the pockets of politicians and policemen. Jivya Shyam, Morena, Madhya Pradesh Sir — The Supreme Court judge, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, has highlighted the special duty of public intellectuals to “question the state” and sustain democracy. However, the ability of public intellectuals to raise questions is contingent on the free and fair functioning of certain institutions in a democracy. Given the atmosphere of fear that pervades the country, no one dares speak against the government for there is no assurance of any support in case of wrongful persecution by the state. People’s trust in the justice system has been eroded in the recent past. To make matters worse, privacy concerns have ensured that let alone in public, people are often fearful of speaking up even in private. Merely sounding warning notes is not going to suffice in the current political climate. The judiciary has a huge role to play in ensuring that public intellectuals can indeed speak up without languishing in jail. A.K. Sen, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
10-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Lopsided||Mahatma Gandhi’s India, which “live[d] in [its] villages”, will cease to be a reality quite soon. New data from the Census office have projected that by 2036, 18 Indian states and Union territories will have at least 50 per cent of their populations residing in urban areas. These are not isolated figures: the data have been borne out by other research initiatives. In 2018, a study by the United Nations’s Department of Economic and Social Affairs said that by 2050, India would have around 416 million urban dwellers. Urbanization and the corresponding emptying out of rural settings are turning out to be a global phenomena. China, for instance, is increasingly becoming a nation of town and city dwellers — by 2016, more than 55 per cent of its population was already living in urban areas. Urbanization is interpreted as a sign of progress. But it merits closer scrutiny. In India, hyper-urbanization would bring with it unique, and serious, challenges. This year marked six years since the Bharatiya Janata Party’s flagship Smart Cities Mission was launched. Its aims were to create 100 smart cities, improve the quality of life for urban residents, and steer India’s rapid urban development with the help of technology and data-driven solutions. And, yet, latest data indicate serious failures in making these cities liveable, economically vibrant and environmentally sustainable. This myopia in policy is likely to lead to the intensification of existing environmental and infrastructural challenges with rural populations moving to urban areas in search of jobs and livelihood. Health, sanitation, housing, employment, water supply and education are some of the sectors that would come under unprecedented pressure. Some of these challenges are visible already — Indore was declared the ‘best’ smart city, but the district witnessed the highest number of Covid deaths in Madhya Pradesh during the second wave. Worse, most large Indian cities, including metropolises, do not have climate resilience plans in place, even though India has been ranked the seventh most climate-vulnerable country by the Climate Risk Index 2021. Finding solutions to these problems will require urgent and targeted planning by governments and city developers. For instance, is there a case to be made for a State-aided redistribution of populations to satellite towns that have been provided better infrastructure? Such a model would reduce the burden on major cities and, crucially, aid uniform development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
10-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Wordplay||The proverbial shadow falls between the prime minister’s words and deeds with a frightening regularity. Take, for instance, Narendra Modi’s latest utterance on education. In the course of launching several academic initiatives, Mr Modi declared that the modernization of India’s education is the result of policy-based intervention as well as participatory action. None of these claims — ‘modernization’, ‘policy intervention’, ‘participatory action’ — is above scrutiny. For instance, the government’s claim of building two colleges per day has already been proved to be hollow. The paucity of state-of-the-art educational institutions, especially in rural India, is an old ailment. Some of the other fruits of this modernization initiative are equally bitter. Mr Modi’s government has been an enthusiastic endorser of online education, with the National Education Policy giving it special attention. Yet, the attendant problems — loss in learning abilities among students, the massive scale of exclusion that has kept large segments of students from marginalized communities out of e-learning, decline in the standards of education imparted in digital classrooms, an alleged, subtle thrust to reduce the number of teachers and so on — are yet to be addressed. There is also the additional concern of curriculum being given an ideological tint. History, for instance, is being rewritten — this cannot be a measure of a modern educational ethos. Mr Modi’s claim of these transformations being participatory is equally suspect. Changes in curriculum and syllabi are being forced down the throat of teachers by pliant university administrations: the adoption of the four-year course in Delhi University is a case in point. The prime minister’s homilies would do nothing to conceal the bigger problem. The issue is political in nature. Mr Modi leads an authoritarian regime that is fond of unilateral adventurism. Policy decisions, be they on health, education, economy or security, have seldom been representative in the truest sense of the term. The allergy towards deliberation and consultation with stakeholders and political opponents, elements requisite in a democratic set-up, has often led to policy failure. Demonetization — yet another example of the prime minister’s ‘collaborative’ approach? — was an unparalleled disaster, crippling the informal economy. The same holds true for the Centre’s initial response to the Covid-19 pandemic as well as the economic crisis. It is entirely possible that the project to modernize education would replicate similar errors unless the Centre is willing to take along educationists, teachers and students in this venture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
10-09-2021||Opinion||A spectre called reform||The four-year undergraduate programme has returned to the University of Delhi. The memory of the messy, short-lived FYUP, introduced in 2013 and withdrawn in 2014, casts a shadow on this avatar of the programme which, the university authorities claim, is qualitatively different from the earlier version. Before going into the substance of the course, we need to look at the process. In 2012-2013, the then vice-chancellor had rammed the course through the university bodies ignoring protests by the faculty that such a momentous change required a longer deliberation allowing teachers to have their say. This time too, the academic council and the executive council, knowing too well that the faculty have not been allowed to discuss the proposal, decided to bow to the authorities. These bodies thus robbed the teachers, who would be teaching these courses, of their academic right. Before we discuss the substance of the FYUP, what must concern us is that the universities have made it a habit to take crucial decisions which would have far-reaching effects by stealth. The authorities subvert the established processes of deliberation, compromise them by luring a section of the teachers, making them members of committees which supersede the statutory bodies and, thus, corrupt the process of decision-making in academic matters. The committee set up to work out the structure of the FYUP had submitted its report in February, 2021 and the vice-chancellor had shared it with the academic council members, but he did not think it necessary to seek their feedback. How does all this justify the act of bypassing all statutory committees? We must also not ignore that all this was done during a period in which normal life was in complete jeopardy due to the pandemic. This is certainly not the best time to frame policy decisions when everything is being done in an emergency mode. We were told that the Delhi University authorities arbitrarily invited members of the academic council and the rest were asked to connect online. In the meeting, there was hardly any intervention from the members present virtually. The authorities did not even put the proposal to vote. If this is how such huge decisions are taken, then we should forget about finding a respectable place in international academia. More than the authorities who want to please the political power, this is a poor reflection on the professoriate of the university system who do not take their jobs seriously and bend too easily. The new FYUP is being presented as a revolutionary makeover of the undergraduate programmes of Delhi University. The current undergraduate programme does need reform as all programmes do, but what is being proposed as an alternative is worse. It says that its unique feature is the multiple exit and entry points. You get admitted to a four-year programme but now you have the democratic freedom to exit after one or two years as well as the right to a certificate and a diploma, respectively. If you wish to exit after three years, you get an honours degree but the fourth year earns you a BA honours with research. Usually certificate, diploma and honours are three very different programmes and cater to different academic and worldly needs. What is happening here is that there is only one whole programme — the four-year course — and it is being made to answer to four different needs. Fragments of this four-year course constitute the certificate and the diploma programmes. The world over and in India too certificate and diploma programmes are designed separately, as whole units. They are never parts of a different whole. Here, the students are being asked to walk away with some papers of the four-year programme christened as certificate or diploma. Their value would not even be worth the paper on which they are printed. The claims that these programmes have flexibility, are student-centric, that they allow students to earn significant amounts of credit from other universities and transfer them, and permit online platforms like Swayam to make their own degrees need to be examined carefully. The University Grants Commission is pushing universities to take large components from the Massive Open Online Courses or online programmes. The aim, obviously, is to reduce the number of teachers. The argument is, again, democratic: that it gives the students agency and removes the tyranny of teachers. But we need to ask the real question: where is the money for the resources that the additional fourth year would need? We would know the answer if we were to look at the pattern of fund cuts in all higher education institutions. A pauperized university is expected to enrich the intellectual experience of the youth. Here lies the deception of these ‘glamorous’ reforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
10-09-2021||Opinion||Give women credit||On August 12, the prime minister sanctioned a fund of Rs 1,625 crore towards capitalization of about four lakh women self-help groups under the ‘Atmanirbhar Narishakti se Samvad’ initiative. Indian women score disproportionately low on savings and borrowings. Of the more than three-fourths who have a bank account, less than a fifth — 16.7 per cent — save formally in banks. According to the World Bank’s Findex report (2017), 79.9 per cent of the Indian population had a bank account; among them, 77 per cent were women and 83.4 per cent men. Therefore, a higher number of women are unbanked than men. The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana has been credited with closing the gender gap in bank account ownership, from 20 per cent in 2014 to 6.4 per cent in 2017. According to a recent statement from the finance ministry, the total number of Jan Dhan accounts has reached 43 crore, of which 23.9 crore — 55.5 per cent — belong to women and about 28.7 crore — 66.7 per cent —  have been opened in rural and semi-urban areas. Yet, more than one-third of poor women in India do not have a Jan Dhan account. Two-thirds of India’s population lives in rural areas that contain only 11 per cent of bank branches; rural women of the country are mostly unbanked. Women have to face greater credit-constraints than men although the repayment history of women borrowers is far more satisfactory. Women borrowers make conservative investments and, hence, bear lower hazard risk. Being routed through SHGs, microfinance has made progress in providing credit to women. But unlike Bangladesh, microfinance is yet to create sustainable micro-entrepreneurship, turning the economy around through women. Microcredit in Bangladesh, which was pioneered by the Nobel laureate, Muhammad Yunus, contributes 2 per cent to its GDP. The country’s annual per capita income of US $ 2,227 in the last fiscal was higher than that of India’s US $1,947. Active microcredit borrowers represent just 4.3 per cent of the Indian population, indicating a huge scope for growth. Microfinance institutions in India should look into the untapped market, especially since the Reserve Bank of India, as per its proposal in June 2021, plans to withdraw the cap of 12 per cent over and above the cost of funds for charging interest. Under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, aspiring female entrepreneurs are entitled to avail funds of up to 10 lakh rupees to start a small or micro-enterprise, provided it is a non-corporate or a non-farm business. However mostly ‘Sishu’ loans have been sanctioned that disburse only Rs 50,000 per beneficiary as loan. About 68 per cent of the total Mudra loans had been sanctioned to women entrepreneurs till February 2021. But it is also argued that men in the family are pushing women as borrowers so that loans can be obtained easily. During the initial stages, banks reportedly did not keep records of entrepreneurship formation. Default risk is estimated to be as high as one-fourth of the total in the scheme. Although many banks reportedly have a day in the week earmarked for sanctioning at least one Mudra loan, the euphoria among bankers has been lost. Bankers are not keen on proceeding with the scheme. The pandemic has thrown a new challenge to the poor, particularly women. A global estimate says there will be 118 women aged between 25-34 in extreme poverty in 2021 for every 100 men of the same age. This ratio could rise to 121 poor women for every 100 poor men by 2030. Poverty and patriarchy compel women to be engaged in low wage-work or to be confined to the house. Indian women lost two-thirds of their income according to a survey conducted during October-November, 2020 in 10 states by Dalberg. Credit could have helped them move into better paying self-employment. The prime minister’s latest announcement may provide some relief to SHG members promoted under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission. But what about the rest?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
10-09-2021||Opinion||Year of paradoxes||The present moment in our contemporary history is riddled with paradoxes. The year, 2021, marks the commencement of our existence as an independent country for over seven decades. It naturally reminds citizens of India’s epic struggle for freedom, bringing to us the haloed memory of martyrs who laid down their lives dreaming of the freedom to come. It makes us want to revisit the lives and thoughts of the towering leaders who spread the idea of freedom in a country that had gone into a deep slumber and made it aspire to be free. But 2021 is also the year when the prime minister’s Independence Day speech from the Red Fort was delivered without mentioning Mahatma Gandhi even once. The year should remind every Indian that exactly one hundred years ago, Barrister Gandhi took charge of the Congress and became its president at the party’s session in 1921. His leadership gave the Congress an ideological vigour that would rattle the colonial government. Yet, 2021 is also the year when we see the Congress drifting apart week by week without even murmuring to itself what its ideology is. This is the year marking the launch of B.R Ambedkar’s Mooknayak, a journal that provided the foundation for subsequent social rights movements in India through the last one hundred years. It is also, paradoxically, the year when Dalits are being lynched by mobs more frequently than ever before. This is also the time to remember that a century ago, the Afghan War had shown that the Asian people could successfully combat the might of the British military, binding the Afghans and the Indians in a close emotional bond. In contrast, 2021 marks the year of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, a development that has given the Islam-baiters in India a convenient handle to indiscriminately demonize all Muslims of the subcontinent. Fifty years ago, in 1971, India had rushed to help Bangladesh gain its nationhood. In 2021, assembly elections in Bengal were fought as if the leaders of the Central government and those of the Bengal government belong to two different planets. Paradoxes abound. However, the most disturbing of all these for me is that 2021 marks the 150th year of the enactment of the first Criminal Tribes Act in 1871. In the 75th year of India’s Independence, even after a century and half, those who remain the hapless victims of the CTA still cannot see a ray of hope. Let me recount, in brief, the sordid tale. Ordinarily, contemporary Indians do not have a good reason to remember General William Henry Sleeman (1788-1856), a British officer who spent his life from the age of 21 working in the colonial administration for over four decades. That he chanced upon the fossils of the extinct Narmada basin dinosaur interests none outside the small circle of archaeologists. However, he was the one who created an abiding fiction related to a certain class of Indians. During the 1830s, he was appointed the ‘Commissioner for the Suppression of Thugee and Dacoity’. The grand name given to the office suited the colonial narrative perfectly since British authority rested on the idea of creating the rule of law and order. Sleeman took to the task with furious passion. Not only did he list every possible case of clashes and crime taking place in central India but also put them through hurried trials, leading to the hanging of 1,400 individuals during his tenure. One does not know if all or any of them received the benefit of legal aid from the colonial government. Those were still the days of the Company sarkar, and such an expectation would have been unrealistic. The result of the Sleeman mission was the creation and the circulation of numerous stories related to thugs and their criminal mindset; how much of the fact is fiction has not yet been ascertained. The idea that certain communities, not just some of their members, are given to criminal activity as their regular livelihood took root in the minds of the rulers. One of the undeclared intentions of Sleeman’s mission was to disarm the wandering soldiers of the defeated princes in India; therefore, most of the communities under Sleeman’s scanner were nomadic communities. The intent and the myth came together in the letter and spirit of the CTA of 1871. The Act held entire communities to be criminal in inclination. The remedy for the perceived criminality suggested by the CTA was to prevent the communities from continuing their nomadic life. Hence, the communities covered by the CTA included primarily nomadic and pastoral ones. They were kept confined in reformatory settlements — jails of a kind. With this, they became stigmatized forever, irrespective of whether an individual member in such communities had committed any crime. The CTA was revised several times during the colonial regime, its scope expanded each time to include more and more communities. Thousands died in these settlements. They were put to hard and unpaid labour. Several generations passed and the stigma became thicker. India had all but forgotten about them when Independence arrived. These communities continued to rot inside the settlements. It was in 1952 that, thanks to the report of the Iyengar Committee, the CTA was withdrawn and was replaced by the Habitual Offenders Act, aimed at individuals rather than communities. Since the earlier notifications were withdrawn, these communities came to be known as the Denotified Tribes, most of whom were nomadic by habit. The pastoral and semi-nomadic communities came to be abbreviated as SNTs. If a careful count were to be made in all Indian states, these communities would number over 250. And what may be their population? Based on the 1931 census, the estimates made varied between 8-15 crore, although their exact number was not known. Since the process of preparing the lists of the SCs and the STs had begun before the denotification process of the DNTs and SNTs began, many of these communities remained outside the benevolent framework of affirmative action. They were left without land, livelihood and government patronage, hounded out from villages and mob-lynched frequently in cities. Thousands of them are forced into a life of crime by the system that requires scapegoats to cover the big fish in the world of crime. Many are rotting in jails for life; many die in custody without a mention in the media. Over the last several decades, they have been asking for a proper census since getting counted could be the first step towards receiving State benefits. Yet, that has not happened. Will India turn a deaf ear to their pitiful cries during the 2021 census is anybody’s guess in this year of paradoxes. G.N. Devy is founder, Denotified and Nomadic Tribes Rights Action Group||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
