11-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Manchester madness||Cricket, much like life, is a game of great uncertainty. This element of unpredictability is, under ordinary circumstances, limited to the field of play. But these are extraordinary times and, hence, the possibility of off-the-field drama can no longer be ruled out. The events leading to the ‘cancellation’ of the fifth and final Test match between India and England after Indian players refused to take the field fearing a further spread of Covid-19 infections in their rank and file given that several members of the support staff, including the coach, had contracted the virus were both unprecedented and dramatic. An initial statement by the England and Wales Cricket Board — that India were “unable to field a team and will instead forfeit the match” — was quickly changed to a rather benign pronouncement in which the word, forfeit, did not find any mention. Whether this is an instance of the camaraderie shared by members of the English cricket board with the wise men who run the Board of Control for Cricket in India or yet another example of the BCCI — it has the deepest pockets in world cricket — barrelling its way out of a sticky pitch remains a matter of conjecture. The ‘result’ in Manchester would come as a disappointment to fans of both teams who had followed, their hearts in their mouth, an enthralling, ‘yo-yo’ series in which fortunes swung from one side to the other. The word is that the match will be rescheduled in the future. But by that time, given the chock-a-block nature of the international cricket calendar, this series would have lost its lustre. It is perfectly acceptable for the BCCI to prioritize the health of the players. But some questions must be raised for the sake of the cricket fan. Why did the coach, captain and other members of the Indian team get away with attending a crowded public event? They did so without the necessary clearance. Will the board examine this breach and show the spine to discipline errant players since the event, it is believed, was the source of the infection? Would the BCCI have endorsed the players’ refusal to play had the Indian Premier League — its favoured cash cow — not been on the horizon? Covid-induced isolation of stars may well have robbed the IPL of its glitter. There is, in this strange incident, something for the International Cricket Council to ponder as well. Cricket is likely to be played under the shadow of the pandemic for a while. Does this merit a change in the forfeiture rule — the ICC’s regulation for Covid-19 does not include forfeiture for the World Test Championships — so that teams guilty of lowering their guard — Indian players did so by taking the risk of attending a book launch — can be penalized? A mechanism should be put in place to prevent such embarrassing lapses from taking place. The BCCI and the ICC owe this much to cricket lovers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
11-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Only 18 per cent Indians fully vaccinated||Fatally careless Sir — Just about 18 per cent of Indians are fully vaccinated. Yet, Indians are going about their business without a care in the world, not maintaining social distancing or bothering to wear masks as if the pandemic is over. What makes this situation even more worrying is that even full vaccination is no guarantee of protection from Covid-19. Not only is the virus mutating at an alarming pace — many of these mutations have outwitted the vaccines — but the frontline workers who had been the first to be vaccinated are also catching the infection. This shows that the efficacy of the vaccine is time-bound and that most people would ideally need booster shots. But how will a country where more than 80 per cent of the population hasn’t even received a second shot manage to provide booster shots? As usual, the rich will get the extra shots — either in India or abroad — and the poorest of the poor who do not have the luxury of staying at home or even social distancing at times will be the ones who will suffer. This is also the segment of the population without access to healthcare and those who will run pillar to post trying to arrange medicines and oxygen when there is a shortage. In the event of a third wave, it is the poor who will lose out the most when lockdowns are implemented. The government must take preemptive action and see that precautions are followed in public spaces. Civic volunteers can be recruited from among the country’s vast unemployed populace to assist the police in this. Fines and punitive measures for those who violate rules could be one way of dealing with the situation. Alongside this, proper masks, hand sanitizers, gloves and so on must be distributed among the public free of cost. The flimsy cloth masks that most people are sporting around their ears would not have been of much use even if they were properly worn. Yet, the masses cannot afford N95s or surgical masks. If the horrors of the second wave are to be avoided, the government needs to work on a war footing immediately. Shabbir Mallick,Calcutta Sir — A visit to any government office will reveal that those working there are not bothering to wear masks properly. Given that government workers meet thousands of people every day, the risk that they pose when it comes to spreading the virus is immense. These workers may be vaccinated but it is becoming increasingly clear that the vaccines are only effective for a limited period of time. What is worse, fully vaccinated people who catch the virus may be largely asymptomatic, which means that they may not even be aware that they are passing the virus on to others. Government officials cannot be lax when it comes to safety measures. Jolly Das,Calcutta Sir — It seems that only images of death and mass pyres can force Indians to wear masks. At the height of the second wave, people seemed to have finally grasped the importance of wearing masks. But all such lessons have now been forgotten. Riya Ekka,Calcutta  Mined truth Sir —  The latest food fad to grip the world is that of Himalayan Pink Salt. This salt is touted to have health benefits and considered “healthier” than refined salt. But not only does pink salt have a steep environmental cost, in case of India, it may also be less healthy. The reason most refined salt in India is iodized is because surveys have shown that in India out of the 167 million people at risk of iodine deficiency disorder, 54 million suffer from goiter and two million from cretinism. Consuming pink salt may cause more harm than good where Indians are concerned. Kuhel Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
11-09-2021||Opinion||The day a city died: 20 years of 9/11||This year marks the 20th anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attack that took place in 2001 at the World Trade Center in Manhattan. The non-profit, 9/11 Memorial & Museum, commemorated the day by having the family of the victims read aloud the names of the deceased in a ceremony. There were also six moments of silence observed to acknowledge the moments of the fall of the World Trade Center, the attack on the Pentagon and that of Flight 93 crashing into a Pennsylvania field. The ceremony was open only to families of the victims. At dusk, the annual ‘Tribute in Light’ took place where two powerful spotlights shot upwards to the sky to recreate the Twin Towers. This year, the museum partnered with NYC & Company and several buildings to illuminate many of New York’s edifices in blue light as a collective remembrance of that day. The structures included the Empire State Building, One World Trade Center, the Metropolitan Opera, Lincoln Center Plaza, The Oculus, New York City Hall, Governor’s Island, and several others. Several films and docu-series portraying the 9/11 attacks and the aftermath were also slated to release around the time. One film that is in the spotlight is a Netflix movie called Worth. It is about the lawyer, Kenneth Feinberg, played by Michael Keaton, who was in charge of developing and administering the September 11th Victims Compensation Fund. Another one, The Outsiders, documents the creation of the 9/11 Memorial Museum and portrays some disputes amongst the staff on how the unfolding of events was depicted in the museum. Buttery bovine Imagine being in front of 360 kilogrammes of butter but not being able to eat any (probably for the best). The ‘Butter Cow’ is the sculpture of a cow made entirely of butter and is presented annually at the Illinois State Fair in Springfield. This year marks the 100th carving of the cow, keeping with an age-old tradition. The sculpture was kept in a refrigerated rotating display case at the Dairy Building. This year, it was created by Sarah Pratt and 360 kg of salted butter was donated by Prairie Farms Dairy. Even if you couldn't make it to the fair, the state of Illinois placed a webcam over the sculpture allowing you to view it from the comfort of your home. Last month, when the sculpture was unveiled by the Illinois governor, there was a bit of an anticlimax as the glass pane of the display case fogged up due to the high heat, making the sculpture hard to see. But pictures confirmed that the sculpture depicted the cow and a young woman hugging it, keeping with the theme of “Embracing Tradition”. In case you are wondering, the Illinois State Farm offers webcams to let you view all kinds of farm mysteries, including piglets and livestock. Leaf storm Now that Fall is here, classes are resuming in person, cafes are launching their Pumpkin Spice lattes and leaves are slowly changing colour. This means people can finally look forward to Fall foliage and leaf-peeping trips. A leaf peeper is a colloquial, local term referring to anyone who travels around and photographs the changing colours of leaves in areas that experience Fall, typically in New England and the Upper Midwest area. Several travel sites, including SmokyMountain.com, and magazines have already published the best spots to watch the foliage this year. Smithsonian Magazine released an interactive map with week-by-week predictions of the changing colours. The regional train system, Amtrak, is launching a National Fall Flash Sale with tickets at half prices for rides taking visitors on scenic routes between cities and a promise of spacious seats. The pumpkin spice is back as well. Grocery and retail stores have started putting Fall decor and Halloween-related items on their shelves. While Starbucks unveiled a new Apple Crisp Macchiato, an unlikely player has jumped on this seasonal bandwagon — Budweiser. BudLight launched a pumpkin spiced canned seltzer on Twitter with the hashtag #FallFlannelSeltzer. Work for play Labour Day — it fell on September 6 — was signed into a federal holiday back in 1894. It began as a reason to celebrate America’s hardworking labour force and unions. It is a paid off-day for most workers, celebrated with cookouts and get-togethers. Wearing white is frowned upon after Labour Day although fashion historians are not sure how this ‘rule’ came about. But fashion magazines encourage consumers to ignore the rule: Coco Chanel and Michelle Obama have been spotted adorning white clothes throughout the year. This year, most cities hosted parades, concerts and happy hours in bars. People also visited local beaches. In New York, the 51st Labour Day Parade was a colourful event that celebrated Caribbean culture. The carnival started in 1930 because of the heavy West Indian population in Harlem; typically, it attracts three million attendees. This year, it went virtual due to the pandemic. FOOTNOTE First it was the Cronut; now a close cousin, the Croffle, has thrown New York City into a dessert craze. The Croffle, a hybrid between a croissant and a waffle that originated in South Korea, is being sold in a bakery called Croffle House in Flushing, Queens. Croffle, made by pressing the rich croissant dough into a waffle iron and then adding toppings, has taken over Instagram with its colourful toppings of fruit, whipped cream or chocolate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
11-09-2021||Opinion||Like no other||Perhaps because my own life has largely been devoted to the pursuit of personal success, I have always felt a guilty veneration for those who live for others. The public servant I most admired died on Sunday, September 5, aged sixty-six. In these times, this may seem too early to go (particularly as he was not a victim of Covid-19) and he had contributions to make to society and scholarship yet. But given all that he did, and the manner of its doing, I wish not to mourn his premature passing but to celebrate a life that was exemplary in all respects. I first met Keshav Desiraju in the year 1988. I had heard of him from mutual friends in Uttarakhand who marvelled at how this native Telugu speaker and graduate of Cambridge University had so endeared himself to the people of the hills. He was then district magistrate of Almora, serving in an area that I had written about in my own research. I went to see him at work, noting with interest the fluency of his Hindi, his zest for long treks into the interior, and his deep understanding of the challenges of sustainable development in the mountains. When Uttar Pradesh was bifurcated, Keshav chose to join the Uttarakhand cadre of the Indian Administrative Service. Since I was born and raised in Dehradun, his being there was an incentive to visit the new state often. I remember with particular fondness a drive to the soon-to-be-abandoned town of Tehri, calling on the way at the place where Sunderlal Bahuguna had fasted against the Tehri dam, and on the way back at one of the last contiguous stretches of blue pine forest in the Garhwal Himalaya. In Dehradun itself, I witnessed the enormous regard in which Desiraju was held in the secretariat, as an officer who almost uniquely combined domain knowledge, personal probity, and an absolute lack of hierarchy in his dealings with others. In 1998, Keshav and I went on a trip to the tribal areas of Madhya Pradesh, visiting the villages the anthropologist, Verrier Elwin, had worked in. On our last night, we had dinner in a roadside bhojnalaya in Amarkantak where, while reading a Hindi newspaper a previous customer had left behind, Keshav heard that M.S. Subbulakshmi had been awarded the Bharat Ratna. On the long train ride back from Anuppur to Delhi, he told me about every M.S. concert he had attended (the first being at Mumbai’s Shanmukhananda Hall when he was eight), with near-perfect recall of every composition he had heard her sing. After several years in Uttarakhand, Desiraju was posted to Delhi as additional secretary in the ministry of health. Here he did outstanding work in the campaign to eradicate polio and for the rights of people with disabilities and, after he was elevated to the position of secretary, on expanding the provision of mental healthcare in the country. He sought, heroically, to take on the corrupt cabal that ran the Medical Council of India, which had many influential politicians in its pocket. This campaign, as well as his opposition to the tobacco lobby, led to this remarkable officer being shifted away from the health ministry by the UPA government then in power. For a general election was around the corner, and an upright secretary was an impediment to the collection of funds via illegal means. Over the years, senior civil servants in India have become increasingly known for their arrogance, their capacity for ingratiating themselves with their political masters, and their lack of a moral compass. Keshav Desiraju lacked these attributes entirely. Which may be why, unlike so many of his colleagues, he was held in such high regard by the people he was mandated to serve. Like his predecessor, K. Sujatha Rao, he was that rare health secretary who was enormously respected by doctors, medical school professors, and community health workers. His transfer by the UPA government evoked strong public condemnation from health professionals across the country. As Keshav and I became closer, my admiration extended from the professional to the personal — to respect for his deep devotion to his siblings, to awe for his extraordinary knowledge of classical music. On our train ride through Central India, he had told me of his wish to write a musical biography of M.S. Subbulakshmi. Now, after working long hours in the health ministry on weekdays, he spent his Saturdays scouring old microfilms in the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, documenting the concerts that M.S. had given in different places and at different times. When allowed a brief annual leave, he took research trips to London at his own expense, searching for materials in the British Library that were not available in India. When Keshav retired from service, the M.S. project, germinating in his mind over many decades, finally found fruition in a book published by HarperCollins earlier this year under the title Of Gifted Voice: The Life and Art of M.S. Subbulakshmi. An impressive work of scholarship, it stands with Oliver Craske’s Indian Sun: The Life and Music of Ravi Shankar as one of the two best books on an Indian musician. In retirement, Keshav also co-edited a well-researched collection of essays on his professional interests, Healers or Predators? Healthcare Corruption in India, published by the Oxford University Press. I admired Keshav for what he had done, and envied him for what he knew. We both liked to think of ourselves as ‘Nehruvian Indians’, as standing for the inclusive, culturally plural India that our first prime minister had fought for. However, Keshav was a Nehruvian Indian of a much deeper kind than I, with a far greater immersion in the cultural and linguistic richness of India. With his formidable knowledge of our music went a serious interest in our classical literatures as well. He spoke Telugu, Tamil, Hindi and English fluently, and knew some Sanskrit too. He could read all these languages easily, except for Telugu — indeed, at the time of his death he was learning the script of his mother tongue as part of his research for a book on the composer, Tyagaraja, which will now tragically lie unfinished. Keshav Desiraju detested Hindutva. The Hinduism he himself understood and practised had a humanity and compassion and a philosophical depth, altogether incomprehensible to the self-appointed defenders of the faith who violently stalk the streets of India today. Keshav combined a deep understanding of India’s civilizational ethos with a sharp awareness of the disfiguring elements in our tradition. As a younger Indian who knew him wrote, “Keshav Desiraju was a true deshbhakt, a man in whom the high founding ideals of our Republic were actually made out in flesh and blood.” Scholars can be solemn and humourless, bureaucrats pompous and self-regarding. This scholar-civil servant, however, had a sense of mischief and fun, as noted in Jo Chopra’s wonderful tribute in the The Indian Express. He has been gone merely a week, but there have already been half-a-dozen occasions when, reading something funny or farcical, I have thought, ‘I wish I could share this with Keshav.’ Keshav Desiraju was the first person I turned to for instruction on music, language, governance and public policy, and the first person I wished to pass on a joke or an interesting piece of gossip as well. I have many cherished memories of my compatriot, of which the earliest may be the most characteristic. On that 1988 trip to Almora, the social workers, Asit Mitra, Lalit Pande, Keshav and I, went one Sunday to see a sacred grove around the Banari Devi temple. We travelled, at Keshav’s request, not in the DM’s lal-batti sarkari gadi but in Asit’s rickety jeep. It was a joyous excursion, the most powerful man in the district utterly content being incognito with his friends as we walked up a hill densely clad in oak to the shrine at the top. Thirty years later, finding myself once more in Kumaon, I shared this story with Radha Bhatt, doyenne of the Gandhian movement in contemporary India. Radhabehn added a memory of her own. Whenever, as district magistrate of Almora, our friend found himself in Kausani, he would leave his driver at the foot of the hill atop which the Lakshmi Ashram lay and walk up alone to spend an hour or two with a person who knew the hills and its people better than anyone else alive. No DM before Keshav, and surely no DM after him, would have had the intelligence or humility to do anything remotely of this kind. As I was drafting this piece, a scholar mentored by Keshav Desiraju sent me a news clip of people in Almora mourning his loss. It had been three decades since he had served in the district, yet he was still remembered with respect and affection. Indeed, through what he did in his different assignments at the level of the district, the state secretariat, and the Union government, Keshav may have touched more lives, and in more salutary ways, than any other civil servant of his generation. Keshav Desiraju’s maternal grandfather was the philosopher, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the second president of the Republic. Keshav carried his lineage lightly and that, too, was characteristic of the man. Many who knew him had no clue of whose grandson he was. Yet, in a strange but entirely happy coincidence, he died on the birth anniversary of his grandfather, September 5, also known as Teachers’ Day. Through his work and his conduct, Keshav taught all those who knew him how to live a more honourable life. And very often how to live a more interesting life too. He was the most exemplary Indian of my acquaintance — exemplary as public servant, scholar, teacher, family man, and friend. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
