12-09-2021||Opinion||I’ve been my own plaything, and so?||They do say things, such things and such things not. And the others say things others will say, such things and such things not. You can do this, and this thing you may not. These we need to think about now and these we shall think about later. If there is a later. We are always at such a crossroads these days, aren’t we? This for now, that for later. And most often we may not know there will be a later. The way things are, and the way we are headed, the later may well be sooner. But you see dilemma can also be a happy thing. A better thing than no dilemma at all, no choice to make, only the one road to take. Better a crossroads than a cul-de-sac, wouldn’t you think? If you wouldn’t, then think. This way or that way better than just this way or just that way. Imagine if things were going to be just one way and no other. And imagine if there were another way to imagine how things could be. Take your pick. Or maybe pick your nose when no one’s looking. Just to get a sense up as close as the tip of your nose of how things work better when there is one way and another way. Imagine a single nostril, oh god no! Thank god for two of them, am I right? One way in, another way out, or the other way around, but choices between one and another. Imagine being possessed of a single nostril, never mind that a single nose does just fine, let’s not take this too far down ludicrous directions. I mean, you determine a course and you stay the course come what may. That’s determination, yes. And it is also possible to take a course and digress from it should circumstances so require. That’s flexibility. That’s also exercise of choice. Always handy, this choice business, although in fairness to extant realities, the choice business can’t be said to be doing too well, if you can discern what I mean. If you cannot, look at the billboards, or watch television news, or tune in to the radio certain Sunday mornings. We are quite stuck. And it would need a golly full-blooded blow for that to come unstuck. Can you blow hard enough, do you have the lungs for it? Try blowing, and how hard you blow may tell you what choices you have, or what you don’t. Try it, and it may well define the shape of things to come. Were we to go that way And make of it the most Should we heed what they say When all we really are is lost?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
12-09-2021||Opinion||Thok ke bhav||The Bahujan Samaj Party or BSP boss Mayawati has said that if she is voted to power in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) elections, she will no longer build memorials, statues and parks dedicated to OBC and Dalit icons. She said, “We have already done it thok ke bhav.” Indeed, soon after she came to power for the first time in 1995, Mayawati built more than 1,500 statues of Ambedkar across UP. Statues of Jyotirao Phule, Pandita Ramabai, Shahuji Maharaj also came up. There were statues of Kabirdas, Ravidas, Ghasidas, Birsa Munda. And there were more of the Buddha, Kanshi Ram and Mayawati herself. In 2009, a PIL was filed, which accused the BSP government of using Rs 2,000 crore public money to build statues and BSP's symbols. Mayawati was elected chief minister of UP four times. The fourth time --- 2007 to 2012 --- she served a full term. The first lot of statues may have been regular cement structures, but eventually bronze, marble and granite came to be used. Post 2002, came the sthals — Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Samajik Parivartan Prateek Sthal better known as Ambedkar Memorial Park, the Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal, the Manyavar Kanshiram Smarak Sthal. Expert commentary about the architectural style employed is peppered with terms such as “neo-Buddhist style”, “enfilades”, “Sanchi stupa inspired domes”, “Ashokan pillars”. Nearly everyone remarks about the “extra-human scale” of the creations. Much is also said about the “visually incongruent” cityscape of Lucknow; much Nawabi, some part British, and then ostensibly Dalit. The statue of Ambedkar in the Ambedkar Memorial Complex is inspired by the Lincoln Memorial. The Prerna Kendra enshrines Kanshi Ram’s ashes. It seems thicker-than-usual stone slabs were used and extra thick bronze. The open-air sculpture gallery at the Ambedkar Memorial has friezes on its walls depicting key events from the careers of Kanshi Ram and Mayawati. In the paper “Monumental Pride: Mayawati’s Memorials in Lucknow”, Melia Belli writes, “These are not sites built to honour the Buddha. It could even be argued that their ultimate function is not to honour Ambedkar or Kanshi Ram, but Mayawati.” Her primary job done, this time round Mayawati has promised not to build more statues and memorials for her vote bank, and instead work for development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
12-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Don't ignore Covid norms in the name of festivals ||Sir — In spite of the extent of death and disease suffered by Indians in the first two waves of the pandemic, anytime a festival rolls around, people can be seen gathering in large numbers. This blatant disregard for social distancing norms was witnessed, once again, when people celebrated Ganesh Chaturthi. Devotees were seen jostling in temples and taking part in processions. This is bound to spread the infection further. People seem to have forgotten the dreadful scenes of numerous pyres and patients gasping for breath. Must things be that serious for people to be careful? Ananya Mohite, Mumbai Sir — The last-minute cancellation of the final Test match between India and England was an anticlimactic ending to an otherwise thrilling series (“Manchester madness”, Sep 11). The root cause of this fiasco is the recklessness of the head coach, Ravi Shastri, who thought it wise to attend a book launch at a crowded venue in breach of Covid-19 protocols. The captain of the Indian cricket team, Virat Kohli, and other members were present at the event as well. Since then, Shastri and a few other members of the support staff have tested positive. This led to the Indian team refusing to play for fear of spreading the disease further. However, one cannot help but wonder that if all players tested negative, was it really necessary to cancel the final match altogether? Had the players gone ahead with the match, there was a high probability that the Indian team could have won the series and scripted history. After India’s gripping victory in the fourth Test at The Oval, all of us had hoped that the final match of the series would be just as riveting. But it seems that the Board of Control for Cricket in India had other priorities — perhaps the Indian Premier League which is about to start in less than 10 days. If any of the Indian players test positive or even quarantine during the IPL, it would result in huge economic losses for the BCCI and the franchise owners. The lure of money has well and truly corrupted cricket. N.V. Krishnan,Chennai Sir — It is unfortunate that an interesting Test series had to be cancelled because of Covid-19. After Ravi Shastri and at least four other members of the support staff tested positive for the disease, it seemed wise to cancel the final match. Although there are rumours that the match may be rescheduled, it seems unlikely with the IPL around the corner. Had Shastri and other members of the Indian team followed protocol and refrained from attending the unveiling of Shastri’s book, the series could have continued as planned. Not only is it disappointing for the fans, but the cancellation is also unfair to the English team. The Indian team must be held accountable for their irresponsible behaviour. C.K. Subramanian,Navi Mumbai Sir — The cancellation of the fifth Test between India and England at Old Trafford was completely avoidable. After the coach of the Indian team and support staff tested positive for Covid-19, the England and Wales Cricket Board was left with no option but to cancel the match. But did it really have to come to this? We are currently in the midst of a pandemic and had the team members been mindful of the consequences of their actions, they would have refrained from attending a crowded event. But they failed to take even basic precautions. Such callous behaviour is unforgivable. Minakshi Baruah,Guwahati Sir — It was deeply saddening to read about the demise of the Nehruvian diplomat, Keshav Desiraju, at the relatively early age of 66 (“Like no other”, Sep 11). It is poetic that he would take his last breath on the birth anniversary of his grandfather and the second president of India, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. It is rare to find an honest and humble civil servant these days, who is equally respected by the people he serves as well as his peers. He will be missed. K. Nehru Patnaik,   Visakhapatnam||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
12-09-2021||Opinion||No-nonsense Naveen acts on party leader, shows the way ||The chief minister of Odisha, Naveen Patnaik, has built a reputation for having a no-nonsense approach to maintaining law and order in the state. He ensures that action is taken against people violating laws, irrespective of their political connections. This has made Patnaik quite popular among the people. The CM set an example recently when he suspended a member of his own party, the Biju Janata Dal. The Chilika member of legislative assembly, Prashanta Kumar Jagdev, who has the image of being the ‘bahubali’ of the party, was suspended for being caught on camera beating up a local Bharatiya Janata Party leader in his constituency. Patnaik also removed Jagdev from the post of chairperson of the Khurda District Planning Committee. This has opened the door for the arrest of the MLA. Patnaik has just killed two birds with one stone. Not only has he foiled the BJP’s attempt to hit the streets over the issue of deteriorating law and order situation in the state, but he has also been able to send out the message that he will not let anyone breaking the law go scot free. Chirag Paswan, son of the prominent Dalit leader, Ram Vilas Paswan, is trying hard to step into the shoes of his late father. Paswan Senior was known for being able to correctly judge which way the political wind was blowing and align with the winning side. In fact, this had earned him the sobriquet of “mausam vaigyanik” or the political weather vane. But Chirag lacks this political deftness. He was caught napping when his uncle walked away with all the Lok Janshakti Party members of parliament except Chirag and has now staked claim over the party. The LJP was formed by Paswan Senior and handed over to Chirag. Both the BJP and the prime minister, Narendra Modi — a leader Chirag was in awe of — have dumped him and sided with his uncle, Pashupati Paras. The government has also asked the family to vacate the 12, Janpath bungalow associated with Ram Vilas Paswan for nearly three decades. Chirag’s well-wishers say he is confused. He does seem unwilling to take a clear political stand — in spite of being disowned by the BJP, he refrains from taking on the ruling party. He is also sending confused signals when it comes to aligning with the Opposition. His admirers say that Chirag was still on his training wheels when his father passed on. This is why he is yet to learn the tricks of the trade. The appointment of RN Ravi as the governor of Nagaland in 2019 had fuelled hopes of an early solution to one of Asia’s longest running insurgencies. He was not only a signatory to the much-touted Framework Agreement signed between the Centre and the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) in 2015, but also the interlocutor for the Naga peace process. Two years down the line, the peace process is floundering and Ravi has been transferred to Tamil Nadu in an attempt by the Centre to get the peace talks back on track. Ravi may also be removed from the role of the interlocutor. Ravi’s departure has triggered a sense of relief — most organizations directly or indirectly blamed Ravi, a former IPS officer, for the standstill in the peace process. In fact, the NSCN (I-M) had been demanding his removal for some time now. Ravi’s transfer, most feel, should be a lesson for those who think that the Naga people can be forced into “accepting” just any solution. If the Centre does not revisit its policies for Nagaland, it risks wasting the gains it has made so far. That Nagaland has an Opposition-less state assembly for the second time since 2015 to facilitate an early resolution of the Naga talks is revealing. Being overbearing and hasty are clearly not options when dealing with Nagaland or the Northeast. The BJP ministers in Bihar are rushing to Delhi one after another to meet the PM and the Union home minister, Amit Shah. But not all are successful in meeting them. The lucky ones are said to be boasting about their work in the poverty-ridden state. Many are even trying to meet the party president, JP Nadda, and other senior ministers. The rush started when whispers were heard that the top leadership of the BJP and its parent organization, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, was unhappy with the performance and conduct of several Bihar ministers, and mulling changes. The petrified leaders are now waiting with bated breath for the axe to fall. Ramesh Chennithala was among the Congress veterans peeved at being ignored while the posts of the district chiefs in Kerala were rejigged. The popular Congressman was the leader of the Opposition in the previous assembly and felt left out when the party picked his younger colleague, VD Satheesan, to take his place in the assembly and then went on to select district chiefs without “sufficient” consultations with seniors like him. Party circles have since been agog with talks of Chennithala being placated with a national role at the AICC. But he is unwilling to stay away from his home state and create space for younger leaders. The seasoned politician that he is, Chennithala knows well the perils of leaving his comfort zone. Amit Shah’s assurance that the Karnataka CM, Basavaraj Bommai, would lead the party in the 2023 state elections has caused heartburn among senior leaders eyeing the top job. The support for Bommai — whom many see as a stop-gap CM — has not gone down well with senior leaders like KS Eshwarappa and Jagadish Shettar. Bommai’s origin in the Janata ‘parivar’ is another factor working against him as some want old-time loyalists to be considered for the CM’s job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
12-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Caught in the blades||When Friedrich Nietzsche had predicted the rise of an Übermensch — the superior man who would impose his own values on the rest — he had been slightly off the mark. The tribe that imposes its values on others has taken the form of Übereltern — Super Parents — instead. Nietzsche would have fared better if he had turned to India, where parents, be it the overbearing mother or the authoritarian father, have, for long, honed the skill of micromanaging the lives of their children. Bengali mothers have gone a step further and turned this craft into a fine art, usually expressing it in the form of relentless ministrations. Time and technology have only served to sharpen the skills of these ‘helicopter parents’, as they are popularly known. Reports show that several schools in Calcutta are now complaining that ever since classes shifted online owing to the pandemic, thereby transitioning from school to home, children have been imprisoned in virtual panopticons with parents watching their every move. The consequences of this surveillance are troubling: children are being prodded to sit properly in front of the laptop screens, answer before their peers do, not to mention the ample but unwarranted — pesky — parental aid that they are receiving when it comes to doing classwork and homework. Scientific research shows that this type of domineering parenting has serious, long-term consequences: the children’s inability to take independent decisions impairs their problem-solving skills. The key to liberating children from the family-turned-prison may be found by digging deep into the parents’ psyche and enquiring what is it that compels them to nudge, nay shove, their blood onto the path of perceived success. The results of such an enquiry can be illuminating. Rising economic instability and a rapidly shrinking job market may be the reasons why parents force children to join the rat race. Then, there is the figure of the overbearing mother, a creature born as a result of inverted, asymmetrical power relationships. Women in a patriarchal society have little say in family matters and, as the lockdown-induced layoffs have shown, the fate of the modern working woman may change at the first sign of trouble. As such, children become collateral damage, subjects on which mothers exert excessive control as a result of their own powerlessness. What runs even deeper though is the culture of surveillance that is ingrained in the Indian family structure — the snooping Indian relative can give Pegasus a run for its money. In a society where personal choices mean little and often several members of a family share limited space, concepts like privacy and independence have always been hard to comprehend. Knowledge — about the intimate affairs of family members — is power when it comes to keeping the fast-disintegrating Great Indian Family together. It is this lack of understanding of the idea of privacy — even that of children — that is at the heart of helicopter parenting. This intrusive mindset needs to change if helicopter parents are to keep their children from crashing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
12-09-2021||Opinion||Noble experiment||The ascendancy of majoritarianism in several parts of the world calls into question the historical significance of India’s experiment with pluralism. This broad popularity of majoritarian parties and leaders can be taken to mean that the ideal of representing diversity isn’t just a local failure brought about by the success of the Bharatiya Janata Party, it also represents a more general defeat of the idea that nations ought to do better than suffer minorities. If this is true, it is a world-historical defeat. I have argued before that both historical fascism and contemporary majoritarianisms confront minorities with extinction, expulsion or coerced assimilation. These aren’t, of course, choices; these are fates assigned by nations to their minorities. While totalitarian states and illiberal democracies are more prepared to use massive state violence to achieve their majoritarian ends, countries that think of themselves as liberal democracies — like France — are increasingly willing to discipline minorities through law and propaganda. Let us assume that the election victories of the BJP in 2014 and 2019 mark the end of this experiment, at least for the foreseeable future. This raises an important question: what is the historical significance of independent India’s experiment with pluralism if it is snuffed out? Its importance is this: if this pluralist first republic hadn’t existed, we wouldn’t be able to invent it. It was created by a unique historical conjuncture: the decolonization of a subcontinental empire. The Indian nation state that was one of the end results of this process was historically singular but the constitutional polity it created through pragmatism and idealism, intention and error, produced precedents and practices that are now available to the whole democratic world. This is not the space in which to attempt an exhaustive inventory of these precedents and practices, but I want to focus briefly on the central insights of constitutional pluralism. The first of these was that a democratic state can take formal cognizance of difference and inequality. Unlike France, where the principle of laïcité creates a willed blindness to difference and, therefore, prevents the state from even gathering the information that might allow it to address systematic discrimination on the basis of those differences, the Indian republic institutionalized affirmative action in its founding charter, in the schedules of its Constitution. This is historically important because once a democratic state incorporates affirmative action as a part of its political project, it becomes a precedent that can be examined and evaluated by other democratic states. It ceases to be a wispy rhetorical aspiration and becomes a real-world practice. The fact that India has scheduled castes and scheduled tribes who have a special claim upon the attention of the state is important not just to India but to any discussion in the world where people discuss inequality and what governments can do to systematically tackle it. The Indian republic is sometimes accused by its critics of fetishizing diversity. The most obvious example of this is India’s calendar of gazetted holidays that scrupulously nominates holidays for the special days of virtually every faith community in the country. You could see this as a kind of unproductive pandering, or you could think of it as a way of reminding Indians that everyone’s religious practices are formally acknowledged by the state as equally worthy of its attention. It is, if you like, a way of publicly making room for everyone, of not allowing the weight of numbers to define who is worthy of public attention. One of the most interesting examples of intellectual parochialism is the absence of the experience of India from the debates about the shape and political direction of the European Union. Geographically, India and Europe are subcontinental extensions of a single continent. They are roughly the same size, though India is both more populated and more diverse. The reason Europe dignifies itself as a separate continent has nothing to do with geography and everything to do with its erstwhile imperial dominance. India’s achievements and failures as a subcontinental democracy ought to interest the EU’s architects and ideologues as well as its critics. The controversy about the EU’s treatment of its poorer constituent elements like Greece, the often-resented dominance of Germany and France, the legitimacy and necessity of redistributing resources between the poorer and richer regions of a single monetary union would be richer if the experience of India, a country that incorporates radically unequal regions, was factored in. This is not to argue that India is an exemplary nation; merely to say that its experience and practice of managing difference — economic, cultural, religious, linguistic — in a pluralist way represents a living political experiment that every democrat and political thinker should refer to: as case study, inspiration or cautionary tale. I was reminded of the significance of India’s secular and pluralist Constitution by a recent essay by a brilliant Naga academic, G. Kanato Chophy. At a time when the BJP’s explicitly majoritarian government is busy driving a coach-and-four through the rights guaranteed by the Constitution with the seeming deference of the country’s courts, it’s worth attending to a scholar who sees the republic from a vantage point very different from the heartland hubris of Narendra Modi and his disciples: “I belong to an emerging class of educated Nagas who consider themselves “constitutional Indians”; many of the young in my community, and perhaps the north-east more broadly, are culturally conservative, proud of their region’s distinctive history, tradition, language, and ethnic identity, but at the same time seeing and desiring common ground with fellow citizens in other regions of the country that have their own — sometimes almost incomprehensibly different — language, history, and culture. For a Naga, this common ground is the idea of a modern and secular India — as the truly Ambedkar-inspired Constitution defines it — not the largely elite and Brahmanical notion of a timeless Indian civilisation and tradition dating back thousands of years.” The reason why the Indian Constitution strikes a Naga scholar from India’s borderlands as the one platform on which he can feel a sense of citizenship with other Indians is that this Constitution was shaped and framed by another scholar who wrote from the margins of Indian society, whose community had been at the receiving end of this “timeless civilisation” that now seeks to remake India in its own image, and who was, therefore, acutely aware of the need to establish citizenship on the ground of rights, not ‘culture’ or ‘civilisation’. Ambedkar’s Constitution is a living reminder that a political culture, unselfconscious about difference, that tries to co-opt people into majoritarian practice risks alienating them. This is as true of laïcité as it is of Hindutva. “The umbilical cord connecting Nagas with mainland India... is not the cord of a shared ancient history, religion, or culture. The link is tenuous, and has to do with the ideas of equality, justice, and liberty enshrined in the Indian Constitution.” What’s true for Nagas is true in principle, or ought to be, for all Indians. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
