13-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Emma Raducanu wins US Open 2021||Young gun Sir — The British teenage sensation, Emma Raducanu, deserves to be congratulated for winning the US Open, 2021. She has created history by becoming the first British woman to clinch a Grand Slam singles title in 44 years; Virginia Wade had won the Wimbledon in 1977. Raducanu’s maiden Grand Slam win is all the more remarkable because she defeated top-seeded players without dropping a set. Amazingly, Raducanu is said to have turned pro just three months ago — she has never been a direct entrant to a Grand Slam main draw, she is yet to play a tour-level three set match, and she has not even won a match at a World Tennis Association tour event. But occasionally a special player like Raducanu comes along, making a mockery of conventions and taking the sporting world by storm. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — Emma Raducanu has shown spectacular potential and determination at the US Open. Given her lack of experience and young age — she is just 18 years old — the feat of winning the US Open is commendable indeed. Raducanu is sure to become yet another jewel in the tennis crown. We wish her all the best for the future. Seetharam Basaani,Hanamkonda, Telangana Sir — The 18-year-old Briton, Emma Raducanu, has become the youngest Grand Slam champion since Maria Sharapova in 2004 by beating the Canadian, Leylah Annie Fernandez 6-4, 6-3. She has already achieved several milestones in a professional tennis career that only began in earnest three months ago. I doubt we will see anyone else with her potential in the near future. Raducanu has been outstanding in this tournament and deserves all the praise being heaped on her. But one hopes that Raducanu has a good head on her shoulders. She will need it if she is to continue to do a good job in the future while handling all the media attention that she will be subjected to. Between Raducanu and Fernandez, one cannot think of a more spectacular ending in the memory of the US Open women’s final. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Emma Raducanu’s achievements are significant. She may just be the new star on the tennis firmament. But success at such an early age has its pitfalls. The other ace tennis champion, Naomi Osaka, had recently highlighted some of these. Mental health can take a backseat when players are pushed to succeed no matter what the cost. If Raducanu is to truly live up to her potential, she should not be forced into anything and allowed to just enjoy the game. This enjoyment of the game is the secret to the success of greats like Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, who continue to stun spectators even at such an advanced age. Even pure talent needs to be honed over time if it is to last. If Raducanu allows fame and fortune to get to her head, then she may burn brightly but briefly. Shreya Basu,Calcutta  Poppy pickers Sir — In an effort to gain international acceptance after seizing power in Afghanistan, the Taliban have told farmers to stop cultivating opium poppies — the raw material for heroin. Illicit drug trade has long been a cash cow for the Taliban. Drug traffickers are known to have made huge donations to the Taliban to meet the group’s weaponry requirements and so on in exchange for ‘protection’. Foreign aid cuts and losses in local spending by departed foreign troops are fueling an economic and humanitarian crisis. It is thus unlikely that either the destitute Afghans or the Taliban will turn their backs to the narcotics trade.Rajesh Kumar,Satna, Madhya Pradesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
13-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unmindful||Human behaviour can be a fascinating area of study, even when public conduct is far from ideal. Consider the findings of a recent study on social behaviour across 31 nations. A team of 65 researchers found that Japanese society is the most conscious when it comes to ‘social mindfulness’ — an intrinsic, collective ability to comprehend the outcome of individual action on others. Seventy-two per cent of decisions in Japan, the researchers found, could be categorized as ‘socially mindful’, putting Japan as the leading exponent of a culture that prioritizes the spirit of cooperation. The study threw up some interesting nuggets. The score for Canada, touted as one of the politest of nations, was poor: 57 per cent of the conduct of Canadians was bracketed as such, while neighbouring United States of America, the high priest of individualism and, in recent years, insularity, managed a score of 58 per cent. China, which is seeking to topple the US from its high pedestal, had a better ranking than its rival with a reading of 62 per cent. India, unsurprisingly, found itself in the lower rungs, with a score of 50 per cent; only Turkey — 47 per cent — and Indonesia — 46 per cent — fared worse. The researchers may have warned against any value judgment on the basis of their study but it would be tempting to draw some broad conclusions. Cooperation has been one of the pivots that supports the edifice of civilization. The progress made by mankind in the course of its history was made possible because human society mastered collaboration and, in turn, nurtured a sense of empathy far better, and quicker, than other species. Yet it seems that this very foundational element is now in crisis, albeit in varied degrees, across large swathes of the globe. A number of causal reasons can be speculated upon. They would range from the pursuit of materialism to absorption in forms of technology that encourages the deepening of narcissism, undermining cooperation and enterprise. The impact of such insularities has acquired distinct political forms: the rise of shrill nationalism that vilifies pluralism in India and the world is a case in point. Citizens and nations must learn to be mindful of others if the world is to retain its humane visage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
13-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Grim tale||The Periodic Labour Force Survey released by the Government of India for 2019-2020 reveals some expected changes in the labour force and in employment patterns. There was an economic slowdown prior to the start of the pandemic. Thereafter, matters got much worse with disruptions in economic activities. The survey uses data from July 2019 to June 2020. One finding of the survey is the increase in labour force participation in agriculture. The share of the labour force in this sector increased from 42.5 per cent in 2018-19 to 45.6 per cent in 2019-20. This reflects, in part, the reverse migration of informal migrant workers from the cities to the villages. They treated the agricultural sector as the employer of the last resort. This is also indicative of the additional stress on the agricultural sector, which already houses a substantial volume of the labour force. This is a reversal of the trend of economic development where agriculture releases additional workers as more and more non-agricultural jobs open up in industry and urban areas. The survey also reveals that women’s participation in the labour force has increased in this period. Normally, this would have been a welcome development. However, given the economic distress resulting from the pandemic, it is indicative of a growth in unpaid family labour. This, in turn, means a decrease in paid jobs for women who would fall back on doing chores for the family. According to the survey, the employment rate for unpaid female workers increased from 30.9 per cent in 2018-19 to 35 per cent in 2019-20. The overall trends imply that labour market stress is higher now than it was in the pre-pandemic period. First, the two rounds of stress — pre-Covid slowdown and pandemic-induced reverse migration — would make it even more difficult for employment rates to pick up significantly to ensure a better distribution of income and growth in aggregate demand. Second, efforts at job creation in terms of crisis management in a weakened economy would lead to greater low-paid informal sector work, making the bottom of the economic pyramid heavier than ever before. Third, when the economy eventually picks up enough confidence to see a large, steady flow of new investments in the non-agricultural sector, employers are likely to minimize the use of labour and choose new technologies that are labour-displacing. Finally, what could be an alarming outcome of the current trend is that even with reskilling displaced workers there may not be adequate number of jobs to absorb them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
13-09-2021||Opinion||Cornered Dragon||India recently despatched four warships to the disputed South China Sea region to enforce its maritime claim over the world’s most contested waters. While geopolitical analysts and foreign policy pundits may dismiss this as a routine exercise, it reveals India’s unwillingness to remain a silent bystander. It also signals a paradigm shift in India’s strategy where Beijing is concerned. The South China Sea has overlapping territorial claims by a number of countries in East and Southeast Asia. These maritime territorial claims assume significance because the region is rich in hydrocarbon reserves and is an excellent chokepoint for any major power. In his book, Asia’s Cauldron, Robert D. Kaplan highlighted that the South China Sea region is responsible for the passage of 75 per cent of South Korea’s and 90 per cent of Japan’s oil and natural gas imports. Significantly, more than $200 billion worth of India’s annual trade happens through this strategic waterway. From a resource and strategic point of view, this region is thus a goldmine. India can ill-afford to remain aloof about developments in this area. India’s unexpected aggression has taken Beijing by surprise. New Delhi must not let go of this opportunity. A new way of tackling the dragon in its backyard is by putting up a collective show of solidarity. At a time when the global public opinion is against China over its alleged role in the outbreak and spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, India can gain an upper hand by enticing its Quad partners to organize naval exercises in the disputed region. Australia and Japan, with whom China’s relationship is at an all-time low, can become natural allies for India in taking on the dragon. The South China Sea region can help India take the fight to the dragon’s doorstep. New Delhi can also persuade Beijing’s neighbours, particularly Vietnam, Philippines and Malaysia, who are at the receiving end of Chinese aggression, to join hands with it to rightfully settle their sovereign maritime claims in the region. India can build a N-4+, that is a naval coalition of the Quad plus other countries to curb the dragon’s belligerent behaviour. It can extend the vaccine alliance it has built among Quad members to include these countries as well to counter Beijing’s medicine diplomacy, which has already spread to many countries. A key aspect of outwitting China in this great power game would be to enlist the support of Taiwan, which has tried every possible method of protecting its sovereignty against Chinese aggression and has been largely successful. India must reach out to Taiwan by selling it the BrahMos supersonic missiles and its Light Combat Aircraft, Tejas, for instance. Taiwan will prove to be a reliable ally in this great game because it, too, has claims in the South China Sea region. What makes Taiwan the trump card for India and the Quad is that Taiwan is a robust democracy with liberal social and political institutions. It also has a booming economy and has been one of the countries most successful in tackling Covid-19. Enlisting the support of Taiwan will allow the Quad, especially India, to shed its Beijing-centric foreign policy. New Delhi will also be able to concentrate on cultivating ties with a country that, despite its small size, can prove to be an effective counterweight to Beijing. This outreach will also send a message to Beijing that India and its allies will no longer accept the erosion of the current world order; rather they will vigorously challenge China’s hegemony, and its model of development and governance, defending a rules-based liberal international order. If India and its Quad partners can emerge victorious in this great game, then a new multilateral order will emerge where India commands dominance. It is time India explores the advice of Sun Tzu, the Chinese war strategist, who said, “It is more important to outthink your enemy, than to outfight him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
13-09-2021||Opinion||Where have the voices gone?||It has been a few months since the United States of America decided to unconditionally pull out its troops from Afghanistan. We now know that a humanitarian catastrophe is unfolding there. We also know that women and children were particularly vulnerable as thousands flocked to the Kabul airport to meet the August 31 deadline set by the US for the evacuation of troops. Various reports have stated that the Taliban are going to let women participate in Afghanistan’s workforce and society subject to the conditions of the sharia. This possibility has been met with derision and scepticism. Surprisingly, global women’s rights activists have been quiet during this period, particularly those part of the ‘MeToo’ movement. Coined so by the women’s rights activist, Tarana Burke, in 2006, the movement gathered momentum in 2017 with the Harvey Weinstein episode. As of today, the hashtag has trended in at least 85 countries and celebrities — Alyssa Milano, Gwyneth Paltrow, Ashley Judd and Uma Thurman, among others —have lent their voice to the movement. Yet, a cursory search of these names and their stated positions on women in Afghanistan reveal a strange silence. Have they been shocked by the recent turn of events? Might they be working in the background trying to influence G7 countries for supportive measures for Afghan women? Is UN Women, one of the key voices in this space, doing enough herein? These are questions that must be raised globally, especially in a world where women leaders like Angela Merkel or Jacinda Ardern are few and far between, at least in terms of influence on geopolitical decision-making. Moreover, all of this is happening in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic in which, many publicized estimates have shown, women have suffered disproportionately on account of the ripple effects of lockdown measures on the economy, labour markets and households. Strangely, influential women — Mackenzie Scott, Melinda Gates or Indra Nooyi — are not speaking enough on the crises. The MeToo movement has its antecedents in the West where institutions, to some extent, complement the role of individual influencers. But in poorer economies in large parts of Asia, Africa, Latin America and other conflict zones, these institutions are mostly absent, and the fight remains between individual women and their oppressors. Even Malala Yousafzai was criticized for being late in commenting on the Taliban’s advent in Afghanistan. But without the supporting institutions, speaking out may not change the status quo in these regions. Meanwhile, the men from the West continue to waffle through the Afghan mayhem. The British chief of defence, General Nick Carter, has claimed that this time around, the Taliban want an inclusive society but was caught off guard when his interviewer intervened, ‘except women’. In his televised addresses, President Joe Biden may have mentioned the precarious plight of women in Afghanistan but that is almost always a side note. Afghan women deserve the support of the ‘MeToo’ activists. The absence of support could expose the movement’s prejudices. If women’s rights decline in Afghanistan after two decades of gain in literacy and other positive outcomes for women (as indicated by data from UN Women), there could be a negative spill-over effect in other neighbouring societies reeling under Covid-19 and the yoke of fundamentalism. The return of the Taliban and the weakening of women’s rights could have larger ramifications. Research suggests that there is an inverse link between women’s empowerment and domestic terrorism. Cameron Harris and Daniel Milton, in their article in 2015 in the Journal of Human Rights, found evidence in support of this hypothesis on the basis of a sample of 150 countries between 1970 and 2004 — that women’s empowerment leads to a decline in domestic terrorism, an idea that found support among Laura Bush and Hillary Clinton. Where have those voices now gone amidst the calamity in Afghanistan? Isn’t it time to reinvigorate them not just to support Afghan women but to cleanse local and global terrorism? Chirantan Chatterjee is a Tenured Reader in Economics of Innovation at the University of Sussex, United Kingdom||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
13-09-2021||Opinion||Special bonds||Teachers’ Day was celebrated on September 5. It is perhaps felicitous to recall some notable relationships between teachers and students, both within and outside the academia. In modern times, the relationship between Ramakrishna Paramahamsa and Swami Vivekananda is well-known. The teacher-student relationship between Rabindranath Tagore and Mahatma Gandhi is relatively less-known. However, both cases share a common feature — the guru is looking for the shishya. Another relationship in this category is between Kalidas Bhattacharyya, a senior and well-known professor of philosophy and former vice-chancellor of Visva-Bharati University, and C.S. Rao, an unknown young philosophy teacher from Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati. Rao later changed his name to Vaddera Chandidas. This relationship also remains largely unknown to the public. The encounter between the Paramahamsa and the Swami was accidental. Constraints of the Indian freedom struggle guided the connection between Gurudev and the Mahatma. The meeting between Bhattacharyya and Rao turned out to be rather dramatic, with Bhattacharyya discovering an exciting new philosophical manuscript. Bhattacharyya then proceeded to prepare the text for publication by writing an introduction. This journey began in 1972 with the University Grants Commission appointing Bhattacharyya to evaluate the Department of Philosophy of Sri Venkateswara University. He considered various aspects of the department and expressed a desire to meet all the faculty members individually before writing the report. He met all of them except Chandidas but he insisted on meeting him before leaving. A meeting was finally arranged on the morning of the last day of his stay. It did not begin well as a reluctant Chandidas was not forthcoming with answers. Bhattacharyya, however, persisted in probing Chandidas about his interests — both within academia and outside of it. His perseverance paid off, and Chandidas finally told Bhattacharyya of a manuscript he had been working on. After a quick read, Bhattacharyya found the unconventionally written text to be stunningly original. He postponed his return journey from Tirupati and began reading the text seriously. Realizing it was novel and dense, he asked for a typed copy to be sent to Santiniketan. He spent more than a year studying the manuscript and wrote a long introduction. During this period, he wrote 12 letters. They were imbued with a deep affection reminiscent of the Paramahansa’s attitude towards Vivekananda. Reading these letters can bring tears to one’s eyes. There are two aspects to Bhattacharyya’s assessment of this text: its originality and philosophical density. Regarding the former, he declared in his introduction that he was surprised to find — amidst all the hostility towards metaphysical thinking and the spread of historical scholarship in India — in this text “a new complete system of metaphysics, presented though in an extraordinary concise form, almost in the way of ancient Indian Sutras.” In one of the letters he writes, “All costliest gems are very artistically arranged into a cosmic necklace — or, better, a profoundest swinging necklace perpetually throwing into radiance the freeze-point pearls.” Regarding the philosophical depth of the text, he says, “As I began to read the typescript, within five minutes I got lost in its profundities… such is the wonderful style of your writing.” In another letter, he admits, “I can’t read your paper for more than three hours a day at a stretch — it is so thought-provoking at every step, indeed at every word, and the last few pages are literally staggering. Do you know that after these three hours, I read, for nine hours, lighter things to ease myself? This is not an exaggeration, no patronizing — far less any flattery.” Regarding the impact of the text on him, Bhattacharyya says, “I often boasted that I carried with me a philosophical map where I could easily place every philosopher in his fitting position. I have been humbled. This is the first time I feel I have to recast the whole map that I have drawn so carefully... to place you in the proper place.” These show the two essential characteristics that made Bhattacharyya a remarkable teacher. One is his ingenuity in finding a new philosophical text from an unknown young philosophy teacher which is rare. Two, his perseverance in trying to understand and evaluate the text and prepare it for publication. Without the contribution of Bhattacharyya, it is not possible to think of Chandidas’s Desire and Liberation: The Fundamentals of Cosmicontolgy, first published by the author in 1975 and reprinted by Oxford University Press in 2018. There is something special about Bhattacharyya’s contribution. Modernity was brought to India by colonialism. Behind Macaulay’s façade of modernity was the other face that legitimized colonialism. His education policy erased anything Indian, including its philosophies, and attempted to replace them with Western ideas. Subsequently, many Indian scholars did capitulate and the academic syllabus was inundated with Western philosophy. In response, some Indian academics presented the history of Indian philosophers. Some others, like Ganganath Jha, translated many classical Indian philosophical texts into English. Here it is necessary to recognize that Macaulay had not only discarded everything from India when proposing modernity; modernity, in turn, had ruthlessly discarded everything from the past, including Greek metaphysics and Christian theology. So the texts from India that sought to counter this imposition from the West had to consider Macaulay and modernity. Bhattacharyya’s contribution fell outside these domains. He did not turn to the past. Further, he did not propose a new philosophy like Lord Buddha or offer a new interpretation like the Adi Sankara. He trod a new path of discovering an unknown text. This path provides important challenges to explore. It demands rigorous discipline in polishing writings and texts from modern India and preparing them to be launched to a larger audience. I was drawn towards this path laid by Bhattacharrya very early in my career. Since then, I have not looked back as I find this path both productive and rewarding. And I remain in debt to Bhattacharyya, an ‘exemplar’. Teachers’ Day was a propitious occasion to remember the contributions of Kalidas Bhattacharyya “Mahasaya,” who was in line with the Paramahamsa and Gurudev in identifying and nurturing new talent. Further, it is befitting to recognize the contribution of a philosopher on this occasion as it also is the birth anniversary of another renowned philosopher, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. A. Raghuramaraju teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
