14-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Darker hour||India was adjudged the most dangerous nation for women by a global poll in 2018. The situation, dishearteningly, seems to have worsened. According to data released by the National Commission for Women, the country witnessed a rise of 46 per cent in complaints of crimes against women in the first eight months of this year in comparison to the corresponding period of last year. Of the total complaints received, the highest number were recorded under the ‘right to live with dignity’ clause, followed by complaints of domestic violence and, then, of harassment of married women or dowry-related coercion. The highest number of complaints were registered in states and Union territories that are laggards in this regard: Uttar Pradesh tops the list, followed by Delhi and Haryana. The spike in registered cases can be attributed to several factors, not least of which is the versatile nature of violent crimes against women. The violence can be disproportionate though. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau show that in 2019 there were over 4,05,861 cases of assaults on women — a 7 per cent spike over the figure reported in 2018. Of these, 13,273 attacks, including 3,486 rapes, were perpetrated against Dalit women. The pandemic has exacerbated the crisis, with domestic violence — it witnessed a massive surge during the lockdown — labelled a “shadow pandemic”. Another challenge is posed by the subtler forms of violence — emotional abuse and mental cruelties — many of which are not even recognized as crime by the law. Marital rape, for one, still enjoys legal sanction. Then, there are systemic failures. The conviction rate for rape was a paltry 27.8 per cent for 2019, even though 88 cases of rape were recorded every day on an average. These systemic failures have led to a worrying demand for instant justice. Even though activists have made several arguments against the efficacy of capital punishment as a deterrent, the death penalty is still repeatedly proposed by political parties in an attempt to deflect attention from the structural and systemic challenges. India’s anti-rape laws are already stringent; putting effective deterrents in place would require more than symbolic gestures. These would involve addressing the lacunae on multiple fronts: shoddy investigation, the lack of sensitization among the police and the public about the dangers of ‘instant justice’ and, crucially, the embedded inequalities of gender and economics fuelling such crimes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
14-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: M.K. Stalin keps photos of political rivals on schoolbags||Astute leader Sir — In the past, a change of dispensation in Tamil Nadu has often been accompanied by attempts to erase photographs and mentions of previous occupants of high posts from government doles. It was thus surprising that the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam supremo and incumbent chief minister, M.K. Stalin, chose to keep around 65 lakh school bags embossed with images of former chief ministers from All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, J. Jayalalithaa and E. Palaniswami. With this gesture, Stalin has proven that he stands apart from his predecessors. Not only does this move show that the chief minister is respectful of the Opposition, but it also points to his commitment to the economic well-being of the state. Stalin has saved a significant chunk of taxpayers’ money — Rs 13 crore — that can now be better spent on public policy initiatives. It is noteworthy that at a time when the Centre is attempting to erase the contributions of past leaders, Stalin is reverent towards the political legacy of the state. Unlike other leaders, Stalin refrains from self-eulogizing. This has endeared him to the people of Tamil Nadu. One hopes that this marks the beginning of a new era in the state’s political landscape. So far, Stalin has shown that the people were justified in reposing their faith in him in such troubling times. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The chief minister of Tamil Nadu, M.K. Stalin, must be lauded for his decision to keep with the pictures of his political rivals, J. Jayalalithaa and E. Palaniswami, on school bags. Hopefully, other politicians will learn from him. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — M.K. Stalin exhibited true statesmanship when he chose to keep the old school bags issued by his political rivals. The people of Tamil Nadu have made the right choice by voting him to power. Mehul Patel,Pondicherry  Food wars Sir — Internet ‘food hacks’ seem to have pushed Italians to the edge. From tamer experiments like pasta chips to more outrageous recipes like spaghetti cooked in Coke or Nutella, the crimes against them are numerous. Some have defended the offenders by saying that they were simply trying to be creative and should not be taken seriously. But this reveals a lack of understanding about the deep emotional and cultural bonds that people have with food. A strawberry lasagna may rack up views on YouTube, but it will certainly not endear the cook to those who love food.Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
14-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Privileged few||Politicians often strive to resurrect tried-and-tested formulae, especially when the chips are down. This seems to be the case with Mayawati and her Bahujan Samaj Party. The BSP’s electoral tally has been dismal in recent times. It performed miserably both in the assembly elections in 2017 as well as in the parliamentary polls two years later. The debacles seem to have forced Ms Mayawati to return to an old trick: forge a broader solidarity between Brahmins and Dalits. At least, her recent overtures to Brahmins — she pledged to protect the interests of the community at a function — are indicative of her endeavour to breathe life into that famed rainbow alliance. The political compulsions are obvious. In a state where political fortunes are usually determined by caste equations, there are persistent rumours of the Bharatiya Janata Party under Yogi Adityanath alienating its Brahmin supporters on account of the chief minister’s patronage to their rivals. Political attempts to woo Brahmins are, however, not limited to Uttar Pradesh. Several welfare schemes have been launched in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka that cater exclusively to the interests of the community. Exclusion is the hallmark of these welfare programmes, be they for education or entrepreneurship. Initiatives to promote Vedic education in all three states, for instance, remain the sole prerogative of Brahmin students. What makes this surge in neo-Brahminism in welfare curious is India’s history of affirmative action. The current argument — a perverted one — appears to be that if Dalits can stake claim for State assistance, so can other caste groups. Aggravating economic distress and the erosion of the State as a guarantor of some kinds of employment have, undoubtedly, heightened the pitch for such demands. But the point is that the principle of social justice is distorted by such a proposition. There is no denying the fact that Dalits have been — and continue to be — victims of unprecedented discrimination. The scale of the injustice and their underprivileged status justify the State’s affirmative interventions. But ascriptive identity cannot be used as a yardstick to address complaints of penury and backwardness — real or imagined — of other castes historically associated with embedded social privileges. The ultimate goal of reservation — its execution, but not its spirit, may have been faulty — was to create, at some point in the future, an even playing field for all social groups. That constitutional vision is in shreds. Competitive politics and populist welfarism, both of which are inimical to the social fabric, are two principal causes of this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
14-09-2021||Opinion||Waste not||It’s better to bin it than bag it. We generate millions of tonnes of biodegradable solid and liquid waste every day. What do we do with those large mounds of rot? Some small towns are showing us a way — Ambikapur in Chhattisgarh, Indore in Madhya Pradesh, Karad, Nashik or Ahmednagar in Maharashtra, to name a few. They are converting their waste into compost and selling it to farmers. Maharashtra has even begun to brand its city compost as ‘Harit’. The key lies in segregation of our waste, and in turn, our behaviour. Solid and wet waste on one side, plastic and medical waste on the other side. It takes 21 to 30 days to convert it into organic manure. We don’t do it. Worms, animals and microorganisms do it. What we can do is responsibly manage our waste. What began in Vellore, Tamil Nadu, with C. Srinivasan’s ‘Zero Waste Management’ model, or what he calls the Solid and Liquid Resource Management, is now slowly catching up. Most states are floating their policies for the urban local bodies, but their actions aren’t being matched by investments. The Centre’s two thematic focus areas match: Clean India Mission and improving soil health. Which means the Centre can incentivize both — the urban local bodies and farmers or their collectives. India would do well to give city compost a big thrust: at least half our waste could go back into our fatigued soils as compost and drastically improve organic content. Degrading soil fertility is playing havoc with yields in most parts of our country and is connected to the climate and nutrient cycle. Twin problems Early studies on the outcomes — such as in the GIZ-Nabard supported ProSoil programme which is currently in vogue in a few districts of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra — show that urban compost is not only good, but its affordability in the light of rising chemical fertilizer prices is also pushing the demand from among the small farmers, primarily those who do not have livestock for organic manure. Just this one factor — improving organic carbon in the soil — can marginally enhance yields. India has huge and growing neighbourhood markets for farmers as the Karad model shows. The municipality of this small Satara town, home to the former chief minister, Prithviraj Chavan, converts its waste into compost and sells it directly to the neighbourhood farmers from its disposal facility. Since the fertilizer companies have a mandate to sell organic matter along with chemical and inorganic soil feed, there’s going to be interest in this sector. Most cities on the other hand are under pressure from citizens’ groups and green tribunals to do something about their piling up waste. At least 50 per cent of the massive amounts of solid and liquid waste can be converted into compost. The process might address our twin problems: piling-up waste and degraded soils. According to the New Delhi-based National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, the annual soil loss rate in our country is about 15.35 tonnes per hectares, resulting in a loss of 5.37 to 8.4 million tonnes of nutrients. This has long-term implications for farm-yields in the era of climate change. Right now, supply is a constraint and the quality of the compost and composting facilities are nagging issues, but they can be addressed with public and private sector investments in state-of-the-art laboratories, automation, better process management, and targeted incentives. Urban compost could be a game changer and not just from the point of view of the urban local bodies’ headache with its efficient disposal, but also from the point of view of improving soil health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
14-09-2021||Opinion||Way out of the vaccine crisis||As on September 1, 2021, India had fully vaccinated 15,07,81,981 people — around 10.8 per cent of the population — as per data from the Union health ministry. This suggests that we have a long way to go to extend primary protection to the people from the Covid-19 virus. There is a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Kerala and in rural India. Vaccination has become crucial given that the fatality rate could be reduced through a wider vaccination programme across different ages. The Centre has planned to complete full-dose vaccination for 94 crore adults within December, 2021. For this, it needs about 188 crore vaccine doses. A comprehensive rural vaccination plan is also necessary. At present, only two companies — the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — are manufacturing Covid vaccines. There is an acute supply shortage of vaccines in India. In view of this problem, the chief minister of Delhi as well as a former prime minister had suggested that the Centre should give licences to other pharmaceutical companies to ramp up vaccine production. Even the Supreme Court has offered a similar suggestion. As per the Doha Declaration of 2001, in the context of the Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, under the World Trade Organization, WTO member countries can waive off intellectual property rights and grant compulsory licence in matters related to public health emergencies. Within Intellectual Property Rights, more specifically within the Patents Act, 1970 — amended by the Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005 —there is a unique provision for compulsory licence to remedy the abuse of monopoly patent rights. In October 2020, India and South Africa jointly demanded for IPR waiver to the WTO to temporarily suspend patent rights in the case of Covid-19 vaccines-related technology and medicines. Even the United States of America and some European countries have supported the waiver of the IPR, but it could take months before a consensus is reached. In the first phase of the Covid-19 crisis, Remdesivir was considered as an important drug in the treatment of patients. Its patent right was held by Gilead Sciences, based in the US. Russia decided to step up the supply of Remdesivir in public interest and in January, 2021 it granted compulsory license to Pharmasynthez, a Russian company. Gilead has filed a lawsuit against this action in Russia’s Supreme Court. Moderna, an American company, waived off the patent right for its vaccine and said that the company was willing to give license to other interested parties for vaccine production upon request. Till date, no company has come forward to acquire the license. Lifting IPR or granting compulsory license may thus not facilitate the entry of new manufacturers to supply more vaccines. Secondly, vaccine supply chains are international. The BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine contains around 280 ingredients that are exported from around 19 countries. This makes compulsory licensing the wrong strategy to increase vaccine production. A company’s patent right can be waived off by government order. But one cannot force the inventor company to reveal its trade secrets. When the innovator company drafts the patent, it often lays down broad steps. But the finer points of production are not disclosed often. Hence, it is difficult to know the exact process of manufacturing a vaccine from the original patent draft unless the inventor company agrees to transfer the details of the mechanism. Vaccine manufacturing being a complex process, no company has come forward to produce the vaccine even though Moderna waived off its IPR in October, 2020. Vaccine development also requires a lot of money; another reason why we do not have generic Covid-19 vaccines, as of now. What we need along with IPR waiver is technology transfer and training facilities to enable new companies to adopt vaccine-production technology. Cooperation between and assistance from the government and the corporate sector are also necessary. The government should step in and facilitate the technology transfer process. In order to tide over the vaccine crisis, the Central government has, of late, permitted the import of foreign vaccines like Sputnik V and those developed by Pfizer and Moderna. Some of these are already being marketed. But these foreign vaccines are not affordable for all. There is also the challenge of storage. Some of these vaccines require storage at specific cold temperatures for which then infrastructure is not readily available in most parts of India. It would be wise to expedite the production of indigenously developed vaccines and use the compulsory licensing route if existing manufacturers fail to supply the required quantities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
14-09-2021||Opinion||Hopes tempered||The rise of Indian unicorns — start-ups that reach $1 billion in valuation — has raised hopes of innovation and entrepreneurship-driven growth at a time when Covid-19 has caused much damage. This is not without foundation. Historically, recessions and pandemics are associated with both business failures and successes: natural forces arise from within and upset existing processes and arrangements, replacing these with profit-seeking innovations that increase productivity. This is the idea of creative destruction characterized by the Austrian economist, Joseph Schumpeter. India now has 100 unicorns, according to the investment bank, Credit Suisse; the Reserve Bank of India counts 10 new ones that emerged in 2019, 13 in 2020, while this year, three start-ups became unicorns each month! India hosts the third largest number of unicorns globally, after the United States of America and China, albeit at considerable distance from the former. What is the macroeconomic significance of their emergence? To be sure, it is difficult to anticipate aggregate outcomes of disruptive forces as impacts are observed over time. The growth pivot expected from the technology-driven transformations is exceptional, although the combined market valuation of unicorns is presently a minuscule share of the total despite robust future assessments by their venture capital investors. The unicorns are primarily located in consumer, technology, finance, hospitality, retail, and communications — domestic market-oriented services, although some look abroad as discerned from the foreign acquisitions. This contrasts with the emergence of India’s information technology sector nearly three decades ago. That was solely geared towards foreign demand, lifted the global share of India’s services’ exports and stabilized external balances with receipts that partly offset a secular expansion of the goods’ trade deficit. It also triggered IT-enabled, business process outsourcing and related services, created high- and medium-skilled jobs tapping into a vast engineering pool, language and low-wage advantages, and established an ecosystem in Bangalore, the crucible of present-day unicorns. At the same time, its post-2000s boom pushed up skilled-wages premium that fed back to the manufacturing sector, lowering its competitiveness with the steep rise in wages. The IT example illustrates how structural transformations unleash positive and countervailing forces. The aggregate outcome depends upon how the economy — workers, firms and government — responds to fundamental change. Given the limited export potential, the tech-driven and private equity-financed unicorns will mainly grow through domestic market expansion. Their external competitiveness is unknown, but it is true that their deep-pocketed investors are willing to back losses in the process of gaining market share in India’s large market where they have a long way to go before plateauing. The competitive interplay between incumbent and new firms will no doubt raise within-sector productivity due to greater efficient use of resources — lesser labour and capital input to produce the same unit of output. Less clear are the inter-sectoral elements of structural change, a process in which the resources spared from less-productive tasks, firms and sectors are redirected towards productive ones. The shift of worker-households or consumers, the firms or investors, and government policy interventions are material in this context. The macroeconomic effects are observed in respective contributions of capital and labour to raise the value of a product (goods or service), which increases the incomes of the owners of these factors of production — profits and wages — that sum up to gross value added, including product taxes, subtracting subsidies yields GDP, growth which measures improvement in living standards. Productivity increase is good for the economy despite increasing slack in some segments in the process. From a demand perspective, a lot depends on whether digitalization and aggregation of economic activities, which characterize most start-ups, are attracting new or additional consumers to expand the consumer base or shifting existing ones online. The breathless pace of mergers-acquisitions to gain market share indicates this may be more physical-to-online substitution for now. The continuous slowdown in aggregate consumption from 2017-18 supports this conjecture. Even in the pandemic-induced shift to online retail, for example, growth of Indian consumer numbers is assessed to be less-than-half the pace in the US and China. It follows that fresh and/or existing capacity expansion — investment — will respond to the enlarging of the consumption base. New technologies and applications also activate new investments — for instance in logistics, distribution, warehousing, which are visible. What is unknown though is whether investments are retreating or have altogether stopped elsewhere because they’ve become unproductive or are too inefficient to compete — there’s no significant increase in aggregate investment, which remains unprovoked. Evidence from the US, the longstanding leader of unicorns, provides some clues. Real GDP grew 2.3 per cent annually on average in 1990-2020; this masks the decadal average growth slowing from 3.23 per cent in the 1990s to 1.9 per cent in 2000-09 and to 2.3 per cent in the recent decade. In this time, unicorns evolved into present-day, big-tech firms whose investment spending outpaces the biggest spenders 20 years ago while their monopoly or near-monopoly positions and tax avoidance practices increasingly attract regulatory and public ire. Notably, productivity growth in the US has slipped below 1 per cent since 2005; the reasons, be it technical change or investment slowdown, are debated. Labour’s share in the national income (wages) has steadily declined, that of profits has risen; so has inequality, while there’s a lasting decline in workforce participation. Thus, there’s evidence of reduced competition in the long run, but also signs of limits in some spheres, such as the sustenance of the retail giant, Walmart, against Amazon, which is now turning to physical retail, even as many others — clothing and multi-brand retailers — succumbed. Fundamental changes are often also mixed with a myriad other factors impacting growth, eluding identification. The secular stagnation of the US, for example, is attributed to long-term structural forces such as globalization, demographics and technological change. The examples serve to illuminate that the effects of structural transformations are never straightforward, but non-linear. For India, economic structure, stage of development and timing are equally important — shift from informal to formal activities amidst a severe slowdown could dampen income gains, the relative employment-wealth effects could be misaligned, and so on. These indicate cautious celebration and tempering unicorn expectations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
