15-09-2021||Opinion||Code Red||The United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has released a draft of the first volume of its Sixth Assessment Report. This report focuses exclusively on the latest scientific research on climate change. The next two volumes, due next year, will focus on the human impact and how societies can adapt to irreversible changes and, finally, on how to mitigate future global warming. This periodic set of reports puts together the latest developments in evidence available, knowledge inferred, and options open to humankind to save the planet from irreparable damage. The report is a joint effort by 234 scientists and other experts from 195 countries based on 14,000 scientific papers. Every time new results are published by the IPCC, the data and conclusions drawn from them look worse and more perilous. The last four decades have witnessed a continuous rise in average temperatures of the earth’s surface. Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions have continued to increase. There are protests and debates and conferences by the dozens; yet nothing very concrete and enforceable is being done globally to tackle, what scientists are now referring to as, a climate emergency. The latest Assessment Report carries strong language that scientists normally refrain from using: so instead of claiming things with “moderate confidence”, the report has used words like “unequivocally true”. The UN has described the situation as a “code red” level of danger. There are two aspects of climate change that are important to understand and keep in mind. The first is that it is part of an even bigger problem of environmental degradation and destruction. The second is that since the natural environment is a shared resource for all inhabitants of the planet, it constitutes a global problem which requires global solutions. Hence, knowing the extent of the problem and acting collectively towards a solution are of the essence. According to the Sixth Assessment Report, the carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere is now at the highest level in at least two million years. The sea level has been rising at the fastest rate in at least 3,000 years. The Arctic sea ice area is the lowest in at least 1,000 years. Glaciers have been retreating at an unprecedented speed not seen in at least 2,000 years. These time scales are not hyperboles; they are based on  the latest scientific methods and models of estimation. It is indisputable that the activities of human beings are the root cause of extreme climate events, including heavy rainfalls, severe droughts, intense heat waves and massive wildfires. The oceans have been warming too. Since carbon dioxide is soluble in water, the seas are becoming more acidic and losing oxygen content. Clearly, not only are human beings at risk of being adversely affected, all forms of life on land, air and in the water are threatened. According to biologists, we are going through the sixth mass extinction of biological species. The point to note is that the earlier five took place before Homo sapiens ruled the earth. It is also estimated that the sixth one induced by human development is also the biggest known to biologists. The Sixth Assessment Report has many new features to make the technical report more accessible to general readers. For instance, there is an interactive world atlas, which allows one to navigate to the area where one resides and see the extent of measured climate change, the extent of damage according to various parameters, and a peek into the near future. South Asia remains extremely vulnerable. Even within South Asia, the Sunderbans area off the Bay of Bengal is especially threatened. The water level is rising and within the next one or two decades this part of the world could get completely submerged. Imagine the economic distress that it would cause to millions of poor people and the political conflict it could engender as millions travel as environmental refugees, competing for scarce resources with equally poor people, say, for instance, in North Bengal, Jharkhand or Bihar. India, like many other parts of the world, will be vulnerable to compound extreme events rarely seen before with increased intensity, durations, frequency and spatial extents. For example, extreme heat waves could be observed simultaneously with unusual flooding. Or there could be bitter cold spells with prolonged droughts. Although the problem appears to be complex and alarming, the solution, at least on paper, is patently obvious. Carbon dioxide emissions have to be reduced swiftly and decisively. Emissions have already gone beyond safety limits. However, despite many attempts at getting the global community of nations to reduce fossil-fuel use, success has not been attained. Some countries, like the rich nations, had contributed during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries large doses of carbon dioxide now hanging in the atmosphere. Relatively poorer countries, now beginning to aspire to the material development standards of Europe and North America — like China or India — are burning large amounts of fossil fuels to grow faster and attain higher material standards of living. China is the biggest polluter of carbon; India being a distant third. The second place goes to the United States of America. However, in terms of per capita emissions, the US is the largest with China a middling second (amongst these three nations) and India the last. India and China have claimed that the major burden of reduction of carbon emissions will have to be borne by the rich nations while other countries use more fossil fuels to catch up with them. That is the position of the Global South. India’s environment minister has claimed, after the Sixth Assessment Report was published, that it vindicates India’s stand that climate change is mainly caused by the cumulative emissions of the rich nations. The minister pointed out that India’s cumulative and current emissions are low. The developed nations argue that it is the total amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere that matters, not per capita emissions. There is an ethical issue too. If India and China are allowed to pollute more as an opportunity to catch up, it might happen that 20 years from now some of the poorest countries of Africa start polluting much faster than they are doing now. The situation could get much worse. Would India and China then have the moral authority to request these countries to reduce pollution? India’s real position is even more fragile than what the IPCC claims. India has comprehensive policies on paper but they are not implemented in most cases. The nation has been increasing its forest cover but decides to clear forests to mine diamonds; it has ambitious plans for expanding solar power usage but has enormously inefficient electricity infrastructure. Whatever might be the official rhetoric, when it comes to a crunch, the environment is always given short shrift when the alternative is commercial exploitation. There is a myopic vision of development, beginning with making large dams to paving wide highways; from extensive use of hydropower to mining in forest areas. Doublespeak and near-sightedness can be a lethal combination. The Sixth Assessment Report is, arguably, one final warning about the urgency of appropriate global action. In not being able to change our lifestyles and consumption patterns, human beings will be behaving irresponsibly toward future generations, yet unborn, who cannot vote against us, or sue us in a court of law. Our generation may leave behind an environmentally broken planet for the future. If, indeed, we do so, it will not be on account of ignorance; rather it will be a matter of deliberate choice. Anup Sinha is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
15-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Uttar Pradesh assembly elections||Divisive tactics Sir — The poll bugle for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections has officially been blown. Unsurprisingly, the incumbent chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, the most strident face of Hindutva in the country, has intensified his attack on the largest minority community to polarize the electorate along communal lines. His latest remark, that under the earlier dispensation “people who say ‘abba jaan’ used to digest the rations” — abba jaan is commonly the way fathers are addressed by the Muslim community — has to be seen as a part of his and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s strategy for the upcoming elections. In a country where sedition charges are levied on the flimsiest of reasons, it would be a mockery of the rule of law if a chief minister is allowed to go scot free after making such a statement. His remark causes hurt and incites hatred against members of the Muslim community, which is a criminal offence under the Indian Penal Code. It is evident that given Adityanath’s poor track record in governance, he is not confident about contesting the election on bread and butter issues. Instead, he has taken recourse to communalism and hatred. This is dangerous. The courts should take suo motu cognizance of the matter and order the filing of a first information report to bring the errant chief minister to justice. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Slippery customer Sir — When the Pegasus scandal was first exposed, I remember a TV debate in which an Opposition leader had said that if this matter is taken to court, it will go into cold storage because the government will refuse to disclose any information, citing the security of the country. This fear was realized in the Supreme Court when the Centre refused to file a fresh affidavit admitting or denying snooping on citizens (“Deadline for govt on Pegasus”, Sept 14). The government’s reluctance makes the matter more suspicious. The Supreme Court bench led by the Chief Justice of India has asked a simple question: whether the government had used Pegasus to snoop on citizens? Had the government been innocent of the charges, it could have simply denied them. Can it then be assumed that the Israeli spy software had indeed been used to invade the privacy of Indian citizens? The top court’s interim order is still awaited. In the meantime, the government should have a very good reason as to why it infringed on the privacy of citizens. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The Centre is testing the patience of the Supreme Court in the Pegasus issue by deliberately avoiding a very basic question about whether Pegasus has been used to spy on judges, journalists, politicians and activists. The court was right to admonish the solicitor-general, Tushar Mehta, for beating around the bush by repeating that the Centre could not speak about the issue as it concerned ‘national security’. The need of the hour is to conduct a court-monitored probe into the matter. The interim order of the apex court in this regard is eagerly awaited. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Sir — The Centre must explain exactly how revealing whether it used Pegasus to spy on those who did not see eye to eye with the government is a matter of ‘national security’. The bogey of ‘national security’ has become too hackneyed for even the most die-hard admirer of the current dispensation to believe. By now, everyone knows that the government is crying wolf. The Supreme Court was absolutely right in rubbishing the claims of the solicitor-general and telling him off for beating around the bush instead of answering the court’s questions. One hopes that the Supreme Court will set up an independent probe into the matter — given the climate in the country, no State agency can be trusted any longer — which will be monitored by the court itself. Moreover, steps must be taken to ensure that while the fracas continues over whether or not people have been spied upon, more people are not being subjected to the same snooping. The sanctity of the democracy is at stake here. P. Gundu Rao,Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh Sir — The apex court has regained some of its lost trust with its recent statements. This is encouraging as an upright judiciary is the last hope of saving the Indian democracy. Jayanta Biswas,Calcutta  Sunken ship Sir — Camels were once a prized possession for breeders in Rajasthan. But that ended with the passage of the Rajasthan Camel (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act, 2015. As with most legislations formulated without any idea of the pastoral ecosystem, this law has ensured a precipitous dip in camel breeding and, in turn, its population. Reports suggest that the number of camels in the state has gone from 3.25 lakh in 2012 to 1.5 lakh in 2019. If Satyajit Ray had filmed Sonar Kella now, Feluda would never have reached Ramdevra on time. Amit Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
15-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Central tax||All is — not — well in Gujarat. That seems to be the signal emanating from the Bharatiya Janata Party’s decision to change yet another of its serving chief ministers — Gujarat is the third state after Uttarakhand and Karnataka to do so — with Bhupendra Patel taking on the baton from Vijay Rupani. One of the immediate reasons for Mr Rupani’s ouster could be the feedback from the ground. Mr Rupani’s government was particularly ineffective in its management of the pandemic: so much so that the high court had to express its displeasure. The BJP would be hoping that with Mr Patel’s elevation, it has succeeded in deflecting the public anger, especially from within the Patidar community which, on account of its influence and numbers, has traditionally been an important electoral constituency in the state. But there is also a case to view this development in a larger context. The BJP loves to trumpet itself as a ‘party with a difference’. The claim is made to argue that unlike its principal rival, the Congress, the BJP encourages the culture of inner democracy. By this logic, the BJP central leadership — essentially the duopoly of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah — should have respected the autonomy of regional leaders. Yet, under Mr Modi’s leadership, there are distinct signs of greater centralization — autocracy? — within the BJP’s rank and file. The choice of the new chief minister’s — they are, often, vassals with minimal political weight of their own — is indicative of the fact that in spite of its zeal to create a Congress-mukt Bharat, the BJP is increasingly mirroring the Congress’s inner party structure with a domineering high command of its own. The other point concerns the hollowness of the BJP’s claim of representative welfarism. ‘Sabka Vikas’, the prime minister’s heartening rhetoric of inclusivity, is turning out to be another  Headline:    with the BJP toeing the traditional strategy of appeasing dominant caste groups such as the Patidars in Gujarat. The shadow, as is usual with the BJP, has fallen between word and deed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
15-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Pure vision||Visionaries may be mortal. But their visions are meant to endure. This could be one way of interpreting the seminal message that was conveyed by the Chief Justice of India at an event organized by the Ramakrishna Mission. N.V. Ramana iterated the need for ‘contemporary India’ — perhaps New India should also pay attention — to imbibe tolerance and shun the spectre of sectarianism: these were some of the elementary lessons that were imparted by Swami Vivekananda. Indeed, as was pointed out by Mr Ramana, the richness of the Swami’s legacy can be attributed not only to its humane nature —compassion and respect for all are integral to his philosophy — but also his ability to communicate the fundamental elements of the philosophy of Vedanta in a practical way. None can deny that Narendra Modi’s India is in dire need of embracing Vivekananda’s vision, which, significantly, converges with some of the principles of constitutionalism that lie at the heart of India’s democratic project. This is so because the political ascendancy of the Bharatiya Janata Party has coincided with an unprecedented strain on India’s pluralist, accommodating social fabric. In the last few years, the vilification of Muslims as well as of socially disadvantaged groups has, shockingly, become commonplace, and is manifested through lynchings, segregation, everyday indignities and other kinds of discrimination. Neither can it be said that the powers that be have always been innocent in this crazed witch-hunt. The persistent communal tenor in the speeches of the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh or the BJP’s willingness to milk the objectionable remark — that of drug jihad — made by a member of the clergy in Kerala reveal this complicity. The rise in communalism has attracted international attention and censure. The International Religious Freedom Report 2021, for instance, tagged India as a ‘country of particular concern’. The turn towards a majoritarian democratic polity is, however, not the only concern. What sectarianism — abhorred by Vivekananda and other apostles of co-existence — has brought in its wake is the threat of distortion of the wisdom of luminaries. There have been various attempts to co-opt Vivekananda’s legacy by the fraternity that confuses Hindutva, an ideological and political project, with Hinduism. This appropriation must be resisted at every level — social, cultural and academic. Otherwise, India would fail to preserve some of the basic teachings of Vivekananda who espoused the causes of tolerance — what else did he speak about in his famous Chicago address? The best way to commemorate Vivekananda would be for India to shun cosmetic shows of veneration for its sages: it should instead, as the CJI said, heed the Swami’s call for universal inclusion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
15-09-2021||Opinion||A case for police reform||An operation carried out by the Meghalaya police to arrest a former militant of the banned Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council resulted in an accused being shot dead. Following allegations of human rights abuse, a judicial inquiry was constituted alongside an independent inquiry by the Meghalaya Human Rights Commission. The unfortunate incident sparked a conversation on law-enforcement personnel’s commitment to human rights. The threat was recently voiced by the Chief Justice of India, who said that human rights are at the highest risk when the accused are in police custody. These threats are real, as we have recently seen in Manipur where journalists and activists were physically assaulted after being detained under the draconian National Security Act. The Supreme Court, which set the activist free after he was arrested for a Facebook post ridiculing the use of cow dung as a Covid-19 remedy, was also ready to hear pleas to award compensation for his illegal detention. The recent incident in Shillong leads us to examine some legal and ethical imperatives of police reform and modernization from a human rights perspective. The need for police reform has been discussed by the judiciary, human rights bodies, academics, and non-governmental organizations. Given that law enforcement is the responsibility of the state government, the onus lies on it to ensure necessary legal reforms. The Meghalaya Police Act of 2010 was enacted with this spirit in mind. The merit of discussing this Act in the light of the incident in Shillong lies in the fact that the Act provides a framework for ensuring accountability of the police force. The first paragraph of the Act considers the “respect for and promotion of the human rights of the people and protection of their civil, political, social, economic and cultural rights”. The legislation provides for the setting up of independent bodies to oversee the functioning of the state police, which is relevant to this discussion. First among these is the State Security Commission, tasked with being a watchdog to, inter alia, ensure observance of human rights standards. The second — the Accountability Commission — is responsible for inquiring into allegations of serious misconduct against police personnel. Two issues arise concerning the functioning of these two independent bodies which reflect the callous attitude of the state government. The SSC has not met in recent months, against the mandated tri-monthly sitting. The Accountability Commission, mandated to release public annual reports, is nowhere to be seen either. To ensure that law-enforcement personnel adhere to human rights standards, independent oversight of the state police is necessary. It is, therefore, important that these two bodies function in accordance with the Act. A series of measures must be implemented in addition to this. Personnel of the Meghalaya police must be regularly and effectively trained in using proportionate force during security operations. Latest reports from the Bureau of Police Research and Development show that between 2019-20, a miniscule 0.59 per cent of Meghalaya police’s expenditure was spent on the training of personnel. This figure indicates not just the lack of human rights training of personnel but also the general absence of regular training. Training programmes for all personnel must incorporate domestic and international standards and principles of law enforcement, including the preference of using non-lethal force to achieve an operation’s objective. Given the enhanced risk of sexual assault in police custody, personnel must also be trained in gender-sensitive policing. Accountability is incorporated into the police’s standard of operating procedures; there is also the need to implement mandatory after-action reviews. AARs are used to prevent, mitigate and address any human rights violation. They can be useful for the state police to strengthen future responses to security operations that involve hostiles. A mandatory AAR to be filled by the officer-in-charge of each police operation would serve as an important feeder for review by the independent bodies tasked with the oversight of the state police. These are a few measures through which the police can ensure that incidents such as the recent security operation do not occur again. One hopes that state police and civil society will learn crucial lessons from this incident and strive to attain actionable accountability in practice in the future. Jade Lyngdoh is an Honours candidate at National Law University, Jodhpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
