16-09-2021||Opinion||Editor: Fields on fire||Recently-released data from the National Sample Survey Office show that while farm income has increased a bit, 50.2 per cent of farm households are in debt. The average size of the household debt was Rs 74,121 at the end of the calendar year, 2019. The data have to be viewed in the larger context of the stress on the Indian rural sector in general and on agricultural households in particular. From January 2020 onwards, agricultural households have been under severe pressure given the reverse migration of temporary, informal, urban workers. Debt has naturally increased. Even if average farm income were to increase marginally, the per capita income would go down given that there are more mouths to feed. There has also been a great deal of anxiety among farmers regarding minimum support prices and disruptions in marketing chains and in price discovery methods with the advent of the new and controversial farm laws. The existing micro, small and medium enterprises in rural and semi-urban areas are in deep trouble, with some estimates showing anywhere between 60-67 per cent of these enterprises closing down. This has occurred despite the liberal and flexible credit that the Reserve Bank of India has made available through commercial banks. The prime minister has, on more than one occasion, claimed that the new farm laws would empower small farmers. This is simply not happening at the moment. It is not clear how laws aimed at giving quite a bit of leeway to corporate houses and big industry to enter agricultural production and trade would alter the situation. It is well-known that when large players enter any sector, small businesses are pushed hard into smaller corners. The retail industry is a case in point. Even if the average debt per household of Rs 74,121 were to be written off, it would serve no purpose. First, it would have a huge repercussion on the banking system. Secondly, with average household incomes of a little more than Rs 10,000 per month and with more mouths to feed, agricultural households would be forced into further debt. The only way small-farmer households could be empowered would be to have sizeable new opportunities in industry and services sectors. That growth is still not visible. And all this is happening at a time when an erratic climate has added further stress on agriculture. Is India a country for the kisan any longer?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
16-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Novak Djokovic out of US Open||Rising stars Sir — Novak Djokovic’s quest for a record 21st major title and a calendar-year Grand Slam collapsed at the US Open final with a 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 loss to the Russian player, Daniil Medvedev, at Flushing Meadows. Medvedev, playing in his third Grand Slam final, hoisted the trophy, avenging a straight sets defeat at the hands of Djokovic earlier this year in the Australian Open final. Djokovic is one of the greatest tennis players of all time and winning a Grand Slam final against an opponent of his calibre is a remarkable achievement. Medvedev’s serve was excellent for most of the game, but he seemed flustered towards the end, committing double faults at a crucial juncture. Nevertheless, his nerves did not get the better of him and he clinched the title on his third match point. This year’s US Open — in both men and women’s singles — has shown that a new era of tennis has begun. C.K. Subramaniam,Navi Mumbai Sir — Had Novak Djokovic won the US Open final he would have not only secured a calendar-year Grand Slam, but would have also surpassed Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal in the total number of trophies won. But the Arthur Ashe stadium witnessed the rise of a new champion. Daniil Medvedev played remarkably, with Djokovic struggling to establish a rhythm throughout the match. A new crop of players led by Medvedev, Alexander Zverev and Stefanos Tsitsipas seems to be rising to the top of men’s tennis. Although Djokovic, Nadal and Federer have not hung up their rackets yet, their vice-like grip on the Grand Slams has started to loosen. Women’s tennis, too, saw the rise of two teenage sensations. Both Emma Raducanu and Leylah Fernandez were equally impressive. At long last, it seems that tennis is at a new and exciting juncture with fresh faces emerging. Haridasan Rajan,Kozhikode, Kerala Sir — Most of us had thought that Novak Djokovic would complete a career Grand Slam this year by winning the US Open. But all hopes were dashed when Daniil Medvedev defeated the Serbian to win the first Grand Slam trophy of his career. Medvedev’s perseverance and steely nerves — he was booed at match-point — ensured his win. The US Open final was delightful to watch. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — Daniil Medvedev and Emma Raducanu must be congratulated for winning the first Grand Slam titles of their careers. While the women’s singles final saw two newcomers vying for the top prize, few could have anticipated that Medvedev would beat the crowd-favourite, Novak Djokovic, to claim the title. Not only did the Russian player win the final, but also did so by beating the world’s top-seeded player in straight sets. Both Medvedev and Raducanu have bright futures ahead of them. Md. Yousuf Kamal,Muzaffarpur, Bihar Sir — For years, Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal have dominated men’s tennis. Then, Novak Djokovic burst into the scene and it became a competition between the big three. It is thus a huge relief that men’s tennis has broken out of the clutches of a few star players. After a long time, it is exciting and unpredictable to watch the game. Women’s tennis has been far more dynamic. But what now stands out is the entry of racially diverse players into the top echelons of the game. The rise of mixed-race players such as Naomi Osaka, Emma Raducanu and Leylah Fernandez is sure to boost the confidence of other young players. Keya Sengupta,Calcutta Parting shot Sir — Many parts of Delhi have been flooded owing to heavy rainfall over the last few days, bringing various neighbourhoods to a standstill. But rather than owning up to the failures of the Delhi government in improving the drainage system, the chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, thought it would be prudent to blame the situation on the “idiosyncratic drainage system” which he says is a “gift” of previous dispensations. Is it not time for Kejriwal to stop blaming his predecessors for the failures of his government? Waterlogging in the capital city of any country is a matter of shame. It is high time that the Delhi government works on improving the situation. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai  Crucial lesson Sir — Pope Francis has sent out an important message by denouncing the use of Christianity as a political tool. His remark came after he met the prime minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, who has repeatedly appealed to Christian sentiment in his anti-immigrant and nationalist rhetoric. At a time when religious extremism has gripped the world, the pontiff’s advice to refrain from using religious symbols for political gains must be heeded by all, irrespective of faith. It is only through a shared notion of brotherhood and respect that we can overcome the crises that assail the world at present. Amiya Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
16-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Late confession||The secretary of state of the United States of America, Antony Blinken, informed the US Congress that the Joe Biden administration is likely to review its ties with Pakistan. The reason for this reassessment, in Mr Blinken’s words, is Islamabad’s ‘duplicity’. Pakistan will not be able to brush off Mr Blinken’s charge. For years, the powers that be in Islamabad — or should that read Rawalpindi? — have been guilty of playing a dual, dangerous game: professing support for the US’s initiative against radicalized elements in the neighbourhood while serving as a covert patron of the very forces that the West sought to uproot. The evidence of Pakistan’s hypocrisy is substantial: it ranges from the ‘discovery’ of Osama bin Laden on its territory to tacit support to the Taliban that has resulted in Afghanistan falling to prey to them, once again. Yet, the question must be asked whether the invective, ‘duplicitous’, should be borne by Pakistan alone. This is because the US cannot deny that it was aware of Islamabad’s shadowy activities. Be it the blacklisting of Pakistan by the Financial Action Task Force for terror funding or New Delhi’s voluminous dossiers underlining the organic link between Islamabad and jihadi outfits — the evidence against Pakistan is damning. Yet, geostrategic imperatives forced the wise men in Washington to use Pakistan, a dubious ally at best, as an intermediary in its engagement in Afghanistan. It is possible that the changing global order has forced the rethink. China, Russia and Pakistan have emerged as a triumvirate to influence developments in Afghanistan, forcing the US to look for other shoulders to fire from. India, obviously, is on Washington’s radar. While the US’s newfound scepticism is likely to please India’s mandarins — the prime minister is expected to visit the US to attend the Quad summit — New Delhi should choose to negotiate with Mr Biden from a position of strength. There is already concern that the US is keen on using Indian territory for ‘Over the Horizon’ security operations — a concession, if it is offered, would have to be based on a quid pro quo arrangement. New Delhi has robust ties with some of the new ‘influencers’ in Afghanistan — Moscow being an obvious example — and it must be circumspect about Washington’s overtures. Of course, the fluidity in Asia — the new theatre of the Great Game — would make New Delhi’s choices delicate. But that is a test that Indian diplomacy has been trained to pass.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
16-09-2021||Opinion||The case for free speech||The contest between freedom of speech and ‘reasonable restrictions’ on it is a mature one. The dilemma of liberal democratic societies lies in their ambition to strike a balance between freedom of speech and the risk of over-reach. The defence of free speech endorses an absolute liberty of expression that is necessary to take an argument to its logical limit. Yet, competing struggles open up between authority and liberty when it comes to defining the boundaries of free speech within constitutional, democratic traditions. The rise of the Hindu Right electorally has coincided with the employment of ‘hate speech’ to manufacture and propagate a sectarian, communal ideology. The silence of the political leadership on hate speeches by saffron outfits on several instances is an indication of the populism-driven, covert support for the phenomenon to reap electoral dividends. The founding fathers of the Constitution were discreet in their articulation of risk-creating speech that was capable of destroying the multicultural fabric of a post-Partition, infant democracy like India. The Constituent Assembly conscientiously linked the constraints on fundamental freedoms to ‘public order’ and ‘morality’, even though many members objected that any law that punished the publication or utterance of seditious, obscene, blasphemous or defamatory matter would be antithetical to the right to freedom of speech. The Constitution guaranteed the freedom of speech and expression under Article 19. However, it also delineated reasonable limitations on the provision. Responsible speech is essential for liberty under Article 21. In fact, there are elaborate provisions in the Indian Penal Code to deal with the offence related to incitement. Yet, an anti-hate-speech legislation is notoriously difficult to interpret. Mere injury to the feelings of citizens is a subjective proposition and may not be a valid ground for the suppression of free speech or its criminalization. The courts have been diffident when it comes to spelling out the exact elements of hate speech, conceding that the provisions of penal law are sufficient to bring the offenders to book. In Pravasi Bhalai Sangathan v. Union of India, the court, on the one hand, recognized the adverse concussions of hate speech on the affected communities and, on the other, problematized “confining the prohibition to a manageable standard”. The dilemma is classic — whether defining a manageable standard jeopardizes the freedom of speech. In Ramesh v. Union of India, the court harped on the proximity of imminent danger to a community as the punitive premise for defining hate speech. The true test is whether the speech is the real provocation to violence. This is similar to Justice O.W. Holmes’s test of ‘clear and present danger’.  The harm-offence equivalence has to be a ‘spark in a powder keg’ to impose limitations on the freedom of speech and expression. In the landmark Shreya Singhal v. Union of India case, the Supreme Court protected online free speech from arbitrary restrictions but, at the same time, distinguished the three forms of speech — namely, discussion, advocacy and incitement. The threshold of incitement was the key constitutional ground for restrictions on free speech. Any other form of unpopular or offensive speech falls under the exceptions in Article 19(2) of the Constitution. The real deficiency lies in the State’s unwillingness to act against the transgression. The lack of political will and the abuse of law for political ends have undermined the enforcement of the law. Jurisprudence on hate speech reiterates the duty of the State to uphold the exercise of the right to free speech and to suppress violence intended to strangle it. An objective circumspection on ‘hate-effect’ and ‘hate-potential’ is the way forward. Freedom of speech and expression must be safeguarded not just as an individual right but as an essential attribute of democratic citizenship. Anita Tagore is Associate Professor, Kalindi College, University of Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
16-09-2021||Opinion||Abject failure||Last week, the United States of America and many countries in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization commemorated the 20th anniversary of the devastating terror attacks on the iconic World Trade Center towers in New York City. The scale of the outrage would have been even more crippling had a third hijacked aircraft, targeting either the Pentagon or the White House in Washington DC, not been brought down by the resistance of the passengers. The commemorations were subdued because they took place in the backdrop of the restoration of Taliban rule in Afghanistan amid scenes of tragic chaos in Kabul airport. Ideally, the political leadership of the West had sought to convey to the world that terrorism does not pay. Instead, as swaggering Taliban soldiers gave triumphalist interviews to the Western media, what resonated was a very different message: the terrorists were having the last laugh. The commentariat didn’t bother to conceal the scale of the debacle. An op-ed article in The Daily Telegraph (London) was biting in its indictment of the US: “Over the past decade, America has veered from one extreme to another; first [Donald] Trump, the pugilistic loose cannon — now the crumpled and pathetically stage-managed figure of [Joe] Biden. The nation seems not just rudderless but leaderless; a sickly patient with a dubious prognosis.” Even the most ardent propagandist of radical Islamism could not have articulated the contempt and rage against the degenerate West any better. The disorientation was particularly severe in Europe. In Britain, the country that once boasted the world’s largest empire not all that long ago, a farce played out over the refusal of its foreign secretary to cut short his holiday break to attend to the evacuation from Kabul. In 1940, a horrible military defeat was converted into a heroic rescue operation when thousands of small boats sailed across the Channel to rescue the remnants of the British Expeditionary Force from Dunkirk. The images from Kabul airport, alas, were far from inspirational. As a writer lamented in The Times (London): “We Europeans, about 600 million of us, are bigger and richer than the [US]. Nobody stopped us being strong. We just chose to be weak... We all relied on the US for leadership and protection. Now Washington... has put its own interests first and left us bruised and fuming... Afghanistan underlines Europe’s protracted adolescence.” The strong words, unfortunately, were couched in a make-believe diagnosis. The problem that confronted Europe — and, indeed, the US — wasn’t infancy or adolescence. The real issue was one of will. The indictment of President Biden and, by implication, the former president, Trump, for negotiating the Doha Accord that accorded de-facto recognition to the Taliban was not centred on leaving a mission incomplete. Whether in the US, the United Kingdom or in Germany, the desire to dig in and complete the destruction of the Taliban had evaporated long ago. Just as the fall of Saigon in 1975 had been preceded by diminishing enthusiasm for a ‘forever war’, the mental defeat of the West in Afghanistan had happened even before President Obama’s final ‘surge’ in 2013. The issue that confronted both Trump and Biden was about responding to domestic public opinion and managing the retreat. The wave of outrage that was witnessed in the final week of August was never about leaving a mission incomplete. It was always about the management of the withdrawal. The Soviet Union had managed it better — the government of President Najibullah endured for nearly three years before it was overwhelmed by the mujahideen militia. The government of President Ashraf Ghani couldn’t even endure a fortnight. The preliminary post-mortem has centred on the failure of the nation-building exercise in Afghanistan — euphemism for the establishment of a Western-style, rules-based, ostensibly modernist order. President Biden’s August 31 address to the nation where he bluntly stated that the US would not undertake “major military operations to remake other countries” has been interpreted to mean that this is precisely what was being attempted in Afghanistan. Yet, it is interesting that prior to 9/11, the Republican establishment seemed deadly opposed to persisting with Ronald Reagan’s post-Berlin Wall democracy project. In an article in early 2000, Condoleezza Rice quoted George Bush as saying that he would avoid “open-ended deployments and unclear military missions”. The former president is quoted as saying, “I don’t think our troops ought to be used for what’s called nation-building. I think our troops ought to be used to fight and win wars.” Although the neo-conservatives had a strong influence on the George Bush administration, their vision of exporting democracy didn’t quite have all-round endorsement. One of the main criticisms of the misadventure in Iraq was that it was a diversion. The former UN secretary-general, Kofi Annan, for example, rued that “[h]uge resources were devoted to Iraq, which focussed away from nation-building in Afghanistan.” Indeed, the charge that the US was trying to ‘remake’ Afghanistan in its own image stemmed from the American distaste for the warlords that constituted the erstwhile Northern Alliance. Additionally, the frenzied activity by Western ‘peace-keepers’ in Kabul to ensure that Abdullah Abdullah didn’t win the 2014 presidential election created complications. It fostered the impression — bolstered by the presence of many hundreds of aid workers and fresh-from-college political consultants in Kabul and elsewhere — that Americans had a stake in creating a compliant leadership. For the Western powers, it was a no-win situation. At one level, they were pilloried for trying to establish political order in what had once been described as a ‘savage society’. At the same time, they were attacked for not being serious in their democratic evangelism. In his book, Descent into Chaos: The United States and the Failure of Nation Building in Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Central Asia, published in 2008, the well-informed Pakistani writer, Ahmed Rashid, lamented that “[t]he American failure to rebuild Afghanistan and Iraq or to move Pakistan and Central Asia toward reform and democracy made it almost impossible for Muslim moderates to support the West’s struggle against Islamic extremism or to bring about change in their own countries.” It does not speak too highly of the social depth of moderate politics that it was excessively dependent on piggybacking on American initiatives to make a mark. With radical Islamism making a spectacular comeback as a reaction to impositions of democracy and modernity from above, it may be instructive to revisit the British Indian management of a turbulent region upon which the defence of India rested. In 1919, when the raj first experimented with limited self-government for India, its extension to the North West Frontier Province was resolutely opposed by members of the Indian Political Service. The Chief Commissioner, George Roos-Keppel, a legendary civil servant with long experience in the Frontier, argued that “democratic reforms would be a poor cousin to the already robust jirga system where the Frontier’s leading men could express themselves in a more honest manner than they would in a British-style Assembly.” But what if they strayed outside their zones to create trouble? On August 31, Julian Lewis, a former Chairman of the Commons Defence Committee in the UK, arrived at the grudging conclusion that “[a]ctive containment is the hard-headed solution to an otherwise intractable dilemma: whether to allow terrorists to attack us with impunity or to shoulder the unending burden of occupying every reckless rogue state which shelters and supports them.” Lewis was expressing in a contemporary idiom what British administrators had formalized into policy by the 1880s: “when dealing with the savage tribes the best plan is, to fight as rarely as possible; and when you do fight, to hit them as hard as you can.” Sadly, few strategists read imperial history any longer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
