17-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Bitter taste||Ignorance need not be bliss: it can be hazardous when it comes to food. This is why it is significant that, after eight long years, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India has decisively advocated the inclusion of labels on the front of food packets, detailing their salt, sugar and fat content, to enable consumers to take an ‘informed’ decision. In the Indian context, this is particularly relevant as this kind of transparency could go a long way in enhancing consumers’ knowledge of healthy consumption and protecting their rights. After all, there have been alarming transgressions on the part of manufacturers of packaged food — apart from the Maggi adulteration controversy, a study by the FSSAI found that 62.8 per cent of the major processed foods contained higher-than-prescribed levels of sugar, salt and fat, which are key contributors to India’s growing burden of non-communicable diseases. However, what is good for public health may not be beneficial for corporations with an eye on profit. It is, therefore, hardly surprising that the Indian processed food industry, estimated to be worth $44 billion and growing at a rapid pace of about 24 per cent every year, is reluctant to comply with the demand of consumer and advocacy groups to include a health warning on the packages. In fact, there have been reports of corporate lobbying against similar proposals since 2017. In a country that has seen its fair share of food politics over the past seven years — vegetarianism continues to be forced down the throats of Indians in spite of widespread undernourishment — the lack of awareness about nutrition among the people only aggravates the problem: more than 90 per cent people in India are unaware of even their daily protein requirements. The absence of political will to safeguard the health of citizens is even more baffling given the success of the warning label model instituted in the case of tobacco products — graphic warnings on packages convinced over 90 per cent people of their harmful effects. The complex food culture of the country, along with diverse eating habits, further complicates the formulation of universal nutritional policies. The key, therefore, is for the government to undertake extensive initiatives — from television commercials to anganwadi programmes — to promote the nutritional value of local cuisines over processed food. More fundamentally, food and nutrition must be seen as sacrosanct rights that cannot be sacrificed at the altar of profiteering or political propaganda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
17-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Bhupendra Patel becomes Gujarat CM||New face Sir — The installation of a new face, Bhupendra Patel, as the chief minister of Gujarat is an achievement for the Bharatiya Janata Party, given his wide support base in the Patidar community (“CM change bares BJP challenge”, Sep 14). This step is being touted as a game-changer in the forthcoming state elections. Following the unceremonious exit of Anandiben Patel in 2016, the recent replacement of Vijay Rupani has been attributed to various reasons — for instance, the mishandling of the Covid crisis, Patidar discontent, internal convulsions, failure to win over powerful social groups. But this change of guard must also be seen as a means to tackle the anti-incumbency factor. Further, it clearly demonstrates that the party’s real crisis lay in its failure to fill the void left as a result of Narendra Modi’s elevation to the post of prime minister in 2014. The inability to develop autonomous political strength — the figure of Modi remains dominant — in a state where its organization is strong should worry the BJP. It also reflects the tendency of the party to centralize power, as has previously been seen in Uttarakhand, where a smooth transition occurred from Trivendra Singh Rawat to Tirath Singh Rawat and now Pushkar Singh Dhami; in Karnataka where B.S. Yediyurappa gave way to Basavaraj Bommai; and even in Assam where Himanta Biswa Sarma replaced Sarbananda Sonowal. This trend is a reminder of the heyday of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K. Advani and of their party’s federal character that produced an array of regional leaders like Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Uma Bharti, Kalyan Singh. This raised the party’s stature to great heights, providing a much-needed bulwark for Modi and Amit Shah to strengthen their sphere of influence. But now, a significant departure from the past is discernible, manifested in the denial of autonomy to regional satraps, preference for new faces over influential politicians as well as excessive dependence on the high command for election outreach. These reflect the new character of the BJP. Vijay Singh Adhikari,Nainital, Uttarakhand Sir — The choice of Bhupendra Patel, considered to be the prime minister’s yes-man, as the chief minister of Gujarat seems random. Gujarat is one of the states worst hit by the pandemic. Modi’s popularity, too, is likely to be declining. This could leave a poor impression on the voters in the run-up to the polls next year. Murtaza Ahmad,Calcutta  Bold and beautiful Sir — It is not new for the Met Gala to encourage bold political statements in creative ways. This year, too, many eminent personalities decided to wear their opinions on their sleeves. But seldom does a fashion statement translate into concrete action. It is, thus, heartening that the American musician, Billie Eilish, persuaded the brand, Oscar de la Renta — whose gown she wore to the gala — to terminate fur sale. This is an interesting way to bring about positive change in the industry. Others should follow suit.Mehek Chatterjee,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
17-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unscientific||In keeping with the ethos of the age of Post-Truth, India, according to a study, has emerged as the biggest source of misinformation pertaining to Covid-19 since the pandemic began. Having trawled through over 9,000 pieces of ‘data’ across several countries, a researcher found that one out of six pieces of misinformation had been generated in India during this period. Some of the nuggets reveal the extent of public ignorance. Many Indians, for instance, were told that camphor, cloves — the researcher did not add cow dung — can neutralize the virus. This, however, was the more benign of the two dangers. The more serious threat, as has been exposed by Indian researchers as well as by documents examined by The New York Times, concerns the engineering of a false narrative to undermine the monstrous scale of the pandemic. Months before India was pulverized by a deadly second wave of the coronavirus, scientists appointed by the government, it is alleged, sought to make light of the situation. Significantly, their faulty assessment coincided with the Centre’s decision to reopen the economy and press ahead with electoral exercises. That was not all: there are murmurs of other kinds of complicity between politician and scientist. For instance, a former chief scientist of the Indian Council of Medical Research echoed the Narendra Modi government’s prejudicial targeting of an Islamic gathering as a super-spreader: the singling out of the congregation by the Centre was, subsequently, reprimanded by the Supreme Court. Even more worrying is the charge of a diktat preventing scientists from publishing data that torpedoed the government’s claim that the situation was satisfactory. The pushback against India’s scientific temper has, in recent years, acquired two distinct — grotesque — forms. The first has been the wilful erosion of the scientific spirit so that myth can pass off as fact. The other is the weaponization of science to suit a political or ideological agenda. The consequences of these kinds of contamination can be deadly. Control over data — scientific, economic, health — would give an elected dispensation unwarranted power to distort public narrative. A second — related — challenge concerns the contraction in the autonomy of scientists and the institutions they serve. The whittling down of medical and scientific institutions — much like the media — is patently undemocratic. The Indian scientific fraternity must come forward to resist these predations by the government. An examination of the history of science would show that scientific thought has always functioned as a form of resistance against dogma and bigotry, both of which ail India’s body politic today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
17-09-2021||Opinion||Learning difficulty||Endear (verb): cause to be loved or liked. Now switch to NDEAR or the National Digital Education Architecture launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week. Addressing the inaugural conclave of the 10-day Shikshak Parv, he said that the transformations in the country’s education sector, besides being policy-oriented, were participation-based. Who are the participants in this grand scheme? When Modi said the teaching-learning process in the country has to be constantly redefined and redesigned to make India’s education sector world-class, did he stop to wonder how this would impact the students and the faculty? How many educational institutions in the country have the infrastructure and wherewithal to cope with an unending state of flux? To make the students future-ready, the prime minister said: “In this rapidly changing era, our teachers also have to learn about new systems and techniques rapidly.” There are challenges aplenty for the ill-equipped and often ill-informed teachers, especially in government institutions. “During Covid, we have witnessed our education sector’s capabilities. There were a lot of challenges, but you solved all. Online classes, group video calls, online exams weren’t heard by many earlier,” he added. Have we really “solved all”? There are many government universities that have not held classes during the pandemic, although the teachers are getting paid and many of them are guest lecturers in private universities where the online mode is in full swing. A professor at a Central university said that the ministry of human resource development had made provisions for internet connectivity on campus, but teachers and students had to depend on their own resources for online classes from home. “There has been some progress in the past year, but it is not enough,” the teacher added. Most faculty members in Central, state, state-aided and private universities I spoke to had no idea about NDEAR or what it entails. The vision statement is lofty: “A globally pioneering effort in education — A unifying national digital infrastructure to energise and catalyse the education ecosystem.” If only! It goes on to explain that NDEAR is “federated, unbundled, interoperable, inclusive, accessible, evolving which aims to create and deliver diverse, relevant, contextual, innovative solutions that benefit students, teachers, parents, communities, administrators and result in timely implementation of policy goals.” If the idea is to eradicate inequality in education and modernize the existing infrastructure, then the Centre will have to address all educational institutions because they cannot function in isolation. When the National Education Policy was formulated, it was tom-tommed as modern and futuristic. The initiative for the ‘education revolution’ was reiterated on the completion of a year of the NEP on July 29, when the Union education minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, tweeted that the NEP “is a guiding philosophy for changing the learning landscape, making education holistic and for building strong foundations for an [A]tmanirbhar Bharat.” Surely in a year there would have been a modicum of impact of these ideals on the employability of the youth, especially students who are the primary beneficiaries of such schemes? But India’s unemployment rate for all ages increased to 10.3 per cent in October-December 2020, compared to 7.9 per cent in the corresponding months a year ago, according to the latest Periodic Labour Force Survey. Should we not have an education policy that makes students industry-ready and employable, instead of giving them crutches labelled “atmanirbhar”? Private universities have gained popularity because of their placement record, even in the pandemic years. Government institutions must follow suit so that students can spend less and learn constructively. If NEP and NDEAR are to endear themselves to us as path-breaking policies, government institutions must stop being laggards and the ministry, instead of drafting what reads like a verbose seminar paper, should undertake a reality check.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
17-09-2021||Opinion||A graveyard of strategists||As the Taliban acquired control of Afghanistan and the world saw flashes of Saigon in the messy American withdrawal, it didn’t take long for Afghanistan’s description as a graveyard of empires to re-enter the narrative. Alongside, another group lost no time in dominating the chatter — the tribe of strategists. Where the ground is shifting, there is room to recommend short-term strategy, medium-term strategy and, when newsrooms hazard guess into the distant future, long-term strategy. Contemporary Afghanistan is strategy-packaged as a country. It was its strategy of supporting the communist government that acquired power in 1978 that brought the erstwhile Soviet Union to Afghanistan the following year; it was competing Cold-War strategies that foiled its plans and forced it to leave in 1988, it was post-9/11 strategy and a world reduced to one superpower that brought the Americans to Afghanistan in 2001; it is diminished American strength and a world returned to competing superpowers that inspired their strategy of withdrawal in 2021. The ups and downs of this strategy-laden story ignore the more relevant constants in the background. For instance, among recent news reports on Afghanistan, was the admission of the Taliban that their members aren’t trained to respect women. Everyone knew this from the past and from the spectre of people fleeing after the change of power in August. But said bluntly and publicly, it sat there like shocking dumbness awaiting legitimacy. Does a group that confesses to poor respect for women have the moral right to govern? Before criticizing the Taliban, we must remember that marginalizing women is not an Afghan problem alone. The Taliban represent an extreme manifestation of the malaise. The same tendency, in varying shades, is present in multiple political formations worldwide. In many of these geographies, India included, the solution of the conservatives for women’s rights denied has been to enforce dress codes for women, monitor their mixing with men, and police their presence in public spaces. This disregard for human rights does not seem to have bothered the Doha negotiations, which shaped the Taliban’s return. How could minds informed enough to evolve geo-political strategy miss such fundamental priorities? One reason may be this: in strategies around geo-politics, people (and women therein) are incidental occupants of prized geography. Afghanistan attracts because of its location. The country’s predicament is what may be called the curse of the in-between. In ancient times, it was the route from Central Asia to India. In the days of the British raj, Afghanistan was the theatre of the Great Game, wherein Tsarist Russia and Britain engaged in shadow games; one to further its influence southward, the other to check it. Currently, Afghanistan is the strategic crossroad; the link converging China, Central Asia, South Asia, the Middle East and the Arabian Sea. Everyone intervenes for access to the different directions offered and, of late, the country’s resources, ranging from natural gas to iron ore, copper and lithium. The problem with strategy is its nature. Unlike travellers, strategists rarely talk of the people. Worldwide, the likes of Afghanistan have been chess boards. As much as it is a graveyard of empires, Afghanistan is also a graveyard of strategies. The latter’s ruins as a distinct category escapes the world’s attention because for us on the outside, Afghanistan and strategy have always been one. By definition, tactics and strategy are means to goals. Humanity’s goals are supposed to be humane. But today, thanks to the money and power in its corner, tactics and strategy are bigger schools of imagination, bigger businesses, than goals. Where strategies proliferate, goals remain elusive. That is why Afghanistan is a morass; a logjam of everyone’s self-serving strategies. Delayed time and again, there eventually comes a point when it isn’t strategists who should walk a graveyard of empires but healers. As of mid-2021 and the sight of desperate people falling from planes later, that juncture is upon us. Bringing back the generals, security advisers and spies of the world to Afghanistan would merely mean old wine in a new bottle. They groomed and indulged militancy in Afghanistan as strategy and, finally, abandoned the country to a terrible armed militia. How can their tribe be the solution? Afghanistan needs healers. Those who value the interests of Afghans and those of their country. The Great Game and other games have had their day. Shyam G. Menon is a freelance journalist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
17-09-2021||Opinion||The hand that feeds||A month after the dramatic fall of the old order in Kabul, what is evident in Pakistan is a mix of sentiment ranging from quiet satisfaction to heady triumphalism. Three factors underwrite these views. Foremost is the sense of achievement that a long and risky strategy to instal a ‘friendly’ government in Kabul has paid off. Second is the sense of vindication that the policy of the United States of America — long disliked in Pakistan and one that unites State and street views like almost nothing else — has been exposed with regard to competence and credibility. Thirdly and finally is the gratification at the erasure of the Indian presence in Afghanistan which had long caused as much psychological envy as strategic discomfort. It is not as if there are no voices of disquiet or even prophets of doom; there is concern over the risks of blowback and the catalyzing of Pashtun nationalism across the Durand line; over the future cost that Western and US disapprobation will impose; over the risks at the empowerment that radical Islamic groups in Pakistan feel and derive from the Taliban victory, even though such empowerment is welcomed with regard to Kashmiri outfits. But these doubts are fewer and principally confined to the ‘usual suspects’ and dissenters; they are not representative of the mainstream view. The overwhelming mood remains that such problems as may come up can be handled and that there is a good chance that Afghanistan may finally be on the cusp of a stability that has been elusive so far. In Pakistan, ‘stability’ in Afghanistan is also seen to be synonymous with, and inseparable from, a government ‘friendly’ to Pakistan. Some parallels with the past are inescapable. The Soviet Union’s disintegration in December 1991 was profoundly weakening for the government of the then Afghan president, Najibullah. The resilience he exhibited after the Soviet withdrawal in February 1989 had surprised both supporters and foes. Soviet support, rather than its troops, had been a material factor and the USSR’s collapse meant that the government, which had so far battled the different mujahideen groups effectively, now unravelled quickly. By April 1992, the former mujahideen factions were now running a new government in Afghanistan. But these were not so much different factions as different armies and a civil war was looming. Pakistan’s aim was to make them pull together, but it was also playing favourites with the different leaders. In September 1995, Pakistan realized a new reality was upon it when its ambassador was attacked and its embassy, inherited from the British and described as a grand colonial structure, reduced to rubble. Pakistan had learnt the hard way that the different factions of the mujahideen that it had nurtured and long supported had personalities of their own and the behaviour they had shown in Quetta or Peshawar was going to change once they were in Kabul. The Taliban now emerged as the favoured new force that would restore stability to Afghanistan and also be a government ‘friendly’ to Pakistan. What this meant was and remains is a subject of discussion. Then, as now, the view was that its sacrifices for the Afghan cause entitled Pakistan to a government of its choice in Kabul. The term, ‘strategic depth’, also acquired — and has retained — a certain circulatory and narrative value. But the arguments made in its favour, again then as now, suggested, as better-informed Pakistanis emphasized, a certain naivety on strategic matters. The argument now being heard that being in government would gradually moderate the Taliban also has older antecedents and was heard in Pakistan in the late 1990s too. As it turned out, Pakistan was finally the only nation left making the case for engagement with the Taliban. Pakistan’s expectation post-1996 was that the Taliban’s success in controlling most of Afghanistan and its major cities would lead to international acquiescence and even an acceptance of the changed realities. This did not happen and support of terrorist groups, misogyny, regressive social policies and an inability to compromise forced the Taliban into steadily growing isolation. By 2001, Pakistan was the only country maintaining diplomatic relations with Afghanistan. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, which had earlier recognized the Taliban, had broken relations over the sanctuary provided to Osama bin Laden. These parallels with the 1990s notwithstanding, there are also significant differences now from the Pakistan-Afghanistan interface of the 1990s. Firstly, Afghanistan was very much in a news shadow then and the interests of the US and the West had shifted. The Cold War was over and the overwhelming focus was on a European war in the Balkans. Secondly, politics in Pakistan was significantly different in the post-Zia phase. Nawaz Sharif and Benazir Bhutto alternated in power and they were both victims and protagonists in the civil-military contests that characterized Pakistan in the 1990s. Musharraf’s coup settled the dust but thereafter tensions with India remained a principal issue in Pakistan blurring, to some extent, the focus on Afghanistan. Thirdly, a major difference lies in Afghanistan itself. The Taliban seized power in an isolated and war-torn economy and society in 1996, quite unlike the case today. While the country has numerous structural fragilities and a massive aid dependency, it is also much younger in its demographic profile, more educated, more urbanized and, finally, much more connected to the external world. Finally, what has changed most dramatically is China’s role and position in the region. These changes breed hope in Pakistan that this time around its quest for a stable order in Afghanistan with a government ‘friendly’ to it may be more successful. Whether that will happen or not remains a question. Much depends on how much, if at all, the Taliban mindset has changed and evolved in the past two decades. Pakistan is also the country, after Afghanistan, of course, likely to be impacted the most by the answer that emerges from this question. But it is more than likely that what it may find, once again, is the surfacing of the fundamental contradiction between its twin aims of ‘stability’ and ‘friendly’ government. T.C.A. Raghavan is a former Indian High Commissioner to Pakistan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
