18-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Temporary balm||The Narendra Modi government has unveiled a package of measures that professes to ease the pangs of the telecom sector and seemingly heads off the prospect of an emerging duopoly — an undesirable outcome that will stifle competition and compromise the interests of the consumer. Both the industry and the markets have reacted positively to the measures but it may be too early to jump to the conclusion that a floundering Vodafone Idea has been saved from the brink of financial ruin. That is not certain because the devil still lurks in the details. The 18 measures have been lumped under three heads: structural reforms, procedural reforms, and steps to address the liquidity concerns of telecom service providers. The big relief for Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel is the four-year moratorium that has been granted to them to pay back the mounting telecom dues. Vodafone Idea owes the government over Rs 500 billion and Airtel needs to cough up a little over half that amount. The Centre has also granted them the option to convert the unpaid interest into equity at the end of the deferment period while retaining its discretion to convert the outstanding principal amount into shares. Industry will also need to figure out whether the proposed change in the definition of adjusted gross revenue, which forms the basis for the computation of telecom dues, will eventually prove to be beneficial. The Centre has said it will cull the ‘non-telecom’ revenue elements from the AGR definition without elaborating on what these are. The so-called formula was a major bone of contention until the Supreme Court resolved the quibble in the government’s favour by stating unequivocally that telecom service providers could not resort to accounting jugglery and nitpick on the formula. The government has finally seen reason. However, the industry will have to wait and see whether the Centre will agree to dovetail the formula to the accounting standards prescribed under the Companies Act. A couple of other decisions are clearly welcome: the radio waves farmed out through future auctions will be granted for a 30-year tenure instead of 20 at present. Telecom companies will be encouraged to share revenue without being burdened with a fee for such arrangements. The move to allow foreign direct investment up to 100 per cent under the automatic route will need to be examined closely. After Vodafone’s experience with the retrospective tax, there are very few telecom players that will be ready to enter the country. Private equity players have also become more circumspect about investing in a sector that has been wallowing in losses. Experts warn that unless the promoters pump money into the business and raise tariffs, Vodafone Idea will continue to flounder, amplifying the risk of the industry contracting into a duopoly. The pall over the telecom industry has lifted — but only slightly. There is a long way to go before it can haul itself out of the rut.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
18-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Antony Blinken on Pakistan’s alleged ‘duplicity’||Dual game Sir — The observations of the secretary of state of the United States of America, Antony Blinken, on Pakistan’s alleged ‘duplicity’ in dealing with terrorism and the Taliban have raised public expectations that Washington may reverse its policy of indulgence towards Islamabad (“Late confession”, Sep 16). But this appears to be unrealistic. It is clear that the US’s ouster from Afghanistan has much to do with Pakistan — without the latter’s tacit support, it would have surely been difficult for the Taliban to evolve politically and militarily. But there are also suspicions that the US allowed Pakistan’s game to succeed. For quite some time, Washington’s purpose had been to extricate itself from Afghanistan — a goal that the current president, Joe Biden, pursued with the same vigour as his predecessor, Donald Trump. This could only be achieved at the cost of giving Pakistan — and the Taliban — a free rein and, in the process, deceiving the erstwhile government of Afghanistan and blindsiding India, which is otherwise considered an ally. India has not benefited from Pakistan’s purported cooperative attitude towards counter-terrorism. It must formulate its own political and military response to terrorist activities carried out by outfits based in Pakistan and now possibly in Afghanistan. The US’s value as an ally is also questionable. In all probability, the Biden administration intends to continue to engage with Pakistan in order to protect the US mainland from terrorist attacks. This could involve humouring Islamabad. It is, therefore, essential for New Delhi to not depend on other nations but rather fashion its own path. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — As it disengages with Kabul, the US will no doubt be compelled to defer its agency in the Afghan region to Pakistan. In spite of decades of perfidy on the part of Pakistan in hunting with the US and running with the Taliban, Washington is loath to exclude Islamabad from its Afghan equation, if only to counter Chinese influence in the region. Pakistan, on its part, would be more than willing to acquiesce. Antony Blinken’s recent statement about Pakistan betrays a strategic attempt to secure a staging post in India for strikes on Afghan soil in case such a measure is needed. But this could be detrimental to India’s interests. Its involvement in this matter could create a lasting conflict with Afghanistan and its tacit ally, Pakistan, along the entire north-western border. Such an interminable conflict could, in turn, benefit China — the other major stakeholder in the region — in the long run. Ultimately, it is possible that the US would renege on its commitment, leaving India to handle the aftermath on its own. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai Sir — It seems that the US has finally become aware of Pakistan’s true colours. Pakistan, a nuclear-armed State, has often been accused of nurturing religious extremism. When international pressure builds up to crack down on terrorist groups operating on its soil, it has allegedly done so only superficially, while covertly continuing to support them. This seems to have been Pakistan’s geopolitical strategy for years. But Antony Blinken’s recent remark regarding Pakistan’s ‘duplicity’ indicates that the threat posed by the State is being recognized at last. It is time for the US to realize that the indispensability of Pakistan to its own interests is only a delusion. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore  Charge ahead Sir — Change is finally in the air. The Calcutta police are set to take on lease 226 electric vehicles as they phase out the 15-year-old diesel-powered ones used by the force. This initiative is aimed at saving fuel and maintenance cost as well as reducing air and noise pollution. The move must be lauded — it will help raise awareness among citizens about environment protection and also give the e-vehicles industry in the country a boost. Vehicular emissions are a major contributor to the city’s pollution level. A shift towards such greener alternatives may be the only way forward. Preeti Singh,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
18-09-2021||Opinion||Shehla Hasan and big business||Shehla Hasan is perfectly placed to help bring business to West Bengal. She has taken over as executive director of the Manchester India Partnership, which was set up to attract inward Indian investment into Greater Manchester. Last week, she held a high-powered India summit and took guests to lunch at Old Trafford even though the fifth England-India Test was cancelled. Shehla, long recognized as one of the most successful women in corporate India, was recruited from Delhi where she was country director of the Confederation of British Industry for some nine years. She first moved to Bengal in 1995 after marrying Zulfiquar Hasan, a state cadre of the IPS, and worked as a journalist in Calcutta, followed by stints at the Indian Chamber of Commerce and the UK Trade & Investment based at the British deputy high commission. Originally from Odisha, Shehla speaks Bengali. “Our work is to facilitate collaborations, especially in healthcare, vaccine trials, diagnostics, sustainability, tourism and culture,” Shehla tells me. “We are very keen to engage with the SME IT companies looking for a global market, especially in e-commerce and cybersecurity.” She says the MIP wants “to encourage the youth of Bengal to think of new ideas, creating wealth for the community and build a start-up ecosystem. We are looking for collaborations for joint research with the Manchester universities. Football would be another area of mutual interest as well as cricket. The culture paradigm, too, is very important... Calcutta is home to the Dover Lane Music Festival, Nandan and several music schools like CSM and Sangeet Research Academy. This is worth exploring. Manchester Museum is launching its South Asia gallery next year. The Royal Northern College of Music in Manchester could be a good institution for securing tie-ups.” Bengali at heart Dr Bidhan Kumar Chakrabarti’s British-born daughters, Reeta and Lolita, have done exceedingly well. While the Oxford-educated Reeta is a frontline BBC TV presenter, Lolita trained to be an actress and writer at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. The latter is currently starring as lieutenant-commander, Erin Branning, in a gripping six-part BBC drama, Vigil, which tells of a police investigation after the suspicious death of a crew member on a British nuclear submarine while it is out patrolling the deep seas. There is nothing “Indian” about Lolita’s character, “a high-ranking naval officer who runs legal matters for the navy”, who looks intimidating in her uniform. Lolita says her father, who qualified from R.G. Kar in Calcutta, arrived in Britain with his wife, Rumi — she passed away five years ago — as a 26-year-old doctor in 1960. The girls grew up in Birmingham, where he was an orthopaedic surgeon at Selly Oak Hospital before becoming a consultant at King’s College Hospital, London. Now retired, he never misses Lolita’s TV and theatre performances. The family tried twice to return to Calcutta — when Lolita was three and 10, respectively — but came back to Britain. Lolita assures me that she is still Bengali: “Definitely, in terms of culture and food. Language is still there. I don’t speak it very often but I can understand it when I’m on the tube. You can’t take the Indian out of you, can you? It’s just there.” Tiger tiger, burning bright The artist, Chila Burman, has lit up Covent Garden, a popular tourist venue in London, with her latest work, do you see words in rainbows?, consisting of coloured neon lights. Its most dramatic feature is a tiger, fashioned from white neon tubes and positioned on a mirror table. The inspiration comes from the tiger replica her father, Bachan Singh Burman, had atop the ice cream van he had in Liverpool, after arriving from Calcutta with his wife, Kamala Vati, in 1954. They had lived in Calcutta for 16 years, when he worked for the Dunlop factory in Sahaganj. Three of their five children, including Chila, were born in Britain. Chila says her latest tiger also owes something to the Netflix adaptation of Aravind Adiga’s 2008 Booker Prize-winning novel, The White Tiger. Crime watch Neil Basu and I have one thing in common — both of us love the detective novels by Abir Mukherjee set in India. He always speaks fondly about his late father, Pankaj Kumar Basu, who arrived from Calcutta in the 1960s, married a Welsh woman, Enid Margaret Roberts, and served as a police surgeon for nearly 40 years. I consult Neil about Afghanistan since he is assistant commissioner and head of counter-terrorism at Scotland Yard — and the highest-ranking ethnic minority police officer in the country. He thinks Afghanistan will once again become a base for exporting terrorism; he also predicted “lone wolf” attacks by people based in Europe inspired by the Taliban victory “probably within two years”. He won’t be drawn into what his Indian counterparts should do. “Of course, I recommend all countries adopt the UK government’s strategy and the way that intelligence services, policing, government, business and the public pull together to create a whole society approach to counter terrorism with a real long-term focus on prevention.” Footnote British Vogue has amazing timing — it has landed a photo shoot and interview with Emma Raducanu in its current issue. Following her victory in the US Open, the 18-year-old is in great demand. But Edward Enninful, Vogue’s first black editor, showed remarkable perspicacity in commissioning the interview in July. Raducanu’s father is Romanian but she says about her Chinese mother that “they have very good self-belief... I really respect that about the culture.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
18-09-2021||Opinion||Faulty connection||Asaduddin Owaisi is often called the B-team of the Bharatiya Janata Party by his political opponents. The implication is that the Hindutva politics of the BJP and the Muslim-centric politics of Owaisi reinforce each other by splitting voters along communal lines. It is true that the rise of Hindutva has enabled Owaisi to expand his party beyond its base of Hyderabad. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s nascent political footprint has spread in an era dominated by Hindutva, presently spanning from Bihar in the east to Karnataka in the south and Maharashtra and Gujarat in the west. The party is now gearing up to establish a foothold in Uttar Pradesh, using a similar campaign strategy that had worked for it in Bihar. However, the relationship between the dominance of Hindutva and the scope of Owaisi’s politics is much more complex, even paradoxical, than a straightforward equation of mutual benefit. Hindutva politics has certainly facilitated the growth of Owaisi’s politics but it also tethers it in. To understand why, one must carefully understand the essential nature of the political pitch made by the AIMIM to Muslim voters. The facilitative role played by Hindutva is easier to grasp. Owaisi’s opening lies in Hindutva politics pushing secular parties towards a dilution of their secular commitment. As Hindutva becomes more mainstream, secular parties have started to become more pussyfooted in their outreach to Muslims. In a manner, whereas the courting of different caste groups is overt and high-pitched, the appeal to the Muslim vote is made in a more covert and sheepish way, as if they have internalized the charge of ‘Muslim appeasement’. In this gap, Owaisi comes with the unabashed rhetoric of furthering the interests of Muslims and giving rousing expression to their deeply felt grievances against Hindutva politics. This is why many thousands of people, especially young Muslims, turn up at his rallies in small towns of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. However, Hindutva also simultaneously places hard limits on the growth of Owaisi’s politics. This side of the equation is more complicated and, hence, easily overlooked. In a state such as Uttar Pradesh, the Muslim vote has historically been dispersed among different secular parties. Unlike the imagination of a unified Muslim ‘vote bank’, the Muslim vote is actually a diverse patchwork of transactional relationships mediated by caste, class and region. In a 2015 study of Muslim voting patterns in Uttar Pradesh, the political scientists, Oliver Heath, Gilles Verniers and Sanjay Kumar, observed that “Muslims are the only major ethnic group in the state who do not have a distinct political party to represent their interests — and partly for this reason they may be inclined to switch their support between the three secular parties (SP, BSP, Congress)...” What makes Owaisi’s electoral pitch to Muslims distinct from that of other secular political parties is that the AIMIM is not simply offering them a political bargain based on patronage or security. He is essentially offering them a political vision. The formative elements of this political vision are similar to the ones earlier espoused by Ram Manohar Lohia to other backward classes and Kanshi Ram to Dalits: the cause of the socio-economic backwardness of the given community is representational blockage in existing parties and, thus, the solution is to build up independent political power. If 11 per cent of Yadavs can elect a chief minister, then why can’t 19 per cent of Muslims elect 19 MLAs of their own, Owaisi asked in a recent electoral rally, imploring the community to unite behind the AIMIM. In other words, Muslims must forge a common political consciousness, leverage their numerical strength, build their own political leadership, and raise their ambitions beyond short-term concerns of patronage and security to the long-term goal of socio-economic equity. In contrast, the electoral pitch of the secular parties towards Muslims is oriented more towards the immediate political context. To the extent that intensification of Hindutva raises the stakes of the immediate political context, Muslims would be goaded towards the safer option of regional parties rather than the gamble of the AIMIM. Furthermore, as Hindutva has made Muslims the single-most politically radioactive community, the dream of a Muslim-led, cross-ethnic coalition (like the ones constructed by the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party) seems more fantastical than it ever did. A political vision aimed at a constituency succeeds when it manages to elicit a broad buy-in within that constituency, which, in turn, depends on the credibility of the vision. The intensification of Hindutva circumscribes Owaisi’s politics to the extent that it makes his vision less credible. Political visions succeed in a context of rising expectations, which raise the horizons of future possibilities. The success of Mandal politics was preceded by an unprecedented socio-economic advance of large OBC groups after the Green Revolution. The BSP was buoyed by a new class of upwardly mobile Dalits, nurtured by reservation in jobs and education, who had the confidence to dream of capturing political power for themselves. A loosening of the hierarchical grip of the caste system in the wider society also meant that the backward castes could make effective coalitions with each other without needing the leadership of Brahmins or other upper castes. In other words, the success of these political visions was based on burgeoning aspirations whetted by a favourable socio-political environment. In contrast, even as Owaisi’s exhilarating vision generates enthusiasm among a section of Muslims, it is immediately tempered by a gnawing reality of rising insecurity. The intensification of campaigns of communal prejudice and the normalization of hate crimes against Muslims in a state such as Uttar Pradesh can lend an existential urgency to the votes of many Muslims. Voters tend to have a sharp sense of risks and rewards. Since secular parties, and not Owaisi, remain by far the more potent force to defeat the BJP, they are better placed to corner the anti-BJP vote. How, then, was Owaisi able to make inroads into Bihar? For starters, four out of five seats won by the AIMIM in Bihar were won from the parliamentary constituency of Kishanganj where Muslims make up around 70 per cent of the population. Thus, Muslims voted for the AIMIM only in constituencies where the BJP had little chances of winning and the principal competitors were other secular parties. In these constituencies, the issue of safety was not a priority and, thus, Owaisi’s vision had a stronger purchase. Overall, 76 per cent of Muslims voted for the Rashtriya Janata Dal, decisively choosing the RJD over the AIMIM in seats where the BJP was a principal competitor. In contrast, there are hardly any safe Muslim constituencies in Uttar Pradesh — there is no outright Muslim-majority parliamentary constituency in the state. And as the BJP has shown in the last three elections, it can win through communal polarization in minority-concentrated districts such as Saharanpur, Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Azamgarh and Bareilly. Secondly, as Aditya Menon has pointed out in The Quint, the Muslims of Bihar, under the more moderate rule of Nitish Kumar, could also have been less influenced with security-driven anxieties than might be the case with Muslims under the harsher rule of Yogi Adityanath. This is the central paradox of Owaisi’s politics in the era of Hindutva: the political oxygen provided to the AIMIM is just enough to allow the germination of its politics but not enough to allow it to be firmly planted on the political landscape. This paradox extends to Owaisi’s relationship with the Opposition secular parties. Since the politics of the AIMIM is designed to poach the voters of secular parties, they then become the central target of its political attacks. However, this also shrivels the bargaining power of AIMIM MLAs post election. Had the strategy of Owaisi’s party been to contest in either a partnership or a covert understanding with secular parties, it could have credibly claimed to have a strong negotiating hand in any future secular government. Thus, whereas Owaisi’s promises are grander and embedded in a clear vision for the future of Muslims, his party’s credibility to deliver on those promises is very limited. On the other hand, the material benefits promised by the regional parties, although more incremental and transactional than the transformative promises of Owaisi, are much more realistic. Hence, both in terms of security and material benefits, secular parties are the safer, and more conservative, option as opposed to the bullish, but riskier, option of Owaisi. And in a more communally charged and turbulent electoral environment fomented by the BJP, one would expect Muslim voters to lean towards realism and conservatism than risk a leap into the unknown. Asim Ali is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
