19-09-2021||Opinion||Gadkari's advice to politicians: play life like one day cricket||Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari seem to be the only members of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s old guard who have managed to remain in the Narendra Modi government after the recent rejig. While the defence minister, Singh, has chosen to lie low and continue with his work, the road transport minister, Gadkari, goes around speaking his mind, projecting himself as a visionary and performance-oriented leader. He had recently hit the headlines for calling Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Jawaharlal Nehru the two “ideal leaders” of Indian democracy. Surely, Gadkari cannot say he was not aware of how deep the dislike for Nehru runs in the present regime. Soon after, Gadkari was once again in the news for his remarks on how politicians are generally an unhappy lot — he said that even chief ministers are unhappy since they do not know how long they will remain in their posts. Given that the BJP was replacing chief ministers in Uttarakhand and Gujarat, this evoked whispers in the party corridors. At the same event, the Nagpur strongman reportedly said that his case was different: he was happy as he was not worried about the future. “No matter what position you hold, play (life) like one day cricket,” Gadkari said, trying to tell Rajasthan legislators how to be happy. There are murmurs that the way Gadkari himself is playing, it could result in a hit wicket sooner rather than later. A small town in Bihar — Bakhtiyarpur — has suddenly become the bone of contention between the members of the ruling National Democratic Alliance — the BJP and the Janata Dal (United), led by the chief minister, Nitish Kumar. The BJP demanded that the name of the town — it is known by the name of Qutbuddin Aibak’s general, Bakhtiyar Khalji, who is said to have torched the ancient Nalanda University sometime between the 12th and 13th centuries CE — be changed. It also dangled a carrot and said it would not mind if it is named after Kumar as he was born there and has tried to re-create the Nalanda University. “No chance,” Kumar thundered; he reportedly added that he was happy being a son of Bakhtiyarpur. A political ally, the BJP is surely aghast at losing one of the issues it was trying to whip up. Twitter must have been confounded when, all of a sudden, thousands of Congress leaders and workers began to sport Rahul Gandhi’s photograph as their profile picture. Even those without artificial intelligence were confused about what was happening among Congressmen across the country. The phenomenon continued for several days until a senior leader of the party revealed its reason. “This was our protest against Twitter for suspending the handle of our leader. We decided to sport his photo instead of our own pictures and it caught [on] like wildfire among the party workers,” he said. Although Rahul’s Twitter handle was back in action in just a couple of days, some of his party members reportedly continue to sport his image. A Congressman asserted that many of the party leaders were afraid of being the first to remove their leader’s photograph, which led to a delay of weeks in doing so. Now they are slowly reverting to their own pictures. Everybody knows the country runs on butter. Temples have a new guardian in the Congress in Karnataka after the BJP-ruled state demolished a shrine in Mysore in connection with a court order to remove all illegal structures on encroached land. Several more shrines were earmarked for demolition, much to the chagrin of the BJP that is caught between its own ideology and the court order. But the Congress leader, PC Siddaramaiah, could not let this opportunity pass. He called the BJP ‘fake Hindutva proponents’ as the government went ahead with the demolition. A true-blue socialist with no known affinity to religion, Siddaramaiah has taken a vault to emerge as the champion of what was perceived to be the sole domain of the sangh parivar. With the 2023 state elections in sight, and a BJP that is already a divided house, Siddaramaiah and his party could not have chosen a better time to leverage the issue of faith in a state where religion is an important matter. The decision of the Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, to not bow down before the blackmailing tactics of sections of party leaders in Odisha has yielded results. It has brought to heel rebel leaders like the member of the legislative assembly, Tara Prasad Bahinipati, who had been issuing statements against the Pradesh Congress Committee president, Niranjan Patnaik, and even threatening to quit the party. He was opposed to the re-induction of his rival, a former MLA. Bahinipati’s wife, Meenakshi, the Koraput district Congress Committee president, had also been spewing venom against the leadership. The stand of the husband-wife duo had caused concern as it sent a wrong message to the rank and file. The Congress chief despatched the Odisha in-charge, A Chellakumar, to settle the issue. Chellakumar met all sections of leaders and made it clear that the leadership would not tolerate such indiscipline or change the PCC president. He warned the rebels to leave the party if they so desired. Bahinipati and his followers immediately fell in line. The MLA publicly stated that he had no intentions of quitting the party. The Malayalam actor-turned-MP, Suresh Gopi, known for playing the super cop in many of his films, recently forced a police inspector who is part of his security detail to salute him, although the members of parliament are not entitled for such display of power. The act triggered protests. Unmindful of the criticism for demanding respect, Gopi has attempted to justify his action, even as Congress workers staged protests offering salute with slippers to the BJP lawmaker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
19-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Kohli quitting as T20 skipper not good for team||Sir — The skipper of the Indian men’s cricket team, Virat Kohli, recently announced that he will be stepping down as the captain of the shortest format of the game after the International Cricket Council’s Men’s T20 World Cup scheduled to begin next month (“Kohli bows to ‘workload’ at top”, Sep 17). Speculation is rife about why Kohli has taken this decision, but most would agree that with a month to go for the World Cup, it is ill-timed. We must admit that the cricket schedule has increasingly become more hectic with players expected to remain in top shape throughout the year. There is very little room for error and this has taken a heavy toll on cricketers. But Kohli stepping down as the captain of the Twenty20 team may just result in more complications. Reportedly, Rohit Sharma might replace Kohli as the captain. However, rumours indicate that all is not well between the two players. If it is true, then this may just lead to a clash of egos. This would not be good for the performance of the team. Nevertheless, we all hope that whoever may be the next captain of the T20 team will do his best to lead the Indian side to victory. Ishan Anand,Ujjain Sir — While it may be true that Virat Kohli is one of the most successful T20 captains, he has lately been in poor shape. His captaincy in all three formats of the game has been questionable and the recent cancellation of the final Test match against England was a disaster. It is a testament to his irresponsibility that he chose to attend the launch of Ravi Shastri’s book — a crowded event — in the midst of the pandemic, knowing full well his responsibilities to the team and the country he represents. Thus his departure as the T20 captain does not come as a surprise. Rumours have been floating around the internet that Rohit Sharma could be crowned the next skipper of the Indian T20 men’s team. We are hoping for an early announcement but it is likely to come only after the conclusion of the T20 World Cup, which would mark the end of Kohli’s T20 captaincy. Kohli might have stepped down from leading the T20 team, but he still remains the captain for Test matches and one-day internationals. As fans, we do hope that the Indian team, under Kohli’s leadership, excels in the upcoming matches and brings home the T20 World Cup as well as the ICC Men’s Champions Trophy. M. Srikanth,Chennai Sir — Thailand’s strict Covid-19 restrictions have drastically reduced the number of taxis plying on the streets, leaving many without a source of income. But rather than letting the taxis sit idle, miniature gardens have been assembled on the hoods of the vehicles. The drivers as well as the fleet owners are hoping that the eye-catching installations will compel the government to take note of their plight and ease their burden. If not, the vegetables being grown can help feed their families. It is truly unfortunate that governments continue to be blind to the needs of the people. Suchitra Ramanujan, Chennai Sir — It is crucial that we are aware of the ingredients going into any packaged food that we consume and make informed choices (“Bitter taste”, Sep 17). Packaged food has not only led to the younger generation abandoning local cuisines, but also home-cooked food in general, which has contributed to a massive spike in non-communicable diseases. Food, heavily laden with sugar, monosodium glutamate, saturated fat and trans fat, is responsible for heart ailments, diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver among other things. It is the responsibility of the manufacturers to at least be transparent about what they put in their products. If we are to remain healthy, we must cut out processed food as much as possible. India is blessed with a fantastic range of locally available fruits, vegetables and grains. As such, each region has a unique and diverse cuisine that can cater to everyone, irrespective of dietary restrictions. We must adopt a clean and balanced diet for our well-being. H.N. Ramakrishna, Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
19-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Doppelgängers’ day||In Sonar Kella, Jatayu, aka Lalmohan Ganguly, had confessed that a ride atop the ‘ship of the desert’ was a childhood dream. It now seems that the dream of the ship of the desert, the camel — of turning into the proverbial princess from the toad, in a manner of speaking — could turn true. The news, admittedly, may sound bizarre, as bizarre as one of Jatayu’s plots, but this is not exactly fiction. Reports suggest that cloning is in high demand in the competitive world of beauty pageants for camels, leaving scientists at a Dubai clinic working round the clock to produce carbon copies of the near-perfect beast. Apparently, not every camel is blessed with drooping lips and a tall, elegant neck — assets that seem to send camel aficionados into raptures. But technology — cloning — will now allow wealthy owners to replace their most beautiful camel with ones that resemble its grace and poise. Vanity is not the only reason why camels are being cloned either; there is, as always, a commercial aspect. Many owners want to reproduce racing camels, or animals that produce large amounts of milk — reproductive cloning to improve livestock breed or agricultural yields is not restricted to camels — while others want to recreate a beloved animal to beat the spectre of mortality. It is estimated that 95-97 per cent of animal cloning attempts end in failure. Yet, as science advances, bringing cloning out of the realm of science fiction and into the domain of reality, there is growing concern about its implications. Nightmares envisioned in literature and popular entertainment have ranged from projects to clone dozens of dictators — imagine a world full of Hitlers — to recreating hordes of workers tasked to perform menial work only. In an ideal world, the goal of cloning, be it in humans or in animals, should be therapeutic — curing common and rare ailments such as diabetes and degenerative brain diseases. But this cannot rule out the very real fear that cloning could be used to facilitate eugenics to enhance certain traits to the exclusion of others. This can have unpredictable effects on the relationship of species with their environment, threatening the already fragile biodiversity. There is also concern that cloning could impair diversity in gene pools. And what about the question of consent? Would the camel or a human approve of the dawn of the Day of the Doppelgänger? The most pervasive fear concerns the upending of the theory of natural selection. That a cloned being with superior abilities could survive and then dominate the rest of its fellow beings is a possibility that cannot be ruled out. The United Nations’ Declaration on Human Cloning says that cloning is “incompatible with human dignity”: why, then, does such ethical concern elude animal cloning? Those who endorse cloning argue that it could turn out to be humanity’s antidote for mortality. But here, too, science is yet to provide a convincing answer. A cloned camel or a human may resemble the departed to a T, but can it really be said that the heart — those perfect droopy eyes and elegant neck notwithstanding — of a clone beats with the same rhythm as that of one who is now gone?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
19-09-2021||Opinion|| August office||The prime minister of India is Numero uno. And that is how, in an electoral democracy, it should be. The person who commands the majority in Parliament is in command of India. But India being India, the same dynamic makes our chief ministers Numero unos in their states. Be it Mamata Banerjee, who is about to contest a much-watched by-election to th West Bengal assembly; be it Yogi Adityanath who is gearing up to fight for a second win to power in Uttar Pradesh. Or be it Uddhav Thackeray who has taken to the chief ministership of Maharashtra as to the manner born and M.K. Stalin who has done likewise in Tamil Nadu. They hold sway over millions and hold their own vis-à-vis the Centre. This, too, is how it should be. This column is dedicated to the office of the chief minister in India, with specific reference to two post-Independence chief ministers of Madras as Tamil Nadu was known then — K. Kamaraj (years in office: 1954-1963), whose death anniversary falls fourteen days from now, and C.N. Annadurai (years in office: 1967-1969), whose birth anniversary occurred four days ago. But I will start with a story pertaining to another chief minister of the state, C. Rajagopalachari (years in office: 1952-1954), that I was told about by a venerable resident of Chennai, Kangayam R. Narasimhan. In 1959, when Narasimhan was a student at Loyola College, Rajaji was invited to the college’s annual day. He had demitted office as chief minister five years earlier but his stature was what it always was — sky-high. Medals were handed by him to Loyola’s high achievers on the occasion, Narasimhan a brilliant student of economics being among them. Prize-giving over, Rajaji started his speech by saying something like this: ‘It is given to but a few to receive medals. I congratulate those who are doing so today. But allow me to say that those who receive medals do not necessarily do well in life. Those who do not, do somewhat better. Take my own case…’ And with that he brought the house, 99 per cent of which had won no medals, down. Rajaji, for all his famed intellect, had won no medals in school or in college. Destiny had made him a sought-after medal-giver, not a soon-to-be-forgotten medal-receiver. It was in the state of Madras, which he had helmed as ‘Premier’ from 1937-1939 and chief minister fifteen years later, that the Rajaji legend had grown, making him known as Gandhi’s southern General, a position that over-arched his being India’s first and last governor-general. And it was again in Madras that he was inspired to found in 1959 — the same year as of the Loyola event — the Swatantra Party. The octogenarian was to puncture the Congress’s ‘one party rule’ across many states and, most significantly, catalyze, in 1967, the demolition of the Congress in Madras state by the DMK-Swatantra coalition, making that province a symbol of the power of India’s regions and of its ‘provincial’ leaders. Rajaji has many achievements — political, administrative, intellectual, philosophical — to his credit but one that history will recognize as pivotal is his helping India realize the criticality of its regions and, very particularly, of its chief ministers. Rajaji’s successor as chief minister, K. Kamaraj, had dropped out of high school at the age of eleven and, as a consequence, received no sustained ‘education’ and, so, no medals. But no one knew the region he belonged to, understood the strengths of his people and their weaknesses, better than this son of Virudhunagar. Tamil Nadu was, for Kamaraj, like a goading medallion on his palm — a criss-cross of problems and of opportunities to solve them. A notable figure in local politics by the time he turned eighteen, Kamaraj had decided, irreversibly, to be a nationalist in the Congress’s Gandhi-Nehru mould, acquiring personal charisma from his uncompromising integrity, unwavering commitment and unflagging energy, which the nearly 3,000 days that he spent in the raj’s various jails only intensified. By the time he finished his last prison term under ‘Quit India’ in June 1945, Kamaraj was Tamil Nadu’s tallest leader after Rajaji whom he deinstalled from office and succeeded as the state’s chief minister in 1954. And what a formidable chief minister he made over three successive terms! Industrializing the state, strengthening its agricultural infrastructure and its educational sinews, he became for India’s national leaders, from Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru down to other ‘provincial’ leaders like himself, Kamaraj-ji, the wise ‘Madrasi’, a concentrate of experience and understanding, a go-to person for party-crises, policy-choices, political strategies. More than anything else, the ‘man-of-few-words-but-many-insights’ Kamaraj became a silo of solutions for national problems, the most daunting of which faced the Congress after its electoral setbacks in 1962. Resigning from office on Gandhi Jayanti, October 2, 1963, Kamaraj proposed to Nehru that senior ministers resign to take up organizational work. The Kamaraj Plan, as it came to be called, had mixed results but it was an unmixed lesson in a chief minister heaving national tectonics. In Nehru’s declining years, Kamaraj became the Congress’s inevitable choice for its presidentship — a fortuitous elevation because as Congress president, Kamaraj was able to navigate the prime ministerial transitions from Nehru to Shastri and from Shastri to Indira Gandhi. India owes to Madras and to its leader, Kamaraj, the safe handling of those two national leadership crises. Coming from an opposite pole, C.N. Annadurai, the last chief minister of what was ‘Madras’ and the first chief minister of what became, at his initiative, ‘Tamil Nadu’, unfurled the first non-Congress government in the state. As leader of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, this political descendant of Periyar E.V. Ramasamy and the Dravidar Kazhagam, was the very embodiment of Tamil identitarianism, Dravidian assertion and regional pride. Elected to the Rajya Sabha in 1962, he stunned Parliament and through it the nation by his oratorical fluency but even more by his ideational autonomy. Not a Marxist and yet a soldier for social justice, he flaunted no ideology, no creed. Secular he of course was. He also hated bigotry. An opponent of Hindi domination, he bore not the slightest ill-will for the language of Premchand, Nirala and Mahadevi Verma. A plain and simple sense of his part of the country, hoary in time, classical in cultural stature, being short-changed by North-centric India made him speak passionately of Tamil Nadu’s hurts and hopes. Prime Minister Nehru heard him in Parliament, quite gripped, as did future Prime Ministers, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Morarji Desai, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Chandra Shekhar. That he had come to the Rajya Sabha with the blessings of both Rajaji and Periyar added a further dimension to the future chief minister’s appeal. It made him a federal icon. When, after the Sino-Indian war, Annadurai formally gave up the DMK’s plank of separatism for a charter of federal aspirations, his place in the scroll of national statesmen was assured. Kamaraj and Annadurai are much more than former chief ministers of the state in which Tamil flourishes. They are role models for chief ministers who want federalism to flourish, for India to be freed from dominations, whether of region or language or creed. They are, above all, exemplars of the kind of statesmanship that chief ministership calls for not just because chief ministers are likely future prime ministers but because they can tell prime ministers that a great river is made of waters that flow into it from catchments and from tributaries that feed it mid-flow. Chief ministers have it in them to show how India, a Union of states, is nothing but India’s states that the Indian Union holds together for the states’ and for India’s greatness. And they wear a medal coming from the mint called India, with Bharat written on its obverse in Hindi and on its reverse in every Indian script.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
19-09-2021||Opinion||The monk and his cownstituency ||The current chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Ajay Mohan Bisht, most likely has a phobia. It seems he is terrified he might wake up one day and speak humane-like, turn likeable and so he makes the extra effort to be perfectly offensive to one and all. Women. He said once, “Women also don’t need independence, they need protection.” Children. When a dozen children died in an accident at an unmanned crossing in UP, he said to the grieving, agitating parents, “Stop this nautanki.” To the gasping. “No oxygen shortage in UP.” But the state government had reportedly ordered oximeters and thermal scanners for cows in gaushalas. For staff, not cows, a clarification was put out later. And then there are Muslims, of course. Bisht aka Yogi Adityanath recently said while addressing crowds at UP’s Kushinagar town, “Are you getting ration? Did you get this ration prior to 2017? Back then, those who say ‘abbajaan’ would digest all the ration.” He has said other incendiary things in the past. “If given a chance, we will instal statues of Gauri, Ganesh and Nandi in every mosque.” Yes, yes and he infamously equated SRK with the Pakistani terrorist Hafeez Sayeed. And then, “If they take one Hindu girl, we will take 100 Muslims girls.” (But the UP Cabinet has passed harsh laws to counter cow slaughter.) The semantics of his latest abbajaan comment is a many-barrelled offensive. At one level, it is of course levelled at Muslims. There might be in there an acerbic suggestion of stereotypical large families too guzzling ration. As to why he chooses abbajaan instead of ammijaan is possibly unadulterated chauvinism, but some may read into it a nod to patrilineality or a dismissal of the womb. At another level it is a pointed jibe at his predecessor Akhilesh Yadav and his progenitor. Some days ago in a television interview he had made a reference to Akhilesh Yadav’s “abbajaan”. This repeat reference then works as a dig at the SP regime, the father-son duo and their politics of appeasement. In fact, in another recent speech, Adityanath criticised the older order. He thundered thus, “Even our cows and buffaloes didn’t feel safe…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
19-09-2021||Opinion||Mujhe Jaan na Kaho, Meri Jaan||We do not like terms of endearment. Or, mostly we don’t like endearment at all. We prefer enmity, marking folks out and telling them you are not us. We are, have no doubt, the vasudhaiva kutumbakam people, but we have now amended the definition of vasudha and kutumb. We are dedicated to this project of change, we wish upon us a new vasudha and a new kutumb, and the beginning of such a quest must be to define who is not our kutumb and who is not part of this new vasudha. We wish no endearment with those who aren’t part, we want to erect enmities so the defining lines are clear. We will twist their hearts and put them on skewers. Us and them. Our hearts (or our heartless hearts) and their hearts. Our words, their words. Our sentiments, their sentiments. Which are chalk and cheese, of course. It’s up to you to decide which is chalk and which cheese, both have their uses, but up to you. Up to you to decide your vasudha and your kutumb. We have shrunk them both, made them narrow, like drainpipes coughing refuse. You know what I mean, those things that are meant to pass through drainpipes, I am merely trying to use civilised words for them, although there should be no obligashun to do so because what these fellows do with the implikashuns of what they vomit through the other, you know what is deserving of very few considerashuns. Not even if we were to do it for a considerashun. They deserve none. If they cannot have jaan, they must have the opposite of it. You know what, of course you do. Jaan. Life. But yet more than life. Life upon which life may be sacrificed. Case for inclusion in the OED, for you are the benevolent and expanding one, you add each year to your volumes more words of value and worth and each of those goes into the making of your worth and your value even more than they have been before. Such is this word: Jaan, four letters, probably two syllables, infinite possibilities: Jaan. Everything. To give for. To take away for. Usage: Dadajaan. Dadijaan. Nanajaan. Nanijaan. Abbajaan. Ammijaan. Betijaan. Betajaan. Chachajaan. Chachijaan. Khalujaan. Khalajaan. Phuphajaan. Phuphijaan. Bhaijaan. Aapajaan. Jaan. Jaan. Jaan. Jaan. Jaan. Meri Jaan. Teri jaan… aisa apna pyaar… or so some song goes about dosti etcetera. But we don’t want dosti-shosti, no endearment. Full. Stop. What I have to tell you dear And do please lend me your ear I shan’t bite, only so you can hear That there’s nothing that works like fear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
