20-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Bhowanipore bypolls and religious sentiments||Crucial fight Sir — Strange spectacles are on display on the campaign trail for the Bhowanipore by-election. While the chief minister and Trinamul Congress candidate, Mamata Banerjee, is rushing around gurdwaras, mosques and temples, the Bharatiya Janata Party candidate was seen dancing with a thurible and also beating drums. Pandering to religious sentiments has become the only way to please the electorate. Secularism seems to have become an obsolete concept in Indian politics. Secularism aims to keep religion away from politics and State affairs. What we are witnessing now is a reversal of this concept. This is a tragedy that will shock any secular, conscientious person. All religions must be respected, but they should not be misused for political purposes. The martyrs of the freedom movement sacrificed their lives for liberation. Instead, the Indian democracy is chained up in corruption, injustice, communalism and many other evils. The voters’ minds are so polluted that they would pick religious sentiments rather than vote for an honest person. Honesty is rapidly losing its avowed place in society. S. Sarkar,Berhampur Sir — The BJP knows that it has no chance of winning against Mamata Banerjee in the Bhowanipore by-election. It is thus resorting to dirty tricks: it demanded the cancellation of Banerjee’s nomination for not mentioning five criminal cases pending against her. Similar charges had been levelled against Banerjee before the assembly elections too. Both times, the Election Commission rejected them. One hopes that the Election Commission stays firm and lives up to the unbiased behaviour expected of it. Kamalendu Das,Calcutta Fishy business Sir — I read the article, “Gumnaam hai Koi, Badnaam hai Koi” (Sep 19), with keen interest. Like most Bengalis, I love eating fish. It is true that koi is a bony fish and people have to exercise much caution while eating it. But any difficulty that one faces while consuming it is more than compensated for by the delicious dishes that Bengali kitchens can conjure up with koi maachh. Any Bengali worth his salt would surely swear by tel koi, shorshe koi and phulkopi-aloo-dhone pata diye koi maachher jhol. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — is the king among fish — from gods like Krishna to saints like Swami Vivekananda, none can do without this fish. Durba Roy,Howrah  Something special Sir — Nothing sets the cash registers clanging like a dose of sweet nostalgia, with a twist. Cadbury, the chocolate brand, seems to be well aware of this trick. It has recreated its iconic ‘Kuch khas hai’ ad, this time with a woman cricketer hitting a six and her boyfriend doing an ecstatic jig across the field. One wonders, though, why the company roped in an actress and not an actual cricketer to play the part. It is a shame that women cricketers do not get even half the endorsement contracts as their male counterparts. Annesha Ghoshal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
20-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Heavy burden||That justice delayed is justice denied is a reality with which Indians are all too familiar. A decade ago, India already had the world’s largest backlog of cases; the total has now climbed to a monumental 4.6 crore. The pandemic, predictably, has exacerbated the problem, with the number of pending cases increasing by nearly 25 per cent since last year’s lockdown. As expected, the brunt is being borne by the lowest rung of the judiciary — district and subordinate courts now account for more than four crore of these cases. This is all the more worrying since the lower courts comprise the first line of defence to secure justice for citizens. The state of infrastructure in subordinate courts is partly responsible for the glut: most lack basic facilities for litigants, judges, and staff. Digitization remains an equally intractable problem. Although 16,845 district and subordinate courts have been computerized as of 2020, the reluctance of Bar associations in several states to accept e-courts and digital hearings has compromised the efficacy of the new system. Even in state capitals where facilities such as high-speed internet and video-conferencing are available, digital court proceedings have not been fully initiated. Another significant factor behind legal pendency is the number of judicial vacancies, especially in the lower courts — more than 5,000 seats have remained vacant over the last decade. Clearly, the problem is not merely technical. There is a need to identify the specific challenges faced at the different levels of the judiciary. Trial courts, often plagued by external — political — pressures must be further empowered. Their high caseload must be matched by necessary changes in infrastructure and bench strength, and regional committees should be convened to address local resistance against a smooth digital transition. Fortifying the lower echelons of the judiciary could ease the burden on its upper tiers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
20-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Crime watch||Crime must be met with punishment in a polity that honours the rule of law. But punishment need not be a deterrent by itself. What is required is continuous engagement with the nature of criminal activity in order to facilitate timely and effective intervention. The suppleness in strategy is necessary because crime evolves. Evidence of the changing nature of criminal transgressions has been brought to light, once again, by the data collated and published by the National Crime Records Bureau for the year, 2020. ‘Traditional crimes’, the report says, have registered a decline. This category — it includes crimes perpetrated against women and children, the elderly as well as robbery, theft and so on — witnessed a drop of about two lakh cases. ‘Violent crimes’, too, have waned, if only marginally. These findings may be reassuring but they do beg a question. There had been reports of the lockdown coinciding with a spike in domestic violence against women: official data of the National Commission for Women had indicated that this, indeed, was the case. Yet, the NCRB report has found fewer cases comparatively. In fact, the NCW has stated that the NCRB data do not reflect the reality. What can possibly explain the difference? Worryingly, ‘newer’ forms of crime — a testament to the changing nature of offences — have been on the rise. For instance, there has been an astounding 214 per cent increase in the number of cases concerning fake news and rumours, with Telangana topping this ignoble list. Again, a significant number of violations pertained to public disobedience of Covid regulations. Cybercrime, too, has been burgeoning: it rose by 11.8 per cent. In a sign of the times, communal rioting spiked — by 96 per cent — as did cases of civil conflict. Yet, Crime in India also reveals that there are worrying consistencies amidst this churn on India’s crime map. For instance, the conviction rate for rape remains abysmal; 3,451 cases from earlier years and 363 from 2020 attained the coveted status of conviction. The backlog in legal arbitration in rape has also increased. The conviction rate in sedition was low, baring a different kind of mischief: the misuse of the law of sedition by the State to stifle dissent. Significantly, ‘Offences against the State’ rose in Uttar Pradesh, even as the charge witnessed an overall drop. The NCRB data expose some old frailties: a high pendency rate, shoddy investigative work, vacancies in courts, toxic discrimination in private and public spheres and so on. Some of the solutions are fairly straightforward. Higher number of judicial appointments at every legal tier could go some way in tackling pendency while better — unbiased — investigation could bolster conviction rates in some categories. But the emerging areas of crime — cyber transgressions, for instance — need to be studied further to craft adequate policy responses. For this to happen, the collation of data is a must. Therein lies the importance of these periodic reports by the NCRB, provided they reflect the realities — old and new — on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
20-09-2021||Opinion||War of words||What I cannot tell some people, I take out on telemarketers. They mostly call to offer personal loans. I play with them for a while like gau rakshaks play with cattle sellers, or cat with mice, and then deliver the fatal blow. Or try to, because often, matters remain unresolved, complex. Not that I do not need personal loans. But the telemarketers almost always speak in Hindi and that opens up for me an area of activity that is its own reward. My interactions with them become ghastly, bloody, perverse, but I love these, because this is the one place where I can say what I want and people listen, even apologize. I put up a controlled, well-rehearsed, deadly performance. Collateral damage happens. The telemarketer becomes the collateral damage. But I have the perfect excuse. “Good morning, Mrs Bhattacharya, aap ke liye ek special loan offer hai...” my caller starts. I pounce on him. “What makes you assume that I understand Hindi?” I ask in English, with special stress on the word “assume”. The power of English tends to remain unchallenged in the face of the greatest Indian adversities, and I use it. If I do not have money, let me use what little other capital I have: some English, and a lot of middle class. This is the only way to talk back to the powers that be, in the absence of any other. So I use language in a coded, perhaps mystic way, obliquely, through an unsuspecting medium. My last statement, for example,was my protest against the Central Vista. My caller struggles again. “Ma’am, main...” I strike. “What makes you assume that all Indians in every part of the country speak Hindi? In 28 states and eight Union territories?” This one was for the CAA. The poor boy seems stunned. He has fallen silent. My voice is rising. “Do you know that Hindi may be the official language of the Union, but so is English? And Hindi is not the national language.” This one was for the farm laws. The trick is not to let him get in a word. Not pause for long. “There are 22 scheduled languages, including Bengali, Bodo, Kashmiri and Urdu.” Here I launch into a full-fledged tirade. “But would you ever think of selling personal loans in any of these? Because you can’t formally discuss money in these? Besides, the Constitution does not say Hindi is the national language, just as nowhere is it mentioned that cricket is our national preoccupation. So how this misconception has been grown needs to be explored. Maybe it has something to do with the fact that our prime minister only addresses the nation in Hindi? Other than on certain occasions, such as when he tried to quote Tagore in Bengali in his Atmanirbharta speech.” This for the high unemployment and the low GDP. “But why would you assume that I speak and understand Hindi? Why would you assume anything? You have assumed that I am married. Have you also assumed that I am a tolerably good singer? What if I am not? You must have assumed that I get up by 8 am every day. What if I don’t? You must have assumed that I do not eat beef. What if I do?” The last one for Yogi Adityanath. “The fact is you cannot assume anything. Assumption of a uniform, homogeneous, majoritarian identity for a country, or for that matter, playlist for the evening with only nostalgic Bengali songs, is the foundation of a Fascist project. Would you be unknowingly acting as an agent of this sinister design? Or are you doing it knowingly? The imposition of any one language on a diverse country is wrong.” This one for the attempt to clap the virus away, in Hindi. In broken English, my caller says that he is sorry and he will ask someone who knows English to call me. I have broken him with my English and delivered the longest speech I am capable of. But my caller disconnects, I seem to see him running away, an exit pursued by a bear, and I have got my pound of flesh (and also a tiny Shakespeare remix). I have done my bit. However, I have only won a war. The battle is long and may not be won, perhaps, in this age of late capitalism, with what ultimately is a foreign language. Two hours later, I get a call from another young person. “Madam, main...” she begins.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
20-09-2021||Opinion||Democracy’s broken pledges||In a rather interesting development, the Orissa High Court has held that the “term ‘unemployment’ sounds like a death knell for youth, duping them on [the] pretext of securing job is ‘cheating of highest order’”. Without going into the specifics of the judgment, let’s take away the larger message here — a fake promise or a lie is equivalent to cheating and is, therefore, a criminal offence. Let us, for the purpose of this piece, apply the Orissa High Court’s judgment to political leaders making false promises during an election campaign. False campaign promises have never received serious consideration as an actionable legal wrong. There is no existing mechanism to enforce such promises made by leaders before an election; neither is there a provision in our laws to punish such lies. If one were to look at several campaign promises on unemployment in India chronologically in the last two decades, one would find a series of lies. The former prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, came to power in 1999 promising jobs. What he did, instead, was simply set up a Task Force on Employment Opportunities under Montek Singh Ahluwalia that suggested strategies to provide 10 million jobs a year. Later, Vajpayee set up another Special Group on Targeting Ten Million Employment Opportunities Per Year under S.P. Gupta. The reports slipped into bureaucratic oblivion and Vajpayee lost power. The Congress led-United Progressive Alliance promised the same and sat over it for 10 years. In 2013, in an election rally in Agra, the then chief minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi, said that if the Bharatiya Janata Party was voted to power, it would bring 10 million jobs, the same promise Vajpayee had made in 1999. The BJP won by a thumping majority and Modi was elected the prime minister. The statistics on unemployment have only worsened ever since. Current unemployment rates are at an all-time high. This was the case even before the pandemic and has worsened thereafter. The reason why elections are a legitimate exercise or are perceived to be such among the masses is because people have trust in the process. Elections are respected because voters believe that they exercise their franchise freely and fairly. However, if a voter’s democratic right is tainted by manipulation, then it damages the entire political process and harms democracy in the long run. It increases distrust, lack of confidence and disillusionment among citizens. Making false promises knowingly during an election also reduces the amount of accurate information that flows into the media that enables voters to make informed choices. Attaching legal liability would ensure that the democratic process is respected and honoured. The model code of conduct drafted by the Election Commission has guidelines that prohibit political parties from making promises in their manifestoes that would exert an undue influence on voters. However, the code is not legally binding. The Representation of the People Act, 1951 contains provisions that define ‘corrupt practices’ as those that include promises by a candidate aimed at inducing an elector to vote or refrain from voting. However, the declaration of public policy or a promise of public action does not fall within the ambit of these provisions. The courts have also not appreciated this concern. In 2015, in response to a public interest litigation on the issue of holding political parties accountable for promises made before an election, the Supreme Court said that it is not the court’s job to adjudicate on matters of unfulfilled promises at the time of elections as they are not legally bound to do so. This position, adopted by the courts and our laws, needs to change and accountability needs to be fixed. Else, we face a grave danger to both democracy and the rule of law. Anurag Tiwary is an Impact Fellow at Global Governance Initiative. Abhinav Narayan Jha is an LLM candidate from CNLU||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
20-09-2021||Opinion||The digital Davids||Intolerance of media criticism is in the DNA of the government and the ruling party at the Centre. It accounts for the many ways in which media houses and journalists are being harassed under a range of laws and have had cases slapped on them, often for nothing more than a factual news report, or a tweet or a Facebook post. But a government tying itself up every week into paranoid knots has to stop and ask itself why the old methods of bringing a recalcitrant media to heel are not working. What has changed Simply this: provocation to the government, both at the Centre and in the states, now comes more from the digital media, including social media, than from the mainstream media. That helps explain income tax department ‘surveys’ this month at the offices of NewsClick and Newslaundry, first information reports lodged against reporters of The Wire in Uttar Pradesh, and the frequent jailing of the Manipur journalist, Kishorechandra Wangkhem, who has been jailed thrice in almost three years, including a preventive detention stint under the National Security Act, for Facebook posts criticizing the state government. These journalists don’t back off either when harassed by the government. Neither NewsClick nor Newslaundry has altered the tenor of its reporting in the period between the two visits by the Enforcement Directorate and the income tax authorities this year. Both news portals expose politics, governance and the media establishment on a range of issues. Established newspapers and television channels are, however, more vulnerable. Their business model makes them more susceptible to government pressure than a clutch of upstart web portals because they have far bigger businesses to protect and are at least partially dependent for their revenue on advertising from the Central government or state governments. Their proprietors don’t have the stomach to stand up to bullying by the State beyond a point. And it affects their journalism. A striking example of this is the reporting in TV and print around the young man killed during the tractor parade in the capital on January 26 this year. The Wire report from Rampur in UP that earned it an FIR from the UP police quotes the victim’s family as saying the post-mortem report suppressed the bullet injury in the man’s head. It is accompanied by a video, which clearly shows two such injuries. Three sedition cases were filed in three states, including UP, against those in Delhi who tweeted about the man being shot. One of them was Rajdeep Sardesai of India Today TV. His channel took him off air for a period after airing the anchor’s retraction of his tweet. It did not procure and show the same video footage in defence of its anchor. Meanwhile, Newslaundry has reported more recently that national and regional TV channels, India Today is among them, received Rs 160 crore from the UP government in advertising in the financial year, 2020-21. The latest instance of a print publication caving in came just last week when the Outlook Group sacked its editor-in-chief after he returned from leave and alerted his staff that he was planning a cover story on communal polarization in UP in the run-up to next year’s polls. In previous months, the magazine had carried cover stories critical of the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and on its misuse of anti-terror laws across the country. Several news websites in India have followed a different track from commercial media as foundations came up over the last decade to fund independent media. When the government went after the businessmen who contributed to these foundations, the founder-editors struck out on their own with public support. If you think of this category of media as tenuously viable, think again. They don’t have to do events to garner revenue and keep the government in good humour so that its ministers grace these sponsored events. Nor do they have to balance their investigative journalism and editorial criticism with offers of prime editorial space to the government leadership to have their say, as one paper famously does. They don’t have a stable of publications to protect; when they are short of money, the public steps in with crowdfunding. If they are dragged to court or have cases slapped on them by the government of the day, there are enough public-spirited lawyers around to fight those battles for them pro bono. The more the government’s attack on digital news media widens and deepens, the more it stirs up public-spirited responses. They are seen as Davids ranged against the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Goliath. Abhinandan Sekhri’s cock-a-snook tweet a few days after the IT visit to Newslaundry sums it up pithily: “Since the IT ‘survey’ in 2 days we have got over Rs 14 lakh [in] subscriber contribution. No sarkari ads & no grovelling to large corporations & they wonder how we get funded. THATS HOW.” Sekhri is the co-founder of Newslaundry. The site has solicited reader subscriptions from the beginning, even as it has been supported by the Omidyar Network. Around the time Newslaundry was visited for the IT ‘survey’, news was emerging that the government had put 10 foreign-funding organizations, including Omidyar Network, in the Prior Reference Category under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act 2010. More pressure? But more and more feisty digital ventures just have to do courageous, independent journalism to have the resources to fight off this pressure. They don’t need circulation departments: their stories are instantly amplified on social media and some get enough traction for the mainstream media to want to pick them up. Take the Pegasus spyware investigation as the latest example. The Wire was the Indian news organization chosen for the collaborative investigation anchored by Forbidden Stories, the France-based, publicly-funded network of journalists. Not one of the country’s print majors. State harassment will not stop public-spirited journalism. It will merely give government and party a bad name and make the big boys of print and television look like wimps. Sevanti Ninan is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
