21-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Prickly queries||A party is entitled to shower gifts on its prime minister on his birthday. But can public welfare be parcelled as a gift for such an occasion? The question arises on account of the impressive — but orchestrated — rise in India’s vaccination score on Narendra Modi’s birthday. Predictably, the states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party took the lead in the pageantry. Dissection of data shows that Assam, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat experienced feverish activity in vaccination, accounting for 67 per cent of the 22.6 million doses that were administered on the chosen day. The historic feat was achieved with meticulous planning. This is evident from the fact that vaccination in some of these states — Gujarat, Bihar and Karnataka are examples — had fallen well below their seven-day averages, indicating that stocks had been kept ready to ‘create’ a surge on Mr Modi’s birthday. Expediting inoculation against a pandemic is welcome in a country that has, according to some estimates, managed to vaccinate around 20 per cent of the eligible adults so far. But the administering of record doses on a single day will not be enough to address other concerns. For instance, does India have the ability to sustain this pace of vaccination on a daily basis? That would have brought the country closer to meeting its stiff target of vaccinating all eligible citizens by the end of this year. An ethical query cannot be brushed away either. Should vaccination — a ‘merit good’ — be tailor-made to reap political dividends? The BJP — it had promised free vaccination as an electoral sop to Bihar — seldom hesitates to indulge in unabashed populism. Finally, there is also the broader question of India’s medical resources, personnel and citizens being herded to observe the prime minister’s birthday as a spectacle. This kind of reverence is perhaps indicative of the rise of charismatic leadership that often turns out to be inimical to the democratic ethos. Has the transition of Indian democracy to electoral autocracy then truly come to pass?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
21-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Prince Charles accused of favours for donations||Palace intrigue Sir — The British royal family and controversy go hand in hand. Recently, Prince Charles was accused of meeting intermediaries who arranged for special favours from the royal family in exchange for donations to the prince’s charities. Although the palace has denied having knowledge of any such transactions, there are claims to the contrary. From allegations of racism to involvement with a convicted sex offender, the charges against the royal family are too grave. This antiquated institution could soon lose the veneer of respectability that it still commands. Narayani Sengupta,Calcutta Worrying trend Sir — A study published by Sage’s International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions found that India produced the largest amount of misinformation regarding Covid-19 between January 1, 2020 and March 1, 2021 (“Unscientific”, Sep 17). The researcher analyzed 9,657 pieces of misinformation from 138 countries and found that 18.07 per cent of these originated in India. This high number has been attributed to the rate of internet penetration in the country, its increasing social media consumption combined with a lack of internet literacy. The current dispensation at the Centre — its leaders are prone to making unscientific comments themselves — must take this finding seriously. The World Health Organization has warned that the spread of false information on Covid-19 has further endangered people; at times even culminating in death. We all must do our part to discourage the spread of misinformation and help cultivate a scientific mindset. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — It was shocking to learn that a study found India to be the source of the most amount of misinformation on Covid-19. The study evaluated over 9,000 pieces of data — including non-English information — in 138 countries and concluded that one out of six pieces of misinformation originated in India. Many of us simply cannot fathom how India, with its abundance of scientists and medical professionals, could be guilty of generating such a massive amount of misinformation. But it is also true that over the last year and a half, Indians have touted everything from camphor to cow urine as possible cures for Covid-19. In fact, many people deferred proper treatment by putting their faith in such ‘miracle cures’ and eventually succumbed to the illness for lack of timely and proper medical help. The Bharatiya Janata Party government is largely responsible for this rapid decline in India’s scientific temper. The situation must be rectified before it gets any worse. Brij B. Goyal,Ludhiana||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
21-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Debt to dust||The so-called ‘bad bank’ is ready to get off the ground. Last week, the Centre said it would provide guarantees worth Rs 30.6 billion that will buttress the security receipts that the National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd intends to float after it acquires about Rs 900 billion worth of bad loan assets in the first phase. The guarantee from the government provides a measure of comfort to investors who can work up the courage to acquire these risk-laden security receipts. When the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, had announced in her budget speech this year that the Centre intended to establish the NARCL, it raised the hope that banks would finally be able to clean up their books by parcelling out their legacy bad loans to an institution that will work in tandem with another entity — the India Debt Resolution Company — to sort out the mess arising from the toxic assets in the banking sector. In theory, the mechanism looks good and has been tried and tested in other countries. Scheduled commercial banks carried non-performing loans worth Rs 8.34 trillion on their balance sheets at the end of March 2020. Only a small portion of this is classified as toxic assets where there are grave questions about recovery. The scale of non-performing loans in the banking industry has shrunk by Rs 611 billion in the year ended March 31, according to a finance ministry statement in July. But there remains a lurking worry that the non-performing assets could rise next year. The Reserve Bank of India’s Financial Stability Report released in July said that stress tests had shown that the gross NPA ratio of the scheduled commercial banks could rise from 7.48 per cent in March 2021 to 9.8 per cent by March 2022 under the baseline scenario and, possibly, to 11.22 per cent under a severe stress scenario. If this happens, it would severely undermine efforts to tackle the twin balance sheet problem represented by mounting unpaid loans on the books of companies and the banks. India needs to draw lessons from other countries where the bad bank concept has worked reasonably well. A study by the Bank for International Settlements reveals that asset segregation without recapitalization of banks has a statistically insignificant impact on loan growth and future non-performing loans. Paradoxically, the study revealed banks that transfer a smaller fraction of their assets exhibit stronger credit growth and lower future non-performing loans. One comforting fact is that banks in India have sufficient capital to withstand a severe stress-case scenario. But the success of the bad bank will hinge on the efficiency of India’s legal system in ensuring debt resolution after the banks segregate their impaired assets. Unfortunately, the experience with the insolvency resolution mechanism does not inspire a great deal of hope.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
21-09-2021||Opinion||A city in danger||The climate negotiation has come full circle. Twelve years back, during the United Nations’s climate summit in Copenhagen, mayors of several important cities were shown the door midway through the conference to reduce the number of non-government participants. Mayors were not part of official delegations, in the name of security concerns of global leaders who joined late in the summit. In contrast, the latest climate impact report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change — the UN body for assessing the science related to climate change and reporting to policymakers — has highlighted the regional and urban climate concerns separately for the first time in its nearly 4,000-page-long report. Although the emphasis on city climate started some time back — city leaders have argued since 2010 that they take climate disasters head-on and hence should be given due importance — and even the game changing Paris Agreement in 2015 acknowledged that ‘cities and regions have a unique capacity to address climate change compared with national governments’ — never before have regional climate issues received so much scientific attention. The IPCC report categorically says that urban areas of the world are going to be severely affected by a series of climate-related events. The risk is bigger for South Asian cities located on or close to the coastline, including Calcutta. The report predicts that such cities will have to increasingly grapple with high heat periods often catapulting into heat waves, and intense cyclones coupled with high rainfall as well as flooding triggered by a rise in the sea level. Inadequate infrastructure to handle such extreme weather events will add to the woes. The memories of Calcutta being paralyzed after Cyclone Aila in 2009 and Cyclone Amphan in 2020 are still fresh. The IPCC report shows that Calcutta has experienced the highest warming among several cities across the world during the last few decades, owing mainly to the heat generated within the city itself. The sea level rise near the Sunderbans, hardly 100 kilometres away from Calcutta, is highest in the country and has been consistently adding height to the surging high tides in the already-choked Adi Ganga canal. Extremely high-intensity cyclones are on the rise in the Sunderbans area which affect, and will continue to affect, the city’s weather. As these climatic impacts piggyback on the traditional weaknesses of the “chance directed, chance erected” city — the largely-silted British-built drainage system, a saucer-shaped location which bars the natural drain-out of water, canals that are choked and often encroached upon, water bodies and wetlands being filled over the years — the challenge will be catastrophic in nature. However, the greater challenge is to integrate these climatic concerns into city planning, as the politicians and administrators who run the civic bodies seem unaware, much less bothered, about the IPCC report that has been called a ‘code red for humanity’. Broadly, the business-as-usual, carbon-centred planning and implementation continues. There has been virtually no effort to implement a climate change-integrated holistic plan of development. It is difficult to understand what stops cities like Calcutta, which experience acute urban heat island phenomena, from clutching at low-hanging solutions like asking promoters to stop constructing buildings with massive glass exteriors — these significantly add to the heat quotient — or to facilitate the construction of large-scale solar rooftops. Cities must increase their green cover instead of letting it all be destroyed. However, nothing will happen unless the city and state authorities move away from the traditional governance pattern which hardly recognizes, let alone prioritizes, the environment and climate change. The mismanagement of Covid-19 across major Indian cities has shown us the disastrous effects of a dearth of planning and ad hoc execution. Climate change will land a much bigger punch unless leaders act quickly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
21-09-2021||Opinion||The Assam Rifles lesson for Manipur||It should not surprise anyone that prolonged insurgencies leave behind scars, some barely visible but, nonetheless, excruciating. The case of the civil militia, Village Defence Force, in Manipur, raised in 2008 after an assault on a village by an insurgent group, is particularly poignant. That was a period marked by uncertainty and chaos in the state when insurgency was at one of its peaks. Every morning, newspaper headlines screamed of gory gun violence, unrest over alleged fake encounters, or else the continuation of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act. The fateful incident took place during the Yaoshang (Holi) festival celebrated for five days and marked by sporting events and revelries of the Thabal Chongba (moonlight dance) late into the night. On March 24, at a Thabal Chongba at Heirok village about 35 kilometres from Imphal, an insurgent organization, which later confessed that it was out to eliminate a party offender in the crowd, opened fire, killing three and injuring several more. Enraged villagers went on a warpath and decided to ban all insurgent activists and sympathizers from their village. They also pleaded with the government to arm them. After some hesitation, the government decided to take advantage of the situation and give the idea of a civil militia a try. The VDF took birth at Heirok with 300 recruits initially. But the initiative soon spread to villages across the state with youth lining up to join it, not always out of vengeful anger against insurgents but in the hope that this would ultimately land them a respectable job, a consequence predictable in a state with high youth unemployment and where only government jobs are considered noteworthy. Today, there are 10,050 of these men although, officially, only 1,500 are listed. These young men were recruited not under established recruitment rules or with service guarantees: they were village volunteers armed by the government and paid Rs 1,500 initially. The sum was later raised to Rs 3,000. The stipend now stands at Rs 8,500. At the time when the VDF came into being, in Chhattisgarh, a similar initiative, the Salwa Judum, was drawing flak: in 2011, it was declared illegal and unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. But the VDF prevailed in Manipur, probably because nobody challenged its legality but also because the government benefited from its service. The VDF soon became a handy force, put to service as any police constabulary but paid much less. Its assignments range from static guard duties at vital installations, road-opening duties during public unrest, sentry duties for lesser VIPs and so on with no holidays. The service contract is for a year at a time, but is extended almost as a norm. This was expected because insurgency in Manipur, although now in a lull, is far from resolved. Moreover, after 13 years of employment, it would be difficult to let go of the personnel who have passed the age to seek fresh employment. Trapped in a job that has no certainty of lasting throughout their careers or offers scope for promotion, signs of unrest are becoming evident. Some members have allegedly begun leaning on such petty crimes as serving as conduits for drug-traffickers or on bootlegging. Perhaps the Northeast’s colonial history has a lesson here. After the British established their administration in Assam in 1826, they began withdrawing their army from the region since it was no longer cost effective. But by 1835, they realized there was a need for greater security than the police could provide. The civil officer, E.R. Grange, came up with the idea of raising the Cachar Levy, a civil militia officered by the police in the beginning but, later, by the military. This militia ultimately became India’s first paramilitary force — the Assam Rifles. In History of the Assam Rifles, L.W. Shakespear describes the Cachar Levy as a force “less paid than the military, but better armed than the police”. To motivate the personnel, each of the five original units of this force was attached to a Gurkha Rifles formation and the promise was that those who performed well would be absorbed into the army formation they were affiliated to. Indeed, this militia, which became the Assam Military Police, came to be a fertile nursery for the Gurkha Rifles; so much so that during the First World War, it was drained of experienced personnel who were supplied as troopers to the Gurkha Rifles to fight in Europe at the rate of 200 a month till the end of 1917. This, Shakespear notes, was one of the reasons why the force took longer than expected in putting down the Kuki Rebellion. In recognition, immediately after the War, this militia was officially recognized as a paramilitary force and christened Assam Rifles. Could this history of the Cachar Levy have a lesson for the Manipur government in resolving its VDF dilemma? Could there be a mechanism to have them gradually absorbed into related government services according to performance and calibre? Pradip Phanjoubam is editor, Imphal Review of Arts and Politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
21-09-2021||Opinion||Common malaise||The dictionary defines schadenfreude quite simply as the ‘satisfaction or pleasure felt at someone else’s misfortune’. This is so typical a desi emotion that it always comes as a shock that other people in other cultures also feel this; one is sure that the first human being to feel vicious satisfaction at someone else’s bad luck must have been from this soil; that we birthed the feeling but the Germans managed to name it first is, to say the least, a bit galling. Be that as it may, the other day I found myself bathing in schadenfreude. The reason was a recent article by Nick Cohen in The Guardian in which the well-known leftist commentator describes the wretched situation in Hungary. From all reports, it is not an exaggeration to say that Hungary’s current prime minister, Viktor Orbán, is actually a de facto dictator. It seems Orbán began by posing as a liberal back in the 1990s when liberalism seemed to be a good ticket to power. Perhaps he had some banal slogan which, translated from Hungarian, might have read ‘Together with everybody, Progress for everybody’, perhaps he had some other formulaic lies that he peddled loudly, but in the end they got him elected as prime minister. As soon as he won the elections, Orbán seems to have assiduously set about dismantling the very democracy that brought him to power. Sitting as we do in a truly robust democracy in a Republic in good health, one can only feel pity for this erstwhile ‘second world’ nation. Tingeing our pity towards this country (which is now a part of the elite and privileged European Union) might be sniggers of superiority, but we must rein these in. The Hungarians have been undergoing things we just cannot begin to imagine. “As soon as Fidesz [Orbán’s party] won... it began rigging the system,” writes Cohen. For instance, it introduced the “novel concept of ‘winner compensation’ that awarded the victorious party with extra votes.” Reading this, the Indian mind boggles. What next in the spectrum of brazen corruption? Bringing into law some sort of absurd electoral funding system which allows the ruling party to receive unlimited anonymous funds from anywhere in the world? Cohen continues to enumerate the horrors that to us might seem foreign and exotic: “State capture has followed. Bureaucrats and police and military officers know their position depends on not crossing the ruling party.” One must avoid any smugness while reading this in a country where democracy is protected by a finely calibrated system of checks and balances. Difficult though it might be, just try and imagine a pretend-democracy where the investigative agencies have become hunting dogs for their political masters, where the equivalents of our CBI, NIA, ED and NCB shove aside the work they should actually be doing and concentrate solely on concocting laughably false cases against opponents of the regime, where raids are launched in revenge for criticism or perfectly legal democratic activism that challenges the ruling cabal, where innocent people are put away in jail with the enthusiastic co-operation of a debased lower judiciary. Moving on to another crucial prong of Orbán’s dictatorial control, Cohen points out that “the Hungarian media are the most prostituted in Europe.” Besides controlling the broadcasting services, the State “relies on a network of Orbán-supporting oligarchs, who put 500 media outlets under the editorial control of a state foundation.” Furthermore, “[t]he simple but effective tactic of rewarding servile journalism with taxpayer-funded advertising revenue mops up most of the rest.” The idea of a largely sold-out media jumping up and down at the government’s bidding, TV channels and other outlets being mostly controlled by the regime’s favourite billionaires, might be hard for us to grasp here in India but we must try and find some sympathy for the victims of this relentless tsunami of manipulation — the people of Hungary. Adding to this array of despotic instruments and measures is the business of Orbán-ji promoting various racist and ethnic conspiracy theories, raising the fear of immigrants entering the country and destroying its white, Christian character, perhaps a bit like termites destroying a house. There is, of course, opposition to Orbán-ji’s dictatorial manoeuvres from all sorts of quarters but it is hard going at the moment. For example, the regime has attacked the Central European University based in Budapest. As Cohen writes: “Its academics and students are nowhere to be seen because Orbán drove them into exile in Vienna rather than permit the existence of a centre for independent thought.” Seen from our vantage point, with a certain distance in both chronology and geography, we can conclude that the eleven-odd years of Orbán’s rule have been disastrous for Hungary, a country which even managed to navigate the decades of its membership of the Warsaw Pact to achieve a degree of social freedom and intellectual vibrancy that set it apart from the other vassal states of the Soviet Union. Looking back, we can now see the deployment of the contemporary dictatorial playbook, also executed with variations in other countries across the globe, whether in nearby Turkey or the faraway Philippines, whether in Putin’s Russia or Donald Trump’s US. The graph is, by now, as familiar as a classic: the winning of power through more-or-less democratic elections, the immediate single-minded subverting of democratic institutions and checks and balances, the constant loading of dice, the cold-blooded hollowing out of law enforcement, security agencies and the military, the choreographed trolling and the relentless unlawful attacks on all Opposition, the uprooting of independent media and educational institutions that can challenge the despotic powers, the typical fascist programme of keeping a public fearful and uneasy through the spectre of manufactured outsiders and enemies — all of it. Depending on which country you live in, you can either fight any schadenfreude that rises or try and coin a new word that describes the feeling you have when another’s misfortune is great but not quite as dire and deep as your own.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
