22-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Pinced hard||The rate of increase in the prices of goods and services is usually measured in terms of statistically-refined measures, with different weights attached to different goods according to their relative importance. Monthly statistics on inflation sometimes register increases; sometimes they soften. However, to the common person, these can be of little use in coping with the monster of rising prices that affect everyday purchases of necessities. In recent times, prices of many common goods have skyrocketed at an astonishing pace. Take, for instance, the doubling of the price of cooking gas cylinders. It now stands at Rs 911. Mustard oil prices had crossed Rs 200 per litre. Petrol and diesel prices have galloped north on account of a surge in oil prices and what appears to be an incessant rise in taxes imposed on petroleum products. Vegetables have become very expensive too. Milk, chicken, fish and egg prices have also risen. Education as such has not become costlier, but online classes have meant families have had to purchase more smartphones to ensure everyone who needs them has one. Obviously, the costs incurred in purchasing greater internet data packs have risen under the circumstances. Another area of concern has been the rapid rise in the price of medicines. These are not costly or rarely-used medicines. These are commonly used, such as antacids, paracetamols and even vitamins. Aggregate data do not reveal fully everyday price rises; definitely not to the extent that they pinch the pockets of households. These facts need to be seen in the light of the fact that during the last one year, a substantial number of citizens have slid back into poverty while many have slipped down from the middle-class income-bracket. Several reasons are cited for rising inflation. Supply chains have not been fully repaired and some shrewd traders are squeezing buyers to make up for the business lost last year. It is also being suggested that vagaries of the climate are taking their toll on the availability of food. At a time when constituencies with fixed incomes are being inconvenienced, it can be deduced that the impact of inflation-induced price rise is even harsher on the poor. There is news that mid-day meals are becoming less nutritious in terms of choice of food available. Malnutrition and undernourishment are likely to rise. India stands to lose much of the gains in food security made over the last two or three decades. The Centre, like in other instances of national problems, has been singularly silent. The public at large also seems unusually quiet. These, as they say, are interesting times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
22-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Channi appointed as Punjab CM||Tricky move Sir — The Punjab potboiler is far from over. From the rumblings of discontent over the political developments in the state, it is evident that the swearing-in of Charanjit Singh Channi as the new chief minister, following the resignation of Amarinder Singh, scripted by the Congress high command was not the dénouement of the political drama (“First Dalit CM of Punjab”, Sep 20). It seems that this saga will continue till the state assembly elections in early 2022. A Dalit Sikh being made the chief minister is at best a symbolically significant gesture. It does not, in itself, assure a better life for Dalits. It is not difficult to tell whether the choice was made with an eye on the Dalit vote since the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Bahujan Samaj Party has formed an alliance or out of commitment to Dalit empowerment and welfare. Dalits make up close to 32 per cent of the population in Punjab. The Congress, like most other parties, looks at Dalits as a vote bank. Even though it may not be as stridently anti-Dalit as the saffron party, it has done little over the decades to uplift Dalits. Clearly, it lacks the political will. It thus remains to be seen how effectively the Congress will be able to play the Dalit card. Channi is widely perceived as a ‘stopgap chief minister’ and as a proxy for Navjot Singh Sidhu. This is made clear by the statement of the Congress state in-charge, Harish Rawat, that the assembly election will be fought under the aegis of Sidhu. The Bharatiya Janata Party and the BSP, of course, lost no time to denounce the use of a Dalit face to harvest votes. The ongoing farm protests have put the BJP out of the reckoning. The Congress is a divided house; but the fact that there is no alternative may help it romp home. The internecine fights within the Congress are not over any policy, issue or ideology. The Congress would do well to get its act together and work to grow stronger in states where it is not in power than upset the apple cart and trigger internal crises in states where it is in power for the sake of secularism and pluralism, if nothing else. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The recent induction of Charanjit Singh Channi — a rather low-profile Dalit leader who had not been at the forefront of the race for power so far — as chief minister in Punjab is a well-thought-out decision by the Congress leadership. The intent as well as the modus operandi of the recent chief ministers in both Gujarat and Punjab appear to be similar. In Punjab, the Dalit card has been played out desperately as a last resort to woo the community that had so far been sidelined before the polls. It is no doubt a risky ploy. Channi does not share a very strong allegiance to either Amarinder Singh or Navjot Singh Sidhu — the two are at daggers drawn. This could quell the bickering for the time being. But other challenges — past infirmities and underperformances — will continue to haunt this rejigged government. In fact, such stupendous course correction within a short span of time is most likely untenable. Further, the Dalit card had been played out by other contenders long before the Congress’s foray; this will possibly nullify the appeasement tactics of the incumbent. Apart from the perennial drug abuse problem in Punjab, the state will also have to tackle the aggravated threats of cross-border terrorism and influx of arms and ammunition, given the change of guard in its geopolitical neighbourhood. With his indubitable nationalist credentials and experience in the field, one believes that Amarinder Singh could have managed this threat efficiently. It is unlikely that his unceremonious exit will be taken lightly by the people of Punjab. The simmering unrest between the two contending blocs within the Congress might grow more pronounced with the election drawing closer. Such intra-party resentment, squabbling and foul play pose a grave threat to the Congress’s electoral prospects, leading to a neck-and-neck fight. Chances of a hung assembly and surprising post-poll alliances cannot be ruled out either. Chanchal Nandy,West Burdwan  Size matters Sir — The immersion of idols may mark the end of a festival, but this can also be the beginning of deep environmental problems. It is common knowledge that there is a high risk of the heavy metals used on the idols entering the food chain. But experts have now come up with a new observation — the smaller the idol, the greater the chances of water pollution because it is difficult for the authorities to keep track of smaller pujas and fish the immersed structures out of the water. There is an urgent need for a programme where people can register their pujas to help the authorities check pollution. Bijoyinee Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
22-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Script change||Charanjit Singh Channi’s anointment as chief minister of Punjab has come amidst heartburn that is characteristic of the Congress. Indeed, the party was left with egg on its face when a senior leader proclaimed that the assembly elections — they are only months away — would be fought under the leadership of Navjot Singh Sidhu, whose fractious ties with Amarinder Singh led to the change of guard in the first place. The factionalism notwithstanding, Mr Channi’s appointment seems politically prudent. Dalits are an important electoral constituency in poll-bound Punjab: they make up over 30 per cent of the population in 54 assembly seats and between 20-30 per cent in another 45. By appointing Punjab’s first ever Dalit chief minister, the Congress is hoping to send the correct signals to the under-represented community. But a favourable response from Dalit voters may not be enough to secure Mr Channi’s — and the Congress’s — political futures. The new chief minister may have begun his innings by announcing sops for the poor and farmers but he is confronted with steep challenges, foremost among which would be the Congress’s ability to mobilize and balance the interests of other castes along with those of Dalit Sikhs and Hindus. It remains to be seen how the non-Dalit Hindu and Sikh voters respond to Mr Channi’s elevation. The change of guard in Punjab may have ramifications in the power hierarchy in the handful of other states where the Congress is in power. If this were to come to pass, the Congress high command would have to embark on a fine balancing act, given the presence of entrenched and conflicting interest groups in the party rank and file. One more inference can be drawn in this context. It seems that the high command has suddenly rediscovered the will to confront charismatic regional leaders among whom Mr Singh was the most prominent. Mr Channi’s change in fortune could be seen as one more chapter in the fat tome of tussle between the high command and regional satraps of the Congress. The irony, though, operates at two levels. First, political parties continue to believe that marginalized constituencies — be they Dalits, Muslims or adivasis — vote as homogeneous blocs. That explains these periodic, largely symbolic, overtures. But the truth is that social and economic transformations have led to fragmentation in the Dalit vote in many states. The political preferences of Jatavs and non-Jatavs in Uttar Pradesh or, again, those of Malas and Madigas in Andhra Pradesh need not overlap. Second — this is the greater tragedy — the cumulative political patronage has not led to substantial empowerment of Dalits thus far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
22-09-2021||Opinion||Caught in the cross-currents||Submarines are devices of deception. They’re meant to hide their true positions and quietly torpedo the enemy’s vessels. In the ongoing diplomatic stand-off between the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Australia on the one hand and France on the other over nuclear submarines, they’ve lived up to that reputation of stealth. But there’s one big twist that India must note. The submarine subterfuge that has left France fuming didn’t target the enemies of the new troika of America, Britain and Australia, dubbed Aukus. It has, instead, struck at historic alliances: Nato and the US-France partnership that has stood the test of time since the American War of Independence. To be sure, there are elements of the Aukus deal that suit India’s strategic interests well. As a part of the new alliance, the US and the UK will sell Australia nuclear-powered submarines. That represents a definite and deeper commitment from both Washington and London to the security of the Indo-Pacific region, where they — and other countries, including Australia — share India’s worries about China’s increasingly expansionist inclinations. India isn’t part of any security alliance but has significantly ramped up its multilateral partnerships in a part of the world that New Delhi considers its extended neighbourhood. It has trilaterals with the US and Japan, and separately with Japan and Australia. And then there’s the so-called Quad — a grouping of India, the US, Japan and Australia. Leaders of the four Quad countries will meet at a physical summit for the first time later this week on September 24 in Washington. New Delhi’s active participation in the Quad has riled Beijing in recent years. China sees the initiative — and other such multilateral platforms — as efforts aimed at containing its rise. The new Aukus alliance could take away some of the heat from the Quad, a scenario that India wouldn’t mind. So what’s the problem? India has long seen itself as a central pillar of any security architecture in the region. The Quad reinforced that conviction in South Block. But while India was informed in advance about the formation of the new Aukus alliance, senior officials have confirmed to this writer that New Delhi was not told about the plan to supply Canberra with nuclear submarines. And frankly, New Delhi can hardly expect any better if the US kept its oldest ally, France, in the dark. The nuclear submarine deal with Australia torpedoed a 2016 deal under which Paris was to supply Canberra with submarines. A seething France has withdrawn its ambassadors from Washington and Canberra and is keeping the US president, Joe Biden, waiting for a phone call from its president, Emmanuel Macron. The message is clear: to the US game plan in the Indo-Pacific, even close friends like India and old allies like France matter only so much. They’re merely cogs in the wheel of a grand strategy, each serving a purpose, but not worthy of being treated as an equal, trusted partner. There are other reasons to worry too. The deal with Australia — and the strike against the Paris-Canberra submarine pact — comes at a time when Macron and a few other leaders in the European Union have been arguing for greater strategic freedom from the US. Some experts have suggested that Washington’s move is a response to those voices in Europe. If that’s the case, what does this mean for India — a country that since independence in 1947 has fiercely guarded its strategic autonomy, refusing to get drawn into the orbit of any major power? That’s an approach that all Indian governments have followed. Is the Biden administration sending a subtle message to India too — that the search for autonomy could carry costs? Then there’s the confusion that too many cooks breed. When India, Japan, the US and Australia work together in the Quad, what do they additionally gain through sub-groupings like the one between India, the US and Japan, and between India, Japan and Australia? After all, Japan and Australia are treaty partners of the US. India needs to be careful that it ends up with more than just a soup of overlapping trilaterals that could work more effectively if they were consolidated. And finally, New Delhi must stay cautious so that it doesn’t get caught up in the crossfire emanating from tiffs involving its friends. France is India’s oldest strategic partner, a country that has stood by New Delhi when America, Australia and others wouldn’t. Even more importantly, France has the largest security presence in the Indo-Pacific region of all European nations, with bases in Djibouti and in overseas territories like Mayotte, Reunion and the French Southern and Antarctic Lands. It makes sense for India to partner closely with France for security in the region. Indeed, it has a trilateral with France and... oops, Australia. What happens to that partnership now? Will France agree to continue with it? Will India need to play peacemaker between France and Australia? We’ll know soon. Yes, submarines are devices of deception. But perhaps this time, they’ve also helped bring to the surface some of the troubling realities of the crowded rush of global powers into the Indian Ocean. India needs to make sure it isn’t the target of any torpedoes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
22-09-2021||Opinion||A course correction||It is difficult to read a newspaper or watch sport on television nowadays without encountering an advertisement for an online higher educational course. Although these courses often vary from one other, there is a fundamental similarity in their sales pitch — an online certification is a low-cost manner to increase one’s professional prospects. So while one ad states that nearly 100 per cent of those who have taken their course report a career benefit, including a promotion, another claims that taking their courses led to a more than 400 per cent salary hike. It is insightful to note that the highlights of their advertisements are, typically, the number of companies who hire from them, the salaries offered and the pay rise their students received. Not a word about the content of the courses, the teaching methods used or the cohort with whom one is enrolled. That’s hidden away — often a matter of mere detail. This, in a snapshot, captures the state of large swathes of the contemporary higher education sector in India. Education is conflated with certification, the need for learning replaced by the need for a job, insight and self-discovery forsaken at the altar of higher pay and promotion. Online education has blown the lid off this reality by providing such instrumental education more effectively, conspicuously and at scale, to more numbers of people. But the medium is not the malaise — it would be easy to hold ‘online’ responsible for this new educational zeitgeist. But that would be a mistake. Online classes have only put in sharp relief what we knew all along — that we have a widespread practice of commercial certification that masquerades as higher education in India. This was recognized by the Supreme Court in 2005 when it found that the Thamath University functioned from Room No. 201 of the 2nd floor of the Raipur Commercial Complex, “a single small room”. Other ‘universities’ were actually shops in a congested market area in Raipur city. Some more spacious ones were in middle income group flats. It struck down as unconstitutional the relevant sections of the Chhattisgarh Private Universities (Establishment and Operation) Act that had recognized such shops as universities. While these may literally have been commercial shops, some of their counterparts are often more sophisticated. Offering business management diplomas and like degrees at impressive campuses, they promise a year of networking and often 100 per cent placement, including in jobs abroad. They may be significantly different in the form of their offering, but in substance, they too view education solely as an instrument for career progression. In this factual context of rapid commodification of education, the National Education Policy 2020 signals a green shoot of recovery. The NEP gets its theories exactly right — that education from pre-primary to university needs to be multi-disciplinary, integrated, focusing on the intellectual, moral, physical and spiritual awakening of the student. It does not have to be Indic in terms of repudiating Western pedagogical concepts but must be practical in ensuring that Indian youth are equipped to lead lives as good citizens of the world. In its conceptualization, it appears to draw heavily both from Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo. Swami Vivekananda conveyed his understanding of education eloquently — “education is the manifestation of the perfection already in man.” Such perfection would not manifest through accumulation of facts. It was about realizing oneself. Sri Aurobindo put it succinctly — “The first principle of true teaching is that nothing can be taught.” Castigating the European teaching method popular in India at the time for trying to “hammer the child into shape”, he pointed to the futility of rote learning or cramming to clear a test. True education came from within; teachers only supplied the spark. These views are well-known to most education planners. But such a transformed educational system cannot be created overnight. This is where the NEP falters. Beyond stating what several NEPs in the past have stated, that India must spend six per cent of its GDP on education (it currently spends 4.43 per cent), it does not walk its talk. Despite recognizing the reality of commodification of the higher education sector in India, it stops short of providing a workable roadmap on how such a state of affairs will change. Maybe that comes next. But till then, Vivekananda and Aurobindo remain like gods who are to be worshipped rather than wise men whose words are to be heeded. So before the NEP can actually be implemented, all kinds of shops will continue to function as higher educational institutions. This is because theories of good education matter little in India’s intensely profitable higher education sector. It is the demand of India’s aspirational classes that ultimately determines its future. Education has embraced this race to the market whole-heartedly, if somewhat coyly. Public universities are not privatized, at least not yet. But the growth of private universities has outstripped public ones significantly in order to satisfy this demand. According to the All India Survey of Higher Education 2020, state private universities have gone from 197 in 2015-16 to 327 in 2019-20. During the same time, state public universities have grown at less than 50 per cent. Equally, there are 31,390 private colleges in India where 1.8 crore students are enrolled in comparison with 8,565 government colleges with 90 lakh students. Private institutions are slowly becoming the norm-setters in this space. Many of them offer flexible payment terms, don’t always insist on class participation, make no promises about learning quality. All of them offer a degree that another market — the job market — considers the calling card of the educated. The sign of an educated recruit for large sections of the formal job market is a graduation or post-graduation degree; hands-on knowledge is secondary to command over English, and real-life skills are often too difficult to assess in the chosen method of assessment — a short interview — and, so, are often given a go-by. Needless to say, not all private universities and employers fall in this category. Neither are all public universities exemplars of quality education. But despite exceptions, commodification of higher education is a widespread reality.  There is no time for Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo in this competitive market; they are silently trampled upon. In this context, tech companies are simply doing what they do best — helping existing educational courses and institutions reach scale. By connecting them to students who had no access to them before, they are actually being egalitarian in distributing the fruits of India’s contemporary higher education sector amongst a larger group. We must be careful to not shoot the messenger. But we must equally introspect about the message. India’s lot will not rise if its students only earn quicker promotions and marginally higher salaries. At best, we will become a second-hand United States of America. Unless that is the pinnacle of achievement in our collective imagination, Indian higher education needs a course correction.  Arghya Sengupta is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
