23-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Babul Supriyo joins Trinamul Congress||About turn Sir — The decision of Babul Supriyo to join the Trinamul Congress should not be seen as an achievement for the party (“Babul joins Trinamul”, Sep 19). Not too long ago, in late July, Supriyo had announced that he is resigning from the Bharatiya Janata Party as he intends to retire from active politics — this decision came after Supriyo was removed as a Union minister in the latest cabinet reshuffle. What, then, prompted his decision to join the TMC so soon? Supriyo has been part of Bengal’s political fabric since 2014 but has done little for the betterment of the people. Instead, he is known for frequently getting into altercations with his critics for no good reason. It seems that Supriyo was waiting for the right offer since his defeat in the Bengal assembly elections earlier this year. His entry into TMC may be an ego boost for the party, but unless Supriyo delivers in the upcoming months, he will become a liability for the TMC. Aditya Mukherjee,New Delhi Sir — These days politicians, barring a few exceptions, seem to be devoid of any loyalty. The departure of Babul Supriyo from the BJP and his recent induction into the Trinamul Congress — he had fought bitterly against the TMC only a few months back — is only the recent example of a politician jumping ship. His scathing remarks against the TMC are still fresh in our minds. Yet, days after joining the TMC, he has declared that Mamata Banerjee will be a frontrunner for the prime minister’s post in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Voters, including ardent TMC supporters, are bound to see through his act. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Sir — No matter what political leaders would like to believe, voters are not foolish. Most people are certain that Babul Supriyo’s change of heart had nothing to do with serving the people of Bengal. His decision to join the TMC hinged upon personal gains and it seems that the TMC delivered by including him within the inner circle almost immediately. Over the last few years, the BJP has become notorious for poaching parliamentarians and members of legislative assemblies from other parties, leading to the toppling of governments in several states. This time it seems that it has received a dose of its own medicine. Nevertheless, this cannot bode well for the TMC in the long run. Party leaders as well as the common people of Bengal will not look favourably at Supriyo’s sudden entry and elevation to the top echelons of the TMC. Supriyo has lost all credibility. Mrinal Kanti Kundu,Howrah Sir — Babul Supriyo’s entry into the TMC in the presence of its national general-secretary, Abhishek Banerjee, may have flabbergasted the BJP, but it is not all that surprising. Few believed the legislator when he announced that he will be retiring from active politics. It is obvious that the TMC was hoping to make a point by welcoming former BJP legislators — including Mukul Roy — into its fold. But the upcoming Lok Sabha elections will determine the future of India. As such, Mamata Banerjee, who many expect to be at the forefront, should be mindful of who she includes in her inner circle. One hopes that this decision does not cost the TMC dearly. Minakshi Sethi,Mumbai Good game Sir — Mithali Raj must be congratulated for completing 20,000 career runs during India’s match against the Australian team at the Great Barrier Reef Arena. The skipper of the Indian women’s one-day international team also scored her fifth consecutive 50 at the match. This achievement proves, once again, that Raj is one of the finest cricketers in the world. It is truly unfortunate that female cricketers in India continue to be overlooked. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — Mithali Raj has shown that she still has a lot of cricket left in her. She must be congratulated. Soumya Kumar,Calcutta  Far from satisfactory Sir — Many people lost their jobs in the wake of the pandemic. But it seems that many others, especially the youth in countries such as the United Kingdom and Japan, are voluntarily leaving their jobs as they feel unsatisfied with their work. Such luxuries, though, seem unimaginable in India. Unemployment, especially among those with a college education, is at an all time high with many being forced to take on underpaid jobs just to put food on the table. A shrinking economy and an apathetic government have ensured that satisfaction is the furthest thing on the minds of the Indian youth. Abhinav Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
23-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Forked tongue||Freedom of speech is of little significance if people are not afforded the liberty to speak the language of their choice. The government seems to be vocal about defending this public right: but does its actions speak otherwise? This Hindi Divas, the Union home minister, Amit Shah, urged the people to use Hindi alongside their mother tongues. He also claimed that there is no competition between Hindi and other Indian languages. Recent developments have been curious though. While the National Education Policy has reportedly been amended such that Hindi is not imposed as a compulsory language choice for students, the Centre’s Nipun Bharat scheme, launched in July to improve literacy and numeracy in primary schools, invited criticism from non-Hindi-speaking states for the prolific use of formal Hindi in speeches and presentations. Strikingly, nurses from Kerala in a Delhi government hospital had to oppose a ban on speaking Malayalam among themselves. The push for Hindi is often justified by the argument that the language is spoken by a majority of Indians. This assumption is flawed for two reasons. First, the conclusion is drawn primarily on the basis of census data, which count the number of people who identify Hindi as a mother tongue rather than their spoken language. Moreover, their number may well be inflated because the census categorizes as many as 50 other regional languages — Bhojpuri, Rajasthani and Chhattisgarhi — as Hindi. Second, even the increase in the actual Hindi-speaking population can be attributed to demographic factors — higher fertility rates and migration — rather than the purported popularity of the language. Such misleading narratives are detrimental to the fate of regional languages — by some estimates, of the 780 languages in India, about 600 are potentially endangered. Clearly, then, commemorative occasions — the Hindi Divas is an example — would benefit such vanishing tongues more than Hindi. The need to safeguard the multilingual nature of India has been historically recognized — the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 revised the boundaries of India’s states and territories along linguistic lines in a nod to linguistic pluralism being integral to India’s democratic ethos. If the Bharatiya Janata Party were not so intent on promoting a ‘Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan’ narrative to realize its problematic ideological mission, it would perhaps have pursued a more inclusive approach.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
23-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Pact time||The twenty-first century was supposed to be a time of Asian resurgence. Asia is, admittedly, dominating the global discourse but in a rather unexpected manner: it has become the new theatre of the Great Game. This is evident from the formation of numerous multilateral blocs that have their eyes set firmly on developments in the Asian region. The principal reason for this shift in the global geopolitical attention is China’s emergence as a powerhouse. Apart from its deep pockets, Beijing is seldom hesitant to flex its military muscles. Indeed, there is substantial evidence of Chinese belligerence. Apart from encroaching on Indian territory, China has made exaggerated territorial claims in the South China Sea. It has also heated the waters of the Indo-Pacific. The global response has been in the form of the creation of multiple coalition platforms. For instance, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Australia — Canberra is not immune to China’s expansionism — has formed Aukus, a trilateral security pact, that would involve the sharing of intelligence and advanced technologies. Another relatively new pact is that of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue whose members include the US, Australia, India and Japan. Quad — the US is hosting the first-ever in person summit — is undoubtedly meant to deter China from indulging in adventurism. China, understandably, has reacted with scorn towards the formation of these alliances. What is interesting though is that there is heartburn in the other camp too. India has not been included in Aukus. The foreign secretary may have dismissed the possibility of Aukus adversely affecting Quad but New Delhi could well be cut up about not just the exclusive dimensions of Aukus but also the fact that the US transfer of advanced technology to India has been minimal. Meanwhile, France is peeved with Australia and the US because the French lost out to the Americans on a lucrative deal on nuclear submarines after Canberra tilted in favour of Washington. Significantly, ‘regional issues’ — the Indo-Pacific — figured in the latest deliberations between the French president and the Indian prime minister. Given the fluid nature of the drama unfolding in the region, New Delhi should be careful not to place all its eggs in the American basket. It should be open to forming alliances that serve its own interests. There is even a case for New Delhi to breathe life into the moribund South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation — ministerial level talks at the Saarc have been cancelled — if only to attempt and wean some of its members away from the lengthening shadow of China over them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
23-09-2021||Opinion||Great Indian sale of its wilderness||In a meeting held on August 2021, the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife, chaired by the Union environment minister, Bhupender Yadav, took a decision to levy 2 per cent of the proportionate cost of projects falling inside protected areas and eco-sensitive zones on user agencies, thereby legitimizing infrastructure and development inside a national park or wildlife sanctuary. You could, for instance, have a six-lane highway tear through, say, Ranthambore National Park as long as you coughed up ‘compensation’ for the fact that a pristine forest would be destroyed and fragmented and wild animals — from tigers to bears to snakes — killed by speeding vehicles. Leaving aside the obvious matter of wildlife not having any use of money (as was commented upon in a SC-NBWL meeting that I was part of), in taking this decision, the Standing Committee, a core working group drawn from the larger body of the NBWL, contravenes both the letter and the spirit of the law it draws powers from. Section 5C of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 mandates the NBWL to promote the conservation and development of wildlife and forests, a duty further strengthened by various court judgments, including one in 2013 where the Supreme Court laid emphasis on the board’s role “to frame conservation policy and advise governments on promoting wildlife conservation”. The board, however, is doing anything but that: so much so that in my book, The Vanishing, I termed it the “Notional” Board for Wildlife. The environment lawyer, Ritwick Dutta, goes a step further, calling the NBWL a “big threat to India’s wildlife”. The SC-NBWL is meant to regulate activities in PAs, which constitute barely 5 per cent of India and are the last remaining refuges of our beleaguered wildlife such as tigers, lions, pangolins, floricans, rhinos and so on. Only those activities that benefit wildlife may be permitted. However, between 2015-20, the committee permitted 680 projects within PAs and its eco-sensitive zones. As per an analysis by the Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment, in just one meeting held in October 2020 — ironically during ‘Wildlife Week’, the SC-NBWL cleared over 1,000 kms of wildlife-rich areas, including the denotification of a chunk of Hastinapur Sanctuary, an excellent riverine habitat which harbours otters, Gangetic dolphins and in its meadows wallows the rare swamp deer. In the first meeting in July 2014 that was held after the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance government came to power, it cleared over 130 projects, including a road through the Kutch Wildlife Sanctuary that threatens to destroy the only known nesting site of flamingos in India. Subsequently, it approved the Ken-Betwa river-linking project that would affect about a third of Panna tiger reserve’s core area, drowning breeding sites of critically endangered vultures and tigers. The above is a tiny representation of the litany of destruction that the NBWL has unleashed in a blatant abuse of its power. The minutes of SC-NBWL meetings — I pored over a few recent ones — make for depressing reading: they are an inexhaustible list of decisions that recommend either deleting parts of PAs or diverting land for roads, railway lines, power projects and so on. How these are beneficial to wildlife is best explained by the incumbent NBWL; science, however, establishes that habitat losses and the degradation they cause threaten flora and fauna and can potentially lead to local extinction. Barely one per cent of projects are rejected; these usually work their way back to the table and are mostly cleared, as was done in the case of a ropeway through Girnar Wildlife Sanctuary in Gujarat in January 2015. This one would mine the cliffs, a death knell for the long-billed vulture — its population has plummeted by 98 per cent — that nest there. It is not just about the number of clearances; what is even more problematic is the frivolous manner in which they are granted. The decisions are hasty — dozens of projects are cleared in a matter of hours, leaving little room for deliberations. Site visits that provide for detailed and thorough scrutiny of project impacts are scant. Some were conducted after the approval had been granted, thus defeating its purpose — the possibility of rejecting a project if ground surveys indicate detrimental wildlife impacts. During the lockdown, as the country grappled with a pandemic, the business of the NBWL continued through virtual meetings, leaving little room for debate, detailed scrutiny, opinions of experts and other stake holders. Projects cleared in the April, 2020 ‘VDO meeting’ included a highway through the Mollem National Park — part of a global biodiversity hotspot — in Goa and a hydroelectric project that would drown no less than 768 hectares in the eco-sensitive zone of the Binog Wildlife Sanctuary (Uttarakhand), home to rare pheasants and where the now extinct Himalayan Quail was last recorded. The downfall of the NBWL has been ongoing for at least the past two decades. But of late, it has shed any pretence of conservation, focusing instead on easing the path of ‘development’ through easy approvals of destructive projects within wildlife parks and sanctuaries. The Great Indian Clearance sale of our natural heritage continues. It hurts to say this for the NBWL is meant to provide essential checks and balances to protect wildlife, but a more apt title for it would perhaps be ‘National Board Against Wildlife’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
23-09-2021||Opinion||Thoughts of school||Chumki Mandal is a sparkling young girl of about 12 who lives in the southern fringes of the city with her parents, siblings, and widowed paternal grandmother. Her mother works as a domestic help in several homes and her father has a small kabariwala shop where he stores the used newspapers, magazines, plastic and glass bottles and other detritus that he collects from middle-class homes on his daily rounds, and which he then sells to sundry others who, in turn, recycle these discarded items into paper bags, plastic mats and containers and so on. Chumki’s nickname is ‘Chutki’ (‘the little one’), since she is quite a bit younger than her brother, aged about 21 or 22, who helps out in their father’s shop apart from doing odd-jobs for a local electrician. Chumki’s sister is about 18 or 19, and finished her Madhyamik (Class X board) examination (or, to be more accurate, received passing grades for the cancelled exams) this year. She has decided not to study any further, and has already started to make enquiries about getting trained as a beautician — her dream is to, one day, have a parlour of her own. Unlike her siblings, Chumki is serious about her studies, does well in the government school she attends, and hopes to become a doctor. In many ways, Chumki’s family is representative of the many millions who may not be right at the bottom of the socio-economic ladder, but whose existence is crucially dependent on things remaining more-or-less stable and predictable. In the winter of 2019-20, matters seemed to be going their way — Chumki’s father’s shop was doing well, her brother hoped to make the first down payment for a motorcycle, and they’d recently replaced the tiled roof of their house with a proper cemented one. There was even talk of buying a small refrigerator. Then Covid-19 struck and their world, and everything in it, was turned upside down. Chumki was perhaps the worst affected. After several months of no school from March to about July last year, when online classes started the family’s only smartphone was seldom available for her. Her sister’s claim was — perhaps rightly — deemed to be greater than hers and her brother, too, felt he needed the phone more than the littlest one in the family. Fortunately, one of the households where her mother works, and from where her father collects used newspapers and other discarded materials on a regular basis, came to know of Chumki’s plight and bought her a smartphone — so she was now able to attend online classes; but the problem of poor connectivity and lack of data remained. Today, more than a year later, Chumki’s academic performance has deteriorated considerably, and she often speaks of joining her sister, without first completing Class X. Her dream of becoming a doctor seems to be fading rapidly. The recently-released Locked Out: Emergency Report on School Education encapsulates the experiences of many Chumkis spread across 15 states and Union territories. The data presented in this short (30 pages) report make for dismal reading. Of the 1,362 children from underprivileged households — in both rural and urban areas — who formed part of the SCHOOL (School Children’s Online and Offline Learning) survey, only 8 per cent of children in rural areas and 24 per cent of urban children are studying online regularly; more distressingly, 37 per cent of rural and 19 per cent of urban children are not studying at all; and three-quarters of their parents feel that their children’s reading abilities have declined during the last 18 months. Parents, the report states, “are desperately waiting for schools to reopen. Indeed, for many of them, school education is the only hope that their children will have a better life than their own.” Calling online education a “fiction” with teachers “out of touch”, the report speaks of how literacy rates are “off the charts” and “the predicament of Dalit and Adivasi households... worse than average”. Locked Out ends by stating bluntly, “As things stand, the system seems to be heading towards ‘business as usual’ when schools reopen — this is a recipe for disaster.” An indication of how such a disaster may be avoided is provided in another new publication, Learning Together: The Opportunity to Achieve Universal Education, which calls itself an “action oriented study conducted in West Bengal” by Shiksha Alochana, a “platform... formed in 2016 by a group of primary school teachers who [wanted to] transform their schools into active social institutions, which, apart from bringing in excellence in teaching-learning and all-round development of children, would inspire, accommodate and integrate local communities with the school.” In Learning Together, the experiences of teachers who found novel, innovative ways to reach out to deprived children during the pandemic are recorded, which, in turn, may provide clues to how formal teaching-learning can be resumed once schools reopen. Chapter Two of the study, “Alternative processes of teaching-learning during the pandemic”, records some of the ways in which teachers have been reaching out to students whilst schools remain closed. These have included in-person classes in spaces where Covid-19 protocols can be maintained; used digital tools and methods where feasible; or taken the form of creating plays, cartoons or videos that can be easily shared. Most crucially, all of these modes of connecting with students have been vitally dependent on the active participation of local communities and (usually young) volunteers. Such experiments by its members have enabled Shiksha Alochana to suggest ways and means to overcome the challenges that lie ahead, succinctly presented in Chapter Three of the study, “Challenges ahead and way forward”. These include a five-point agenda for reopening schools, starting from “Preparing the ground” to “Preparing the schools” to “Preparing for lessons” where a set of Minimum Most Essential Learning Outcomes are chalked out for Classes I through V. The study ends by reminding us that the education of our children is a collective responsibility and not something that can be left to the government alone, or allowed to be blown about by the whims and fancies of private entities. Learning Together can be seen as a kind of companion piece to Locked Out, helping us to think through the process of resuming our children’s formal schooling — not in a typically business-as-usual fashion but keeping in mind the havoc already wreaked by the pandemic, the contours of which are still not fully clear. As Sukanta Chaudhuri puts it in his magisterial Foreword to Learning Together, “We are fortunate in having a substantial body of teachers in our state who can think so big even in this most disheartening of times, and propose a practical template for reform. Let us not fail them, so that we do not fail our children and our nation.” Samantak Das is professor of Comparative Literature and pro-vice-chancellor, Jadavpur University. Views expressed are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
