24-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hardest hit||Women have been hit hardest by the pandemic. On the one hand, the female labour participation rate in India fell to 16.1 per cent in 2020, the lowest among major economies. On the other hand, there was a rise of about 50 per cent in cases of child marriage the same year, according to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau. There is, of course, a causal relationship between deteriorating economic conditions and early marriage. Economically distressed parents often marry off girl children — younger brides require smaller dowries or command higher bride prices — to escape the financial burden of caring. The closure of schools has also left young girls extremely vulnerable. The fact that West Bengal had the third highest number of child marriage cases shows that even welfare schemes that have had some success, such as the Kanyashree Prakalpa, need to be reimagined. Reports show that the scheme has, ironically, become tangled in the marriage economy of rural Bengal with the money provided for funding education being used to pay dowry. The spike in child marriages has, expectedly, corresponded with a worrying rise in infant and maternal mortality rates and child malnutrition: both have risen in Bengal. Underage, undernourished mothers are in no position to give birth to healthy children, perpetuating a vicious cycle of deprivation. The numbers speak for themselves. But governments seldom want to hear the harsh truth. Last year, the Union minister for women and child development had told Parliament that “there is no data to indicate rising number of child marriage cases during the lockdown”. Such ignorance — subterfuge? — is likely to make a bad situation worse. This month, the Rajasthan government passed an amendment to reduce the age of registration of marriage for women who had been married off as children. The second case exposes a lacuna in the law prohibiting child marriage. The law holds that a marriage between two underage individuals is ‘voidable’ — that is, it can be annulled — only if one of the contracting parties files a case at the district court. The entrenched social acceptability of child marriages means that thousands of cases go unreported. The bigger problem, however, lies in viewing child marriage merely as an inequitable tradition. Child marriage is also — in as many as 50 per cent of the cases, according to some estimates — a medium for trafficking women, often by family members. What chance do young girls have in a system that is rigged entirely against women?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
24-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Calcutta turns into city of floods||Troubled waters Sir — The city of joy, Calcutta, seems to have turned into the city of floods. During my childhood, it was widely known that some parts of the city, lower than the rest, were prone to water-logging, causing distress to the residents of those areas — Thanthania Kalibari and its adjoining areas, parts of South Calcutta and neighbourhoods near the Hooghly river are some examples. With the gradual increase of population and careless development activities over the years, the list has only grown longer. Waterlogging is common in other big cities like Mumbai and Hyderabad. One cannot control the rains, but what one can surely do is build infrastructure and ensure proper drainage of water through a robust underground sewerage system. But successive governments and the municipal corporation in Bengal have done little to tackle this problem. The Left Front failed to adequately utilize the Asian Development Bank’s loans for de-siltation and the renovation of the city’s sewers. The incumbent Trinamul Congress government, too, seems indifferent to this issue — it appears to have no concrete policy on this matter. The government is only interested in securing votes; that is why its efforts remain confined to populist tactics like Duare Sarkar, Duare Ration and other such initiatives. Ultimately, the common people of Calcutta are the victims. Every monsoon, they have to navigate knee-deep water even days after the spells of heavy rain stop. This time, too, when the entire city was half submerged, with no sign of the water receding, many of the state’s lawmakers were busy campaigning for the re-election of the chief minister in the upcoming bypolls. These lawmakers should remember that they are, above all, public servants. Swapan Kumar Raha,Calcutta Sir — Bagherghole, on Boral Main Road under the Rajpur-Sonarpur municipality, gets waterlogged for days at a stretch after every shower. Water from the drains mixes with the accumulated rainwater, raising the risk of skin infections in people who have to navigate this area on foot, bicycle or motorcycle. Daily commuters regularly face harassment since the auto-rickshaw services along the Bagherghole-Garia route is affected. The careless disposal of plastic carry bags and vegetable residues from the local market often end up blocking the drains. Needless to say, these drains are seldom cleaned and solid waste management is as good as absent. This also hampers the livelihoods of shopkeepers and local vendors, who are unable to continue business because of waterlogging. Regular waterlogging also damages the roads. An effective and time-bound intervention from the Rajpur-Sonarpur municipality and the local member of the legislative assembly is the need of the hour. Joydeep Saha,Calcutta Sir — Images of waterlogging in Calcutta and the suburbs make us shudder and shake our heads in dismay. The government and the civic authorities, of course, have standard responses — they blame the overwhelming intensity of rainfall. What often remains in the shadows is that the height of many important roads and highways has been raised considerably over the last two decades, possibly as a mark of ‘development’, without taking into account the fact that the adjoining or feeder roads consequently become relatively low-lying. The accumulated water, therefore, flows out onto the low-level roads. The residential houses and hospitals in such areas — Mukundapur, for instance — suffer as a result. It is our misfortune that we have such short-sighted, thoughtless planners and politicians. Suman Sankar Dasgupta,Calcutta Sir — As if waterlogging itself were not enough trouble, commuters are further harassed by surging taxi fares during monsoon. I had to pay Rs 1,500 for an urgent ride — even after the rains had abated — which would have cost me less than Rs 500 on a normal day. The mess of overhead electric wires in the city also poses a serious threat to the public during heavy rains. Loose wires and large pools of accumulated water make for a deadly combination. The government needs to plan ahead in order to prevent such problems. Madhuri Sarkhel,Calcutta Sir — Waterlogging has become a chronic affair in Calcutta and its suburbs. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has laid new sewage lines in several areas of the city. But much more remains to be done. This mammoth problem needs to be tackled on a war footing. Murtaza Ahmad,Calcutta  By the horns Sir — Poaching has been a persistent problem in India, but the Assam government has shown its willingness to grab the proverbial bull by the horns. On World Rhino Day, it destroyed nearly 2,500 horns of one-horned rhinoceros seized from poachers by burning them publicly. The goal was to dispel the myth that rhinoceros horns have miraculous medicinal properties or significant health benefits. While the symbolism of the action is appreciated, more concrete measures are required to curb the menace of poaching, which reportedly doubled during the periods of lockdown. Samik Halder,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
24-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Clinching proof||Sudden demographic imbalances among religious communities in a heterogeneous society can lead to social and political tensions. The conclusion of a report by the Pew Research Center that the populations of India’s principal religious groups have remained stable since Partition must, therefore, come as a source of relief for planners and conscientious citizens. The study — it drew its data from the decennial census and the National Family Health Survey — found that there has been a marked decline, as well as near-convergence, in the fertility rates of Hindus and Muslims. The latter — the community may have had the highest fertility rate but — had experienced the sharpest drop; between 1992 and 2015, their fertility rate dropped to 2.6 from 4.4. The corresponding figure for Hindus was a decline from 3.3 to 2.1. Two other, equally significant, inferences have been drawn by the study. First, it found that religious conversion has had no impact on the composition of India’s population. Second, it argues that there is no concrete evidence of undocumented migrants flooding India because of the absence of signs of outmigration from neighbouring nations. The report, which complements an earlier study published in June, would be useful to demographers and policymakers to frame future interventions. This is because India’s average fertility rate — at 2.2 — remains higher than those of advanced economies. The obvious thrusts should be on literacy and public awareness. The 2011 census had revealed that the literacy rate among Muslims was a little lower than 70 per cent. Investments must be made to raise this and improve standards of education among minority communities. That would facilitate greater awareness about the perils of the burden of having a large family and give women greater autonomy in decision-making. Another important takeaway is the dismantling of the false rhetoric concerning the surge in Muslim population or, say, the influx of migrants into India. The data demonstrate that the toxic narratives concerning India’s largest minority community have been created by the ruling party without any real empirical evidence. Yet, the Bharatiya Janata Party has succeeded in disseminating such spurious information precisely because of the ineptitude — unwillingness — of the Opposition to challenge this narrative with facts and findings from credible institutions and agencies. Data, experts have opined, are very much the new oil. Why, then, should they not be used as fuel by political parties to battle the demonization of minorities?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
24-09-2021||Opinion||Real diversity||In his book, Culture and Imperialism, Edward Said said, “culture is not monolithic... and is not the exclusive property of the East or West nor of the small groups of men and women”. This means one ethnic or cultural group cannot dominate another. Historically, there have been attempts to create ‘oneness’ out of multicultural diversity. If culture is diverse by definition, why, then, do we need to pay special attention to diversity and inclusion? Should it not organically be assimilated in our population? The objective of initiatives such as reservation is to enhance the representation of groups which are usually invisible. It is not just about economic benefits. Diverse groups have been subjected to oppression, injustice, and exploitation. Affirmative action is, thus, one way to approach the chronic issue of inequity. From an economic perspective, which is what businesses are usually bothered about, diversity leads to innovative practices. Only a diverse group would know how to approach an issue in unconventional ways. Hence, diversity matters — more than ever. In any conversation on diversity, gender is globally celebrated, and rightly so. These days, this has been extended to sexuality. This is why brands suddenly turn rainbow in June, Pride Month. But beyond these optics, are anti-reservationist actions and thoughts, which is a result of years of socialization and upbringing. Reservation is described as anti-merit. But merit is the outcome of privilege, which is often not connected to economics, but social capital or ‘network’ in business terminology. Over and above financial capital, social capital pushes one to believe that caste-based discrimination no longer exists. This is far from true. Social capital may even unknowingly become an unwritten reservation for the upper castes. Despite visible and quantifiable instances of caste-based atrocities, private companies actively choose not to approach caste-based affirmation as part of their diversity and inclusion initiatives. In fact, gender and sexuality have come to be a safe bet for private companies because such initiatives resonate with dominant caste groups, who are the decision-makers. According to a 2019 study published in the Pacific-Basin Finance Journal on the composition of Indian boards, more than 94 per cent of corporate leadership and board appointments are from the upper castes. Further, a research exposé led by S.S. Jodhka highlighted how caste plays an important role in recruitment and entrepreneurship wherein candidates from Dalit and Muslim backgrounds are systematically ignored. Similarly, a 2018 study published in the Strategic Management Journal proves that caste/family names along with their extended networks play a significant role in CEO selection. In spite of the United Progressive Alliance government setting up a committee in 2006 for “affirmative action for SC/ST communities” to improve representation of the marginalized in the private sector, nothing substantial has happened. Of the 17,788 member companies, only 19 per cent adopted the code of conduct. Ironically, there is more vocational training and scholarships for the scheduled castes and the scheduled tribes than employment opportunities. This is not surprising as most executives are socially trained to ignore caste-based diversity. The deliberate exclusion of marginalized castes in the private sector has fulfilled the social and economic aspirations of the upper castes. This is what passes as merit. While social media has given the issue of diversity some visibility, attempts to protect privilege have seen gender become the most agreed upon D&I initiative globally. Caste has thus been invisiblized yet again. The idea that recipients of affirmative action are being given a free run is completely untrue. Each individual has to face the same rigorous structure of learning and pass the same exams. As teachers we can educate under-represented groups so that they can eventually build social capital. Education is the only tool through which discrimination and injustice can be eradicated. It is time we look beyond gender-based diversity and make the workplace and educational institutes more equitable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
24-09-2021||Opinion||Rethinking ethics||The Covid-19 epidemic has become a historical event, which we greet with awe. It has entered the global imagination as an act of crisis. Yet, at another level, Covid pretends a return to routine. The idea of the normal has acquired a sacred, official quality. We read ‘normalization’ as the role of governance. Yet, this idea of the normal is instrumental and lacks a moral imagination. A wise friend of mine reminded me that the two silences of the Covid era are the lack of a literary imagination and the absence of an ethical presence. The silence of ethics has been deafening, both in policy and in science. One must realize that ethics is not merely a question of right and wrong; it is a way, a set of metaphors, for reading an event. The epidemic speaks the language of cost-benefit without articulating a sense of suffering. Despite the eerie demography of deaths, Covid provided no sense of mourning. In fact, in creating an Olympiad of body counts, it facilitated the language of triage and dispensability. In India, we treated the informal economy as disposable. Worse, science spoke in the spirit of exponential loss but had no sense of suffering, of care, of compassion. Ethics was the main casualty of the Covid crisis. The question before civil society is how do we retrieve a sense of ethics. Our inability to make policy remember memory and the failure of memory and mourning mark the flaws of Covid policy. Yet, the old-fashioned ethics of earlier decades will not do. During the national movement, we linked character-building to nation-building. Goodness was individualized in terms of personal roles. Most autobiographies, from the work of the chemist, P.C. Ray to Gandhi’s experiments with truth, were ethical narratives. What we need to add to it is an institutional and cosmic ethics. One realizes that corruption and evil are becoming innovative. Mere goodness becomes reduced to a form of correctness, an etiquette, a form of life that gets eliminated quickly. One sees this in the hard realism of a Bollywood movie where the good cop or the good father or the vulnerable teacher is dispatched before the interval. The battle of good and evil needs a different kind of goodness, a goodness based on an innovative and experimental ethics. Let me begin by citing two brilliant examples of a search for a new ethics. In the last few years, there has been a spate of books on trees. One thinks of Suzanne Simard’s Finding the Mother Tree, Peter Wohlleben’s The Hidden Life of Trees or even Richard Powers’s Pulitzer-prize-winning The Overstory. All these books talk of trees in a different way. The old idea of forestry was an insult to the forest as an idea. Forestry was constructed more as a law-and-order model of quick growth and productivity. Yet Simard shows that the forest is a mode of thought, of communication, of symbiosis, of trusteeship. A tree is no longer timber and paper. It is a way of life. A gift to the living. It is an act of generosity. A dead tree transfers its nutrients to neighbouring trees before it dies. Trees warn one other about beetle invasions. A tree, literally, is a system of trusteeship and reciprocity. There is no such thing as a tree that is a statement of illiteracy and individuality. A tree is a commons. Simard shows that the idea of productivity, which we treat in hallowed terms, is instrumental, short-sighted. A tree is an act of cooperation. A science which sees trees as a lesser order of being is illiterate. Ecolacy has to be a part of ethics and science. We have to relate to nature in a different way. What is true for the tree is true for the earth. We need an earth ethics which tribes produced in sophisticated myths. We need an ethics of nature that mimics its generosity, its reciprocity, its celebration of difference. We need to immortalize the ethics of a tree as part of our constitutional ethics. We need myths and cosmologies, which are more life-giving than rights in a contractual sense. Ethically a tree, like any form of life, is a sacrament. To the ethics of nature, we need to add an ethics of the body, the music of a sensorium, which will create an ethics of memory. In this age of obsolescence and genocide, we need an ethics of memory. Covid showed that we lack an ethics of memory. We had information as impersonal bytes but memory as the music of sharing is missing. Today, we need to create a wall of mourning for every species and language lost. This brings me to my second story. This story occurred in a little town called Chirala, a weaving town close to Hyderabad. It was host to an international seminar between historians of science and weavers. On the first day, the seminar followed the predictable distancing but on the third day everyone sat on the floor. The workers also brought their looms to explain. This created a dialogicity that was different from the usual hierarchy of seminars. In this gift of conversation, one of the activists told the historian that you have stolen both our livelihood and our theory. He said that we have to reclaim our theories of knowledge to reclaim the forms of life we are losing. The taken-for-grantedness of obsolescence has to be challenged by a new ethics of memory and cognitive justice. We need to create a new ethics of diversity to challenge the linearity, the monoculture, that obsolescence is anchored on. We need a new experimental ethics. It is only civil society that can create this new dialogic ethics, an ethics that looks at different sciences, theologies, languages, to create life-giving sensibility. Gandhi had a sensibility about it. He talked of accounting (money), accountability (honesty), responsibility, trusteeship and sacrifice. Ethics has to embrace all and go beyond cost-benefit within this world. Saving a weed, a fungus, a marginal group is a creative form of ethics. We go beyond the language of monocultural efficiency and show that an ethics of diversity is far more progressive than the Darwinian idea of the survival of the fittest. This search for a life-giving ethics has to be panarchic, different at different levels of life. One needs to alter the desiccated norms of professional ethics. The feminist reading of the body and nature should educate scientific ethics. It needs to be more than a collector of table manners. The university must create a new realm of cognitive ethics, new debates — about violence, suffering and the consequences of knowledge. This cannot be left to technocratic experts. One needs the marginal, the housewife, the victim, the minority, to talk about their apprehensions as well as their stories. Their fears embody the cognitive understandings we have to bring into science. We need a perspective which is both aesthetic and ethical. For example, every school could be responsible for saving a lost language or a dying craft. The Kasturirangan Committee report is a dead end in terms of ethics. Finally, literature has to create a new language, a poetics of ethics, to challenge the idioms of progress. It has to capture the exemplar and the dissenter challenging power. Ethics, in this sense, becomes both resistance and innovation, adding to the life-giving diversity of democracy. Shiv Visvanathan is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
