25-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Howzat for equality||The ‘batsman’ played a long and tenacious innings, but has finally been bowled out. It is now the turn of the ‘batter’ to take guard. The Marylebone Cricket Club — the sole authority vested with the power to draw up the Codes of Laws that govern cricket since 1787 — has adopted the gender-neutral terms, “batter” and “batters”, in place of “batsman” and “batsmen”. The once hoary institution of privilege and exclusivity — it reluctantly opened its doors to women as late as 1998 — said in its statement that the move aims to recognize “the changing landscape of the game in modern times”. Indeed, women’s cricket has proved its ability to draw crowds — in 2017, England took on India in the Women’s World Cup finals in front of a capacity crowd at Lord’s, while a record international crowd witnessed Australia beat India in the T20 World Cup final in Melbourne three years later. Women cricketers are emerging as stars in their own right and television coverage of women’s cricket has improved as well, forcing the cricketing establishment to play catch up — at last. The rechristening is laudable, but this does little to make the cricket field truly representative. For women cricketers, especially those from India, the pitch remains a vicious turner. While women cricketers need the same amount of resources — money, training, diet, kits — to succeed at the international level, they earn a fraction of what the men do. The annual retainership for women players in the top tier is Rs 50 lakh; the figure is one crore for an Indian male cricketer in the lowest grade. The logic used to pay women less — lack of viewership and sponsorship — is as ancient as some of the men’s cricket clubs. Moreover, the onus of getting fans, sponsors and revenue lies not with cricketers, but the administration. In men’s cricket, the shortening of boundaries and the introduction of the ‘super over’ were decisions taken with an eye on heightening the drama and, by implication, filling the coffers. But this kind of innovation eludes women’s cricket. Studies have shown that the length of the pitch slows down female pacers, making the sport less interesting for viewers. Endorsements are far fewer for women cricketers, as are post-retirement benefits — the latter would be crucial for a greater number of women to look at cricket as a rewarding career. For all this to happen, cricket administrations must cede more space to women. Even though the International Cricket Council has launched ‘100% Cricket’, an annual campaign dedicated to the promotion of women’s cricket, not much is expected to change — apart from the semantics — because of the absence of women’s representation in decision-making bodies. The gathering momentum towards adopting gender-neutral language is welcome; it can help shed the trappings of a binary imagination. But these transformations can also be cosmetic. The European Parliament was one of the first international organizations to adopt guidelines on gender-neutral language. Yet, on an average, European women have to work an extra 51 days per year to earn the same amount as their male colleagues and only 20 out of 47 European states cover discrimination based on gender identity. Even the change in semantics may have its limitations. Batsmen are now out: but the ‘third man’ and ‘nightwatchman’ remain on field.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
25-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Imposition of Hindi as primary language||Language matters Sir — India is a polyglot, multi-cultural and multi-ethnic nation. In recent years, however, there has been a growing and consistent push towards making Hindi the primary language of communication (“Forked tongue”, Sep 23). The Constitution has not accorded prominence to any one language and rightly so. The States Reorganisation Act, 1956 — it redrew the boundaries of states along linguistic lines — was indicative of the predominance of regional languages in shaping identity and politics. One must ask that if Hindi is indeed the great unifier that the Bharatiya Janata Party touts it to be, then why were Hindi-speaking states such as Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh carved out of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh respectively? Moreover, a bevy of languages — Bhojpuri, Rajasthani, Chhattisgarhi — spoken in different parts of northern India are often subsumed under Hindi. This targeted attack on regional languages must be resisted. The imposition of a single language is not only unethical but also goes against the spirit of our Constitution. There is no harm in celebrating the contributions of Hindi as a language. But such celebrations must not come at the cost of others. H.N. Ramakrishna, Bangalore Sir — Ever since the BJP government came to power, there has been a constant push towards adopting Hindi as the “rashtra bhasha”. In fact, some government offices hold language competitions on Hindi Divas. No other language has received this kind of support from the Central government. This sends a clear message to all non-Hindi speakers that the government does not value their mother tongues as much as Hindi. If this continues, the BJP will surely lose all support outside the Hindi-speaking belt. R. Holkar,Navi Mumbai Slippery slope Sir — The inequalities between men and women have exacerbated since the outbreak of the pandemic (“Hardest hit”, Sep 24). Not only were more women laid off from work than men, but according to an estimate by the International Labour Organization, 13 million fewer women are expected to be working in 2021 compared to 2019, while men’s employment will recover to 2019 levels. Between 2019 and 2020, there was a 4.2 per cent decline in women’s employment as a result of the pandemic, representing a drop of 54 million jobs, compared to 3 per cent for men or 60 million jobs. The report admits that although the projected job growth for women in 2021 exceeds that of men, it will nonetheless be difficult to bring women’s employment back to pre-pandemic levels. Only 43.2 per cent of working-age women will be employed in 2021, compared to 68.6 per cent men. Over the last year and a half, it has become apparent that working women are burdened with a greater share of housework than their male counterparts. Women have not only experienced a severe loss of income but also continue to be primary caregivers of their families. Many have been compelled to exit the workforce altogether. Furthermore, there has been a drop in the number of female children enrolled in schools along with a sharp rise in child marriages. These are horrifying developments and must be addressed immediately. Governments as well as private companies must do their all to ensure that the social, economic and educational progress of women — hard-earned through generations of struggle — is not negated in a matter of 18 months. S.S. Paul,Nadia  Show the way Sir — The Tata Group chairman emeritus, Ratan Tata, recently shared a picture of an employee of the Taj Hotel giving shelter to a stray dog underneath his umbrella in pouring rain. This is not the first time Tata has shown his love for stray animals. Last year, the businessman spent Diwali with the dogs living in the company headquarters and has even helped find homes for stray dogs. Tata must be lauded for his constant dedication towards animals. His gestures show how people in public positions can effectively spread the word and help those in need. Others should follow suit. Priya Chandok,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
25-09-2021||Opinion||Bold statement: AOC at Met Gala 2021||The Met Gala 2021 recently took place at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in uptown New York, after being cancelled last year owing to the pandemic. Many refer to this celebrity-fuelled event as the Oscars of fashion. The Met’s Costume Institute unveils an exhibit while guests fundraise and arrive in expressive, sometimes outlandish, attire. The event is also a chance for designers to explore their creativity to the fullest extent. This year’s theme was American fashion. The curator of the Institute told Vogue that the goal was to examine American fashion and how it has changed over the years through the lens of social and political movements, and diversity. This year’s invitation had an official dress code called “American Independence”. Some celebrities showed up in the colours of the American flag; others opted to be more creative. The Congresswoman, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, arrived in a white dress with the words, ‘Tax The Rich’, sprawled on the back in red, inviting criticism from right-wingers for arriving at an event where each ticket costs $35,000 with such a tagline. The Olympics gymnast, Simone Biles, came in a gown that weighed 45 kg, owing to its hand-embroidered Swarovski crystals. Fans were happy to see Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck together in person at the Gala, even sharing a mask-on-mask kiss in front of cameras. New enemy There is a new enemy in town and we have been instructed to kill it. It is none other than the spotted lanternfly — a strangely beautiful moth-like insect that seems to have taken over the states of New York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. These insects are native to India, China and Vietnam, but in recent years, they have spread to other countries, including the United States of America. They pose a threat to the US economy because, in large numbers, they prey on fruit trees, especially grapes. They could damage crops extensively, impacting the agricultural industry. These bugs hop around, and fly only short distances, but it is now common to spot them right on the pavement. If you do see one, there are clear instructions to kill it immediately. “Kill it! Squash it, smash it... just get rid of it,” the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture said. It imposed an emergency quarantine to fight back against the bug, prohibiting businesses and residents from partaking in activities that could foster the lanternflies. These include landscaping, moving logs, pallets and firewood and any outdoor household items. The New Jersey Department of Agriculture instructs to ‘Stomp it out!’ as these pests harm economically useful plants. The insects are, however, eye-catching, with bright red lower wings with black spots. They are said to have arrived in New York in 2014 likely via shipping containers from Asia. Going viral The Met Gala authorities received some criticism for inviting social media influencers to their event, saying that it took away the prestige of the evening. Others said this actually made it more accessible. Whether you love them or hate them, influencers do impact their followers’ lifestyle choices. One social media platform that has taken the centre stage in this arena is TikTok and now it will get its own exclusive spot inside a museum. The Museum of the Moving Image in New York is unveiling an exhibit on October 1 called “Co-Creating on TikTok” that will feature six TikTok videos that have been shared, remixed and remade by users around the world. Young users are picking TikTok even over Facebook and it has more downloads than Instagram. The Met, in fact, was the first major museum to create an account on TikTok and has also launched art contests on the site. The goal is to channel the creativity of the young users. A few months ago, TikTok launched its first-ever global live museum online event tagged #MuseumMoment. It was live-streamed all day and took users on a tour of 23 museums across 12 different countries. TikTok reported that content with tags like #FineArt, #ArtHistory and #ArtOnTikTok have amassed over two billion monthly views globally as of May, growing by over 3,000 per cent compared to the past year. Take the jab Under half the US adult population is yet to be fully vaccinated. The president, Joe Biden, said at a recent press conference that his ‘patience was wearing thin’ with Americans who did not believe in the vaccine. As it turns out, even though they do not believe in the vaccine, they do believe in several other concocted coronavirus ‘cures’. The latest is Ivermectin, a horse dewormer and medicine to cure parasites in other animals. It has been promoted as a cure for Covid-19. The Food and Drug Administration has published a full web page instructing citizens not to use the drug, but The New York Times reports a huge increase in its demand. Last year, it was hydroxychloroquine, promoted by the former president. Most of these claims come as text message threads that often begin with ‘my friend just said’ and spread to WhatsApp chats and Facebook groups. There are also misleading YouTube videos, fake screenshots and documentation from purported health officials. The World Health Organization, FDA and real health experts have had to step in. Last week, the rapper, Nicki Minaj, sent out a tweet stating that her cousin’s friend in Trinidad took the Covid vaccine and had swollen testicles as a result. The internet erupted; many late night show comedians took a jab at how this one tweet became newsworthy overnight. Trinidad’s health department also got several inquiries about the veracity of this claim. It held a press conference the next day debunking it. Footnote If you love the Netflix show, Bridgerton, tickets just went live for a 90-minute ball in March called “The Queen’s Ball: A Bridgerton Experience”. It will take place in US cities, including Washington and Los Angeles, in ‘secret’ ballrooms, with a Regency-era theme. The show is based on Julia Quinn’s books: steamy romances set in early-19th century London. Netflix says Bridgerton was watched by 82 million households in the month of its release. It ranked number one in many countries, including India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
25-09-2021||Opinion||Rare soul||By a fortunate coincidence, this column appears on the seventy-fifth birthday of the living cricketer I hold in the highest esteem. I admire him for his achievements on the field, and, perhaps even more, for how he has conducted himself off it. He is that rare example of a great cricketer who is also a very fine human being. Oddly enough, one of my first cricketing memories of Bishan Singh Bedi has him with bat, rather than ball, in hand. In the Delhi Test of 1969 against Australia, Bedi was sent in as nightwatchman on the fourth day, and safely saw us through till stumps. The following morning, he batted for an hour and a half with Ajit Wadekar, building the foundations for a famous victory, every ball and every run followed by me (and millions of others) on All India Radio. But of course it is as a great spin bowler that Bishan Bedi made his mark on cricketing history. I myself watched Bedi bowl often, in Test cricket and in Ranji Trophy cricket, and never tired of the sight. I remember him lovingly for his classically perfect action, for his masterly control, for his powers of flight and spin, and for his ability to get the better, on all wickets, of the finest batsmen in the world. Bedi’s life in cricket has been celebrated in a volume published on the occasion of his seventy-fifth birthday. Titled The Sardar of Spin, it brings together tributes to Bedi by cricketers of his generation who played with or against him, by writers who followed his career (full disclosure: I am one of the contributors), and by cricketers of younger generations who were mentored or inspired by him. The book is the brainchild of the former Delhi opener, Venkat Sundaram, who played under Bishan Bedi in the Ranji Trophy for many years and remembers with particular fondness the first time Delhi won the championship, in 1978-79, when he was one of the players and Bedi the team’s inspirational captain. It was Venkat Sundaram who conceived of the book, who brought together an array of contributors from around the world, who sourced the photographs, and who found a publisher. It is a mark of the man’s self-effacement and innate decency that his name does not appear on the cover. I warmly commend The Sardar of Spin to lovers of cricket (and not just Indian cricket). In my first reading of the book, I was myself particularly moved by the contributions from those foreign cricketers whom Bedi played against, such as Greg Chappell and Mike Brearley, and by the tributes offered by Indian spin bowlers whom Bedi mentored and inspired, such as Murali Kartik and Anil Kumble. Also insightful are the essays by journalists such as Suresh Menon and Clayton Murzello, who followed Bedi’s career as it unfolded. Since my own essay in the book is about Bedi the bowler, in this column I wish to speak rather of Bedi the man. It is one of the sad truths about Indian cricket today that the greater the cricketer, the more opportunistic and spineless the human being. Cricketers with fame and wealth always seek to stay on the right side of the administrators of the Board of Control for Cricket in India, always curry favour with politicians, and never take a stand on matters of personal ethics or political principle. There are indeed a few Indian cricketers in their thirties and forties who occasionally speak out against discrimination on the field and in everyday life, but these are never those who have the most influence or authority. In the entire history of Indian cricket, there have perhaps been only three individuals of whom it could be said that they were both great cricketers as well as human beings of character and principle. Chronologically, the first member of this trinity was Palwankar Baloo. Born in a Dalit home in 1875, he overcame the enormous barriers that culture and history placed upon him to become the first great Indian slow bowler, indeed — if we regard Ranjitsinhji as an English cricketer, as we should — the first great Indian cricketer itself. By his dignity and his bearing and his achievements on the field, Baloo inspired many younger Dalits, among them B.R. Ambedkar himself. After Baloo had taken more than a 100 wickets on the first All India tour of England in 1911, on his homecoming he was given a reception by the Depressed Classes of Bombay, at which the manpatra, or welcome address, was read out by the young Ambedkar in what was probably the first public appearance of one of the most influential Indians of modern times. If Palwankar Baloo was the first great Indian bowler, then Vijay Merchant was surely the first great batsman nurtured on Indian soil. Born to privilege, the child of a prosperous industrialist, unlike most rich brats, Merchant retained his scruples and his principles. Chosen for the 1932 tour of England, he dropped out because Mahatma Gandhi and other nationalists were in jail. Later, as a player, he financially helped the families of Indian Test cricketers who died young, such as those of his teammates, Amar Singh and Sadashiv Shinde. Still later, in retirement, he worked for the rights of children with special needs, and helped found the National Society for Equal Opportunities for the Physically Handicapped. Baloo and Merchant were towering figures in the history of Indian sport who never allowed their cricketing fame to pervert or corrupt their characters. Bedi is, to my mind, the third — and probably the last — great Indian cricketer to be an exceptionally courageous human being as well. In his playing days, he campaigned tirelessly for the rights of players and against the conniving ways of our administrators, for which he paid a price. After retirement, he eschewed lucrative commentary contracts to nurture and mentor young cricketers in the coaching camps he ran. As captain of Delhi, he made a group of untried youngsters the fulcrum of a Ranji Trophy-winning side; as coach of Punjab he did the same. Whether active or retired, he has always put the game above himself. Bishan Bedi has both an acute understanding of Indian society and a strong moral compass. My own admiration for him rests only partly on what he did as a cricketer; it owes itself equally to what he has taught me about life and human conduct in the years I have been privileged to count him as a friend. Born on September 25, 1946, Bishan Bedi grew up with and has grown old in a free India. Last year, on the occasion of Independence Day, he wrote a moving article in The Indian Express on the crises our country has witnessed in his lifetime, and how he has faced them. He spoke here of our wars with Pakistan, of the anti-Sikh riots, and, most recently, of the sufferings that the pandemic has wrought. Of the “heartbreaking images” that the prime minister’s unplanned lockdown produced, Bedi wrote: “It highlights the utter lack of compassion in our politicians, who enforced the sudden and complete lockdown. Honesty and transparency, too, are missing when it comes to coronavirus numbers.” Reflecting on a nation whose journey has been more or less coterminous with his own life, Bedi remarked that “the one thing that has really pulled this nation down is sycophancy. I have experienced this in the past and now I see it all the time.” He deplored the fact that “even the young and the educated are joining the political conundrum and are reluctant to raise their voice. The reason: sycophancy.” The last paragraph of Bedi’s article ran: “I, fortunately, had the gumption and the strength of character. When I was young, and so was India, I was able to stand up and be counted. Now, it is too late in life. But I am not a pessimist, I have faith in my spirituality and I have hope. We survived wars and invasions and we will survive the political pandemic, too.” If Tendulkar or Gavaskar or Kohli or Dhoni or Ganguly had half the strength of character that Bishan Bedi has, Indian cricket would be run in a more democratic and transparent manner, be more accountable to all its stakeholders, and not be so cravenly sycophantic to the political class. However, individuals like Bedi are scarce not just in Indian cricket; they are scarce in Indian politics and public life too. That is the greater tragedy of our Republic. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
