26-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: A dish served hot||The war against the coronavirus has not been won. Consequently, what the Homo sapiens — an ingenious species wired to survive — seem to be concentrating on is winning the smaller battles. Given the gargantuan size of the human ego, these triumphs have been christened with a singular title: ‘revenge phenomenon’. So contemporary society, ravaged by Covid, is now replete with various kinds of righteous acts of vengeance against the virus. Affluent families lucky enough to have survived in comfortable cocoons go out, whenever there is a dip in the positivity rate, on what is now known as ‘revenge tourism’. There is the ‘revenge dinner’, too, for the patrons tired of the mundane daal-bhaat-torkari food regime, brightening up the mood of restaurateurs. The lovelorn are at it too: ‘revenge dating’ scorched the summer of 2021, says a prominent dating website. Yet, humanity’s relationship with retaliation has been markedly tempestuous. The avenger need not be an angel. Indeed, Francis Bacon, the English philosopher, described revenge as a kind of ‘wild justice’, acts that lie outside the realm of refined, redistributive justice. It is possible that Bacon’s condemnation was directed at the primitive disposition of this kind of justice. History bears evidence of its primeval nature. The pre-industrial, feuding society embraced honour as the core of community life and its members would not hesitate to protect honour by spilling blood. The evolution of modern jurisprudence can be traced to the moral — also philosophical and theological — condemnation of these transgressions. Yet, it cannot be denied that the fascination with revenge could not be snuffed out entirely. Postmodern societies often bloody their hands by dispensing extrajudicial justice. The Indian examples would include khap panchayats that are known for their role in killing men and women, usually inter-caste couples, in the name of honour. The Arts, too, are rich with the evidence of the triumph of recrimination. From Shakespeare’s Hamlet to Alexandre Dumas’s The Count of Monte Cristo to Charles Dickens’s Great Expectations, each work offers glimpses of the human proclivity for reprisal. Artemisia Gentileschi’s Judith Slaying Holofernes is a testament to visual arts’ enquiry into problematic versions of justice; even Mozart, that magisterial composer of light and melody, infused some of his operas with the dark shadow of revenge. The march of civilization mirrors a curious contradiction. Humanity moves forward but the journey is made possible because of received wisdom from the past. The glorification of revenge — it has added a degree of thrill to benign leisure activities — cannot simply be brushed aside as a quibble with semantics. In a world battling a deadly pandemic, the honour — ethics — bestowed upon vengeance is representative of a beguiling intersection of the primitive and the postmodern. But this convergence begets questions. Is mankind evolving or regressing? Is it moving forward or back?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
26-09-2021||Opinion||Photobombing death||The photographer jumping on a man shot dead by policemen in Assam on Thursday is a creature of two intersecting histories. The first is the history of State-sponsored majoritarianism, which in India generally and Assam particularly, is beginning to devolve into a form of fascism. The photographer knew that stomping on Muslims, dead or alive, was sanctioned by the zeitgeist. But he was also performing for the camera in a way that is the signature behaviour of this digital age. The clip that went viral is, in itself, an example of the ubiquity of cameras in our world. You first see the photographer stamp on the man. Immediately afterwards, a policeman hits the prone body with his lathi as if in corroboration. The photographer then knees the dead man, punches him and is ushered away by policemen. Another cameraman moves into the frame, inching up to the body to get a closer shot. Abruptly the stomping cameraman reappears. He takes a running jump and lands on the dead man with a bullet hole in his chest, overshoots and then returns to assault him. A policeman leads him away for a second time. That makes at least three camera persons embedded in the armed police party responsible for the evictions and the subsequent firing. And that’s not counting the cameras in the phones likely carried by everyone on the scene. If we didn’t live in a world where every other act gets videoed and turned into a home movie for someone’s delectation, the dead Muslim would likely still have been killed by the police but the photographer wouldn’t have done his ghoulish death dance: that was an act of performative depravity rooted in the idea of an audience. We have been here before. A few years ago, there was a video of middle-class men calmly beating ragged Dalit workers with metal slats and filming themselves in the act. The provocations on Indian news channels are forms of performative depravity, as are the political pronouncements of the more brazen representatives of the majoritarian right. But this sense that we are continuously performing for an imagined community of unseen eyes isn’t political; it’s a function of the coming together of phone cameras, cellular connectivity and social media. This does two things: one, it amplifies narcissism because people can share themselves and their doings online, instantly, and two, it creates a peculiar disjunction between their here-and-now, that is to say, their corporeal lives and their digital avatars. (It’s interesting that when we’re not online, we acknowledge in our minds that we are ‘offline’; our engagement with the physical world of taste and touch and smell is now described, by default, as a state of disconnection.) This increasingly gets people to do things in their off-line lives that they wouldn’t do otherwise, for the sake of their online personas. The person who walks up to the edge of a cliff to take the perfect selfie and falls off is only the most extreme example of this growing conviction that the physical world exists to supply us with props for our online lives. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the progressive socialist who represents New York’s 14th district in Congress, created a social media splash when she attended a swish gala at the Metropolitan Museum’s Costume Institute in a long white dress with ‘Tax the Rich’ emblazoned in red on its back. A pundit in a conservative British newspaper grudgingly conceded that right-wingers denouncing AOC for hypocrisy — swanning about with the rich and famous while railing against them — missed the point and misread her audience: she was using a real world ‘do’ as a platform to perform and get her message across to a larger audience online. This hyper-awareness of an audience is now existential: ‘I perform therefore I am.’ Everything we do, including eating meals cooked by others, is Instagram-able. I have a friend who constantly shares dreadful portraits of himself wearing his best ‘camera face’ with no self-consciousness because he clearly believes that there is no such thing as a bad ‘view’ or ‘share’ or ‘like’ or ‘follow’. They all count… literally. It’s pointless being superior about this because we are all implicated. In the old days of non-digital photography, when I sent off camera rolls for developing and then got the prints in the mail, I was always exasperated by the idiot pictures I had taken of the Qutub Minar or the Amber Fort because I didn’t figure in them. In my absence, they were just bad amateur postcards. Selfies pre-empt this problem; they foreground you, with the world assigned its proper place in the background as an anchoring detail. Selfies are like late-medieval paintings in European museums, when an exclusive focus on Christ or Mary gives way to pictures with landscapes worked into the composition, visible through casements but still dwarfed by its iconic subjects. Selfies have reached the same point in a reverse journey: Western art moved outward from the iconic image to the landscape; we are receding from pictures of the world around us into the voids of our nostrils. There is a banality to online narcissism because it reduces the world to your presence in it. Nothing matters, except being there and letting people know that you were there. This is what the photographer did: he photobombed a man’s death. We can see from his actions that he enthusiastically endorsed the police firing but approval wasn’t enough: he needed to be in the moment, in the frame. Narcissism in this degree is a useful example of the banality of evil. In the photographer’s mind, he jumped on a what, not a who, a prop, not a person. Narcissism is by definition auto-erotic, but the self-obsession that marks these lives is best described without euphemism: it is a masturbatory view of the world. What we see in that clip is political porn that will be endlessly ‘curated’ and shared by bigots and incels hunched over their screens. A long time ago, Gil Scott-Heron sardonically sang that the revolution will not be televised. The counter-revolution, though, will be shown in instalments, one vile video clip at a time. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
26-09-2021||Opinion||Poor Weather Friends||Five million doses of Covishield later, just when the world was easing into normalcy and opening up, the United Kingdom decided the vaccine manufactured in India was just not kosher. Travellers from India who have taken Covishield shots would be considered unvaccinated and have to self-isolate on arrival in the UK. Now, of course, that has changed. The self-isolation bit remains, but the air has been cleared about Covishield’s acceptability. Some believe it was the noise and talk of “reciprocal action” that did it, others say that the ‘R’ word with all its colonial baggage shamed them into it. The UK government has, of course, offered “dodgy certification” as the reason. And yet India is considered to be the “pharmacy of the world”. It is one of the largest vaccine manufacturers. The Serum Institute, Pune, that is AstraZeneca’s brown surrogate mama if you will, manufactures vaccines used in 170 countries. Vaccines for diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, BCG, measles, rubella, rabies, rotavirus, Hepatitis B… And according to PM Modi, earlier this year, India shared her coronavirus vaccine production with 95 countries and with UN peacekeepers. “Without India, there won’t be enough vaccines to save the world,” said Peter Piot, director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. The coronavirus has brought to the forefront the “First World’s” much altered but little advertised dependency on some dots in the “Developing World”. Between the old grandstanding and new dependence there is a tough balancing act to pull off. The UK’s vaccine double standards is possibly a symptom of that struggle. And so is all that double-speak by Potus. On one hand Mr Biden has unabashedly pursued the America First policy, preferred to hoard vaccines and raw materials through the darkest days of the pandemic. Even when the Ganges was choking with India’s dead, the Biden administration was thinking. Ned Price, the spokesperson for the US Department of State, went so far as to say, “It is not only in our interest to see Americans vaccinated, it’s in the interests of the rest of the world to see Americans vaccinated.” Oh Ned, when one is gasping for oxygen one can barely think. In any case, that was some months ago. Now, when things seem more under control for America, Biden has promised an “arsenal of vaccines” to the developing world while trying to pressure India into lifting its ban on vaccine exports. Only 18 per cent of India has been vaccinated thus far, but there is no India First policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
26-09-2021||Opinion||Lights! We need to see darkness||Please do not now say you did not know. Please spare us. Please seek no benefits accruing from doubt. You never had any doubts. And now I have none either. It was always going to end like this, in a downfall, or a falling down. A terrible falling down. We know how terrible, it is a falling down of all things and it is a falling down that does not stop. And it is not a falling alone, it is also a bringing down. What is falling is bringing all that’s in the way down. You can see it, can’t you? Too much? Don’t like it? Frightened? Wanted it but not this much of it? Well, the trouble is once you pull the plug, you don’t get to decide how much the plugholes will yield. But now that the plugs have been pulled and the plugholes are giving and you really have left yourself no option, get a drenching in the stuff you yearned to get drenched. And get a sense of what it feels like. You can already feel it, can’t you? Or smell it? No? You wish more of it to come down? More robust doses of it? Or you wished, there was a time, wasn’t there? When you fervently wished for this, prayed for this, cried for this, marched for this, screamed for this, paid for this, you were ready to pay any price for this. Such a thing it seems, this thing that you wished to deluge you. The more it comes down, the more it reveals of itself and of what it is around you, what it is that floats about you or what it is that you float in. The filth, among the first things that floats up when put to test: filth. You may have seen it bubble up and gurgle around and whoosh along or eddy in whirls. No? We tried, so you could clearly see. Even in the depths of the darkness of night, we gave you bolts of bright lightning, repeated ones. So you got a good look at it, as what you wished upon yourself. So the next time do consider what you wish for. You can be granted it and it can come to you and mess about with you in ways you never thought it would be able to. Some of you may want the overwhelming, the drowning, the sensation of being so whipped over time and time again, the staggering assault of it as if it were a sensation worthy of being invited and felt, but think. There are more folks than just you, and all folks may, you know, like being thrown. There’s bolts of light in the darkness yet, perhaps you can see. Greet the light, know the light, and bow to it: Har, har Mahadeb. When you’re up to your neck In all of this stinking muck Remember you had a role In bringing us to this hole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
26-09-2021||Opinion||With Channi here to stay, Sidhu will have to cool his heels||Fresh face The new chief minister of Punjab, Charanjit Singh Channi, has been caricatured as a puppet of Navjot Singh Sidhu. The Shiromani Akali Dal even advised Channi not to allow Sidhu to act like a “super CM”. This is an incorrect reading of both the Congress high command’s intention and ground realities. Rahul Gandhi has consciously empowered Channi with a long-term plan of creating a Dalit leader. He will reportedly be given the freedom and support to prove himself and there is no plan to dump him after the assembly election if the Congress retains power. Sidhu has his place in the Congress’s scheme of things, but the party would not like to put all its eggs in one basket, particularly after realizing how temperamental and uncompromising Sidhu can be. It can be safely predicted that Sidhu will have to cool his heels for much longer now because of the importance of the Dalit card that is expected to help the Congress narrative of social justice in other states as well. Dalit groups have welcomed the appointment as Channi is the only chief minister of Punjab from the scheduled castes. A group of Dalit activists met Rahul Gandhi in Delhi to thank him for the decision. The Congress leader also reiterated his commitment to empower the oppressed. Channi himself is a veteran politician with degrees in law and business management. Nobody should be surprised if he remains the Dalit face of the party for a long time to come. Quick wit Behind a stern exterior, PC Siddaramaiah has always been known to have a witty side. Recently, while engaged in a heated discussion in the state assembly, the leader of the Opposition failed to notice a soon-to-be wardrobe malfunction. The Congress state president and lawmaker, DK Shivakumar, sprang to his rescue by warning Siddaramaiah that his “panche” (dhoti) was about to come undone and fall. As he quickly tied the dhoti in place, Siddaramaiah quipped that he had gained four to five kilogrammes during his recovery from Covid-19 and his bigger paunch would not help hold the fabric in place. When a member from the treasury benches offered to help him tie the dhoti, Siddaramaiah said on a lighter note, “Since you are sitting on the other side, I will not ask you for help.” Waste of time It is that time of the year when the Bihar chief minister, Nitish Kumar, holds review meetings with various departments on pertinent issues on a regular basis. The other day, he held one on the law-and-order situation in the state, especially in the context of the approaching festive season. However, the word on the street is that ministers and officers are reportedly finding such meetings increasingly banal, more so in the light of similar instructions being repeated year after year. With crime in the state soaring high, and murders, rapes, kidnappings, and robberies becoming more frequent, people are wondering whether these meetings serve any purpose. “Nitishji stays very busy. He keeps doing samiksha (review) and bhiksha (begging),” taunted the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Tejashwi Yadav. Edged out Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar, dropped as ministers during the July reshuffle, seem to be trying their best to bounce back. The two have been showering praise on the prime minister, Narendra Modi, by lauding the achievements of his government. Both were heavyweight ministers until recently and now stand pushed to the margins. Whispers in the party corridors say that the chances of the two making a comeback are slim. “Modiji has moved ahead. He is building the next generation,” one leader remarked. Party leaders drew attention to the fate of another high-profile leader, Rajiv Pratap Rudy. Rudy, a Lok Sabha parliamentarian from Bihar, is now busy flying as a commercial pilot. Officially, he is a national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party but is rarely called to address press conferences. Many feel that these leaders may even be denied party nominations in 2024. Brief respite At a time when the Left Democratic Front government in Kerala is showing signs of weariness in its second term, the chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, received a rare compliment from a senior Congress leader. The Lok Sabha member, K Muraleedharan, compared the chief minister with his father, K Karunakaran, in the way both successfully catered to all communities. With the Left government struggling to contain the damage caused by a Catholic bishop who accused the Muslim community of orchestrating ‘love jihad’ and ‘narcotic jihad’ against non-Muslims, Muraleedharan’s comments came as a relief. According to him, the only difference is that while his father dealt with the communities directly, Vijayan deploys dedicated teams for the job. Old habits At the stroke of two every afternoon, a majority of the IAS and IPS officers strut out of their offices in Patna and head home for a two-hour-long lunch and siesta. Many of the subordinate officers also follow suit, bringing work to a standstill at the headquarters. Some have pointed out that such an office culture would only be tolerated in a state like Bihar. Asked about the habit, a senior IAS officer said, “I think I inculcated it from our seniors... they got it from their superiors who aped the ICS officers during the raj era. I guess the [British] felt their energy sapped in these humid conditions.” He could not tell why the Indians felt the same. Footnote Last week, the National People’s Party-led Meghalaya government appointed the BJP state unit president, Ernest Mawrie, as adviser to the chief minister, Conrad Sangma. He will advise Sangma on issues related to DoNER, tourism, and animal husbandry and veterinary departments. This decision caught the eye because Mawrie, in spite of the BJP being a part of the coalition government, has been a vocal critic of the ruling dispensation. Who says criticism doesn’t pay?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
26-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: How could pistols be smuggled into a court room?||Empty vessels Sir — When an author gains a level of popularity, people often find it difficult to speak up against him or her. Haruki Murakami — the author’s new book is making quite a splash — is a perfect example of this. His writing skills notwithstanding, Murakami’s female characters only orbit around his solitary male protagonists to sleep with them as a cure for their loneliness, provide emotional relief, or help them come to some sort of existential understanding. These sexualized and self-sacrificing supporting roles make the women nothing more than vessels of liberation for male characters. Kushali Shah, Ahmedabad Lax security Sir — The bizarre incident at Delhi’s Rohini court complex was the stuff of fiction right out of a Bollywood thriller (“Shootout at Delhi court kills 3”, Sep 25). Two gangsters garbed in lawyer’s apparel entered a courtroom and pumped bullets into an undertrial thug quite close to the judge’s seat. The two were later killed by the police. This raises questions about the security of sensitive areas like the court. A thorough probe into the incident must be carried out at the earliest. How could pistols be smuggled past the security check at the entry of the court premises? Responsibility must be affixed and corrective action taken immediately. K. Nehru Patnaik, Visakhapatnam Sir — The scenes from the Delhi court were disheartening. Although policemen showed agility in shooting down the two assailants, their presence inside a courtroom with weapons reveals the security lapses at the court premises. It is especially shocking given the presence of metal detectors, scanners and CCTV cameras at the Rohini court complex. The authorities must investigate the matter. The failure of police intelligence must be probed too. Why did they not anticipate such an incident if they were working on the case and knew that the gangster being produced in court had a price on his head? The law-keepers must learn a lesson from this shootout and ensure that such an event does not take place ever again anywhere in the country. Jayanta Datta, Hooghly Sir — The Rohini court complex shootout should come as an eye-opener. However, the police deserve to be commended for neutralizing the assailants before they could do more harm. Still, the brazen nature of the Delhi case has sent shockwaves across the nation. It revealed security lapses and threats to the lives of judges and lawyers — those who work hard to ensure the timely delivery of justice. K.V. Seetharamaiah, Bangalore Sir — The Delhi shootout was a tragedy waiting to happen. Anyone who has visited a lower court in India is aware of the lax security in the area. If the security establishment does not pull up its socks, this incident will set a bad example that others will follow. More important, in a country where the police shoot down gangsters at whim without waiting for justice to take its course, such behaviour from criminals can hardly come as a surprise. Aditya Bannerjee, Gurgaon Parting shot Sir — Kim Yo-jong, the influential sister of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, has said that they are willing to resume talks with the South if it ends its “hostile policies”. This sudden statement has taken the diplomatic world, and indeed even people outside it, by storm. This statement is even more surprising given that just this month, North Korea tested a 1,500 kilometre long-range missile. Earlier, Kim Yo-jong had sent a warning to the president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, to not cause a stink. Around the same time North Korea blew up a joint liaison office with the South near Kaesong. These do not seem like signs of rapprochement. Kim Yo-jong’s statement is thus suspicious. Has North Korea’s economic situation finally forced its hand or is this a trick? Jang Bahadur Singh, Jamshedpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
