27-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: No permission for Didi to visit Rome||Petty politics Sir — The Central government has denied the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, the permission to attend a world peace conference in Rome. This is condemnable. Banerjee was the only invitee from India. The domestic rivalry between the Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party is now affecting India’s international relations. Banerjee is right in claiming that the denial is motivated by pure jealousy. The ruling dispensation at the Centre failed to see the importance of such a global meet and the positive impact it could have had on the reputation of the country. One hopes that the Centre eschews such vengeful politics in the future. Nothing should be more important than the reputation of the country. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Sir — It would have been a great honour for the country and for Bengal if the Centre had allowed Mamata Banerjee to attend a world peace conference. The argument put forward by the ministry of external affairs for the rejection — that the event in question is not commensurate in status for a chief minister — is ridiculous. On the contrary, it would have been a point of pride if Banerjee was part of an event where dignitaries include the likes of Pope Francis and the German chancellor, Angela Merkel. It must be noted that Banerjee was invited to Rome in appreciation of her work for “social justice”, “development” and “peace”. The Centre is unwilling to give Banerjee’s image a fillip at the cost of the prime minister’s image. Vendetta politics is what motivated the decision of the Centre. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Sir — The Centre has been extremely petty in not allowing Mamata Banerjee to travel to Italy for a conference being attended by international religious and political leaders. It reflects poorly on India and the Centre. Banerjee’s trip would have helped India. Sneha Parui,Calcutta  Chipped pride Sir — The prime minister has come back from the United States of America with 157 stolen Indian antiquities returned by that government. But the fact that these priceless artworks had been smuggled out of India exposes the loopholes that exist in the institutions protecting cultural treasures. For instance, the lack of a national database makes it difficult to monitor serial predations on this treasure trove. The return of the smuggled artefacts from the US should be an occasion to reflect on these failings. Shiuli Kar,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
27-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Poor coaches||Education is knowledge. But does the student alone profit from education? A report by an expert committee set up by the Tamil Nadu government to investigate the impact of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test has raised this very question — the government has now passed a bill to exempt the state from this entrance test for medical courses. According to its findings, 99 per cent of students who appeared for the exam in 2019-20 had received prior training. This not only points to the massive proliferation of coaching centres — over 400 firms devoted exclusively to NEET training have mushroomed in Tamil Nadu alone — but also exposes the staggering profiteering involved — the centres conduct business worth around Rs 5,750 crore. This ancillary coaching industry is not limited to the southern state; around 1.65 lakh ‘migrant’ students register in the residential coaching centres of Kota every year while many, who cannot afford their exorbitant fees, get left behind. Even for those who can bear the expenses, balanced schooling takes a back seat, reducing education to merely an instrumental means of getting admitted to an institution of choice. Familial and institutional pressure puts young minds under further stress — nearly 20 student suicides were reported in Kota almost every year between 2015 and 2018, while Andhra Pradesh and Telangana witnessed around 50 cases in the span of two months in 2017. Education in India is marred by deep divisions and contradictions. Meritocracy is revered yet there is no respite for students who are herded into the race to excel at any cost. The impersonal, automated evaluation processes of competitive exams leads to a double exclusion. Following the implementation of NEET, in the last four years, there has been an average decline of 11.2 per cent share of medical admission among the ‘crucial’ social categories in Tamil Nadu. Its implications are not confined to the education sector; the fall in the number of rural students joining medical colleges is expected to translate into a severe dearth of medical practitioners in rural areas. This, along with the government’s emphasis on vocational training through the new National Education Policy, is suggestive of a thrust on a functional approach to education that is not conducive to the gathering of knowledge that should be the principal goal of learning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
27-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Too toxic||Kannur University recently decided to not include some of the works of V.D. Savarkar and M.S. Golwalkar in the post-graduate course in governance and politics following the recommendations of a committee that had been constituted to examine the syllabus. The initial plan to accommodate these texts in the curriculum had, expectedly, led to considerable political heartburn, with the Congress and the Students’ Federation of India smelling a plot to ‘saffronize’ the syllabus. The charge of academic curriculum being tinged according to the ideological prerogatives of the powers that be is not new. Earlier, Delhi University’s decision to drop a short story by Mahasweta Devi and the works of two women Dalit writers had raised serious concerns about academic curricula being increasingly given an exclusivist dimension on account of interference from the State. What is interesting is the counter-argument that has been posited in favour of ‘inclusivity’. There is a line of thought — eminent scholars have echoed it — that the accommodation of problematic texts is necessary. Scholarly engagement with these works would enable young minds to trace the root of the poison — the conditions that led to the emergence of such toxic reasoning. The example of Germany is cited as proof. After the expiry of the copyright on Mein Kampf, German academics and the Social Democratic Party had demanded the inclusion of passages from Adolf Hitler’s book in the school syllabus so that students could understand the genesis of the evil of anti-Semitism. Yet, there is an equally compelling case against the advocates of pedagogical freedom. The inclusion of divisive texts — the vision of Savarkar and Golwalkar runs contrary to that of the civilizational and constitutional edifice that India has embraced over the years — raises the risk of according them a degree of legitimacy. This can be a dangerous gamble in a country where governments do not hesitate to pack educational institutions with ideological lackeys. In an India that seems to have taken a marked majoritarian turn in its politics, an academic seal on the works of the original proponents of Hindutva could well replace critical assessment of Savarkar and Golwalkar with an energetic dissemination of their controversial views. At a time of virulent communalism, sacrificing the cause of pedagogical autonomy at the altar of national integration would be the prudent choice to make.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
27-09-2021||Opinion||Smoke and mirrors||When the 9/11 attacks struck New York and Washington in 2001 and the US armed forces went on full alert, the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, immediately got on the direct line to Moscow and told Vladimir Putin not to worry: the United States of America was not going to attack Russia. Putin replied that he understood, and was standing Russian forces down. When Donald Trump claimed that the election was being stolen, and again after the attempted putsch on January 6, Mark Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, called his Chinese counterpart, Li Zuocheng, to reassure him that the US would not attack China. Rice and Milley were both grown-ups, trying to keep their people safe but operating in an international system that still runs by the rules of our hunter-gatherer ancestors. Alliances are fickle; surprise attacks are common; war is normal. So you never stop talking to the people who might become your enemies, and you try to stop them from panicking. This is how wise leaders behaved among the Yanomami of the Amazon headwaters and the San bushmen of the Kalahari, and it’s also how wise leaders should behave in the capitals of the great powers today. Most of the time, they actually do but sometimes they get distracted or confused. And the notion of distraction brings us smoothly to the alliance of the month, Aukus, which has been cobbled together since the fall of Kabul last month to draw attention away from the shambles attending the American retreat from Afghanistan. You could tell that the three wise leaders involved hadn’t spent a lot of time negotiating the new US-United Kingdom-Australian alliance, because Joe Biden couldn’t even remember the name of the Australian prime minister, Scott Morrison. There they were, each in his own capital with the other two on screens, and Biden managed to thank Boris Johnson by name, but when it came to Morrison the US president had to fake it: “And I want to thank that fella down under. Thank you very much pal. Appreciate it...” You may say it’s just a brain fart, and you might even be right, but there are other indications that this ‘alliance’ has not been gestating for very long. Consider the case of the French submarines. The French foreign and defence ministers spoke with their Australian counterparts as recently as August 30 and declared: “Both sides committed to deepen defence industry cooperation and enhance their capability edge in the region. Ministers underlined the importance of the future submarine program.” In 2016, Canberra agreed to spend $66 billion to build a dozen French-designed submarines. It’s not unknown for a sovereign State to rat on an international deal, but it’s bad form to pledge undying loyalty to a deal just two weeks before doing so. When Australia announced that it will build at least eight nuclear submarines using American and British technology, the French foreign minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian, called it “a stab in the back.” Then there’s the fact that the US, the UK and Australia will spend the next 18 months trying to fill in the details of how this deal, and the alliance it serves, will actually work. That’s because there was no time before announcing it: Aukus was obviously cooked up on a secure equivalent of Zoom early this month to make the US strategy in the Far East look coherent. But it isn’t. The Chinese responded to the creation of Aukus just as foolishly, with the State-owned Global Times warning that Australian troops are “likely to be the first batch of Western soldiers to waste their lives in the South China Sea”. Even if we must now talk about ‘sides’ in the Asia-Pacific region, eight Australian nuclear submarines in 15 years’ time isn’t going to make the slightest difference. It’s short-term gesture politics of the worst kind, and a number of people deserve to be spanked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
27-09-2021||Opinion||For an open, better world||June 13, 2021, was a momentous day for the leading democracies of the world. The president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, travelled to the United Kingdom to attend the G-7 summit. On that day, the G-7, the European Union and a few guest nations signed an ‘Open Societies Statement’ of shared democratic values. The opening lines of the document are as follows: “We, the leaders of the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, India, Japan, the Republic of Korea, South Africa, the United States of America and the European Union, reaffirm our shared belief in open societies, democratic values and multilateralism as foundations for dignity, opportunity and prosperity for all and for the responsible stewardship of our planet...” There are eight founding values mentioned in the document — human rights for all; democracy; social inclusion; gender equality; freedom of expression; the rule of law and an independent and impartial judicial system; a multilateral system with free and fair trade and global collaboration; and the “importance of civic space and partnership with diverse, independent and pluralistic civil societies... in promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms.” The emphasis on human rights and inclusiveness by the G-7, the EU and guest nations, including India, means that internal policies and actions have to be aligned with these values. Another important part of the document states “... We are at a critical juncture, facing threats to freedom and democracy from rising authoritarianism, electoral interference, corruption, economic coercion, manipulation of information, including disinformation, online harms and cyber attacks, politically motivated internet shutdowns, human rights violations and abuses, terrorism and violent extremism. We also face threats to our social fabric from persistent inequalities and discrimination, including racism and resistance to gender equality. In the midst of these threats we will work together to create an open and inclusive rules-based international order for the future that promotes universal human rights and equal opportunities for all. Our democratic systems are strong and resilient, but we cannot be complacent — we address our own vulnerabilities and tackle common threats.” The expressed interest of powerful but liberal democratic nations in human rights makes it interesting in the Indian context. How this plays out amidst the alleged human rights abuses in parts of the country, the misuse of laws like the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the weaponization of social media against activists as also issues such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens would, indeed, be interesting. Many laws in India may not find favour in the context of the Open Societies document. The wavering in the implementation of the CAA may be partially attributed to not just external pressure but also India committing itself to the Open Societies document. Additionally, the G-7, the EU and the guest countries, including India, are committed to cooperate with one another and with partners to strengthen Open Societies globally by protecting civic space and media freedom, promoting the freedom of expression, the freedom of assembly and association, the freedom of religion or belief, and tackling all forms of discrimination, including racism. Another important aspect of the document is that it looks forward to building on these commitments in other multilateral fora, including the G-20 (of which India is a member), the United Nations, and the US Summit for Democracy. The signatories also resolve to collaborate with partners around the world, including those in the Indo-Pacific and Africa, to actively promote these shared values for the good of all. It is quite evident that the G-7, the EU, India and other nations have taken on a monumental task to embrace and propagate shared values across the globe. There would be pressure on the member countries to align their national politics along these lines. A large number of countries in Europe and North America are known to be liberal. In Asia, only India falls in the bracket of emerging markets. Changing geopolitical issues would also leave a mark on national politics. Transparency, inclusiveness and fair-play, both real and imagined, would be of significance in this context. As a signatory to the Open Societies document, India has to tread carefully to balance its interests with the shared values it has committed to uphold. India’s actions would now be open to greater scrutiny and debate across multilateral fora. Therefore, it is imperative that contentious issues are amicably addressed and resolved amongst the stakeholders for the country to remain unscathed. One positive outcome is that a rule-based international order is likely to promote equal opportunities for all, universal human rights, and collaborations in sciences. Ashim Bhuyan is a commentator on contemporary issues||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
27-09-2021||Opinion||Changing plot||Kerala’s Syrian Christians solemnly observe the first week of September as the Eight Day Lent of Mary in remembrance of the birth of St Mary, mother of Jesus. During this week, they involve themselves in only noble activities — fasting, praying, participating in charitable and evangelical activities. But this September, a sermon delivered by the venerable bishop, Joseph Kallarangatt, of the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, concluding the holy week, has led to a virulent communal frenzy in Kerala even as the state is reeling under the coronavirus. At a church in Christian-dominated Kottayam district, the bishop of SMC’s Palai Diocese warned the faithful to be beware of the diabolical “narcotic jihad” indulged in by some Muslims to entrap Christian youth into drug addiction. A month earlier, on the centenary of the historic Malabar Rebellion (also called the Moplah Revolt) at Kozhikode, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader, Ram Madhav, said that the revolt was the first manifestation of the Taliban mindset of Muslims in the country in the 20th century. This has coincided with the Indian Council of Historical Research’s reported move to expunge the names of 387 persons who were killed in the rebellion from its “Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle”. Two years ago, a project to make a biopic on a leader of the rebellion was fiercely opposed by the Hindutva camp across the country. The project has since been shelved. Both these remarks appear to have beleaguered Kerala’s Muslims with Christians and Hindus arrayed on the other side. They have vitiated Kerala’s atmosphere, traditionally known for its communal harmony, with polarizing calls to boycott Muslim establishments or even cabs driven by them. Yet, saner voices are also being heard from all communities opposing them, with even four young nuns walking out of a church mass when a priest repeated the bishop’s charges. Both the ruling Left Democratic Front and the Opposition, the United Democratic Front, have condemned the attempts to divide but dithered on taking a firm position fearing backlash from the communities. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which has been trying to woo Christians, has defended Christians and pleaded the Central government to intervene. Even as it opposed blaming the Muslim community, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has said there were attempts to woo women by terrorist groups on campuses. It alleged that extremists were trying to grow among minorities by making use of growing Hindu fundamentalism. Leaders of the Congress and the CPI(M) have visited leaders of both communities, ostensibly to pacify. The statement by the chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, that the bishop’s remark, though unwarranted, was not ill-intended has kicked up more dust. Following widespread criticism, Vijayan took a firmer stand, slamming the bishop’s use of “narcotic jihad” that puts the blame for social evil on a community. The bishop’s charge has come on the heels of many anti-Muslim moves made by the SMC, which leads Kerala’s largest Catholic community. It forms 62.6 per cent of Kerala’s Christians who constitute 18.38 per cent of the population. SMC had earlier raised the ‘love jihad’ charge, accusing Muslims of luring Christian girls by feigning love and marrying them, leading to terrorist activities. Although the police and courts later found the charge to be baseless, the SMC kept citing the presence of a Christian and a Hindu woman among those who went to Afghanistan with their spouses to join the Islamic State in 2016. The 2010 incident of chopping off a Christian college professor’s palm by Islamists, who accused him of blasphemy, had gravely ruptured the trust between the two communities. However, Professor T.J. Joseph later said that he was hurt more by the Church as it had him dismissed from college even after the attack, accusing him of causing communal disturbances. The consequent trauma led to his wife committing suicide. Ironically, the present war between Kerala’s Catholics and Muslims coincided with unprecedented moves by the supremo of Roman Catholics, Pope Francis, to bring them together globally. Reasons for Christians’ ire against Muslims run deeper than what meets the eye. It rises from the way power equations in Kerala society have altered in recent decades. The ongoing Muslim advances spurred by the Gulf migration and remittances have threatened the long-held, preeminent position of Syrian Christians in many fields like business, education, politics and so on. They are most alarmed by the recent demographic shift in Kerala under which Muslims have replaced Christians as Kerala’s second-largest community. During 1951-2011, Hindus’ share in the population fell from 61.6 to 54.9 per cent, Christians from 20.9 per cent to 18.44 per cent, while that of Muslims rose from 17.5 to 26.6 per cent. According to a study by the Centre for Development Studies, Hindus will be below 50 per cent, Muslims will be at 35 per cent, and Christians 16.1 per cent by 2051. Another recent study has shown that Kerala’s Muslim population grew faster than the national average despite its better economic and educational levels. However, the Muslim fertility rate has also been dropping like those of other communities in Kerala, which had the country’s lowest decadal population growth during 2001-2011. The fall in Christian population was seen for long as the fruit of its modern views, economic and educational advances (especially those by women) from the 19th century, and also large-scale migration to the United States of America and Europe. Kerala’s Syrian Christians provided India’s first women in many fields — the Indian Administrative Service (Anna Malhotra), the judiciary (the high court judge, Anna Chandy), surgery (Surgeon-General Mary Poonen Lukose), meteorology (Anna Mani), engineering (Chief Engineer P.K. Thresia) and politics (Annie Mascarene, Kerala’s first parliamentarian). They also gave India the largest number of nurses and nuns. But today, the community’s demographic drop and rapid aging have spooked the Church, which is openly encouraging families to have more children by offering financial incentives. According to SMC, one lakh Christian grooms over 30 years are unable to find life-partners. Christians are also distressed by the recent decline faced by sectors in which they were dominant, like plantations, money-lending, liquor, while those where Muslims dominate, like hotels, tourism, bakeries, have thrived. Muslims from Kerala are among the richest Indians in the Gulf now. In fields like education, media, arts, where they had lagged behind for long, Muslims have recently advanced phenomenally. The shrill debate over the Moplah Rebellion of 1921, which left almost 2,400 dead and scarred Kerala forever, has raged right from its aftermath and continues even after 100 years. Besides British officials, prominent leaders like M.K. Gandhi, B.R. Ambedkar, Annie Besant, V.D. Savarkar and many Indian and foreign historians have written on the topic. Apart from Besant and Ambedkar, supporters of the British and of Hindutva — like Savarkar — have condemned it as a Muslim carnage against Hindus, Gandhiji criticized its violence and communal aspects but desisted from outright condemnation as it was part of the Khilafat movement. Left leaders and historians, starting from Soumyendranath Tagore — Rabindranath’s Trotskyist grand-nephew — had glorified it as a peasant revolt against the British and exploitative landlords. Left leaders like E.M.S. Namboodiripad, later on, took a holistic view, interpreting the rebellion as having contained both positive as well as negative elements, including Muslim extremism although its thrust was against imperialism and feudalism. Today, there is near-consensus among historians that the rebellion was a complex mass uprising with both positive and negative sides defying simplified interpretations. Yet, the debate never dies in Kerala. M.G. Radhakrishnan, a senior journalist based in Thiruvananthapuram, has worked with various print and electronic media organizations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
