28-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Brute uniform||The police superintendent of Darrang — he happens to be a sibling of the chief minister of Assam — has stated that the force exercised ‘restraint’ during a violent eviction drive that led to the death of two civilians in Dholpur, which is primarily populated by Bengali-speaking Muslims. The sordid ground reality belies his claim. Of the two casualties, one was a young boy who, reportedly, got caught in the violence; the other victim was fired upon by the police in ‘self-defence’ and, later, his body was stomped upon in a diabolical act by a photographer accompanying the policemen. Some sorry inferences can be drawn from the tragedy. First among which is the police’s willingness to violate standard operating procedure. Instead of overpowering and arresting the man, a gun was aimed at his chest and he was assaulted after he had fallen, both by the police and the photographer who has now been arrested. This wanton disregard for protocol can be attributed to poor standards of training in the force. But that is only a part of the problem. The beastly conduct of the cameraman signifies a singular moral blot that threatens citizens and State personnel alike. This pertains to a sense of real or imagined impunity to perpetrate violence on minorities — be they religious, caste or economic groups. The viciousness is the fruit of the sustained injection of a communal, immoral discourse into the body politic of the nation by the political and ideological proponents of Hindutva. The depravity of the police should not deflect public attention from another, equally grave, problem. The flare-up is a manifestation of an issue endemic to Assam — occupation of land. An interim report by the Brahma Committee appointed by the Sarbananda Sonowal government alleged that 63 lakh bighas of government land had been encroached upon, even though the veracity of the exact volume of territorial encroachment remains ambiguous. The encroachers need not be ‘migrants’ on every instance: indigenous communities have been known to occupy government land, especially in Tinsukia and Dibrugarh. The festering tension between settlers and indigenous communities has been fanned by divisive political rhetoric. Encroachment is a serious problem in Assam that has been magnified by larger socio-economic-historical conditions such as political upheavals, vagaries of the environment and displacement.  It requires patient, objective, inclusive examination and effective rehabilitation. Gunning down those being evicted, justly or otherwise, cannot be a solution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
28-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor:  American withdrawal from Afghanistan||Repeated folly Sir — Joe Biden had once criticized Donald Trump’s immigration policies saying, “it violates every notion of who we are.” His government has now deported hundreds of Haitians fleeing political turmoil and natural disaster. Biden may not wear his emotions on a red cap or send out midnight tweets that set the halls of diplomacy abuzz, but when it comes to foreign policy, he is not much different from his predecessor. American withdrawal from Afghanistan was proof of this. He is no more likely to ‘Make America Great Again’ than Trump was. Rishi Anand,New Delhi Same pitch Sir — In a welcome move, the Marylebone Cricket Club — the sole authority vested with the power to draw up the Codes of Laws that govern cricket since 1787 — has adopted the gender-neutral terms ‘batter’ and ‘batters’ in place of ‘batsman’ and ‘batsmen’ (“Howzat for equality”, Sep 25). This change in nomenclature shows that the cricket fraternity is finally acknowledging the need for gender equality within the sport. However, as the editorial rightly points out, the rechristening means little if women’s cricket continues to suffer from a lack of funds as well as opportunities. The annual retainership of female cricketers is still a fraction of their male counterparts. For a long time, formal communication in all fields assumed the subject to be male. While feminists have opposed androcentrism in language for a long time, it is only recently that institutions are taking note of this criticism. While a change in terminology may not seem significant in practical terms, it will nonetheless go a long way in recognizing the presence and contribution of women in the public domain. Hopefully, other institutions will follow suit. Ashok Kumar Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — At a time when several institutions are adopting greater measures to empower women, the decision of the MCC to use the term batter instead of batsman in all official communication does not come as a surprise. Men’s cricket has always dominated the public imagination. But the last few years have seen a surge in interest for women’s cricket. This decision by the MCC is a step in the right direction. But there is a long way to go before women cricketers receive the same opportunities and benefits as the men’s team. M. Pradyu,Kannur Open dialogue Sir — Every year, September 26 is observed as World Contraception Day. Under international human rights law, states must provide sexual and reproductive health services, including modern forms of contraception and education on family planning, to citizens. Yet, unplanned pregnancies, especially among teenagers, continue to be a major cause for concern. It is absolutely essential that schools as well as parents have a transparent and comprehensive discussion about sex and contraception with their wards. Yashi Bairagi,Ujjain Sir — Sex continues to be a major taboo in India. Most people lack basic knowledge about safe sex. Schools are guilty of teaching children about sex using outdated analogies. Proper sex education and the use of contraception will not only prevent unplanned pregnancies, but will also keep sexually transmitted diseases at bay. Mira Solanki,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
28-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Selling a mirage||The markers of assessing Indian democracy are, evidently, undergoing a transformation. Speaking at the United Nations General Assembly, the prime minister — typically — cited his own example as proof of the robust nature of India’s democracy. But Narendra Modi is not the only politician from an ordinary background to have gone on to occupy the prime ministerial chair. From Lal Bahadur Shastri to H.D. Deve Gowda, Indian democracy has elevated many a leader with humble roots to the highest echelons of power. Neither is Mr Modi going to be the last of such inspiring examples as long as democracy retains its original, heartening, Indian characteristics. But will it? That is the principal question. There is mounting concern, in India and around the world, that the democracy project in the country is experiencing unprecedented strain under Mr Modi’s watch. The evidence is indisputable. There has been an unambiguous crackdown on dissenters; institutions that are tasked with protecting the democratic edifice are allegedly being hollowed out from within; then, there is the predation by an overarching Centre on the ambit of the states, weakening India’s federal set-up; civil liberty as well as pluralism — the cherished dream of the founding fathers of the nation — is being threatened. This deterioration has caught the attention of the international fraternity. India, with Mr Modi’s government at the helm, has performed poorly on credible indexes on press freedom and religious tolerance while, in its annual report, the V-Dem Institute described India as an ‘electoral autocracy’. What must be mentioned is that both the president and the vice-president of the United States of America reiterated the importance of democracies upholding the ethos of democracy and the assurances that come with it. Could it be that the two leaders were making an oblique reference to India’s performance under Mr Modi in this context? When it came to his turn to speak, the prime minister, expectedly, waxed eloquent on India’s democratic traits, warning — many Indians would find this ironic — against the threats posed by “regressive thinking” and an ‘anti-scientific temper’. It is clear that the prime minister’s homilies on the state of Indian democracy are being met with scepticism. The possibility that Mr Modi may no longer be the face of a vibrant, functional, durable democratic polity is gaining momentum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
28-09-2021||Opinion||Cash is still king||Digital payments seem to be ubiquitous in India now, from local kirana stores to cabs. Every place appears to have one of those small stands with QR codes. Now this might lead you to believe that India is turbo-charging its way towards becoming a digital-first economy, and you would be right. However, in spite of the progress that India has made on the digital front in the past decade, cash is still king here and, according to a McKinsey report, accounts for 89 per cent of all transactions. Systemic challenges like extreme dependence on cash, low access to finances, a lack of a digital identity for the masses and the absence of a robust inter-operable financial network had made the initial transition a Herculean task. But it was the ‘JAM Trinity’ — an abbreviation for Jan Dhan Yojana, Aadhaar and mobile number — that provided a solid foundational framework to nudge the digital transformation. The launch of the unified payments interface and the subsequent demonetization of 2016 combined with the rise in the penetration of both the smartphone and the internet further amplified the adoption of digital payments. By the end of 2020-21, according to a report by the National Payments Corporation of India, the total number of digital transactions stood at over 37 billion. In spite of the tangible rise in digital payments, the use of cash has remained high. The currency in circulation which helps understand the use of cash in a country is at a high of 13 per cent compared to the post-demonetization low of 8.7 per cent. Although this increase may have partly been on account of the lockdown, with the masses resorting to holding cash to meet uncertain medical needs, it still underlines the fact that digital payments are not yet seen as a perfect substitute for cash. Further, much of the user base making digital transactions is still concentrated in urban areas. A typical user of these services is literate, comfortable with English and has access to a smartphone with a stable internet connection. Unfortunately, the majority of India’s demographic does not fit this bill. Moreover, the dominance of cash is fuelled by shortcomings of digital payments on the supply side, like complex dispute redressal procedures, transaction failures, a paucity of comprehensive instructional and awareness programmes and an overall lack of accessibility in rural areas. These factors, coupled with socio-economic hindrances, have contributed significantly to the problem. While government schemes like the direct benefit transfer scheme have encouraged people to access their bank accounts and decreased leakages, they have failed to reduce the conversion to cash, with the majority of the DBT beneficiaries choosing to withdraw the entire credited amount in cash. Widespread instances of fraud and a lack of trust, especially among the demographic with lower literacy, have amplified the aversion to digital payments. Poor unit economics and operational challenges have deterred banks and other financial institutions from expanding to remote parts of the country. This unviability is also evident in digital transaction services like the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System; several banks have limited the number of AePS transactions to one per day to reduce cost to service providers. Other supply-side complications — server downtime, mismatched biometrics — have increased the average transaction failure rates and discouraged usage. India is heading towards a digital revolution, but the rural and semi-urban populations, especially those people at the bottom of the pyramid, still remain largely untouched by the effects and benefits of a digital transformation. The next tranche of digital products needs to be more accessible and inclusive. Innovations like voice-based payment systems and the newly launched e-Rupi are a step in the right direction. However, a lot is still left to be done to transform India into a digital-first economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
28-09-2021||Opinion||A shift in focus in NREGA||The Centre is running the rural employment guarantee programme as if it is a compulsion without recognizing its enormous potential to deal with the ongoing rural economic crisis. Numerous civil society organizations and social activists have urged the Centre to run it in accordance with the true spirit of the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and not merely as a government scheme. Yet, successive Central governments have approached the NREGA half-heartedly, diluting the possibility of rural employment generation. The NREGA was envisaged to ensure employment generation in rural India and to make sure that the rural workforce contributes towards building assets and infrastructure to boost livelihood opportunities. However, since its inception, the discourse on the NREGA has shifted to the debate on asset creation versus employment generation. An asset-centric focus helps the bureaucracy. The government can also shrug off its responsibility towards protecting workers’ rights.  Consequently, the idea of public investment to create rural job opportunities has taken a blow, limiting the NREGA to a scheme-based, supply-driven programme. The NREGA machinery must act efficiently if assets are to be created and sustained in the long term. There has hardly been any value addition in the last 15 years in terms of strengthening the programme to offer rural citizens adequate employment and a dignified income. The NREGA’s mandate is to plan and implement schemes in a decentralized manner, honouring traditional knowledge and participatory decision-making. However, it has been centralized and bureaucratic control over the programme has demolished the spirit of a public, demand-based, employment-guarantee programme. Workers are routinely denied work and unemployment allowances are seldom paid to eligible candidates. This has led to the genesis of a contractor-led system, defeating the very idea of guaranteed employment against demand. The need for and benefits of the programme are unquestionable. But poor implementation and policy inertia have led to stagnation. The government has projected the NREGA to be an asset-creation machine. The focus on the technicalities of asset creation by non-profit entities has also deflected attention from workers’ rights even though workers are not paid on time, work applications do not receive timely allocation and worksite facilities are made unavailable. The ‘convergence’ efforts by the government have also weakened the programme’s foundation: the NREGA has been integrated with a number of other schemes, reducing the scope of additional income. Convergence works best when it aims to create different assets for a specific set of households. Inter-departmental convergence in the NREGA’s case results in the violation of the Act since most other schemes run on a contractor-based delivery mode. The target-based focus on asset-generation is leading to further damage. Nowadays, even budget allocations are made based on the number of targeted assets in different states. The irony is that the quality of assets has not improved in the absence of robust monitoring and grievance redress strategies. In fact, the asset-centric focus is a cleverly crafted strategy by the bureaucracy to ignore workers’ rights and turn the NREGA into a target-driven programme that is easy to control without being accountable for the gross violations of the law. The key issues — inadequate allocations, centralized payments, long delays in wage payments and non-payment of wages — have been brushed aside even though they have damaged the NREGA. The NREGA wage rates are ridiculously low. In most states, they are even lower than those of the agricultural minimum wage. The pandemic has underscored the importance of the NREGA in generating employment in rural India. Instead of an asset-centric approach, the Centre should encourage proper budget allocations, dignified wages and their timely payment, decentralized planning as well as social audits to promote transparency and accountability of the local administration. Debmalya Nandy is associated with NREGA Sangharsh Morcha and has worked with the tribal population of Jharkhand and Odisha for a long time||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
28-09-2021||Opinion||Sticky wicket||This month has turned out to be a tough one for Pakistan cricket. On September 17, the New Zealand cricket team called off their tour of Pakistan just minutes before the first one-day international was to start, citing security concerns. New Zealand was to play Pakistan this month after a period of 18 years. The tour comprised three ODIs in Rawalpindi and a five-match T20 series in Lahore. “[F]ollowing an escalation in the New Zealand Government threat levels for Pakistan, and advice from NZC security advisors on the ground, it has been decided the Blackcaps will not continue with the tour,” read New Zealand’s statement. The prime minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan, talked to his New Zealand counterpart, but could not convince Jacinda Ardern. Following this abrupt cancellation owing to a security threat that was not shared with the Pakistan government or the Pakistan Cricket Board, the England tour was also cancelled a few days later. The England and Wales Cricket Board said that the “mental and physical well-being” of its players and support staff remains a highest priority and thus the tour could not take place. England’s men and women’s teams were scheduled to play in Pakistan next month. As Najam Sethi wrote in his Friday Times editorial last week, “If NZ had shared intel in time, or postponed the matches by a few days pending further investigations, we might have been able to prove the authenticity or otherwise of the threat, enabling us to continue the matches or cancel them without acrimony. The decision of the ECB is even more infuriating. The excuse they have made makes a mockery of the rules and rigours of the sporting game. It betrays a lack of decent reciprocity and overdose of arrogant unaccountability. Both decisions have naturally evoked bitter memories of colonialism and racism among Pakistanis and triggered conspiracy theories involving Big Three injustice and Indian hegemony at the ICC.” It has not been easy to bring back cricket to Pakistan after the 2009 attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team. Pakistan had to play at neutral venues because of teams refusing to come to Pakistan. We launched the Pakistan Super League after a lot of hard work by Najam Sethi and the PCB. The PSL is now one of the best cricketing leagues out there. It took many years and a lot of effort by the PCB and the Pakistan government to bring back cricket. In May 2015, Zimbabwe toured Pakistan. In March 2017, the PSL final was played in Pakistan. In September 2017, a World-XI played in Pakistan. Then, more PSL matches were held in Pakistan, West Indies came to Pakistan and so on and so forth. Finally, New Zealand and England agreed to come to Pakistan this year. But they both cancelled. And what a disappointment it has been. Australia and West Indies are scheduled to play here soon. We hope that both teams will not follow New Zealand and England’s unceremonious decisions. Pakistan has always made sure that the security provided to visiting cricket teams is top-notch and ‘presidential level’ of safety protocols are followed. Cities were practically shut down in order to ensure the safety of visiting teams and players. The people of Pakistan did not complain, even though it has not been easy to shut down businesses and face mobility problems. But our people understood that this was necessary in order to bring back cricket to Pakistan. We are very emotionally invested in cricket — it unites us even in the most polarizing of times. It makes us feel happy or sad (depending on the results), but at the end of the day, we come together and we celebrate the game of cricket. Now this has once again been taken away from us. The PCB will take the matter to the International Cricket Council but this will take time. All our efforts of the past few years were undone by a threat that may not even have been credible, according to the government. Pakistan toured England and New Zealand under the strictest Covid-19 protocols. It was not easy for our players either but we still went ahead and did it. Our players have been through the toughest of times in the past decade after the attack on Sri Lanka and the spot-fixing scandal that rocked our team in 2010. Our players have stayed away from their homeland and families for months on end. They have faced so much at a personal level apart from the stress of the game. It must be said that Pakistani players have played in the toughest of circumstances and still managed to bring a smile to our faces. It has not been easy for the Pakistani cricket fans either. To not be able to cheer for their team at international matches in their own country. It was very tough. We felt helpless, but the past few years made things better. Now we don’t know what the future holds. We just hope that these incidents do not shape the future and do not have an impact on the morale of our cricket team. As a cricket fan, I am disappointed at what transpired this month. But I also know that we have faced such pressures in the past and that this, too, shall pass. As a cricket-loving nation, it makes us angry, frustrated and disappointed to see our cricket team go through this but we have full faith in them to move forward and prove to the world that they will overcome this too. Prime Minister Imran Khan recently met our men’s cricket team and told them to inculcate team spirit. Coming from a prime minister who is one of the cricketing greats of all times, it surely means a lot for our boys. And for our cricket. Mehmal Sarfraz is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
