29-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Please sit||Governments standing up for citizens’ rights is always welcome — even if it is for the right to sit. Tamil Nadu has become the second Indian state after Kerala to table a bill that makes it mandatory for business establishments to provide seating arrangements for employees who have to stand for long hours. This is a step forward, especially for those working in textile and jewellery showrooms or in the retail sector. Standing through the work day to attend to customers, often with no toilet or breaks for refreshment — a practice encouraged in service and hospitality — can lead to fatigue and other health problems. What this practice exposes is the insensitive work culture that massive numbers of workers in India’s informal sector are forced to comply with. Women, as always, are the worst sufferers. The denial of basic facilities — clean toilets, care time for infants, or separate changing rooms — discourage their participation in the labour force. But the problem runs deeper. The State and other stakeholders are often complicit in legitimizing exploitative practices. Large retail groups have been known to recruit girls and women from poor, rural backgrounds in Tamil Nadu on dubious contracts. Moreover, migrant workers remain undocumented: the newly launched e-Shram portal for online registration is still in its nascent stage. This makes it difficult to monitor whether they are being deprived of timely payment as well as of other benefits, such as health insurance and social security. Trafficking and sexual exploitation of female and child labourers mushroom on account of the absence of transparency. The lack of a robust regulatory mechanism is not constrained to India. The frequent accidents in garment factories in Bangladesh or the sweatshops in China bear testimony to this blind spot. A study found that 85 per cent of women and girls from marginalized communities employed in the home-based garment industry in India worked exclusively in supply chains for clothing shipped to the United States of America or the European Union. The government must push such corporations, profiteering off cheap labour in third-world countries, to adopt safety measures and provide better working conditions. But for this to happen, the first step would be to bring the informal sector and non-traditional businesses — suppliers to the booming e-commerce industry, for instance — into the formal fold. Guaranteeing employees’ rights would be futile without effective oversight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
29-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Samyukta Kisan Morcha's Bharat Bandh||Still strong Sir — It is uncharitable to say that the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers’ unions has caused ‘disruption’ or ‘inconvenience’ for the public since it is a question of survival for those who produce food for the entire nation. The spirit with which they are protesting reveals the intensity of their concerns over the three farm laws. The support extended by the Opposition parties should not be seen merely as an attempt to pander to the farmers, even though elections are around the corner in some states. The Opposition’s actions could also be read as a show of solidarity. The rhetoric employed by certain parts of the media betray their stand in favour of the government. The attempt to pit the protesting farmers against the ‘common citizens’ is eminently avoidable. One plausible explanation for the protests being looked upon with such callousness by the current dispensation is that as a right-wing, Hindutva-oriented party that represents the interests of upper castes, it is indifferent to the farmers’ lot. Yet, one would like to urge the Narendra Modi government to nurture some sense of empathy for the farmers and repeal the farm laws in national interest — after all, the term, ‘nation’, is bandied about by the Bharatiya Janata Party. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It is ironic that the prime minister who boastfully declared India to be the ‘mother of all democracies’ at the United Nations was welcomed back to the country with a national strike against the anti-democratic stance of his government. The Bharat Bandh could have been avoided had the government been committed to healthy democratic traditions — the issues that led to the strike could have been resolved by means of peaceful discussions with the stakeholders. Moreover, the labour code, rising prices, the monetization scheme and other important issues that merit discussion were not given enough time in Parliament. Although the Opposition must bear some blame for the  state of affairs in Parliament, the primary responsibility of ensuring discussion lies with the treasury benches. The space for the expression of opposing voices is shrinking. Elections are losing their sanctity on account of money power. All this points to the fact that one can, of course, claim that India is the ‘mother of democracy’, but one cannot assert that she is well taken care of. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The stalemate between the Centre and the farmers has now continued for a year. The latter’s call for a Bharat Bandh reveals their determination to take the fight against the government further. The farmers have demanded that the laws be repealed and have stated that they will not accept a compromise. They also have the support of six state governments; Kerala, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Delhi and West Bengal have passed resolutions against the farm laws. It remains to be seen which side blinks first. Gundu Maniam,Ghaziabad Sir — The Centre’s indifference in the face of the crisis faced by the farmers is chilling. If it indeed has the interests of the farmers in mind, there is no reason for it to be adamant on not repealing the laws that the farmers are fighting against. Shashank Gupta,MumbaiWell done Sir — Iceland almost became the first nation to have a female-majority Parliament. Sweden, too, has a rather balanced legislature with 47 per cent of women parliamentarians. Gender-based reservations have paved the way for this. If developed countries need reservation to give women their due, how can India expect to achieve equality when the women’s reservation bill is yet to be passed in Parliament? Yashi Bairagi,Ujjain Sir — Iceland must be lauded for sending a record number of women to Parliament. Zeba Akhtar,Pune  Old tricks, new tools Sir — Indians may lack many skills, but imagination is not one of them. Several candidates taking the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers were found using ‘Bluetooth chappals’ — slippers with Bluetooth devices connected to an earpiece — in a bid to qualify for a job in a government school. Some of these slippers may even cost two lakh rupees a pair. Amusing as it may seem, the incident underlines the threat that such practices pose to education in India. One shudders at what kind of lessons such candidates will impart to their students if they do succeed in becoming teachers. Rajib Sanyal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
29-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Count all||The Centre, as is often the case, has tied itself up in knots. Narendra Modi’s government has informed the Supreme Court that the socio-economic caste census data cannot be used because of their unreliability. Yet, some years ago, the registrar general and census commissioner of India had vouched before a parliamentary standing committee on rural development that 98.8 per cent of the data on caste and religion were free of error. This discrepancy has, naturally, enabled the Opposition to corner the government for its double-speak. Interestingly, the demand for the enumeration of other backward classes is being spearheaded by Nitish Kumar whose party, the Janata Dal (United), is an alliance partner of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Bihar. The Centre’s stubborn denial to allow the enumeration of OBCs could have political implications. This is because the BJP has been one of the foremost gainers electorally with its unique social engineering formula that helped the party make inroads into lower caste groups ignored by traditional, caste-based parties. This enabled the BJP to create a formidable alliance that straddles a diverse range of communities. Its refusal to encourage an examination of the socio-economic conditions of castes that are not listed in the census exposes its hypocrisy and makes it vulnerable to sharpened political diatribe. Yet, it must be recalled that successive dispensations at the Centre have been remarkably indifferent to the cause of a socio-economic census of castes. Even the United Progressive Alliance, which touted an inclusive welfarism, conceded to the demand only after a furore. The Justice Rohini Commission, which was constituted to examine the anomalies of inequalities created by reservation, is yet to publish its report. There is no denying that India needs fresh data on its diverse caste groups. The absence of reliable data makes designing targeted interventions to reach the most disadvantaged castes impossible. Caste data would also enable policy-makers to evaluate the impact of reservation. A ‘creamy layer’ among underprivileged castes, allegedly, has been the principal beneficiary of India’s affirmative action. This imbalance can only be rectified with the help of enumeration tailor-made for poorer caste communities. The Centre has cited the need for harmony among caste groups to stall the exercise. Perhaps the resistance can be attributed to the fear of exposure. After deriving political benefits without facilitating representative empowerment, political parties of all hues are nervous about their lies getting nailed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
29-09-2021||Opinion||Helping vocational education||If the first National Democratic Alliance government led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee is remembered for anything, it is the push that it gave to universal elementary education through the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. The programme aimed to bring children in the age group of 6-14 years under the fold of formal education by 2010. The scheme resulted in an increase in enrolment of 89 per cent at the primary and the upper primary levels — from 15.66 crore in 2000-01 to 29.66 crore in 2011-12. In 2009, the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan was launched to provide access to secondary-level education for all children in the age group of 15-16 years. Subsequently, in 2018, these two schemes along with a couple of other Centrally-sponsored programmes were integrated with the National Education Mission. Eventually, the focus on universal elementary education got lost and the issue of quality pre-secondary education remains unaddressed. According to the latest report (2018) of the ministry of education, the gross enrolment ratio in India has declined from 99.2 per cent at the primary level (up to fifth standard) to 92.8 per cent at the senior primary level (sixth-eighth standard) and, further, to 80 per cent at the secondary level (ninth-tenth standard). Public education is almost free in most states and students are often promoted irrespective of their progress. What, then, has led to a drop-out rate of nearly 6.4 per cent at the upper primary level and almost 20 per cent at the secondary level? Why, also, is the enrolment of the girl child higher than that of boys in primary and upper-primary levels? Studies have shown that the drop-out rate at the upper primary level is high among first-generation learners with parents with low socio-economic and educational status. At the secondary level, those who find the curriculum difficult prefer to drop out. The GER was 56.2 per cent at the senior secondary level (standard eleven-twelve) and 24.5 per cent for higher education at the national level. These percentages would appear to be satisfactory if we were to accept the principle that only those who are meritorious should go for higher education. It is good enough if, in a nation, one out of every four students joins higher education. But the remaining three should have the option of joining vocational streams in order to get a skilled job. Have we done enough to create the infrastructure in vocational streams to absorb, say, three-fourths of the 1.70 crore students who pass secondary-level examinations annually? There are an estimated 16,000 Industrial Training Institutes in India. About 25 lakh students are enrolled in these centres. Nearly 85 per cent of these are privately run and they train students in more than 125 trades. The existing infrastructure in vocational training needs to be raised by at least 10 times if we are to absorb the vast mass of students in employment or trade. The southern states, Gujarat and Punjab have done well in consolidating vocational education but many others are yet to do so. Unesco’s State of the Education Report for India, 2020 focuses on vocational education and says India’s demographic dividend is hinged on “skilling, upskilling and reskilling” of the youth. The National Education Policy highlighted the urgency of integrating vocational education with mainstream education. Even the Kothari Commission of 1966 and the Education Policy of 1986 recommended the introduction of different vocational streams as separate subjects at the secondary and the higher secondary levels. Yet, in an estimate about a decade ago, the Planning Commission found that less than 5 per cent of the workforce in the age group of 19-24 years had actually received vocational education. Higher Secondary schools have neither the infrastructure nor the orientation to impart vocational training. The stakeholders — students and parents — perceive vocational courses to be inferior when compared to mainstream courses. This mindset can change if separate and parallel infrastructure is developed for vocational education. The propensity to opt for vocational training may increase when students and parents realize that such institutions can help the latter find respectable livelihoods. The unit cost of vocational education and training is higher than that of mainstream education as the capital cost of equipment is involved in creating infrastructure. An overwhelming majority of vocational centres are run by private entrepreneurs. Whether an average student can afford to pay for such an education is an important issue. Herein lies the role of the State. The government needs to design attractive loan-scholarships for students interested in joining vocational streams. In the last budget, the Centre had proposed to spend Rs 99,300 crore for the education sector out of which a meagre sum of 3,000 crore was earmarked for skill development. If the present regime succeeds in giving a push to vocational education just as the Vajpayee government did in respect to primary education, there will be a paradigm shift in India’s education sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
29-09-2021||Opinion||Philosopher’s stone||Annie Besant — she died in September 1933 — is venerated, globally, as one of the leading proponents of Theosophy. The Theosophical Society was founded in 1875 with the objective of disseminating the wisdom of the Theosophists — thinkers whose roots go back to the Neo-Platonic philosophical tradition — who propounded the ideal of universal brotherhood through the fusion of diverse philosophical thoughts, including Vedanta, Buddhism and Sufism. Besant’s association with the Theosophical movement has somewhat clouded her pioneering role in distinctly earthly spheres. She was an advocate of Self Rule (for Ireland and India) and passionately endorsed freedom of thought, union mobilization, birth control. These accomplishments may not have receded completely from public memory. But what is often forgotten is another seminal, secular imprint left behind by this remarkable woman: Besant started India’s first course in print journalism, over one hundred years ago, at the National University at Adyar, Madras. The course may not have lasted for long, but journalism education continues to thrive in India, with an estimated 900 institutions of unequal repute offering degrees and programmes in print, television and, now, digital media. The importance of pedagogy in journalism as a discipline has been reinforced — ironically — by the crises that plague modern media. The challenges vary across media platforms. Print media remains locked in an existential crisis brought about by the drain of revenue in favour of such new avatars as digital news outlets as well as social media masquerading as providers of news. Television journalism in India — wedded to pageantry — is contending with the paucity of serious, cerebral content. Digital news, meanwhile, is having to battle State encroachment, as is evident from the legal challenges mounted in defence of free speech against the tentacles of the predatory Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. Some of the threats, however, are common to all segments of the media fraternity. Economic gloom, the grovelling by the ‘free press’ at the feet of authoritarian regimes — Hungary, Russia and India remind us that this ignominy has come to pass — and the triumphant march of that other pandemic — disinformation — have eroded the media’s credibility. But none of these challenges, Ian Hargreaves reveals in his excellent book, Journalism: Truth or Dare, is new. Some of these threats, Hargreaves writes, germinated in the 1990s but the media and their stakeholders — proprietors, investors, editors, journalists — are yet to find a way to neutralize them. The tenacity of the crises, the Unesco said recently, reinforces the need to recalibrate the module of journalism education. Hopefully, journalism schools, in India and around the world, are striving towards this goal. This column, though, isn’t about journalism’s meta-crises. It concerns itself with seemingly mundane dilemmas that confront human beings in general but print journalists in particular. These predicaments that scribes would relate to, Eric Weiner demonstrates in his witty and erudite The Socrates Express, are not as trivial as they appear: they have engrossed some of the world’s foremost philosophers on account of their deep moral underpinnings. No journalist worth his/her salt is a morning person. The trouble with getting out of bed — Philosophy’s Great Bed Question — has stirred the philosophical hornets’ nest, with Marcus Aurelius, the Roman philosopher-king, David Hume, the enlightened Scottsman, Jean-Paul Sartre, the surly Frenchman, dwelling on the horrors of the rise-and-shine dictum. The bed, they say, offers the fleeting promise of repose and shelter from the harshness of reality. Strikingly, in this context, the end — for journalist and philosopher — is the same: to rouse the sleepy soul out of this comforting cove. The difference lies in the means that they employ: the philosopher gets us up and running by reminding us of the ticking clock called mortality; the intrepid reporter hauls readers up with the, albeit increasingly rare, riveting story. Apparently, the human attention span has now fallen to a mere eight seconds. This corresponds to the sordid reality of factual howlers that get printed or are aired as news. Help, once again, is at hand for the somnolent, distracted or overworked editor. The trick, says Simone Weil, mystic, philosopher and activist, is to imagine attention not as a technique, a mere cognitive mechanism, but to perceive it as a virtue, a tool for empathy. René Descartes, Weiner writes, had settled the debate earlier, elevating attention to an “intellectual divine rod” that sieves clear ideas from dubious ones — in our world and that of the editor, that would imply the critical task of filtering the false from the true. Popular culture’s prototype of the journalist may be a pretty face in pin-stripes thrusting a dictaphone in front of a startled respondent at every given opportunity. But real, as opposed to fictive, journalistic work involves, at least for the occupants of the lower echelons of newspaper production, back-breaking, relentless, usually underpaid, almost invisible, and inevitably repetitive labour. The minions — say, the subeditor — may, at times, go unnoticed by the higher-ups but Friedrich Nietzsche had spotted them alright: his concept of the Eternal Recurrence of the Same, in which life recurs infinitely in a loop, seems to mirror and — most importantly — dignify the life and labour of those who bring a newspaper to life every single day. And how should the embattled newspaper personnel — owner, editor, reporter, subeditor et al — endure this sameness? They could try reading Epictetus. For Stoicism, the philosophical school that Epictetus belonged to, reminds us, in Weiner’s words, “[m]uch of life lies beyond our control but we command what matters most: our opinions…” In these tumultuous times of dipping revenues, formidable commercial rivals, a surveillant State and the pandering to Untruth, this could well be philosophy’s most important gift to journalism. Annie Besant — that philosopher-journalist? — would agree. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
