30-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Sidhu resigns as Punjab Congress chief||Endless conflict Sir — Navjot Singh Sidhu’s abrupt resignation as the Punjab Congress chief sent shockwaves through the party (“Trust Sidhu to act like Sidhu”, Sep 29). This comes days after the removal of Amarinder Singh as the chief minister of Punjab, following a bitter tussle between the two. Singh had reportedly remarked that Sidhu is ‘unstable’ and cannot be entrusted with the task of running Punjab. At the same time, rumours emerged that Singh had arrived in Delhi to meet Bharatiya Janata Party leaders. Others are of the opinion that he is likely to meet the interim Congress chief, Sonia Gandhi. Either way, Punjab is facing a tremendous leadership crisis that must be resolved at the earliest. The upcoming days will be crucial in determining the Grand Old Party’s future in the state. M.R. Jayanthi,Kozhikode Sir — The reason cited by Navjot Singh Sidhu for his resignation — he claims that he is unwilling to compromise on the future and welfare of Punjab — is bogus. Whatever the real reason may be, it is a huge jolt for the Congress, which recently appointed Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister after the untimely exit of Amarinder Singh. Sidhu’s decision is not only ill-timed but also points to his erratic nature. The Congress high command should take swift and serious steps against him. The party must also try to mend fences with Singh and fight the forthcoming state assembly elections under his leadership. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Navjot Singh Sidhu’s actions seem to have been motivated by his ambitions. Whenever he feels that things are not going his way — it has been reported that at least two ministers in the Punjab cabinet were chosen without his approval — he takes such drastic steps. It could also be that the elevation of Charanjit Singh Channi did not sit well with Sidhu. It is well-known that he hopes to be the chief minister. A few months ago, the Congress had been scripted for an easy win in the assembly elections in Punjab. The contentious farm laws passed by the BJP had marginalized the saffron party as well as its former ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, in the state. But the infighting within Congress has complicated matters. Voters are likely to think twice before electing a party that cannot maintain peace among its members. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The Punjab Congress seems to be in turmoil just months before the assembly elections. It was apparent to all that the resignation of Amarinder Singh as the chief minister of Punjab was the unfortunate outcome of his conflict with Navjot Singh Sidhu. But now Sidhu has vindicated his critics who have long-held that he is too unstable a politician to hold an important post. Charanjit Singh Channi seems to have emerged as the only victor. If the infighting continues, it is unlikely that the Grand Old Party will emerge victorious in the state polls. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai Sir — Had the Congress high command handled the conflict between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu with a firm hand, the situation in Punjab would not have deteriorated to this extent. The Congress itself is responsible for its troubles. Mitali Barua,Calcutta Sir — No one is surprised at Navjot Singh Sidhu’s resignation. Although Sidhu managed to elbow out Amarinder Singh from the chief minister’s post, his hopes of taking the seat himself were shattered with the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi. As such he has quit the post of the state party chief in what can only be called a tantrum. One hopes that the Congress high command realizes its mistake in supporting Sidhu and takes suitable action against him. He cannot be depended upon in the future. N. Mahadevan,Chennai  Unsafe everywhere Sir — The death of a woman in the United States of America, allegedly at the hands of her male partner, has raised concerns about violence against women. In July, a woman in Pakistan was beheaded by a male acquaintance. Clearly, developed countries are not much different from underdeveloped ones in this respect. According to the World Health Organization, one in three women experience violence at the hands of an intimate partner. It is difficult for victims to speak up in such situations. When they do, society and the justice system often fail them in order to protect the idea of a ‘happy family’.Rashika Gupta,Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
30-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Teutonic shift||It will not be an exaggeration to state that the real winners of the elections in Germany are the Greens and the Liberals. This is because although the Greens won 14.8 per cent of the vote and the Free Democrats 11.5 per cent, both parties have an opportunity to play the role of kingmaker: the Social Democrats — the SDP garnered 25.7 per cent votes — would need the support of the FDP and the Greens to beat its principal rival, the Christian Democrats, to form the government. There may be a bit of a haze hanging in the German political sky: with the SDP and the CDU now estranged, government-formation could well be a three-way race. But some things are abundantly clear. The decision by Angela Merkel, the former chancellor and CDU leader, to step down from the chancellorship before the elections hampered her party’s electoral fortunes considerably. Armin Laschet, who was expected to fill the vacuum, has not been a success. So much so that it is being speculated that Mr Laschet, an uncharismatic figure, torpedoed the CDU’s boat quite effectively. His rival and likely successor to Ms Merkel, Olaf Scholz, however, made a mark by pursuing an imaginative campaign that focused on people-centric issues such as affordable housing, higher taxes on the affluent and social inclusion. A globalized world order is likely to feel the ramifications of the possible change of guard in Germany. Of particular interest would be the direction that Germany takes on the European project along with France. In the wake of adversarial sentiments towards the European Union, a politically divided Germany — the far right has made gains electorally — may find it difficult to shepherd the EU along with France. India would be watching the developments in Berlin and New Delhi’s interests are likely to be concentrated along three areas — German assistance in respect to climate change challenges; its outreach to New Delhi on the turbulent Indo-Pacific; and, finally, a greater push to augment bilateral trade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
30-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Feet in the fire||The hissing attack against Amazon in Panchjanya, the right-wing, Hindi magazine published by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, raises some disturbing questions about how India intends to treat investors who commit a huge amount of funds to this country. The article slammed Amazon’s business practices at its e-commerce platform and went on to accuse it of resorting to shenanigans which were reminiscent of the infamous East India Company. The aggressive attempts to tar legitimate businesses owned by overseas interests are sending out wrong signals at a time when the Narendra Modi government has been assiduously trying to court foreign investment. Some weeks ago, the Union commerce minister, Piyush Goyal, took a sideswipe against the Tatas for opposing his plans to overhaul e-commerce regulations that would place unreasonable restrictions on companies looking to harness technological innovation that could potentially disrupt the country’s retailing landscape. It is time the government realizes that it cannot have it both ways: it cannot invite investors into the country and then make it extremely difficult for them to operate when they start to chew up competition. The attack against Amazon arose after a whistleblower apparently flagged bribery issues against the company. The accusation stems from excessively high legal fees that were supposedly routed through a bunch of lawyers and used to pay off unnamed officials in return for unspecified favours. If true, this needs to be aggressively investigated and the company as well as the recipients of the bribe must be exposed. This is just the sort of case that ought to have been referred to the Serious Fraud Investigation Office. There is no evidence that the government has initiated such a probe. Instead, the RSS mouthpiece has chosen to grab this opportunity to launch a smear campaign to further its own objectives. The Modi government has been trying to push a warped Make in India campaign that is designed to create home-grown giants who are being propped up by some egregious policymaking and regulatory high-handedness. Flipkart, Mastercard, WhatsApp, Google, Twitter, Cairn Energy and Vodafone Inc. all have stories to relate about how the system is being manipulated to hurt their interests. Amazon and Flipkart have been slammed for doling out massive discounts to lure customers. But when a reputed, home-grown behemoth muscled its way into the telecom industry a few years ago using similar tactics, nobody in the saffron brigade saw reason to protest. Companies like Cairn Energy, which have been looking to get out of the country for years, have had to wage costly court battles in India and abroad to recover their legitimate dues. Foreign investors have other options they can fruitfully explore. China, for instance, is laying out the red carpet for technology giants who may no longer be prepared to acquiesce to a brutal tax and regulatory regime in this country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
30-09-2021||Opinion||A world divided by time||A recent documentary on time on Wired — it invited my comment as an expert on Indian history — asked a provocative question: what if time zones didn’t exist? What if there is one Universal Time? In practice, this would mean that all the watches of the world would be synchronized to show the same time. Steve Hanke, an economics professor at Johns Hopkins University and a contributor to the documentary, advocated for a universal time zone. This would mean that people across the world would see the same time, leading to the creation of a homogenous time wherein the temporal notions of ‘am’ and ‘pm’ would change forever. All cell phones would then show the same time, and all watches would display it in the 24-hour format. To me, this sounds like a lot of reconditioning of human ideas of temporality. But the concept of a single time zone has been gaining traction. If the United Kingdom Greenwich Mean Time is taken as the UT, then 9 o’ clock schools and offices in India would open at 1.30 pm in summer when Daylight Saving Time is followed there or at 14.30 hours otherwise and people would go to bed at around 2.30 am in summer. However, life would always be geared towards the presence of sunlight and local seasons, so schools and offices would continue to open early in the morning. The official school opening time, though, would say 14.30 hours. This proposal would require a complete reconfiguration of our idea of clock time — 12 o’ clock could mean noon, morning or night depending on where one is in the world. There are many arguments in favour of a UT. People would follow their local sun time to suit their circadian rhythm, improving health and productivity. It would also ease globalized business and economic transactions. In fact, many global service providers like airlines, internet and international financial organizations use their own single time zones to avoid confusion, delays and clashes. While it is interesting, the proposal needs a serious reality check. This new time zone would confuse all of humanity, whose temporal sense and everyday activities have been cultivated according to the conventional clock time since at least the 16th century. Thus, 6 am means morning (theoretically, the arrival of sunlight) everywhere and 6 pm means evening (the arrival of darkness). Families spread across the globe would have to relearn the local time of their loved ones living afar. More important, whose time would be made the UT? If it is the UK’s time, would this not give it an advantage over the rest of the world? Further, the majority of our fiction, non-fiction, TV serials and so on has been written according to the current time zones with some local variations. Adapting to a UT would require us to constantly perform some mental arithmetic to make sense of any time mentioned. This means that all of us would have to become experts in timekeeping in order to create a time zone that would serve the first-world capitalists the most. It is true that the introduction of time zones created tensions locally, and time became embroiled in politics. Populations have been forced to shift from one time zone to another in places like North Korea, China, Russia, Venezuela, India and so on in the past. Time has been used by states to create a national homogenous time and to declare their sovereignty. Authoritative regimes have used the politics of time to demonstrate their power over citizens. Geographically large countries like India and China, each of which follows a single time zone, face internal pressures to follow varied time zones as per the local sun time. For instance, people from the Northeast have been pleading for a time zone that takes into account local daylight saving. The sun rises early in the Northeast compared to the northern and western regions of India — a variation of almost one to two hours — and daylight time is lost owing to a single time zone. Moreover, the sun sets way before it does in Delhi, leading to an overuse of artificial energy and loss of sleep. A single time zone, even within a geographically large nation, puts people from certain regions at a disadvantage in terms of undertaking their day-to-day activities and synchronizing their lived time (day, night, dawn) with the official national time. For India, the clock tower in Mirzapur decides the time (Coordinated Universal Time + 05.30 hours). We should aspire to a time that prioritizes the needs of the people, their sleep and their environment. The United States of America, for example, has six time zones. In the modern world, the State and capital control the management of time. When time zones were being planned towards the end of the 19th century, time became a sovereign entity. Until the modern period, each locality had its own time, which was exhibited through clock towers, churches, railway stations, mills, universities, dockyards and so on. Around the same time, the gongs at the clock towers, schools, prisons and factories became the most powerful tools to discipline people in a locality. It took 200 years for the human race to master this sense of time. To undo it and overlap it with a new idea of time would unleash an epistemic violence on the human mind, body, and memory. Arun Kumar is an Assistant Professor of British Imperial, Colonial and Post-Colonial History, University of Nottingham||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
30-09-2021||Opinion||The dragon’s dance||Since 1858, when the responsibility of running the British Indian Empire passed to the Crown, the defence of the frontiers dominated the strategic thinking of the Government of India. Throughout much of the late 19th century, this preoccupation was subsumed within the parameters of the Great Game, the romantic shorthand for the shadow-boxing that marked Anglo-Russian rivalry in Asia. For imperial strategists, the outer reaches of the influence of the British Indian Empire were imagined to extend from Singapore in the east to Aden and the Suez Canal in the west. An important element of this strategy was the creation of either a friendly or at least a non-hostile buffer zone that would separate India from the rival Big Power. The logic wasn’t specious. In 1846, there was a distance of 2,000 miles between British India and Russia. However, by 1885, the gap was less than 500 miles. What now sometimes appears as an idiosyncratic military mission by Colonel Younghusband to Lhasa in 1904 makes more sense when viewed as an important element of creating a buffer zone between India and China. The firm delineation of India’s frontiers — the Durand Line between India and Afghanistan and the McMahon Line between India and Tibet/China in the east — was an important part of the defence of India. There were two important changes after Independence in 1947. Firstly, the western frontiers of India were redrawn by the Radcliffe Line. This involved the loss of the buffer in Afghanistan and led to the creation of a hostile neighbour on India’s doorstep. The dispute over Jammu and Kashmir complicated the situation and ensured a state of permanent military preparedness within India. In the mid-1990s, Pakistan acquired greater ‘strategic depth’ through its control over Taliban-ruled Afghanistan, an advantage it has regained after a 20-year interregnum. An additional complication was created by Cold War strategists who favoured a pro-Pakistan tilt by the United States of America to offset what they felt was India’s partiality towards the Soviet Union. Consequently, the focus often shifted from the defence of India to India’s relative insignificance in the global chess game — a development that was also moulded by India’s inability to realize its own potential in the economic sphere. Secondly, China’s assumption of military control over Tibet in 1950 lost India its buffer in the east. The mistaken belief that China was a benign and friendly power prompted Jawaharlal Nehru to take his eye off the ball and roll back the Indian presence in Kashgar, Bokhara and Lhasa. It was more than just the closure of Indian missions that had existed during the high noon of the raj. The truncation of India’s influence in Central Asia was an aspect of Nehru attaching greater priority to personalized diplomacy over reinforcing India’s pre-existing strategic clout. Whereas China after the Communist revolution in 1949 embraced an assertive nationalism that had its origins in traditional Middle Kingdom doctrines, India repudiated the India-centric strategic thinking that was a hallmark of the raj after the 1880s. India tried to wallow in its ‘soft power’, not as an appendage to larger ‘hard power’ designs but as the mainstay of its approach to both the neighbourhood and the world. Even in hindsight, Nehru’s outright rejection of an American offer to replace the dispossessed Kuomintang regime in Taiwan with a permanent place for India in the United Nations Security Council makes no sense. Even S. Gopal — Nehru’s most sympathetic ‘official’ biographer — is harsh on Nehru’s astonishing woolliness: “[Nehru] hoped fondly that friendship with the new China would not only maintain peace in Asia but start a new phase in world affairs, with Asia giving the lead in a more humane... [and] sophisticated diplomacy. The Chinese took advantage of this and exploited India’s goodwill while placing little trust in her. The basic challenge between India and China, as China never seemed to forget and Nehru could not finally help recognizing, ran along the spine of Asia.” The 1962 military debacle in the Himalayas was a late wake-up call. Yet the defeat wasn’t accompanied by the requisite capacity building, particularly in the economic sphere. Thus, while China single-mindedly proceeded to overcome past disabilities and re-forge itself as a global power after 1979, India was painfully slow to get off the blocks. In a recent work on Indian diplomacy during the Bangladesh crisis of 1971 that draws on hitherto untapped sources, Chandrasekhar Dasgupta has revealed the huge reluctance of the external affairs establishment towards steps that would entail any solution to the crisis in East Pakistan outside the framework of a united Pakistan. It was the pig-headedness of President Yahya Khan and the preference for a military solution that tilted the balance in favour of an independent Bangladesh. The past 25 years have witnessed multiplying challenges to India’s national security. There are two dimensions to the threat. The first is the ideological challenge of radical Islamism that is intoxicated by the belief that its faith can prevail over sophisticated arms and the enormous material resources of the world’s big powers. The Taliban — or, for that matter, their more radical cousin, the Islamic State — are only nominally national movements. Radical Islamism has targeted Muslim communities, cutting across national boundaries, with the promise of a divinely-blessed good life. Its organizational structures may well be uneven but its potential to destabilize the whole of Central and South Asia, including India, is unlimited. The whole world is still grappling with the problem of how it can be defeated at the level of ideas. The second challenge — which, too, is a global phenomenon — facing India is the threat of Chinese hegemonism. If radical Islamism seeks to motivate people by invoking god, China is overflowing with its sheer audacity of vision. After the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917, the Soviet Union had given a call for world revolution and motivated a large number of people into believing in its possibility. China’s leadership isn’t too bothered with the ‘struggling masses’; it seeks to influence the political classes into reposing their faith in China’s ability to dole out credit and technology, buy influence and even offer military assistance in return for ‘concessions’ — incorporation into a China-controlled world economic order, the Belt and Road Initiative. China is creating a 21st-century version of the Middle Kingdom that involves vassal states acknowledging its hegemonism and allowing it unhindered passage in return for a role in the exercise. India has so far resisted the bait and, consequently, earned China’s displeasure in different ways, including military pressure and the encouragement of Pakistan, diplomatically and militarily. However, it is clear that this is a battle India cannot fight alone. Apart from the fact that China’s economy dwarfs that of India, Beijing is today a world leader in technology and international trade. An isolationist India that has retreated into its shell will suit China admirably. What will not suit it is an India that has entered into a strategic relationship with countries that have similar vulnerabilities. The Quad is as yet an untested investment in the future involving India, Australia, Japan and the US. It is Asia-focused and technology-focused, but will probably have an arms-length relationship with the Aukus military grouping that seeks to challenge China’s bid to control the Indo-Pacific. India is understandably cautious about over-committing itself to anti-China blocs because it is the only country with which China has a common and disputed border. The longer-term approach to national security must involve rapid capacity building on economic and military fronts. But additionally, it involves shunning mediocrity and relentlessly embracing the quest for excellence. The big challenge is to reconcile these challenges with preserving a vibrant democratic culture — something that China doesn’t want to know.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
