05-11-2020||News||The uncharacteristic Nitish Kumar of 2020||The Nitish Kumar one knows isn’t the Nitish Kumar one sees in these elections. Exigencies of politics have taken a toll on the 69-year-old chief minister of Bihar. He could be pungent in his attacks on political adversaries but was never uncivil or out of step with propriety. A few of his remarks in the campaign are emblematic of an idiom quite alien to what one would associate with him. Egregious by his standards was his allusion to Lalu Prasad’s large family. No vision for society’s development can be expected, he averred, from those who lacked faith in daughters and have parented eight-nine children in the quest for a son. The incarcerated Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) helmsman has nine children — seven daughters and two sons, including Tejashwi Yadav, the RJD’s chief ministerial face who’s a big draw at public rallies.Compared to Lalu Prasad’s rustic flourish that often qualified as malarkey, Kumar came across as the best finished product of the social justice movement. Barring the recent aberrations, he has been a sort of Amol Palekar in an arena crowded by theatrically vociferous competitors. What set him apart was his political etiquette. That’s why perhaps his “apne baap se poocho” retort to young voters on Prasad’s development record left a jarring note. Youngest though among his peers from the socialist school, Kumar bore in comparison the maturity of an elder. Erudition was his strength, the economy with words a salience that saw him spotless in the dust and grime of politics. Curt maybe he was at times — but never crass.A case in point is the period when he refused to engage with Narendra Modi in the run-up to the 2014 elections for which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had named the latter as its prime ministerial pick. He was more cerebral than combative in his opposition to the BJP’s newly anointed mascot. Kumar shone as the fact-checker on Modi’s speech at the much-hyped November 11, 2013, public meeting in Patna. He corrected the gaffes without getting personal: “The BJP has amazing grasp of history. They should know that Chandragupta was of Maurya dysnasty, not Gupta dynasty.” Showcasing Bihar as the cradle of power, learning and culture, Modi had said the Gupta dynasty was reminiscent of Chadragupta’s rajneeti. He confused Taxila for Vikramshila to wrongly locate in Bihar the ancient seat of learning which actually is in Pakistan. Kumar corrected him on that and another fact of history: Modi’s praise of the Biharis for having stopped Alexander’s victory march was misplaced as the Greek warrior never crossed the Ganges.Yet, Kumar lost the Lok Sabha polls badly. Together with its allies, the BJP got over 30 of the 40 seats, with the fragmented Opposition, including the RJD-Congress-Janata Dal (United) winning the rest. What resurrected Kumar was the alliance he stitched together with Lalu Prasad for the 2015 assembly elections. The ground he salvaged rehabilitated Kumar as a potentially acceptable national alternative to Modi. But the JD (U)-RJD romance faded fast. The straw that broke the camel’s back was Tejashwi Yadav’s refusal to quit as deputy chief minister on being charge-sheeted for graft, not to mention Lalu Prasad’s incessant taunts about where the real power lay in the coalition regime. Impatient with this impertinence, Kumar rocked the RJD boat, swinging to the other extreme to join Modi. There has been no turning back since for the chief minister whose 2017 about-turn unsettled many who had viewed his 2013 defiance of the BJP as a “giant leap” in popular psyche, if not the national stage. Like his pragmatic alliance with Lalu Prasad, the Modi-Nitish Kumar covenant was a classic case of politics making strange bedfellows, especially when the BJP he knew was the one led by AB Vajpayee. Amid mounting anti-incumbency, he’s now fighting with his back to the wall, a condescending BJP saying it will let him be CM even if his party returned with a reduced strength. That must be deeply unnerving for the man on whose desk the buck has stopped for a decade-and-a-half in Bihar. The worry shows in Kumar’s irritability, his immoderate narrative that doesn’t sit well with his trademark elegance. In the past, he used to keep his cool and his wise counsel in the face of the worst provocations, including the personal darts Rabri Devi hurled at him in the 2010 assembly polls. The vintage Nitish Kumar that one knew had left an abiding impression at a meeting with select journalists in the lead-up to the 2105 elections, a year after his humiliating defeat in the parliamentary polls, which brought the BJP to power. Among the invitees was an Aam Aadmi Party functionary who made some caustic remarks about the prime minister. Not the least amused, Nitish was empathically dismissive: “Let them talk, it’s their language, not mine.....” These days, it seems like a once-upon-a-time story.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-uncharacteristic-nitish-kumar-of-2020/story-SHtQh0HBM4g8pobsFHktdJ.html
05-11-2020||News||The police must stop acting like a political instrument||As Mumbai woke up to a mellowed November sun, police forces barged into Arnab Goswami’s home and arrested him in a 2018 abetment to suicide case. Videos have gone viral showing a large contingent of Mumbai Police officials bundling the Republic TV chief into a van. Amidst the sordid drama being played out before the TV cameras, the encounter cop, Sachin Vaze, is said to have told Goswami, “You don’t know what I am capable of.”The arrest throws up a number of disturbing questions. First, why was the case for abetment to suicide, closed in 2019 for lack of evidence, reopened in May 2020? Under 173(8) of the Criminal Procedure Code, a case can be reopened if new evidence is found. However, it is strange to see the police waking up to it only amid the thick of battle between Goswami, the Uddhav Thackeray led-state government and Mumbai police. The Raigad Police even sought custodial interrogation of the accused, which the magistrate rejected. Was the police investigation under the earlier regime so shoddy or was it closed under political pressure? Would the case have been reopened if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was partnering Shiv Sena in Maharashtra government today?Second, if the case was reopened, were the preliminary statements recorded? Was the accused not cooperating? In fact, was it necessary at all to arrest him in a reopened case? The Supreme Court in MC Abraham and others vs State of Maharashtra stated that full discretion is that of the investigating officer and he is not bound to arrest in all cases. Here is a case where arrest was not warranted and asking for Goswami’s custody had the whiff of vendetta.Third, the case reveals that self-regulation has failed in our democracy and the police seem to be a tool to be used in myriad cases to serve vested interests. From the Editors Guild to various journalist associations, there has been trenchant criticism of Goswami’s arrest but none of them reprimanded or even cautioned Republic TV for its self-styled conduct of investigation, hurting and destroying many a reputation. Scores of Union ministers have called the arrest throttling of democratic expression. This outrage was, however, missing during the arrests of journalists in Uttar Pradesh and other BJP-ruled states. The arrest of dissenting voices has also been witnessed in other states such as Chhattisgarh.Fourth, a larger question — should the police interfere at all in media matters? The onus rests on the Press Council of India, a statutory quasi-judicial authority operating under the Press Council Act of 1978, to be the regulatory watchdog of the fourth estate. The manipulation of Television Rating Points (TRPs) is again not a police matter. On the information submitted by Hansa Research Group, the Mumbai Police claims to have busted a racket involved in bribing people to watch Republic TV and some other channels. To do unto the other channels what Mumbai Police was doing unto Republic TV, and like the Sushant Singh case, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) took over the TRP probe on an FIR registered at a police station in Lucknow. The Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), guided by the recommendations of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) and the ministry of information and broadcasting, is empowered to deal with TRP tampering. Many feel that the TRP investigation is mala fide and vendetta-driven and the police is needlessly caught in the battle between the Centre and state.Caught in the crossfire between the states and the Centre, the police needs to assert itself to remain true to its commitment to the law. The forces cannot afford to stoop so low as to get involved in puny dogfights. How long can they serve the diametrically opposite demands of successive regimes? The police leadership should stand up strongly against such arrests, and indiscriminate use of draconian laws. Both media and the police have critical roles to play in democratic governance, instead of fighting other people’s battle.Yashovardhan Azad is a former IPS officer and Central Information Commissioner The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-police-must-stop-acting-like-a-political-instrument/story-iBvyDeayitnaY7TbpMxqLI.html
05-11-2020||News||In Bihar, is class transcending caste?||For students of political change, the Bihar assembly elections are of great significance. The world’s poorest go to vote in the world’s largest democracy, in the first direct elections of this scale after the Covid-19 pandemic has engulfed the world. Under the formal veneer of campaigning, marked by political rallies and speeches, is a truly substantive and deep political deliberation in Bihar’s villages and towns, with labour primarily re-centering the electoral discourse towards aspects of life and livelihood in unanticipated ways. Labour and its desire for voice and visibility in Bihar signals a shift in the base, and indicates a reshaping of the political arena, following a long period of political continuity and bureaucratic-charismatic leadership in the name of development and welfare.The change has been truly unanticipated and sudden for a polity hitherto characterised by the caste-based politics of agada-pichada (forward-backward), where Lalu Prasad’s Mandalisation engulfed even the sharpest tenors of Left politics rooted among agrarian labour; and where Chief Minister (CM) Nitish Kumar’s plank of good governance was firmly rooted in a social base of the ati-pichada — the extremely backward classes conglomerate referred to as a cluster of panch-phorana jatis. This contextual rootedness, Kumar’s background as being one among the Jayaprakash Narayan-Karpoori Thakur-inspired socialists, and his personal clean image was embedded in his governance model — it is this that is the central object of questioning in these state elections.The pursuit of good governance earned Kumar the sobriquet of sushaasan babu and dominated the administrative directions of many states after liberalisation. But he was not alone.Since the late 1990s, many CMs began to be seen as leading the agenda of vikas (development), and emerging as the chehra (face) associated with delivery of public services and welfare. Chandrababu Naidu was among the earliest such leaders. A favourite of the World Bank and global business, he was referred to as the CEO in the arena of democracy. In northern India — more rural and agrarian — Shivraj Singh Chauhan’s pro-women welfare schemes such as Laadli Lakshmi earned him the title of Mama.It was Kumar, however, who transformed the landscape north of the Vindhyas in Bihar by merging Mandalised electoral politics with the provision of universal basic services — roads, law and order and schools in his first term, and electricity in his second. Pro-poor and clean management of floods in large areas of Purnea and Saharsa, bordering Nepal and honest efforts at flood-relief earned him the trust of the most vulnerable.Both the extreme backwards and the Mahadalits put their trust in the Nitish Kumar-led political regime for close to two decades. But they are, today, at the forefront of the silent-but-deep questioning on the ground — this is particularly true of labour, which is seeking to find its voice after having had to flee urban centres during the lockdown.During conversations in Saran district’s oldest nagar panchayat of Riwilganj, many stories emerged of the hardships faced by labourers as they struggled to return home, many from those who belong to social groups traditionally considered loyal to Nitish Kumar. There is a high density of population in the region, and no source of local work, leading to palaayan, exodus/migration, said Bhagwan Ji Sharma, a badhai by caste. “We left our soch (thinking) based on jaat-paat and organised round-the-clock meal services for labourers walking back. There was one who was returning from Tamil Nadu who had walked hundreds of kilometres and taken rides on trucks. His feet were in tatters.”But the resentment is not merely that labourers had to struggle, but that there was political apathy. “Nitishji did not speak up for us, even a Yogi Adityanath organised buses for travel of labour from Uttar Pradesh”, said Dhurinder Manjhi. Ranju, a young Sahni woman from Darbhanga district, was stuck with three children at a Delhi construction site, and barely survived the threats of the building contractor. A labour contractor from Barauni helped her survive and get back, not the administration. Back in her village, Ranju can only rely on her skills of makhana farming in water puddles owned by landlords — she does not own any land.The refrain is similar in Begusarai. Labourers want to go back to the opportunities available in flourishing sites of neoliberal economic development. But trains are limited. The bus operators charge ₹3,000 for a road journey to Delhi. “At least Nitish Kumar could have helped labour go back by train. There is no fear of the coronavirus in holding election rallies, but when it comes to us, our freedom is curtailed,” argued a group of young men from the Kushwaha community who have studied in public universities in Patna.In each field site, the discussions transcend caste identities, and even partisan affiliations. The issues are centred on poverty and suffering, of the need for local opportunities, and of the failures of the state to stand by its poor in their hour of need. Unfortunately, generating economic opportunities locally was just not a priority of the sushaasan agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-bihar-is-class-transcending-caste/story-K8HlMe4JldG2zwcZyiHk1M.html
05-11-2020||News||The electoral uncertainty in the US||The United States (US) presidential election has turned out to be another nail-bitingly close race. Normally around midnight, after the elections, one candidate concedes based on trends emerging through counting, media analysis and projections, and the other appears thereafter to thank his supporters, and promises to be a president for all Americans.This time, however, had the unusual spectacle of Joe Biden declaring that his supporters should remain patient and that he had a clear track to victory. Donald Trump, appearing soon thereafter, declared that he had won based on trends so far, and that he would approach the US Supreme Court (SC) to prevent further counting.This Trump strategy has been long in the making. Given his personality, he is unable to publicly accept that he is less than the best. Democratic strategy has been to get more people, especially minorities and African-Americans to vote, since they tend to support Democrats, and benefit from polices of inclusion and equity. Republican strategy, especially in the face of a progressively dwindling share of the White voter base, has been to make it difficult for such groups to register or vote.In the run-up to this election, Democrats encouraged people to vote early or vote by mail, on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. More than 100 million Americans took this route, nearly two-third of the total vote in 2016. Recognising that this vote would heavily lean Democratic, Trump had been repeatedly suggesting that there is fraud in mail-in voting, and had also begun demanding that vote results should be declared on Election Day itself. This would disenfranchise mail-in voters in states such as Pennsylvania, where such votes are not processed before Election Day.It was widely anticipated that Trump would seek recourse to courts, hoping that his judicial appointees, including in the SC, would tilt the balance in his favour. Both sides are reported to have readied armies of lawyers. Last time, the SC had so intervened in 2000, when it ruled a stop to counting of votes in Florida around 30 days after the voting, and George W Bush was declared winner.The potential for legal challenges is exacerbated by the fact the US does not have a federal-level Election Commission. Each state has its own responsibility, with varying procedures for registering, voting and counting. Recently, Republicans had tried to disqualify drive-in voting in one Texas area, but their plea was disallowed by a state and then a federal court. Also, official results are declared much later, after verifying and certification. What everyone sees and accepts initially as the result is only the projection done by two competing media aggregates, though based on professional data analysis. It can be expected, based on the present situation, that a non-contested result of the elections is unlikely.This would also be a setback to US soft power globally, as it has sought to promote democratic and electorally sound practices elsewhere, and has called out incumbents in other countries who have refused to concede easily or transfer power.The manner in which this plays out will have consequences for US domestic politics, as well as its global standing and strategies.Trump and Biden brought sharply different approaches to domestic issues. Trump had sought to play down the impact of Covid-19 to deflect from his administration’s failure in controlling its spread; Biden advocated for science-based restrictions. Trump had continued to deny global warming, and worked for easing environment-focused regulations on industry, including drilling for oil and gas; Biden promised transitioning away from oil to renewable energy, and rejoining the 2015 Paris climate accord. With the Barack Obama presidency leading not to a post-racial society, but a sharpening of White antagonism which has been fanned further under Trump, the two defined themselves differently on issues of police discrimination, the manner of law and order enforcement, and recent protests and violence in several cities in the US.There was less divergence on specific international issues, but a basic difference of approach on America First versus global engagement, and dealing with allies and partners. On China, the broad consensus in the US now is that the earlier expectation of deepened engagement leading to political and economic liberalisation had failed, especially under Xi Jinping, and the country was now a peer economic, technological and military rival, with aspirations for global leadership, norms and rule-setting. But whatever the outcome, the broad positive trajectory of the US- India relationship is expected to be sustained.The US-India relationship continued to consolidate under Trump. His administration placed India under STA-1 (Strategic Trade Authorization Level 1) for technology releases on par with the US’s closest allies and partners. He started the 2+2, the joint foreign- and defence ministers- level dialogue in 2018, which just concluded on October 27, its third meeting with significant new decisions on sharing of geospatial information, collaboration between militaries and defence industry. He visited India in February, and travelled to Houston in September last year to address a joint rally of 50,000 Indian-Americans with visiting Indian prime minister.With Biden as vice-president, the Obama administration had declared support for India’s permanent membership of United Nations Security Council, and designated it as a major defence partner to enable higher level technology releases. Biden visited India in 2013; he called for removal of sanctions against India as Chair of Senate Foreign Relations Committee in 2001; and as ranking member in the same Committee in 2008, he worked to see the path-breaking India-US civil nuclear cooperation agreement through the US Senate.India will need to navigate the next four years, mindful of stresses and trends within US society, and its resulting foreign policy compulsions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-electoral-uncertainty-in-the-us/story-eDsfRxstVkl4J89j8o4CMI.html
05-11-2020||News||How India can take the lead in reviving tourism in South Asia||While the Covid-19 pandemic has affected all sectors of the economy, the travel and tourism (T&T) sector is among those expected to suffer the most prolonged impact. Owing to restrictions on free and confident movement of people, the tourism ecosystem, which employs 300 million people globally, has been disrupted. However, the pandemic provides an opportunity for India to take the lead in promoting regional tourism, an important metric of soft power.In South Asia, tourism was one of the fastest-growing sectors in the last decade, with double-digit growth leading to a contribution of $234 billion or 6.6% of the region’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2019. However, according to the World Bank estimates, South Asia’s T&T sector has lost more than 10 million jobs and is further expected to incur losses of over $50 billion in GDP. This makes the countries most economically dependent on tourism, such as Bhutan, Maldives, and Sri Lanka, particularly vulnerable.In our recent study, Travel South Asia: India’s Tourism Connectivity with the Region, we examined the pre-pandemic trends in intra-regional tourism. Between 2015 and 2018, approximately one-third of all foreign tourist arrivals in India were from South Asia. The top four tourism export countries for India in the region included Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, and Afghanistan. The report also highlights that the total number of Chinese tourist arrivals in the region has increased by almost ten-fold in the last decade, with a 2,486% rise in Sri Lanka, 687% in the Maldives and 462% in Nepal. As a result, the gap between the total number of Indian and Chinese tourists in the region had been narrowing. Post-pandemic, inter-regional mobility will remain limited due to reduced air connectivity, high costs, and a lack of willingness to travel long distances. Governments are thus adopting a phased recovery approach. For instance, on June 15, the European Union launched the Re-open EU platform to provide a stimulus to tourism within Europe. India must take similar steps to build a resilient tourism sector within South Asia. Visa barriers remain an obstacle to regional tourism, and India needs to revisit its rules to enhance openness. In our study, we developed an index to measure intra-regional tourism openness. It shows that Bhutan, Maldives, and Sri Lanka have the most liberal tourist visa policies towards citizens of the other South Asian countries. India ranks fifth in travel openness towards South Asia, with only Nepal, Bhutan, and Maldives eligible for visa-free travel to India. Other measures such as liberalisation of travel agreements have also been successful in increasing tourism connectivity. For instance, India liberalised the Revised Travel Arrangement (RTA) with Bangladesh in 2013 and 2018. This led to an 80% increase in tourist arrivals from Bangladesh in 2014. By 2018, one in every four tourists from South Asia arriving in India was from Bangladesh. Further research suggests that as a result of this liberalisation, a number of informal movements across the India-Bangladesh border were converted to formal crossings. This can be replicated in the neighbourhood. The pandemic has brought to fore the merits of digitisation, especially as a means of reducing human transactions. Investing in digitisation of various services will be crucial for revival of the industry. This requires participation from public and private sector stakeholders to enhance secure travel. Similarly, enhancement of digital infrastructure at the borders will be of prime importance. Registering all cross-border movements, particularly from Nepal and Bhutan, via land will be important to keep track of tourists. India should also leverage the region’s enormous cultural assets and religious heritage to revive intra-regional tourism flows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-india-can-take-the-lead-in-reviving-tourism-in-south-asia/story-IjP7eEjSjnwfDSlWzV3EIL.html
