06-11-2020||News||Trump may go, but Trumpism is here to stay, writes Dhruva Jaishankar||The 2020 United States (US) presidential election has turned out to be strange, memorable, and tortuous. Perhaps it was always destined to be so, given the set-up.On the Republican side, you had an unusual incumbent in President Donald Trump. Four years ago, after running against the establishment of his own party, he won the Electoral College despite losing the popular vote. He was not viewed as presidential in his manner or disposition, a flaw acknowledged even by many of his supporters. Over the course of his first term, he was impeached by the House of Representatives. And in the midst of a re-election campaign, he had overseen the worst public health crisis confronting the US in a century as well as a precipitous economic downturn.And yet, Trump enjoyed steady approval ratings of over 40% throughout the duration of his four years as president. A solid majority of Americans approved of his handling of the economy. In the eyes of his electoral base, Trump had also delivered on his promises, such as on stemming immigration, cutting taxes, and nominating conservative Supreme Court justices.On the Democratic side, you had a more predictable contender in former Vice-President Joe Biden. Biden emerged as a consensus candidate after a bruising Democratic primary contest. He polled well among moderates and independents. Unlike Hillary Clinton four years ago, he had low negative ratings among likely voters, and his campaign managed to raise record amounts of funds. Biden’s critics and opponents caricatured him as geriatric and a creature of the establishment.Yet, in the months since clinching the nomination, he fared well in public opinion surveys against Trump. On the cusp of Election Day on November 3, Biden was leading the president 52% to 42% in national polls; he was expected to comfortably win a majority in the Electoral College, and was given a 90% chance of winning by respected election analysts.The final results may still make 2020 one of the closest presidential elections in modern US history. Trump handily won four states that had been expected to be competitive: Florida, Texas, Ohio, and Iowa. Biden comfortably won the overall popular vote but scraped only narrow wins in the critical states of Wisconsin and Michigan. Voting in five states that would collectively determine the winner — Pennsylvania, Georgia, Arizona, North Carolina, and Nevada —are close and final results may take days, but Biden’s lead in Pennsylvania on Friday gives him a rather decisive edge. Although he may eventually lose the presidency, Trump managed to demonstrate considerable and durable support after four years in power. The Republican Party will likely retain control of the Senate, which the Democrats had earlier looked poised to seize, although two run-off elections in Georgia could determine the final outcome. The democrats did manage to retain the House of Representatives, but with fewer seats.What explains the unexpected closeness of this year’s US elections? It certainly was not tepid voter turnout: The percentage of ballots cast may have been the highest in any US election since 1900. Based on exit polls, Biden fared well with voters under the age of 50, won two-thirds of moderate voters, over half of independents, and lured 8% of Trump supporters from four years ago.The real reasons for surprise lay elsewhere. Public opinion surveys in key swing states overestimated Biden’s lead over Trump by between 2% and 8%. The 5% of voters who determined their vote in the week prior to the election also broke overwhelmingly for Trump. Additionally, Trump fared better among minority groups relative to 2016, particularly older and college-educated Hispanic voters and younger African-Americans.Although the most likely outcome at this juncture appears to be a Biden presidency, a Republican-led Senate, and a Democratic House of Representatives, Trump’s surprisingly strong showing will leave a legacy. Trumpism will not be going away any time soon and will remain a potent force within the Republican Party. A narrower win may also serve as a check on elements of the more radical agenda of the Democrats; this could, in turn, exacerbate divisions between the Left-leaning progressive and centrist wings of the Democratic Party. Already, the two factions are deriving opposite lessons from the Republicans’ stronger-than-expected showing. While progressives believe they should not have made compromises, moderates fear that the Left alienated some conservative constituencies.For a partner country such as India, the broad overarching implications of the election are real, even if the actual political outcomes remain fluid. Some of the changes wrought by Trump will remain, among Republicans but also as a consequence of a divided Congress and perhaps an equally divided Democratic Party. These strains might include a wariness of international trading agreements, overseas military commitments, and immigration regimes that threaten middle-class employment. A potential Biden presidency may offer a greater degree of predictability and professionalism, improving the foundations of American international power. India will probably continue to find sympathetic allies in the US Senate, reflecting an alignment in thinking on the emerging strategic competition with China. New Delhi could also find in Washington a willingness to partner with India on the climate crisis, emerging technologies, and even democracy. Finally, there may be more leeway in managing the inevitable differences in perspectives that will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/trump-may-go-but-trumpism-is-here-to-stay/story-4KubREtdgJvdSI7wb1NeeO.html
06-11-2020||News||The end of Inspector Raj in India’s IT sector||Three months ago, in an article in this paper, I wrote about the utter meaninglessness of persisting with the Other Service Provider (OSP) regulations. I pointed out that while these restrictions may have made sense a decade ago, when data was scarce, the insistence on continuing to require the Information Technology (IT) industry to comply with its onerous technical and organisational requirements in the current context is unwise. On Thursday night, the Government of India released a set of revised OSP guidelines that have effectively put an end to the inspector raj that these outdated regulations had perpetuated for so long.There is no doubt that the amendments, in themselves, are both broad and far-reaching. In the first place, the types of entities covered by the regulations have now been limited to those that carry out voice-based business process outsourcing services — a radical change from the previous expansive definition that included the full gamut of IT-enabled services. The previous broad definition was the reason for random acts of harassment by department of telecommunications (DoT) officials who were free to use the ambiguity inherent in the language to try and bring all sorts of IT services within its ambit.Those few entities to whom OSP regulations now apply only need to comply with a few security obligations as well as ensure, at a high-level, that toll bypass does not occur. They are free to share infrastructure between international and domestic OSPs and use closed user groups for internal communications. The work-from-home restrictions that were particularly chaffing in the context of the highly mobile workforce of today have been changed into a work-from-anywhere regime. In addition, restrictions such as the need for a network diagram and using static IP addresses for all agents working from home, have all been done away with. Unlike under the previous regime, international OSPs are free to host their EPABX overseas and are only obliged to maintain a copy of their call data records (CDR) and system logs in India. Domestic OSPs, however, will still have to maintain an EPABX and client data centre in India. With respect to specific instances of unlawful content, OSP is required to extend support to authorities in tracing malicious calls, messages or communications carried over its network.But perhaps most significant is the fact that OSPs are no longer required to register themselves with the DoT. That along with all the associated compliance obligations — the filing of network diagrams, requirements to furnish bank guarantees and the obligation to ensure that each additional site obtains a separate registration — have been eliminated entirely.It is this liberalisation from registration that is likely to have the greatest impact on the sector. Where, in the past, companies had to think twice before setting out to establish businesses that provided services that, even tangentially, might have been covered by the extremely broad provisions of the definition, they can now simply set up their operations and make sure they comply with the few requirements that apply to that portion of their business that might be considered to be a voice-based business process outsourcing service.There is work to be done unwinding the mountain of compliance that has already been put in place. As a result of this reform, thousands of site-specific registrations have been rendered infructuous virtually overnight and bank guarantees that have been submitted over the decades will have to be returned. But perhaps, most significantly, the cadres of bureaucrats whose sole business it was to manage this obscure corner of the regulatory landscape will have to be disbanded and put to better use elsewhere.As important as it is that we celebrate this success, we should, at the same time, pause to reflect on what this reform signals. OSPs are not the glamorous poster boys of the IT industry — that title is reserved for the e-commerce unicorns and the many iconic start-ups that dot the modern tech landscape. Neither are they the titans of Indian industry who have built the many IT products that today run the banking sector, the health care space or even, in several instance, the government. These companies serve a more mundane role —performing operations that keep things ticking behind the scenes, supporting the front-offices of every type of business on the planet. This is an industry that has no white knight to espouse its cause — and as a result, for decades had no option but to put up with the increasingly onerous obligations they were being subjected to.Reforming these regulations was never going to be front page news. However, the long-term impact of these changes are going to be immeasurable. But, more significantly, by doing away with such a staple of bureaucratic control as mandatory registration as well as eliminating all mention of penal consequences for breach are indications that the government is intent on making changes that will actually make a difference. I am eager to see what the government turns its attention to next.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-end-of-inspector-raj-in-india-s-it-sector/story-Usm0KWP73ZZFUaVeIYqG3K.html
