11-11-2020||News||Flawed regulation can undermine the digital payment ecosystem||The National Payments Corporation of India’s (NPCI) announcement on the limits placed on Unified Payments Interface (UPI) transactions for third-party apps is flawed. Briefly, each third-party app, such as GPay or PhonePe, cannot exceed 30% of the total number of Unified Payment Interface (UPI) transactions. Typically, an obscure and technical regulatory change for a payments system does not draw sharp reactions. Still, given that the number of users and the volume of transactions are rapidly increasing every day, this move can potentially affect a lot of people. The given justification for this rule by NPCI was to “address the risks and protect the UPI ecosystem as it further scales up”. Unfortunately, this justification raises more questions than provides answers. The new rule is both unnecessary and inconsistent for a set of reasons. For one, there is no empirical evidence of this form of systemic failure until now (except the YES Bank episode, which is a different category altogether). Even if we consider this rule to be forward-looking, NPCI would have been better off seeking technological solutions to a potential technical problem, rather than using crude policy instruments such as placing limits. Systemic risks are automatically lower when consumers, merchants, and third-party app developers are all multi-homing, meaning they simultaneously use more than one app for the same purpose. The UPI ecosystem is radically substitutable. In the case of failure, consumers and merchants can switch from one app to another without the slightest friction. Though two apps, PhonePe and GPay, dominate the UPI market (with roughly 80% of UPI transactions), consumers are not without choice — there are at least 52 UPI service providers, 189 issuers and around 21 third-party apps. Third-party app developers also can and do have tie-ups with multiple banks simultaneously, such that the YES bank-PhonePe fiasco will not be repeated. Beyond being unnecessary, the rule is also improper, incomplete, and inconsistent. If the aim is to mitigate the systemic risk of failure of one big market player, the rule change should apply to all apps providing UPI services, and not just third-party apps. Is the systemic risk different when the app of a scheduled commercial bank fails as against a third-party app? Two, in terms of systemic risk, the most significant one is that of the UPI architecture failing, which can instantly impact millions of users. Note that NPCI has a virtual monopoly over the UPI architecture and therefore consumers are left with no choice, apart from hard cash and cheques. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) should be taking a closer look at this risk. Three, whether the justification for the rule is of systemic failure or that of potential market domination, NPCI (a private company, which is a consortium of banks) is not the proper authority to be making rules regarding payments. In the first case, it should be RBI regulating, and in the case of competition issues, it should be the Competition Commission of India looking into the matter. There is uncertainty about how companies can reduce their share of the total transactions. Companies could place hourly, daily, or monthly limits on the number of transactions for each consumer; restrict the use of UPI to specific use cases; restrict transactions to above a certain minimum amount; or restrict the number of new installs by users. In all these scenarios, it leads to uncertainty about the app functionality and potentially higher failure rate of transactions. The better way to reduce systemic risk is to ensure greater competition and lower the entry barriers. The inordinate delay in permitting newer entrants to the market is inexcusable in this regard. Having a combination of third-party apps, domestic banks, and niche payment platforms is an effective solution to mitigate risk and should be preferred to the sledge hammer-like instrument of placing caps on the number of transactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/flawed-regulation-can-undermine-the-digital-payment-ecosystem/story-jVikN3SWxYYRKGZZiO5loL.html
11-11-2020||News||The Opposition fails because it’s dishonest||Misinformation, disinformation and outright lies form the staple diet of fake and false narratives. These have, in turn, become the weapon of choice for some of our political parties, otherwise bankrupt of a mission and national purpose. Regrettably, some in our intelligentsia and media participate, perhaps out of choice, only to discover that “a lie can travel half way around the world while truth is tying its shoelaces”. Fortunately, truth does get running and ultimately triumphs.Why do some sections of the media participate in these narratives? Why do pollsters get it so wrong? The elections in Bihar are a testament to the fact that the silent majority prefers development-oriented governance. The National Democratic Alliance’s win, despite 15 years of incumbency, is also a testament to their unwavering trust in Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. The resounding victory of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the by-polls is also a reaffirmation of the faith of the people in the PM. Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N)’s Sardar Ayaz Sadiq’s recently recounted how Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa was perspiring and his “legs were shaking” when foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi said, during a meeting, that if Indian Air Force Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman was not released, India would attack Pakistan “at 9 PM”. This has destroyed the false narrative created by many leaders in the Indian Opposition. Some politicians questioned the strike and suggested that this was a ploy to win votes. They questioned the valour and professionalism of our armed forces and cast aspersions on the intentions and achievements of the Union government in times of a grave crisis. The people rejected their politics and punished them. The allegation by the leader of an Opposition party that Indian democracy is being “hollowed out” reflects the deep sense of insecurity and frustration felt by a clique which ruled the nation for decades without any accountability. Even though this party couldn’t even touch three figures in the two Lok Sabha elections of 2014 and 2019 elections put together, it leads the narrative on all nationally divisive issues. Before 2014, New Delhi was symptomatic of a culture of “family connections”, power brokers and middlemen, who along with senior politicians were running their independent fiefdoms with impunity. Institutions, including even that of the PM’s Office, were often reduced to a rubber stamp, subject to the extra-constitutional body of “activists” in a so-called National Advisory Council.The selective outrage of some of these activists who were caught receiving funds illegally from abroad is not difficult to comprehend. Their partisan interests must not be confused with the legitimate interests of civil society or the Indian people. But to portray legal actions on these vested interests as an attack on civil liberties is pure humbug, specially coming from a party which has a rich history of suspending civil liberties. The Emergency in 1975 is a case in point. They imposed President’s Rule to summarily remove elected state governments over 75 times when they were in power and politicised enforcement agencies to such an extent that the Supreme Court had to refer to the Central Bureau of Investigation during their time as a “caged parrot”. Even today, their governance in Maharashtra appears rooted in the brute use of State institutions to attack freedom of the press and speech and further narrow political ends. Since 2014, the PM has transformed the working culture in the government with zero tolerance of corruption, and cut down of delays and bureaucratic inertia. To present his courage and his impatience with the debilitating status quo as an attack on Indian democracy is both cynical and dishonest.In case of the farm bills, which only implemented long-pending reforms which were part of their own election manifestoes, the Opposition chose to mislead the farmers by spreading fear and canards while 33 out of their 107 members were not even present in the Upper House when the bills were being debated and voted upon. They suggested that the Minimum Support Price procurement will be stopped. But in fact, the paddy procurement is up at a national level by over 20% from last year and over ₹3,8000 crore have already been transferred to our farmers. In case of Punjab, the procurement is up from last year by over 26%; we have already exceeded this year’s target by 8%; and over ₹29,000 crore have been paid to our farmers. In the case of China, they surrendered India’s position and are now alleging falsehood of surrender. Whether it is the farm bill or the Goods and Services Tax or the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, all these measures were initiated during the time of the Congress government, but it did not have the gumption to implement these painstaking reforms. Instead of a debate on real issues, unbridled hatred for PM Modi seems to be the cornerstone of Congress politics. The Opposition should step out of the mindset of weaving false narratives, treating different sections of the society as mere vote banks and wake up to an era where every Indian regardless of religion, caste, creed or gender is an equal partner in the nation’s progress. A robust and vibrant democracy also requires an Opposition which is truthful and sincere. It is high time that the Opposition steps up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-opposition-fails-because-it-s-dishonest/story-x8EY2wvGiiY7tKfmTM5PHL.html
11-11-2020||News||How Nitish Kumar returned to power||Ending the intense speculation of the past month, the results of the assembly elections in Bihar are finally out. Nitish Kumar has added yet another feather to his cap by winning the confidence of the people of Bihar for the fourth time, a rare feat in Indian politics. Of course, the strength of Janata Dal (United) is now reduced, but the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has performed well, thanks to the image of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi as an able leader. The JD(U)’s relatively poor performance is easily understandable, as it had to fight two opponents — the Mahagatbandhan (grand alliance) of the Opposition on one hand, and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) on the other, unlike the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which had to fight only the Opposition.What is the larger meaning of the NDA’s win?To begin with, Nitish Kumar’s return only reiterates that anti-incumbency is not an unbeatable force, provided the incumbent government has performed well during its tenure — irrespective of the length of this tenure. Competing political parties may have varying ideological orientations to attract voters, but more than anything else, citizens are interested in a rapid-and-inclusive development process. They opt for political change only when that basic agenda is left unserved. Although identity-based mobilisation is a part of Bihar politics, this election was essentially a referendum on Nitish Kumar’s government of the last 15 years. The government’s record, to be sure, has gaps — especially in the realm of employment generation that affects young citizens most deeply. But its overall performance was ultimately appreciated, especially for a state that carries a huge historical burden of underdevelopment and is constrained by its poor financial resources. During the campaign, the NDA focused on the key components of its good governance story, both in terms of the “minimal” function of the government (maintenance of law and order) and the developmental function of the government (economic growth and welfare programmes). On the law and order front, Nitish Kumar’s government convincingly argued that, thanks to its relentless effort, Bihar had come out of the so called jungle raj which characterised the previous regime. The present result indicates that the fear of jungle raj is still deeply embedded in the minds of the electorate. Indeed, once it became known that the Opposition alliance had performed well in the first phase, the NDA planned a conscious counter-mobilisation against the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), using the slogan of jungle raj. To be fair, one must note that the law and order situation has deteriorated in the last five years, but citizens do realise that it has improved substantially since 2005, when Nitish Kumar started his regime.On the development front, too, Nitish Kumar has performed more than satisfactorily. The Gross State Domestic Product growth rate in Bihar has not only been high over the last 15 years, but also been one of the highest (above 9%) in the last five years. This is the result of high-development expenditure of the state government, the consequent strengthening of the physical infrastructure, and a conducive environment for economic activities. Infrastructure development has included improvement in both road networks (including rural roads) and the power scenario, appreciated widely even by the chief minister’s critics. Along with this process of economic growth, the state government has also implemented a number of welfare programmes, the most recent being those under “Saat Nischay”, which covers, among other measures, the provision of electricity, piped drinking water, approach roads and toilets for all households. This is actually micromanagement of the development process. Unfortunately, the state government has not been equally responsive to the need to improve the educational and health infrastructure of the state.Besides the issue of development, the people of Bihar, particularly its disadvantaged sections, are also concerned about social justice. Admittedly, it is Lalu Prasad who first gave voice to the subaltern class, but Nitish Kumar consciously carried forward that agenda, sometime at the cost of offending his more socio-economically privileged supporters. He brought the Extreme Backward Classes (EBCs) or Annexure-I castes — they constitute over 30% of the state’s population — into the governance and executive structure of the state. For example, for EBCs, he introduced 20% reservation in panchayats and 21% in judiciary. This consistent outreach led to decisive EBC support for the NDA. With an eye on empowering women, Nitish Kumar introduced 50% reservation for them in panchayats and 35% reservation in government jobs. One should also remember here the historic decision of Nitish Kumar in 2016 regarding prohibition, just after the elections. It did harm the state’s finances, but it was more than compensated by the benefit it brought to poor women, often victims of alcoholism of their menfolk. This has clearly drawn a large number of women voters towards the NDA.In the next five years, the new government will face serious challenges. To meet urgent priorities — such as the creation of employment opportunities, strengthening the education and health sectors and other development needs — the state government has to mobilise additional resources, but here lies a problem. The negative economic impact of Covid-19 has not only meant depletion of the state’s resources, but also affected transfers from the Union government. One has to wait and watch to find out how the state government negotiates this difficult path.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-nitish-kumar-returned-to-power/story-Mk2ta7QoYhLtXpqEtyw2vO.html
11-11-2020||News||Reading the mandate in Bihar’s fragmented political landscape||Bihar’s voters have reposed their trust in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) — despite the fact there were strong voices on the ground expressing discontent with the Nitish Kumar government, especially due to the hardships suffered by labour in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown.However, what is very evident is that the voters have disaggregated their choices within the broad fabric of a “coalition”, and given to each political party only whatever seemed to be their due. So, overall, it is the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that has emerged as a senior partner within the NDA, with the Janata Dal (United) a distant second. While Nitish Kumar’s poll propaganda banked on the plank of his return as chief minister, and this will happen, his party is not the leader of the coalition anymore, and has had a poor electoral strike rate well below the 50% mark. It is the BJP which saved the day for the NDA.For the other opposing coalition, the Mahagatbandhan (grand alliance), led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), it is the Congress that has registered an abysmal strike rate of around 25% of the seats allocated to it. In terms of the number of seats, it is the Left parties that have performed almost as well as the Congress. The combined Left front has a high strike rate. Even here, voters have seen each component of the coalition for what they are, and rewarded them in proportion. There is a larger message here — voters are perfectly capable of making their political preferences clear, even as complicated political choices have to be registered under coalitions.The second important issue is that of poll promises. Here, the NDA went in two different directions. The JD(U) focused on building on its governance agenda with skills, polytechnics, and improved job opportunities. The BJP took on the RJD’s promise of a million jobs with its own promise of providing 1.9 million jobs, and setting up an IIT and AIIMS for high quality technical and professional education. As news of the poor performance of the NDA in the first phase of polls began spreading, Prime Minister Narendra Modi appeared in posters with a personal appeal, asking voters to repose their trust in the BJP—“Bhajapa hai to bharosa hai”. The message was simple — the BJP could be relied upon to deliver to the people, just as it had delivered on its welfare schemes. The BJP also kept up its attack on dynastic politics, and did not hesitate to remind the electorate of the jungle raj that could come back in Bihar if Tejashwi Yadav and the RJD were anointed to power. This then throws up a second message — political trust and direct delivery trumped a new offering and lack of experience.Contrary to perception, this election has also revealed that there are no settled terrains of vote bank politics premised on caste. For instance, in the Kosi and Seemanchal belt, there is an average share of 30% Muslim votes, and the Yadav-Muslim combination is considered formidable. This area has been the bastion of socialist thinking and Mandal politics. But the RJD faced a strong challenge in a politically fragmented arena. Both Asaduddin Owaisi and Pappu Yadav’s respective formations turned into competitors for the Mahagatbandhan. Do remember that it was in this region that Nitish Kumar turned emotional, calling it his last election. And it was here that PM Modi’s rallies acquired a nationalist pitch. The region went to polls in the last phase, and NDA has done remarkably well. Bihar’s voters have displayed electoral acumen in seeing through alliances, valuing political trust, and choosing their parties according to political geography. This brought the NDA close to power in a closely contested race, despite battling severe anti-incumbency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/reading-the-mandate-in-bihar-s-fragmented-political-landscape/story-id9Z2MTTfweObApX6RrrXM.html
11-11-2020||News||Why Tejashwi failed to break the glass ceiling | Opinion||Exit polls predicted a landslide for the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-led Mahagatbandhan (MGB) of Opposition parties. The only quibble was the quantum of the RJD victory. These findings gained greater credence since those covering the ground reported deep resentment and anger against the incumbent Nitish Kumar. We were told that Tejashwi Yadav’s plank of economic justice that covered themes as kamai (employment), dawai (medical facilities), padhai (education), sichai (irrigation) and mehengai (price rise) found great resonance among the voters, and that the young voters in Bihar were adamant for a change of guard. How did the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), then, manage to turn the rising tide against Kumar? Why could Yadav not build on the groundswell of support evident in his rallies to trounce the NDA? And finally, where did the exit polls go wrong? These three questions are critical to understanding the 2020 elections in Bihar.First, the analysis of provisional results from the Election Commission of the three phases indicates a clear pattern. Demographically, phase one, comprising 71 seats in south Bihar, had a higher concentration of Dalit voters. The 94 seats in central Bihar polled during the second phase had a higher proportion of Extreme Backward Classes (EBCs). The remaining 78 seats that polled in the final phase had a larger share of the Muslim population. The MGB has outperformed the NDA in the first phase. It seems that the Dalit vote in this region got divided between the NDA, the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), and the Left Front (which, as an MGB constituent, contested a large number of seats in this phase). In addition, the pre-poll survey conducted by Lokniti-CSDS suggested that while the JD(U) voters were seamlessly transferring their support to NDA candidates and Nitish Kumar, BJP voters were not wholeheartedly backing Kumar. This confusion within the BJP’s rank and file was created due to the widespread belief that the party propped up Chirag Paswan as a front to dislodge Nitish Kumar. The LJP was largely contesting on seats that the JD(U) was a contender and it also fielded some high-profile ex-BJP members. There was a late realisation within the BJP leadership that if these rumors persisted, they may have a tough time retaining the state. So they left no stone unturned in reminding voters that no matter how many seats the BJP won, Nitish Kumar was going to be CM. And this is likely to be the most important reason that there was a turnaround in the second phase, in which the NDA managed a slight edge over the MGB. It then went on to completely dominate the third phase. Second, while there was clearly some resentment against Nitish Kumar owing to his perceived non-performance in his last term, anti-incumbency sentiments were not sharp enough for the erstwhile NDA voters to switch sides. This may be because Yadav’s promise of one million jobs and his focused campaign led the crowd to throng rallies, but they could not bring themselves to trust him enough to vote for MGB. He does not seem to have inspired confidence outside his party’s base among Yadav and Muslim constituents. Even the ticket distribution of RJD couldn’t cast a wider social net; at least 50% of candidate nominations went to members of these communities. In addition, the prospect of MGB sweeping in the first phase may have helped the NDA to consolidate its support base with the spectre of the return of a jungle raj of the Lalu Prasad era. The NDA succeeded in counter-consolidating non-Yadav and non-Muslim communities. While the RJD itself did not do spectacularly in the second and third phases, it was further pulled down by a very poor show by Congress as well as the fragmentation of Muslim voters in the Kosi-Seemanchal region. Finally, why were exit polls, especially Axis-My-India with an impeccable track record of correctly predicting outcomes in the past few years, off the mark this time? The most important reason seems to be women voters — a constituency carefully nurtured by Nitish Kumar over the years through various policies including the prohibition on the sale of liquor in the state. This constituency steered Nitish Kumar to the post of chief minister for the first time in the October 2005 elections. And since then, anecdotal evidence suggests, there is no match to Kumar’s popularity among this segment in Bihar.Women turnout exceeded men turnout by five percentage points — a factor that remained unaccounted for in most exit polls. Women were underrepresented in most exit polls. The Axis-My-India poll, which polled over 63,000 voters, had only 31% women respondents. To be fair to pollsters, they were mindful of this problem and extrapolated the data (a valid technique in survey research) to overcome this bias. But this was not enough.The Bihar verdict confirms that elections are won and lost during the campaign. Given the complexities involved, rather than predicting outcomes, our focus must remain on understanding the opportunities and constraints each campaign reflects — in this case, it is a story of the glass ceiling Tejashwi Yadav couldn’t break and the possible return of Nitish Kumar against all odds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-tejashwi-failed-to-break-the-glass-ceiling-opinion/story-c6L8kSaZeqQpQcz06hENuM.html
