12-11-2020||News||Delhi: An agenda to bring back blue skies||Every winter, when we cannot breathe, we discuss air pollution. But we need action not just in the few winter months, when the pollutants settle close to the ground because of inversion, when wind is low and moisture traps the toxins. We need to understand that sources of pollution — other than the stubble-burning in Punjab and Haryana — are constant. We just don’t feel that the air is foul and deadly because there is sun and wind, which disperses pollutants. But it does not make it better for our lungs.The second thing we need to realise is that all soft and easy options for combating pollution are over. Delhi now needs transformational measures to drastically reduce toxins from combustion sources such as vehicles, power plants and industries which use coal for energy. We also need to step up implementation and enforcement on sources such as garbage-burning or construction-related dust. We also need to do much more to convince farmers not to burn stubble, but to use it to either fertilise their soil or to sell it for fuel to industry. The agenda for action is clear. The newly-formed Air Quality Commission (AQC) needs to hit the ground running.It is not as if nothing has been done. The data on air quality shows a decreasing trend and this is good news. This is because governments, both at the Centre and state, have acted. I say this because we must have confidence that action will lead to results. Otherwise, we will drown in cynicism and procrastination.First, there is the transition to Bharat Stage VI (BSVI) fuel and vehicle standards; this was a leapfrog action as the country jumped over one generation of vehicle emission technologies. The new generation BS VI heavy duty and diesel vehicles will be 80-90% cleaner than their predecessors. However, the result of this will only show up when there is fleet transition — that is when larger numbers of these cleaner vehicles come on to roads and replace the older vehicles. But let’s not discount the impact of much cleaner fuel that is now driving our vehicles.Then there have been efforts to control gross-polluting vehicles — in Delhi, the problem was from diesel trucks that moved through the city at night when inversion was the highest. Based on Supreme Court (SC) directions, the numbers of these vehicles have drastically reduced by building expressways that allow diversion and congestion tax that provide deterrence. The impact of this measure is showing up in the air quality charts.There is also the ban on coal — brought about by the Delhi government — and the incentives for industry to change to piped natural gas. The only remaining coal-based power plant in Delhi, Badarpur, has been shut and the effort is to ramp up gas-based power generation at Bawana. New emission standards for clean coal power plants have also been notified — but are still not implemented. In the neighbouring states, brick kilns have been moved to cleaner technology of zigzag and now shut down by judicial orders.So, there is action, there is improvement in air quality. But the bad news is that much more needs to be done. This is the agenda for the future. Just think, during the lockdown, when we all saw blue skies, there was a complete lockdown — all vehicles were off the road; factories were shut. Clearly, the lockdown, with its devastating effect on the economy and livelihoods, is not the solution. But what this reveals is the scale of the intervention that is required to bring us clean air, even during the peak winter periods.The scale was critical in the first-generation reform that Delhi undertook when it moved to compressed natural gas (CNG); it was a leapfrog solution; it was transformational as all gross-polluting vehicles such as buses and autorickshaws made the move to clean fuel in a short time. The second-generation action focused on each source. Now, we need the third wave.What then is the way ahead? We need to move from polluting coal (pet coke and furnace oil have already been banned) across the region. This would mean moving to natural gas or ensuring that there is supply of reliable and affordable power. This is possible, but will require shifting fiscal strategies to incentivise clean fuel.But this is not enough. We need to do much more to reduce the number of vehicles — remember every time we clean up the tailpipe of the vehicle, but then add many more on the road, the end result of clean air is negated. We need massive augmentation of buses, not just in Delhi but other neighbouring towns and linking public transport with last-mile connectivity. The right to walk and cycle is linked to the right to clean air.However, this agenda remains incomplete if we don’t focus on what is really broken — the institutional capacity for governance of our cities. We cannot stop the burning of garbage that is littering our roads and grounds, unless there is municipal capacity. We cannot step up enforcement against polluters, unless the pollution control boards have the required strength to monitor, inspect and penalise. This is where AQC will have its work cut out. Building new institutions, without repairing and strengthening the old, is not the answer.This is the real agenda for clean air, blue skies and clear lungs in our cites. Our right to breathe is possible, but only if we don’t gloss over some hard truths and tough action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/delhi-an-agenda-to-bring-back-blue-skies/story-89b4Vy3SOg4ZN5ppAqrqUK.html
12-11-2020||News||How Bihar has exposed the limits of each party | Opinion||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA), despite polling almost the same number of votes as the Mahagathbandhan (MGB), has managed to retain power in Bihar. What does this tell us about the state of various political formations in the state?The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) is the single-largest party for the second time in a row. Last time, it lost power despite being a part of the winning coalition after the Janata Dal (United) walked over to the NDA in 2017. This time, the RJD led pre-poll alliance has fallen short of a majority. It is tempting to see the RJD’s 2020 (75 seats) performance as a deterioration over 2015 (80 seats). However, when read with the fact that the RJD failed to win even one Lok Sabha seat in the 2019 elections, 2020 seems like a Phoenix act. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) looks like the biggest beneficiary. It is believed to have used the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) to undermine the JD(U) — the LJP acted as a spoiler for the JD(U) in 26 seats — to become the senior partner in the NDA. If true, then the fact that the BJP got Nitish Kumar to part ways with the RJD in 2017 and then possibly unleashed this tactic is indeed shrewd politics. However, it has failed to emerge as the single largest party yet again. The JD(U), despite retaining power, has lost stature both within and outside the NDA, emerging a distant third and winning its lowest-ever share of seats. Nitish Kumar has displayed unconditional reverence to Narendra Modi during and after the elections and his erstwhile independent posturing is all but gone. What is one to make of these empirical trends? The BJP wants to create a rainbow Hindu coalition, transcending the boundaries of caste. The NDA and MGB’s identical vote shares show that this has not happened. The BJP’s Bihar performance is unlike that in Uttar Pradesh (UP), where the Hindu consolidation strategy has worked wonders. To be sure though, political Hindutva in UP has, historically, had a sharper edge. The JD(U)’s politics has centred on building the “coalition of extremes”. The traction for this comes from a silent support base of Extreme Backward Classes (EBCs) and Dalit groups. Nitish Kumar’s good governance rhetoric is largely about protecting this numerically-significant, but individually-vulnerable, section from a return of oppressive upper caste/Yadav rule. This election has underlined the political limits of this strategy. Kumar increasingly stares at the possibility of becoming a mere figurehead as his hold on both government and politics will face a growing squeeze. The RJD seems to have become a victim of its own strength. Even a perceived revival of its fortunes may have triggered a counter-consolidation to prevent its return to power. The MGB’s graph plummeted in the second and third phase after it was seen at the cusp of power. The Yadavs are loyal and indispensible to the RJD, but seem to scare everybody else. Without resolving this dilemma, it cannot capture power. The performance of the Left forces and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) also hold important lessons. With 16 MLAs, the three Left parties have shown the best strike rate in the MGB. Why did they do so well? A plausible answer can be that it was only the Left which could credibly champion the MGB’s rhetoric of economic justice. Why has the Communist Party of India (Marxist Leninist) Liberation, a marginal Left force in the country, performed the best? Unlike the Communist Party of India and Communist Party of India (Marxist), it never did business with the RJD, when it was in power, in the name of secularism. This built its credibility as an anti-establishment force and allayed EBC-Mahadalit fears about the RJD where it contested. The AIMIM has got five MLAs in the Muslim dominated Seemanchal region. What explains its success? The BJP, after having delivered on its core Hindutva agenda of Ayodhya, Article 370 and the triple talaq legislation (seen by Muslims as a precursor to the Uniform Civil Code) pushed the envelope by raking issues such as Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens. Mainstream secular parties (including the RJD) have adopted a ”tactical” non-confrontationist approach on such issues. This allows the AIMIM to rally Muslims in places where their demographic advantage allows the luxury of greater political assertion. The 2020 result in Bihar tests the limits of all kinds of vanguardism. It continues to frustrate the BJP’s hopes of becoming the Hindutva vanguard. Nitish Kumar has learnt that the politics of being the lesser evil in the name of posing as a vanguard of governance is doomed to end in a political coup d’état. The RJD still seems to be paying the price for a sectarian betrayal of the non-Yadav backward castes in whose name Lalu Prasad assumed the vanguardism of social justice in the 1990s. By putting all three major political currents on notice, Bihar’s electorate has delivered a profound mandate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-bihar-has-exposed-the-limits-of-each-party-opinion/story-o9Q286W2aWrX03ljawQnfL.html
12-11-2020||News||From multilateralism to Indo-Pacific, India and Italy deepen bonds||The virtual summit between Prime Minister (PM) Giuseppe Conte and PM Narendra Modi marks an important milestone in the bilateral relations between Italy and India. The two PMs had an exchange that ranged from global to regional and bilateral issues. The results of the meeting were summarised in the Joint Declaration and Plan of Action, which referred to priority areas and strategic goals on which the bilateral partnership for the period 2020-2025 will be based upon. As far as our cooperation in the multilateral arena is concerned, Italy and India agreed to reinforce their partnership also in view of the very special opportunity that the next two years present with their consecutive presidencies of the G20. In this context, we committed to coordinate our activities and set common priorities to strengthen the impact and relevance of our legacy. We both believe in an efficient multilateralism, one that is capable of responding to the needs of a multipolar world. Tackling the current health situation is among the main tasks that the international community will deal with in the near future and this is why we must rely on a reinforced role of the World Health Organization. In this context, Italy and India will work together on a sustainable and inclusive recovery post Covid-19. On the climate crisis, looking to COP26, that Italy will co-chair, we have made significant progress with our Indian partners.We are also aware that a sustainable economic recovery will depend on the activation of solid and reliable global supply chains and enhanced connectivity. In this framework, we are confident to work with our partners for a reinforced trade system that encourages equitable and free trade. As far as regional cooperation is concerned, Italy is aware that the Indo-Pacific region plays a crucial role: It’s through its sea-lanes that a great deal of the world’s trade and energy resources are exchanged. The Mediterranean Sea and the Indian Ocean overlap by connecting continents. That is why, like many other partners, we are interested in ensuring that the connectivity projects between these shores are built on a rules-based international order, rule of law, sustainable and transparent infrastructure investment and freedom of navigation. With this in mind, Italy became a Development Partner of Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) with the purpose of contributing to any initiative aimed at facilitating the cooperation between Europe and the Indo-Pacific for the sake of stability, security and prosperity of all the countries concerned. Moreover, thanks also to the Indian support, Italy has recently joined the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) as a dialogue partner. Again, our purpose is investing in the blue economy sector and fostering a stronger cooperation between the Mediterranean and the Indian Ocean.Bilaterally, we have achieved very important results: Over 15 agreements were signed on the occasion of the virtual summit to further enhance our economic, cultural and scientific ties. Some of the agreements are in the defence industry sector. In particular, our national champion in shipbuilding, Fincantieri, signed two MoUs with Cochin Shipyard Ltd on design, shipbuilding, manufacturing and repair/refit. We are also focusing efforts in the field of aerospace, defence and security to explore joint productions or technology transfer.As far as our economic relations are concerned, we are very aware that the Make in India programme opens many opportunities to Italian companies. There is a strong potential to further strengthen our economic relations and promote investments both ways. This was clearly acknowledged also in the High Level Economic Dialogue at the level of CEOs that was held at the end of October, prior to the summit. With the joint declaration and action plan, we laid before us the basis of our strategic partnership for the next five years and we are looking forward to working with our Indian friends to deliver on what has been agreed among our prime ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/from-multilateralism-to-indo-pacific-india-and-italy-deepen-bonds/story-RIUODAiHgphpQMgqqhFzYO.html
12-11-2020||News||Modi and the politics of welfare||Coming into the Bihar election, most analysts predicted a one-sided victory for the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). While the exit polls predicting an NDA loss turned out to be wrong, the NDA’s razor-thin victory proved a surprise. We have now heard all of the narratives about the weak performance of the NDA. Chief minister Nitish Kumar was facing “anti-incumbency.” Rebels from Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) ate into an otherwise comfortable victory. Tejashwi Yadav struck a chord with the electorate.These are all, at some level, accurate portrayals of what happened in Bihar, but they are also excessively local explanations. An over-reliance on these sorts of explanations masks the changes we are seeing across the Indian electoral system. In the 2019 national election, the NDA won 53% of Bihar’s vote. In the recently-concluded state election, the NDA (admittedly minus the LJP) won around 37% of the vote. This continues a trend of the NDA performing at least 15 percentage points worse in state elections as compared to the 2019 national election — something witnessed in Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan, where elections have happened either before or after the national polls. What explains this disjuncture? Why are voters increasingly choosing opposing parties in state and national elections (what political scientists call “split ticket voting”)?In a recent article written with my Centre for Policy Research colleague Yamini Aiyar, we have analysed the reasons for split-ticket voting. We boil it down to two conditions. One, voters must be able to separate what is given by the Centre and what is given by the state. And two, voters must distinguish between regional and national preferences. This is what allows a voter to support Narendra Modi at the Centre while supporting his political rival at the state level.While these are characteristics describing when split-ticket voting occurs, we need a theoretical model to understand why this has suddenly happened in India. In another article, I have argued that we need to understand the appeal of Prime Minister Modi through the prism of “vishwas” (trust/belief). There are three elements to this argument. First, voters have become increasingly frustrated with federal “accommodation” along multiple axes — whether it be between castes, between Hindus and Muslims, or between states — generating a demand for greater centralisation. Second, to bypass the institutional procedures of compromise, voters must place their faith in a leader (Modi in this case) to “represent” or make decisions for the nation as a whole. And, third, the political machinery, through advertising around central schemes and innovative use of media, must build a direct connection between Modi and the voter.Indeed, as Rajeshwari Deshpande, Louise Tillin, and KK Kailash have argued, voters have increasingly attributed welfare schemes to Modi and not their state leaders (as has often been the case). This phenomenon is perhaps best explained by the fact that welfare under the NDA is certainly louder than the United Progressive Alliance and this has kept the bureaucracy more alert.How does this hurt state-level leaders aligned with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)? As attribution for welfare schemes have increasingly been given to Modi, the political appeal of state leaders and their welfare delivery has all but disappeared — leaving voters to stew about corruption and joblessness. Indeed, a quick look at recent elections shows that chief ministers such as Shivraj Singh Chouhan in Madhya Pradesh, Raman Singh in Chhattisgarh, and Nitish Kumar in Bihar — all aligned with the BJP, directly or in alliance, who built their reputations on broad-based welfare schemes — have been hit hard by “anti-incumbency” and voter anger. These are all CMs who no longer command much of an “independent” base of support beyond Modi, with one key exception being Yogi Adityanath in Uttar Pradesh.Nowhere is this phenomenon more evident than in “coronavirus politics”. In principle, India’s crippling lockdown should have hurt both the ruling party at the Centre, BJP, and the ruling parties in Bihar, Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) and BJP. But the BJP’s immense popularity stayed largely intact with 67% strike rate in these elections by campaigning on the personage of Modi, while the JD(U) had a paltry 37% strike rate. We have a data point here. As a Hindustan Times analysis piece showed, districts in which Modi addressed a rally had a strike rate of four to 12 percentage points higher in the final two phases of the Bihar election. In short, voters approved of Modi for his ability to protect Indians, and punished Nitish Kumar for his failure to protect them. The strike rate for the JD(U) dropped to 27% in constituencies in districts with higher proportions of male migrants.The sheer popularity of Modi, and the “vishwas” that voters have placed in him, has changed the way the state-level leaders must do politics. No longer can they simply rely on state funds to curry favour with voters by using high social and development expenditure. In a strange twist of fate, no one is feeling the pinch more than state leaders allied with the BJP and Modi.Neelanjan Sircar is an assistant professor at Ashoka University and a senior visiting fellow at the Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/modi-and-the-politics-of-welfare/story-KrGDMo7rXYwWGhdZJK79gJ.html
