18-11-2020||News||China wants a reset with Biden, but won’t change its approach||There has been much debate about why China was slow to acknowledge Joe Biden’s election victory. It took nearly a week after Biden’s victory speech for China’s foreign ministry to issue formal congratulations. Xi Jinping is among the few world leaders who still hasn’t spoken to Biden. Despite that, Beijing has been watching the unfolding political drama in the United States (US) with a sense of cautious optimism.This mood is a product of a few factors. First, Donald Trump will remain President till January 20. There is enough belief in Beijing that tougher steps on China could be part of Trump’s last act. For instance, as the election was unfolding, the State Department removed the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a group that China blames for terrorism in Xinjiang, from its list of designated terrorist groups. This was followed by an executive order prohibiting American companies and individuals from investing in select Chinese companies identified as enabling the People’s Liberation Army. Trump’s commerce department is reportedly preparing harsher measures against China. Beijing also expects tougher action on human rights issues.Second, China’s official narrative throughout the pandemic has been about criticising the “evil intentions” and political motivations of some American politicians and officials, while emphasising China’s systemic strengths. This suggests there has been hope that political change in the US could help reset the relationship. But there also seems to be an acknowledgement that there is a bipartisan consensus in the US over competition with China. This is reflected in repeated polls of public and elite perceptions in the US. Writing in June, senior Chinese diplomat Fu Ying was clear. “The US has never given up its intent to overthrow the socialist system led by the Communist Party,” she argued, underscoring that Washington’s policies and rhetoric had only reaffirmed this belief. Biden inherits not just Trump’s China policies but also this prevailing political sentiment.This leads to the third factor. Biden will take charge at a time when the political divide in the US is deeper than ever. Even in defeat, Trump garnered over 72 million votes. That’s more than Barack Obama’s historic 2008 tally. To some in Beijing, Trump’s popularity and contestation of the results represent the “degradation” of the US system. For others, the tumult has strengthened the belief that the US is a waning power, which is likely to continue to pursue a confrontational China policy. There’s also a sense that Biden will undo some of Trump’s policies when it comes to multilateral trade, the climate crisis, and international institutions. These could create opportunities for cooperation but also present complex, new challenges.Moreover, there’s a belief that Biden will repair ties and coordinate China policy with traditional US allies. For instance, he reportedly told Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga that the security of the Senkaku Islands would fall under the ambit of their security alliance. European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell, meanwhile, was quick to call for cooperation with Biden’s team to craft a “coherent and robust China stance”. Little wonder then that Mei Xinyu, a researcher at China’s commerce ministry, cautioned his WeChat followers that Biden’s win might not be a win for China. None of this will be straightforward though. US allies and partners have a complex set of interests that bind them to China and have been timid on human rights issues.So what’s China done while waiting and watching? Primarily, it has doubled down on its chosen trajectory, girding up for future challenges. As votes were being counted in the US, the Communist Party unveiled new development plans. These reaffirmed its ideological positioning, Xi’s leadership, the need for self-reliance in innovation, and urgency of military modernisation. Beijing also deepened control over Hong Kong. There is little self-reflection that Beijing’s policies have and continue to contribute to external hostility. In essence, China views a reset with Biden as welcome, but is unlikely to change its policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/china-wants-a-reset-with-biden-but-won-t-change-its-approach/story-DxLfYpjXnXfZawCh3mBDcL.html
18-11-2020||News||Al Qaeda is battered, but don’t rejoice yet||Over the past few weeks, amid the global chaos of the Covid-19 pandemic and the United States (US) elections, a series of events reportedly eliminated a major section of al Qaeda’s top leadership. The terror group was founded by the once most-wanted man on earth, Osama bin Laden, who was killed at Abbottabad, Pakistan, in a US raid in 2011. According to a yet-uncorroborated claim, al Qaeda’s chief, Egypt-born Aymen al-Zawahiri, who took over after bin Laden, passed away two months ago from natural causes. Reports also surfaced that one of his closest aides, Abu Mohammed al-Masri, was killed in Tehran, Iran, where he was living under a false identity, purportedly by an Israeli hit squad in August. Prior to al-Masri and Zawahiri, bin Laden’s son, Hamza bin Laden, who was being groomed to take over the group, was killed in a US operation in 2019. Late last month, another senior al-Qaeda leader, Hussam Abdur Rauf, head of the group’s media operations, was killed by Afghan forces in Taliban-controlled territories. Only one senior al-Qaeda leader’s name is being discussed as a replacement for Zawahiri after al-Masri’s killing, and that is of Saif al-Adel, also from Egypt. After 19 years of the US war against terror, the past few years have been comparatively successful in decimating figures in the al Qaeda leadership, starting with Osama bin Laden himself, arguably fragmenting structures and hierarchies. Like any other organisation, jihadist groups are equally, if not more, prone to internal strife around power, ideology and control. The killing of al Qaeda leaders has now sparked a debate on what the future holds for the once-feared terror group, a reputation overtaken by the threat posed by the so-called Islamic State (IS) today. While some argue that an imminent disintegration of al Qaeda after Zawahiri may be on the cards, there are other more radical ideas like that of a potential merger between IS and al Qaeda. Under Zawahiri, al Qaeda was often seen as a bureaucratic, old-school and somewhat stoic jihadist movement, especially in comparison to IS, which took over much of the narrative, threat and global attention since 2014 with its pace. It became synonymous with deadly levels of violence, control of territory and robust online propaganda which attracted hundreds of foreigners, including a few from India. In comparison, Zawahiri, known for his dense monologues, was seen as too bookish to attract a new breed of jihadists. Arguably, the last al Qaeda leader, along with bin Laden, who was charismatic was Anwar al-Awlaki, killed in 2011 in Yemen. His lectures on Islam that were narrated with great script and panache still find many takers today. The idea behind a merger of IS and al Qaeda comes from the fact that the secession of al Qaeda in Iraq from al-Qaeda Central created ISIS. Ideologue Abu Musab al-Zarqawi had then fallen out with bin Laden and gone his own way, along with Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who as IS chief, was killed last year. However, today, al Qaeda is arguably playing second fiddle to IS as it hangs on to its legacy. IS is able to make continuous claims of attacks across geographies, from Afghanistan to the African Sahel and Europe to Sri Lanka. Meanwhile, al Qaeda appears destined to hide behind the protection of the Taliban in Afghanistan, which itself is negotiating with the US, and theoretically could throw al-Qaeda under the bus or puppeteer it significantly to achieve its larger political aims that start and end with Afghan territory. However, it would be a mistake to write off al Qaeda just yet. The group has proved its penchant for survival over the years. The fact that it has seemingly managed to cut a deal for safe haven in Iran, the seat of Shia Islam, as a Sunni insurgency, speaks volumes for the prevalence of broader geopolitical interests over sectarian fissures. Also, it must not be forgotten that the argument of depleted hierarchy today also applies to IS, whose new leadership remains largely nameless and faceless. Nonetheless, a significantly depleted al Qaeda in a post-Zawahiri era may be a welcome enough development. This, however, does not change the fact that as a group it remains much more grounded for a long-haul return if more structural concerns in global counter-terror thinking and policies are not addressed over time. Where IS came from is a good enough reason to not underestimate the fact that even in jihadist groups, it is often that the tortoise that eventually wins the race while the hare gets most of the attention before its eventual downfall. Kabir Taneja is Fellow, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation. He is the author of The ISIS Peril: The World’s Most Feared Terror Group and its Shadow on South Asia The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/al-qaeda-is-battered-but-don-t-rejoice-yet/story-jbNi1bNAcEQv5YqyRWzibK.html
18-11-2020||News||Soumitra Chatterjee: An extraordinary star rooted in the ordinary||When Soumitra Chatterjee passed away, actress Aparna Sen lamented that “Bengal’s cultural sky had lost its brightest star”. As actor, writer, poet, playwright, painter and elocutionist, Chatterjee was an artist extraordinaire. His readings and recitations brought Bengali literary accomplishments closer to the people while his films over the last six decades became the warp and weave of our lives. When he was taken to the hospital, Chatterjee was working in a film, ironically about his own life. At 23, Chatterjee had made his debut in Satyajit Ray’s Apur Sansar (1959), the concluding film of the famous Apu Trilogy. He had been considered for Apu’s role in Aparajito (1954) but had looked older than the part. So Chatterjee joined the search for a younger Apu. He would later learn that Ray had already started planning the third film because he had found his adult Apu. Thus began the Ray-Chatterjee collaboration of world classics such as Teen Kanya (1961), Abhijan (1962), Charulata (1964), Aranyer Din Ratri (1970) Asani Sanket (1973) and Ghare Baire (1984). The widely-divergent protagonists that Chatterjee played in these films were much acclaimed, but his most popular role was as Pheluda, Ray’s fictional detective, in Sonar Kella (1974) and Joi Baba Phelunath (1978). As we devoured the books as young adults, we wondered whether Ray would ever make a Pheluda film and if he did, who would play the sleuth? One day, Chatterjee walked into Ray’s house to find that the filmmaker was making an illustration of Pheluda. Curious to know who would play the part, and perhaps hoping against hope, Chatterjee remarked that Pheluda resembled Ray who replied, “Oh, I thought he looks like you.” Chatterjee maintained that Pheluda — quick, intelligent and encyclopedic in knowledge — was Ray’s secret self. In the 1960s, when Chatterjee was acting in Ray films that were travelling to film festivals across the world, he was also Bengal’s rising popular star. Some of his best films during the decade included Tapan Sinha’s Khudita Pashan (1960) and Jhinder Bandi (1961), an adaptation of The Prisoner of Zenda; Ajoy Kar’s Saat Pake Bandha (1963), Barnali (1963) Kanch Kata Hire (1964), Parineeta (1969) and Mrinal Sen’s Akash Kusum (1965). With Tanuja as his heroine, he acted in Teen Bhubaner Pare (Ashutosh Bandhopadhyay, 1969) with its hit song “Jibone ki Pabona” (“Will I Never get in Life…”). That Chatterjee, in just one decade, should have acted in such a diversity of memorable films is enough for him to be conferred the title of “Mahanayak”, the great hero, along with Uttam Kumar. Influenced by Ray, Chatterjee introduced an understated style of acting in popular Bengali films. He made a break with the dramatic and stylised acting that Suchitra Sen had made her hallmark. Nor did he subscribe to Uttam Kumar and Suchitra Sen’s notion of stardom. With great affection, both stars would advise Chatterjee not to make himself so easily accessible as stars needed to cultivate a mystery around them. But Chatterjee’s stardom was extraordinary in that it was rooted in the ordinary. He played characters that lived close to our lives. Shyam Benegal had identified this as the actor’s special talent; his ability to become someone recognisable, thereby offering to the audience an extraordinarily intimate level of identification. Chatterjee often reflected on the idea of death as the only inevitability of life. He spoke of the gradual debilitation of the body and the existential wonder that was death. Someone had asked him, what would you do in another life? His first instinct was to choose this life again. But then he decided that he would choose what he could not do in this life. During an interview, Chatterjee recounted this conversation and concluded: “I will be happy to just play with water, earth and air.” Those of us whose lives were enriched by living under the same sky as him, will no doubt feel the presence of Soumitra Chatterjee around us — in water, earth and air. Shohini Ghosh is Sajjad Zaheer Professor, AJK Mass Communication Research Centre, Jamia Millia Islamia The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/soumitra-chatterjee-an-extraordinary-star-rooted-in-the-ordinary/story-dygaqW87nYJwonDzjzNGdM.html
18-11-2020||News||The purpose of TV media measurement||Over a month after the story about mischief in television ratings broke, we are still in a lather about Television Rating Points (TRPs), bar-o-meters and the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC). Let us, instead, look beyond the measurement system and deal with what people actually do with the petabytes of data which BARC publishes. Over 500 channels are licensed by the ministry of information and broadcasting. In addition, there are, at least, an equal number of services offered by distribution platforms. Typically labelled value-added services, they cover everything from classic cinema, specific genres of music, health and wellness, real estate, personal finance and, increasingly, education. These services are usually advertising-free and, given that they operate within the Distribution Service Operator (DSO)’s subscription-based walled garden, they are entirely outside BARC’s measurement.Licence rules allow broadcasters to utilise no more than 12 minutes of advertising inventory or 24 spots of 30 seconds per hour. This norm is routinely violated. About 16 hours per day, from 7 am to 11 pm, is considered saleable; overnight inventories are often given to telemarketing slots. Thus, a channel can sell 192 minutes of inventory or 384 spots per day. This is 192,000 saleable spots per day across 500 channels. When a brand decides to buy television inventory for a campaign, it begins with two objectives: One, reach, which is a minimum proportion of the target audience which must be exposed to the campaign; two, frequency, or the number of times a member of the target audience will be exposed to it. Given that audiences are scattered across such a wide raft of choices, both these objectives require buying lots of spots. Typical plans, for even small brands with modest objectives, will run across dozens of spots, across many channels. National fast moving consumer goods brands run thousands of spots in a single campaign period.To invoke a metaphor, a regular-sized grape weighs five gm. That’s about 200 grapes per kilo, though it is never that many, because the twigs and stems make up around 10% of the weight. So, you get about 180 grapes per kg. How do you buy them? This is what I do. Pick one off the bunch, rub it on my shirt to get the superficial dirt off and check how sweet or tart it is. Check that there are no overripe or damaged grapes. Pick a bunch and ask the vendor to weigh it. There is no practical way of checking every single grape, is there? When you get back home, you will usually find that there will be the odd offending article which missed scrutiny. But that does no discredit to your purchase.This, more or less, is how television inventory is also bought. When you procure hundreds, or thousands, of spots, it is impossible to tell if some of them will fail to deliver with your audience. Media plans, like grape-buying, work on averages. And the empirical fact, that those 192,000 spots are usually sold out most days, suggests that plans deliver reach and frequency as planned and procured.So how does television inventory transaction work?. Television stations sell advertising inventory in three modes. One, fixed spots where an advertisement will appear on a specific programme at a specific time on a specific day. Two, run of day part (RODP) where an ad will appear within a time band. This could be morning, afternoon, evening or night. Three, run of schedule (ROS) when the ad will appear on the channel at a time and day of the broadcaster’s choice.Fixed spots are expensive. ROS on the same channel is deeply discounted. Most media procurement, and this is true across all genres of content, is done on an RODP or ROS basis. In the news genre, for instance, even the leading players sell as much as three-fourths of their inventory on these terms of trade. (Anyone outside the top 10 sells almost exclusively on effective rate ER — a global average of all pricing on the entire inventory).How, then, do media planners know what the buy will secure, in terms of reach or frequency? Because they use averages across the day, or even week, to pick their media choices. Indeed, when the rubber hits the road, it devolves further. A range of channels within a given genre is identified, all of which meet threshold standards on audience profile and impressions delivered. After this, the buyer, usually different from the planner, and far more hard-nosed, gets down to the business of ruthless negotiation. The buyer is not put off if a specific channel is intransigent; there is always another, more pliant one, waiting. So, here’s what is happening. BARC is actually trying to measure the weight of every individual grape. But, by the time they change hands, buyers and sellers are only interested in their average weight, sweetness, tartness and colour, across single transactions which account for quintals. Media measurement plays many useful roles in the lives of all stakeholders. However, it should be abundantly clear that the single-most important application is in pricing advertising inventory. For which, a system which did nothing more than give weekly averages of reach and frequency, by channel, would not perform much worse than the level of detail which is on offer at this time.If you are furious with this suggestion, the next time you buy a kilo of sabudana, check each of the grains individually. Paritosh Joshi is a media professional with a keen interest in audience measurementThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-purpose-of-tv-media-measurement/story-TRoV85ch218S0cffSnQ4ZP.html
