20-11-2020||News||Pakistan: Where fact and fiction come together||Lt General (retd) Asad Durrani, who headed Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) in the early 1990s, is no stranger to controversy. Two years ago, along with AS Dulat, chief of the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) in late 1990s, he co-authored The Spy Chronicles: RAW, ISI and The Illusion of Peace. The slim volume, based on their conversations on the Track II circuit (he describes this as a circus), covered India-Pakistan relations, Kashmir and cross-border terrorism, and got him into trouble in Pakistan. The ISI hauled him over the coals, a court of enquiry suspended his pension and other retirement benefits and he was barred from leaving the country. He has since been pursuing lawsuits to get his entitlements restored.He has authored a novel, Honour Among Spies that describes the travails of a Pakistani Lt General Osama Barakzai (Zirak branch of the Durrani tribe) who gets into trouble with his parent organisation (Guards) ostensibly for co-authoring a book with Indian ex-spy chief Randhir Singh. However, as he plays cat and mouse with his interrogators and engages in verbal duelling with colleagues from the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and MI6, Osama finds other plausible reasons for his troubles, pointing the spotlight at the establishment (a popular euphemism for the Army and ISI). Despite the disclaimer that “though inspired by some real events, this is a work of fiction”, such a book would be explosive at any time in Pakistan. But appearing as the domestic political scene heats up for Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan, Durrani may find that he has more than a bestseller on his hands. Fiction: Osama Barakzai was appointed to head the Intelligence outfit in the Guards by the Chief Akram Moghul in 1990. Both came under a cloud in a case filed by Admiral Khan for using Yousaf Haseeb, a banker, for channelling slush funds to Naveen Shaikh to dislodge the incumbent woman PM. Part of the money is unaccounted for and Barakzai points the finger at Moghul who feels vengeful. The case lingers on through Pakistan’s courts and the current tribal chief, Jabbar Jatt, shares a sub-tribal loyalty with Moghul. He had been appointed by Naveen Shaikh (in power from 2013-17) but since switched loyalties to Khurshid Kadri.Another thread in Barakzai’s ruminations leads to the female terrorist mastermind, Uzma bint Laden, who was living incognito in Jacobabad and killed in 2011 in a daring raid by United States (US) Navy Seals. Barakzai, who had long retired, and, after a couple of diplomatic assignments, is now active on the conference circuit and a sought-after commentator on TV channels, suggests on BBC about the possibility of complicity between the Guards and the US agency. The story passes as it absolves the Guards (under then Chief Raja Rasalu) of incompetence that they were unable to detect the incoming raid. The problem resurfaces as US investigative journalist Simon Hirsh uncovers a Pakistani mole, Baqar Bhatti, who had walked into the US embassy to inform them about the fugitive, indicating collusion. Adding to this mix is the tricky relationship with India with the Narendra Modi government’s assertive policy of surgical strikes after Uri, the air strike at Balakot after the Pulwama attack and conversations between Barakzai and Randhir Singh to keep alive the hopes of the composite dialogue initiated by former Indian PM KL Gujjar and pursued by the opening up of Sardarpur shrine. Fact: Lt Gen Durrani was DG (MI) and Gen Mirza Aslam Beg appointed him DG(ISI) in 1990. Both were interrogated in the case filed in 1996 by late Air Marshal Asghar Khan, accusing the Army of funding Nawaz Sharif in the 1990 elections against Benazir Bhutto through Younis Habib, CEO of Mehran Bank. General Beg and current chief General Qamar Bajwa both belong to 16 Baloch regiment. Durrani has been critical of General Pervez Musharraf’s role in the Kargil war (described as the Pir Panjal pass fiasco where Gen Gulrez Shahrukh keeps PM Naveen Shaikh in the dark). In 2011, Durrani told BBC that the Pakistani authorities probably knew about Osama bin Laden hiding in Abbottabad but would have preferred to be blamed for incompetence rather than complicity. Seymour Hersh’s disclosures in 2015 confirmed this, pointing at Gen Ashfaq Kayani and identifying the Pakistani informant as Brig Usman Khalid, subsequently resettled in the US.Enough parallels to whet any conspiracy theorist’s appetite.A strange reality: Nawaz Sharif may have begun his political career with the blessings of the establishment but differences grew after Kargil and Musharraf’s coup in 1999. After returning to power in 2013, Sharif pressed treason charges against Musharraf. The Army was unhappy, Panamagate took its toll and Sharif was ousted in 2017, jailed, and has been in exile for a year. He has mounted a no-holds-barred attack on the selected PM Imran Khan and the selectors, General Bajwa and the ISI chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, holding them responsible for his ouster. An Opposition front of 11 parties, combining Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) under Bilawal Bhutto and Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) under Maryam Sharif, led by veteran Maulana Fazlur Rehman who was close to the Army but currently unhappy, has begun a series of protest rallies last month culminating in Islamabad next month. It is a re-run of the process that ousted Sharif in 2017 with Imran Khan and the Maulana in the lead, with the tacit backing of the establishment. Last year, Bajwa managed a three-year extension from Imran Khan, causing rumblings within the army. Into this mix comes a thinly-disguised novel calling out those manipulating democratic politics and hinting at internal differences within the establishment. Only time will tell if Barakzai will reappear in a sequel — Honour Restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/pakistan-where-fact-and-fiction-come-together/story-aTjnDopqymiFZjbcEleVVK.html
20-11-2020||News||Regional parties fail to cross the final poll hurdle||The current moment in Indian politics masks an interesting paradox. Nationally, the Opposition seems to be in the shadows and has failed to politically mobilise citizens on key issues. Yet, in state elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is increasingly facing challenges. For example, a few months ago, it was considered safe to bet on the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) sweeping the Bihar assembly elections, but eventually, the alliance had to fight hard to retain power.What explains this paradox? The problem lies essentially in our perspective, in which the Congress, despite its diminished stature, seems like the natural opposition to the BJP. And the current disarray in the Congress forces many to think that the Opposition is not in a position to challenge the BJP’s growing dominance. Additionally, as the BJP under Narendra Modi, in its agenda-setting mode, makes swift moves to create one wedge after the other, the ideological confusion in the Congress only becomes further magnified. This image then gets reinforced by the BJP’s superior control over information channels and its narrative-setting prowess.State-level parties, on the other hand, seem to have developed a clear template to challenge the BJP juggernaut in their respective strongholds — highlight local issues; challenge NDA’s state-level leadership; avoid walking into the trap on national issues, particularly religion and national security; and stay clear of direct attacks on Modi. And the results are there for everyone to see in assembly elections held since 2019. While, in many instances, these state-level players such as Jannayank Janata Party (JJP) in Haryana, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Delhi, the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) in Jharkhand, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Bihar have managed to put the brakes on the BJP’s expansionist impulses, the party continues to occupy the pre-eminent position, even in these states.Why are these state-level parties finding it hard to cross the finish line? And how long can they survive the BJP’s hegemonic ambitions?First, most state-level parties in the past decade have undergone a generational transition — Akhilesh Yadav took full control of the Samajwadi Party in 2017, Tejashwi Yadav ran the 2020 Bihar campaign, Dushyant Chautala formed an independent party, Uddhav Thackeray heads the Shiv Sena, Sukhbir Badal is the president of the Akali Dal and MK Stalin controls the Dravida Munnetra Kazagham. The patriarchs of many of these formations are now either deceased or in retirement due to ill-health. Ironically, Modi’s rise has coincided with the fading away of regional stalwarts such as Mulayam Singh, Lalu Prasad , Karunanidhi, and HD Deve Gowda. In their heydays, these leaders would have made every possible effort to check the rise of the BJP as an unparalleled election machine in their respective states.The new leadership of these parties is drawn exclusively from political families and thus carries the baggage of past records. This offers the BJP a potent mobilisational plank on a platter by emphasising the ills of dynastic politics. Modi also has an uncanny ability to leverage political contradictions, which means these leaders must show immense political skill, acumen, and patience. And this is not easy for politicians who have not risen through ranks learning the art of survival.Second, many of the regional parties began their journey by mobilising large voting blocks of backward classes and Dalits. Their own failure to share power and patronage outside their specific jatis led to disenchantment among other castes supporting them, resulted in a fragmentation of political space. For example, in the 2020 Bihar elections, three separate parties were exclusively banking on Dalit voters — Bahujan Samaj Party, Lok Janshakti Party, and Hindustani Awam Morcha, and there were at least four separate claimants to the backward caste voters: The RJD was wooing Yadavs, Vikassheel Insaan Party was wooing Nishads, Janata Dal(United) was targeting Kurmis, and Extremely Backward Classes (EBCs), and Upendra Kushwaha was focusing on Koeris. This underrepresentation of smaller castes in these parties also gives the BJP an opportunity to create a social coalition of extremes on the ground and with its own upper-caste base solidly behind the party, it enters the competition with an advantage. The possibility of the rise of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen in states with a significant Muslim population post-Bihar is going to further dent the base of these regional outfits who have relied heavily on Muslim votes thus far.Third, the rhetoric of Congress-mukt Bharat created an impression that the primary target of the BJP’s expansionist impulse is only the Congress. This got further reinforced by the fact that state-level parties outside UP and Bihar managed to largely keep their bastions safe. But the BJP did not lose sight of rural elites who largely support these state-level formations. It slowly worked towards undercutting the political economy base of these parties. The various reform bills related to the farm sector, education, labour, and land are likely to severely affect the power base of these parties. This was a strategy deployed in other states too, with the Devendra Fadnavis government using various means to weaken the NCP’s control over cooperatives banks and sugar mills in Maharashtra when it was in power and the Yogi Adityanath government going after the likes of Mukhtar Ansari, Sunder Bhati, Raja Bhaiya, and Atique Ahmed — all of whom mobilise resources and votes for state-level parties in UP.In conclusion, state-level parties often had controlling stakes in ruling coalitions and influenced policymaking. And it is likely that in the BJP-dominant system, the bargaining power of these parties will be on the wane. However, given the civilisational diversity of India, political entrepreneurs will continue to populate the competitive landscape. The assembly elections in five states where regional outfits are an important force — Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal — next year will determine the nature of Indian federalism in the years to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/regional-parties-fail-to-cross-the-final-poll-hurdle/story-3QaeB4BQe7PfaTDnzGR3hO.html
20-11-2020||News||Devise an India-specific Covid vaccination plan||With the possibility that several vaccines will be available soon, it is now essential to develop and disseminate a Covid-19 vaccine allocation plan. Those in India infected with Sars-CoV-2 are likely to have developed some form of immunity. Judging by studies around the country that have found under 50% seroprevalence, however, more than half the population remains susceptible to Covid-19. Even at optimistic estimates of production capacity (60 million doses/month), it will take a minimum of a year to produce enough doses for every individual at risk. Some vaccines may require multiple doses, which compounds the problem. Then, there are the challenges of storage and distribution which could cause further delays. It is tempting to look abroad for guidance on how to prioritise groups for vaccination. After all, many of the vaccines India may use are being developed abroad. While we have some things in common with other countries, there are several ways in which India differs which make it critical that we develop our own strategy.Let us examine the common features. First, all countries will prioritise health care workers employed in the Covid-19 response. Likewise, we are likely to prioritise other frontline workers and leadership, so that policy decisions are made and implemented that will keep the pandemic at bay until every susceptible person is vaccinated.However, the differences here are more stark. First, multiple serological studies suggest that India has a lower infection fatality rate than many countries. Second, some parts of the country have a much higher percentage of the population that has already been infected. Third, the poor have been disproportionately affected by suppression policies, even when compared to the poor in other countries. Fourth, India has unique difficulties with the distribution of medical treatment. These require us to develop a customised plan for India.So the question now is, after we immunise critical frontline workers and leadership, who should be vaccinated next. When trying to decide on this, we have to keep a few things in mind. First, any priority list the government develops should focus on factors that policymakers can implement easily. For instance, vaccinating those with co-morbidities, who are most at risk of death if infected, makes sense in theory. But it is hard to implement this plan in practice because the government cannot easily identify people’s co-morbidities. Instead, we should focus on location, demographic features, and possession of a ration card.Second, there are two major benefits of vaccination. One is the direct health benefit to the person being vaccinated, who is less likely to get infected and thus to die from Covid-19. This benefit suggests prioritising the people most vulnerable to infection and death going forward. The other is the indirect benefit to others who will not be infected by the person who is vaccinated. This benefit suggests prioritising those most vulnerable to infection and infecting others going forward. These two goals are not always aligned: The infected who are most likely to die are old, while those most likely to infect others may not be old. Third, calculating the direct benefits of vaccination involves a delicate balance. We want to identify groups that are most likely to get infected, but have not already been infected in the past. However, the groups that are most likely to get infected going forward are also likely to be immune, precisely because they were more likely to be infected in the past. It is possible to address this conundrum, but it requires careful statistical analysis.It might be tempting to think that a detailed analysis is not required, that vaccination should proceed from the oldest to the youngest. But that supposition would be wrong. Our analysis of mortality rates in Bihar and Mumbai suggests that individuals in their 80’s have lower mortality rates than those in their 70s (among males) or even 60s (among females). What we need is a vaccine allocation plan that will maximise the short-term health benefits for the country. Our top priority should be frontline workers and leadership that are critical to suppressing Covid-19 and vaccinating the population. After that, we should prioritise those who are not already immune and remain at high risk of death from the virus. This allocation should focus first on areas where the disease is spreading quickly, as those are the areas at greatest risk. Finally, we must continue surveillance efforts to ensure we have the most up-to-date information on areas of need when a vaccine finally becomes available.Over 0.1 million Indians have died from Covid-19 and this is far from over. A well-designed vaccination plan can reduce deaths by up to 70%. Given how much the country has sacrificed to slow the infection down, it is owed a carefully-planned – and customised – vaccine distribution plan. Anup Malani is professor, University of Chicago, and a senior fellow, IDFC Institute, writing on behalf of The Indian Covid Alliance (TICA) The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/devise-an-india-specific-covid-vaccination-plan/story-oVRwD2lv1XifvHO7OUQcqM.html
20-11-2020||News||Creating a robust and effective digital media regulatory mechanism||On November 9, the Centre amended the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961, and brought streaming video services such as Netflix, Amazon Prime and Hotstar, and news websites under the ambit of the ministry of information and broadcasting (I&B). There is one point of ambiguity, though, in the notification: The online content can be curated content (as provided by news portals or entities such as Netflix, Hotstar or Amazon), and also user-generated content. The words “providers” and “platforms” must be explained clearly to clarify whether both curated and user-generated content are covered under this notification. This will materially change the scope of the notification. The reactions to this notification from content providers have been adverse and display their apprehensions of an impending regulatory mechanism for online content. These fears do not appear to be well-founded, at least, for now. If, with the present arrangement of co-regulation, better and more innovative TV programmes are being curated, then why this fear? The notification only formalises the government’s decision that matters related to news, current affairs, films and audio-visual content online will be dealt with by I&B ministry. The fear that it will lead to censorship or a regulatory regime is perhaps fuelled by the fact that this notification has been issued after the Supreme Court (SC) sought the government’s response on how it plans to deal with objectionable online content. The industry is most probably under the impression that after creating this enabling provision, regulation will follow. Is this perception misconceived? Or does it contain some truth that the government intends to control online media content? An important indicator of the government’s thinking on this matter could be how it has dealt with content control on television channels, both news and non-news.The only content that is censored in India today is that of films. Television programmes are not pre-censored. What prevails today as far as TV content is concerned is something akin to co-regulation. While the I&B ministry retains the power to control content through the provisions of a programme code incorporated in the Cable Network Regulation Act, 1995, industry bodies — the Indian Broadcasting Foundation (IBF) and the News Broadcasters Association — have also set up their self-regulatory mechanisms. Both have programme codes and regulatory authorities. IBF set up Broadcast Content Complaints Council (BCCC) in 2011, while NBA set up News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) in 2008. While there is no formal acceptance of their codes, the I&B ministry has been forwarding complaints it has received to these bodies. It has increasingly ceded regulatory space to these bodies. The trust quotient between these bodies and the ministry has improved over these years.The world of online content is far more complex. Not only is it without boundaries, but the volume generated is enormous. Its nature is driven by the choices and decisions of viewers. Several layers of technology-aided safeguards can be provided to make sure that the content reaches only the intended viewers.Given the huge size and diversity of India’s entertainment sector, and the quantum of content created every day, setting up an apparatus that will monitor content online 24x7, analyse it, detect violations and initiate action against the violators will be a complex, time-consuming, controversial and expensive task. Its administrative cost may outweigh the gains. A better way would be to implement a rule-bound and transparent self-regulatory mechanism with government oversight. The government and industry must work out the modalities of a credible self-regulatory mechanism with a robust and practical code for content, a representative, inclusive and fair governance structure, and an effective enforcement mechanism. A huge regulatory structure just to monitor content and process the violations seem neither optimal nor prudent. Uday Kumar Varma is former secretary, I&B ministry The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/creating-a-robust-and-effective-digital-media-regulatory-mechanism/story-EzHxgQNO2cPjFTewZZHVWP.html
