24-11-2020||News||Becoming a court of all citizens||In 1944, at the height of the World War II, the best judge not appointed to the United States Supreme Court, Justice Learned Hand, was welcoming new citizens, who were taking the oath of citizenship. In a classic oration, which became famous as the Spirit of Liberty address, he told them: “Liberty lies in the hearts of men and women; when it dies there, no constitution, no law, no court can save it; no constitution, no law, no court can even do much to help it.”Earlier this year, Sadhana Ramachandran and I were appointed by the Supreme Court (SC) to be interlocutors for the protesters at Shaheen Bagh. The first day of the interlocution was very important. We would not have a second chance to make a good first impression. While talking to the protesters, we went prepared to talk to formidable grandmothers who had become the face of the movement. However, it was two young burkha-clad grand-daughters who made a significant impact.One of them said: “We are sitting here for our rights. Instead of acknowledging and clearing our doubts, we were defamed, maligned and abuses were hurled at us... The government should be ashamed.” She broke down and asked us: “It is being argued that people are facing inconvenience? Are we not the people of India? Is our inconvenience lesser than those who are unable to use the road? We are out on the road because the government is not listening to us. ...We are thankful to the court that they listened to us.” Referencing Justice Hand, I replied, “Liberty lies in the heart of men and women. Till we have youth like you who are out on the streets with the sacred book of Constitution in their hand, we will remain independent. I really appreciate your intellect and articulation”.My answer did much to break the ice with the crowd, who had made the Indian Constitution go viral on the streets. The national flag and the Constitution’s Preamble had become symbols of resistance against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Demonstrations, throughout India, had begun with recitations of the Preamble and then segued into flag marches with the Tricolour. While the virality of the Constitution and the fight for its values have currently been displaced from the streets by the Covid-19 pandemic, I suspect that the spirit of liberty has not been effaced from the hearts of Indian men and women. The Constitution is now a public scripture whose working interpretation is sanctified by public acclaim. It, is therefore, no surprise to me that SC’s reported disinclination to entertain Article 32 petitions has raised a furore.To be fair to the Chief Justice who articulated the proposition, there is nothing new that he has said. The court has traditionally not entertained Article 32 petitions, when effective alternative remedies are available. The court has preferred to direct petitioners to high courts (HCs), which have a wider jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. If HCs make an error, SC can always correct it, in appeal, but the converse is not possible. An error by SC, in its writ jurisdiction, is incapable of correction by any other court. Lastly, the exercise in the first instance by SC of its writ jurisdiction, in a case that should have gone to a HC, renders HCs otiose, in the enforcement of constitutional order. But even a right position, articulated at the wrong time, can be greatly misunderstood.In 1973, Justice SN Dwivedi observed in the Keshavananda Bharati case: “The Constitution is not intended to be the arena of legal quibbling for men with long purses. It is made for the common people. It should generally be so construed that they can understand and appreciate it.”Currently, SC’s restricted construing of Article 32 seems to run contrary to the temper of the times. In the past year, on the streets of India, its people have negated the grim foreboding expressed by Somnath Lahiri in the Constituent Assembly who felt that, “many of these fundamental rights have been framed from the point of view of a police constable”. According to him, every guaranteed right was negated by a proviso.A pandemic of rights having broken out, the constitutional courts cannot by proviso, take away an expectation of basic fairness. They cannot negate the promise of liberty and equality in the Constitution’s Preamble. Today the citizen is bewildered that while she can move the court, the court can remain still in her case, but move extremely speedily in respect of some others. Her confusion is worse when she is asked to remain in prison and secure bail, through a lengthy process of submission, while others triumphantly check out from prison, as if returning from a short, enforced vacation.If SC’s role as a protector of personal liberty is to mean anything at all, it must be equal in application when it comes to the aid of all citizens. It cannot look away from endless pre-trial detentions without any possibility of bail. It must be a court of all people and not only a court for people who matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/becoming-a-court-of-all-citizens/story-FyQPWlDJzcIIj0d3WNG2iN.html
24-11-2020||News||When China wanted to make peace with India||In April 1960, Zhou Enlai embarked on an ambitious diplomatic mission to India to attempt a resolution. Let us recall the context. The previous year, Sino-Soviet differences had come to the fore, ironically because Moscow publicly broke ranks with Beijing by taking a neutral position on the India-China dispute, and by the first half of 1960, Moscow had withdrawn its experts from China and suspended all economic contracts. The year 1959 had also witnessed two border skirmishes between India and China, including an especially nasty one in the western sector in Ladakh where nearly a dozen Indian security personnel were killed during a patrol in October.As a consequence, the Chinese had come under pressure, particularly from the Soviets. In a rather heated conversation between Nikita Khrushchev and Mao Zedong shortly after that skirmish, the Soviets came down hard on the Chinese for escalating the dispute:Mao Zedong: “Nehru also says that the events in Tibet occurred on our fault. Besides, in the Soviet Union they published a TASS declaration on the issue of conflict with India.”NS Khrushchev: “Do you really want us to approve of your conflict with India? It would be stupid on our part.”NS Khrushchev: “...If you allow him (Dalai Lama) an opportunity to flee to India, then what has Nehru to do with it? We believe that the events in Tibet are the fault of the Communist Party of China, not Nehru’s fault.”(After an intense exchange, Mao placates the Soviets and promises a peaceful settlement.)Mao Zedong: “You will see for yourselves later that the McMahon line with India will be maintained, and the border conflict with India will end...The border issue with India will be decided through negotiations.”It was in such a backdrop that Beijing made a decision in January 1960 to take a more pragmatic line on the dispute with India as well as other unresolved frontier disputes with neighbouring countries. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was also ordered to adopt a policy of restraint and avoid armed clashes. Mao sensed that China was facing a difficult international environment and, therefore, decided to seek a negotiated settlement.This basic sense of insecurity is reflected in a May 1959 Chinese note to India, which might have been personally drafted by Mao.“The enemy of the Chinese people lies in the east — the US imperialists have many military based in Taiwan, in South Korea, Japan and in the Philippines which are all directed against China. China’s main attention and policy to struggle are directed to the east, to the west Pacific region, to the vicious and aggressive US imperialism, and not to India or any other country in the southeast Asia and South Asia....our principal enemy is US imperialism...China will not be so foolish as to antagonize India in the west. Our Indian friends! What is [on] your mind? Will you be agreeing to our thinking regarding the view that China can only concentrate its main attention eastward of China, but not south-westwards of China, nor is it necessary for it to do so. Friends! It seems to us that you too cannot have two fronts. Is it not so? If it is, here then lies the meeting point of our two sides. Will you please think it over?”But Jawaharlal Nehru felt this Chinese telegram had been “discourteous” and he rebuffed the implied suggestion to stabilise the crisis with China. Foreign minister Chen Yi was equally candid when he shared Chinese threat perceptions to Swaran Singh in April 1960. Chen candidly admitted, “Our relations with the US and Japan in the east are tense. It would be stupid if we created a tense situation with India in the west also. The USA has its bases around us, atomic missiles and atomic weapons around us. Our dispute with India is very small...We are in a serious situation and need your friendship...The situation in the east being so tense we cannot afford to have trouble in the west also...If two ordinary countries are negotiating, they do not expose their difficulties to each other. (But) I am telling you about our difficulties... It would be best if we could reach some overall settlement, but if that is not possible some interim arrangement could be made.”Zhou’s Delhi visit was an outcome of Beijing’s policy to defuse tensions and arrest a worsening of its geopolitical environment. In his meeting with Nehru, Zhou explicitly offered that the Line of Actual Control could form the basis of a settlement. But, for India, how could there be any swapping of claims or “horse trading”, as Nehru put it, if all the territory, whether Arunachal Pradesh in the east or Aksai Chin in the west, were Indian?India spurned overtures from China between 1959 and 1960 to reach an amicable settlement. More importantly, policymakers misread India’s relative position in the changing international environment. This proved costly with India sleepwalking into conflict with a radicalised Mao in 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/when-china-wanted-to-make-peace-with-india/story-znFcztwvbq1QvKYM4dBUjI.html
24-11-2020||News||Tarun Gogoi: The man who brought peace and growth to Assam||One of the first things that struck anyone who met Tarun Gogoi, whether in or out of power, was his smile. But behind that beaming exterior was an astute political mind and a strong will. Gogoi, who came up the ranks of the Congress, had a finger on the public pulse.He was all that we know — a three-term chief minister (successive terms and the longest-serving), a six-term Member of Parliament, a minister in Delhi, who held the posts of Congress joint secretary at the national level and was the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee chief before leading the party to victory in the 2001 state elections. But there was much more to Gogoi — a family man who treasured his private moments and valued friendships, but who also believed till the end in dialogue, political respect, and protecting vulnerable groups, whether minority or otherwise. He enjoyed playing the dhulia (drummer) at Bihu festivals.Some vignettes may help draw a portrait of a complex man who brought peace and stability to Assam after a traumatic period of bloodshed, fear and uncertainty. Like many political leaders, Gogoi thought he knew the answers to most of the problems, but he was always open to new perspectives and suggestions.Soon after he became CM for the first time in 2001, Gogoi was intrigued by the idea of extending the Sixth Schedule to the Bodo areas in the Brahmaputra Valley. A sub-committee was set-up to review the schedule under the Constitution Review Commission, headed by Justice Manepalli Narayana Rao Venkatachaliah during Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s tenure. The group recommended exploring the possibility of extending the provisions, which had till then been limited to the protection of the rights of hill tribes in Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram, and Tripura, to the plains. The report was sent to Gogoi. Later, legal experts and officials worked on the idea to design the Bodo Territorial Council. The plan was to build and expand peace, development and dialogue.Today, not many young people in Assam will remember the traumatic times of the late 1990s and early part of the first decade of this century: An embracing sense of fear, marked by insurgent strikes, ethnic clashes, and bomb blasts ruled. This was heightened by the presence of armed police, paramilitary and army troops on patrol and at checkpoints where vehicles were stopped and searched even in cities such as Guwahati.“People don’t remember the bad days when Guwahati shut down at dusk. Now see, the cinemas are having night shows; if people feel safe, they will go out, and that’s what we’ve been able to do,” Gogoi once said.He cracked down on insurgents yet kept the doors open for dialogue. He took advantage of public fatigue and resentment against the violence that people felt was preventing Assam from taking its place in the national economy. Gogoi helped the state recover and then grow. He had the ear of Sonia Gandhi and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. As a grassroots politician and one who also worked at the policy level, Gogoi knew that the region and India gained from Assam’s stability. His state, the biggest in the Northeast, was the pivot for peace and growth. In his view, the two were inseparable.During his long-and-illustrious political career, Gogoi faced significant political challenges and endured many failures. He could shake off the jousting with former chief minister Hiteswar Saikia only after the latter’s demise. The second was his falling out with his one-time close confidant and energetic health minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, over a range of reasons, not least being the Congress leadership’s inability to respond to Sarma’s concerns. It was a colossal miscalculation. Sarma joined the Bharatiya Janata Party and, with Sarbanada Sonowal, led the saffron party to a victory in the 2016 elections. This has transformed the Northeast’s political map and reduced the once-powerful Congress in the state to tatters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/tarun-gogoi-the-man-who-brought-peace-and-growth-to-assam/story-Hn0SrMS3JF3ZJOUgCn6E4J.html
