30-11-2020||News||What the Indian markets don’t tell you | Analysis||India is in an economic recession for the first time in its independent history. Since April, large swathes of the nation were completely shut for three months and only partially open there after. A recession and a pall of gloom over the economy were inevitable. The only surprise would have been if India’s economy had not suffered a deleterious impact. But, for a tiny sliver of India’s elite, it is not gloom but boom times.In the seven-month period between April and October, when businesses were shut and jobs were lost, 274 million rural Indians earned their livelihoods primarily by labouring an entire day to earn a paltry ₹200 under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). Hundred million more people asked for work under MGNREGS this year vis-à-vis last year, reflecting the economic impact of the lockdown.In exactly this sombre period, the top 50 companies in India’s stock market increased their value by $200 billion combined. This is seven times more than the increase in the value of these same 50 companies in the same period last year, when the economy was functioning normally. It defies conventional wisdom that when businesses are shut, and sales are faltering, that the market value of companies should increase so sharply.The market value of most of these companies has risen irrationally because of exuberant stock market activity with utter disregard to the state of the underlying economy or the performance of the companies. Foreign investors flush with money from central banks in their home countries have poured their excess cash into India’s stock markets. A few thousand investors gamble in the stock markets on a daily basis which pushes up the value of companies. Just when millions of rural Indians were toiling in the sun for ₹200 rupees, these investors spent $250bn every day to speculate on the prices of shares, currency, derivatives and other exotic financial instruments in India’s stock markets. Levels of speculative trading (measured as delivery percentage) in the stock markets reached an all-time high, with 50% more buying and selling this year compared to the same period last year when there was no economic shutdown.These 50 companies employ nearly two million workers. A vast majority of these workers did not gain a single rupee from the new wealth added to their companies. Nearly all the gains accrued only to the owners of these companies, their shareholders and people employed in the financial markets sector. Worse, such increase in market wealth did not help to create new jobs in these companies. Instead, some reduced their workforce while many reduced the wages of their employees. There was no tangible benefit to the economy or society from this excessive speculative stock market activity except enriching a select few and widening the economic and social inequality.Excesses of financialisation and financial markets are a real threat to social stability and harmony, not just in India but in many other countries such as the United States and United Kingdom. In the garb of market efficiency and price discovery, financial markets have turned into a den for gambling and a channel for easy wealth for a select few. But their risks are borne by all and protected by governments using taxes and savings of ordinary citizens. The social costs of excessive financialisation of economies now far exceed their perceived trickle down economic benefits. In his recent memoirs, former US President Barack Obama describes his experiences in dealing with the extravagances of the financial sector during the 2008 global financial crisis. He famously shamed the financial sector professionals by calling them “fat cat bankers” and attempted to impose a 90% tax on their financial income above a certain high threshold. None of these measures worked and in the decade since the crisis, the financial sector has only turned even more reckless and shallow. Obama is candidly remorseful that he was unable to tame the beast of financialisation. It may not be an exaggeration to impute that such extreme financialisation of the economy disrupted the social order and fostered the subsequent extreme Left and extreme Right political movements championed by Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump respectively.India’s post Covid-19 economy is like the fire god Agni — two faced with one beneficent and the other malignant. Malignant for a vast majority of Indian families that is experiencing job losses and declining incomes. Beneficent for a minuscule few that have seen their wealth soar, driven by irrational financial markets. The government’s economic response to the Covid-19 crisis has only further aggravated this social disparity through a bountiful monetary stimulus for the financial sector and negligible fiscal aid for ordinary people.It is time to acknowledge that India’s stock markets have no meaning for the larger economy. Gloating over stock market ebullience as an indicator of economic performance is like treating ticket sales of the Indian Derby as an indicator of the larger economy. Covid-19, apart from damaging the health of millions of Indians, may also further rupture India’s economic and social equity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-the-indian-markets-don-t-tell-you-analysis/story-j0I63mX5tJ5a5QggToY88J.html
30-11-2020||News||Where India and China differ in the Indian Ocean region||The national security adviser-level trilateral between India, Sri Lanka and Maldives was held in Colombo last week, after a gap of six years, underlining the renewed urgency for cooperation in the region, particularly in the wake of China’s ambitious geopolitical tactics.In the wake of the trilateral, it is important to examine ways to deepen co-operation between India and its Indian Ocean neighbours. One way to do this is strengthening India’s policy of development cooperation and economic diplomacy in the region vis-à-vis China’s engagement track.India’s development cooperation has been a consolidated effort over several decades, across four key verticals. One, housing and rehabilitation projects and high impact community development projects have involved grassroots development and large-scale local participation. Two, education-based tourism programmes and skill-building initiatives such as the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) and the Technology Adoption Project were fully sponsored by the government of India, in coordination with over 68 premier institutions. Three, infrastructure projects have followed the Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR) policy and aimed to deepen economic and security cooperation with its maritime neighbours. Some key Indian projects in Sri Lanka are the Kankesanthurai harbour in Northern Sri Lanka and the Indo-Japanese East Container Terminal (ECT) at Colombo Port. Similarly, for Maldives, India is assisting with the Greater Male Connectivity Project. And, finally, India is also committed to improving energy infrastructure and helping cope with the climate crisis in the region, aided by its expertise in solar energy.India’s investments have thus been focused on human capital development and deployed largely in employment-intensive sectors. This is in contrast to Beijing’s efforts. China had developed particularly close ties with past regimes in Sri Lanka and Maldives. During the earlier presidency of Mahinda Rajapaksa and Maithripala Sirisena, Sri Lanka had committed to its participation in the Belt and Road Initiative. It was then that China became the largest investor in Sri Lanka and one of its projects, the deep-sea Hambantota Port, was leased to it for 99 years due to staggering debt. Similarly, in Maldives, President Abdullah Yameen’s tenure in office (2013-2018) was regarded as a time of a pro-China tilt for the Maldives. And it was then that large investments in infrastructure were made.Since most of the Chinese investment has been in infrastructure projects, which have long gestation periods, and the majority of the development assistance is in the form of non-concessional loans, Sri Lanka and Maldives find themselves in a debt trap. The Maldives, for instance, has run up a debt of $1.3 billion to China, which is more than a quarter of the GDP of Maldives. The unsustainable levels of debt have made the new governments in both countries wary of foreign participation in large-scale infrastructure projects.However, India can look to increase its engagement in a threefold manner. First, New Delhi can play a much bigger role through climate diplomacy with Maldives and Sri Lanka, since it has taken the lead in promoting two initiatives globally: The International Solar Alliance and Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI).Second, India could take a leaf out of China’s “sharp power” diplomacy and utilise its information broadcasting capacity to showcase its own global initiatives. This would help soften its “big brother” image in the region.And finally, a key grouping that can play a bigger role in strengthening cooperation with Sri Lanka and Maldives vis-à-vis China is the Quad. Key individual actors — namely Japan, India and United States (US) — are present in both the countries as independent donor nations and can do much more through coordinated actions, to promote soft power and economic diplomacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/where-india-and-china-differ-in-the-indian-ocean-region/story-5PadAB93qB4h7phmPWJtZN.html
30-11-2020||News||From India’s wars, five lessons for the present||Having spent eight years researching and writing in a focused manner on war and conflict in independent India, it is time to distil five big lessons for a diverse constituency of stakeholders in India’s national security matrix. These range from the policymaker and the practitioner to the academic and the common citizen. As India matures as a democracy and its aspirations to emerge as a leading power gains momentum, all these stakeholders must understand the conduct of war and the utility of force as an instrument of statecraft.The first lesson is that contrary to the largely peaceful trajectory of growth envisaged by the drafters of the Constitution, India has been a “reluctantly warring democracy” to protect its sovereignty and internal fabric. It has fought four major wars and one high-intensity but limited conflict with its principal adversaries, Pakistan and China. It has quelled four insurgencies (Mizoram, Tripura, Punjab and Assam), in which the latter two also displayed shades of terrorism. It continues to search for a solution to the longest insurgency in the post-World War-II era (the Naga insurgency) that has merged with another violent expression of ethnic angst in Manipur. Left-wing extremism has shown signs of fatigue, but security forces continue to search for conflict termination before the phase of conflict resolution offers some light at the end of what has been an intense struggle of ideas. In what has been a mother of all struggles, the Indian State continues to grapple with a waxing and waning proxy war in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) that has shown chameleon-like shades of insurgency, terrorism and hybrid war.The second lesson is that India has not been averse to the application and demonstration of force outside its geographical boundaries in response to a call for help from neighbours and the global community. The Indian Peacekeeping Force (IPKF) intervention in Sri Lanka; the foiling of the 1988 coup in Maldives; the sustained contribution to United Nations peacekeeping and peace enforcement operations, many of which have led to violent armed confrontations and resulted in casualties; and the resolute action in Doklam, are all examples of India’s willingness to stand up as a responsible international player.The third lesson is a corollary of the first and a consequence of both moral and developmental dilemmas in the Indian strategic DNA. In its quest to emerge as a responsible and restrained power that strives to uphold the ideals of its pioneering leaders, India has often been surprised by assertive and relatively clear-headed adversaries, both at the state and non-state levels. While moral dilemmas have often delayed military responses, developmental dilemmas have resulted in the creation of suboptimal military capabilities.A fourth lesson of realpolitik and umbilical linkages between politics, policy and war in contemporary India emerges from the propositions laid out by Kautilya, the ancient Indian strategist and Clausewitz, the Prussian military thinker of the early 19th century. While the former suggested “hard” and seemingly “amoral” decisions in pursuit of power for the common good, the latter advocated close coordination between political entities, policymakers and practitioners of war as the only way to ensure the successful conduct of war as an instrument of statecraft.These have been clearly validated in India’s experience over the last 74 years. The orchestration of the 1971 War and the occupation of the Saltoro Ridge that overlooks the Siachen Glacier were examples of hard-nosed decisions that went against the grain of conventional Indian statecraft. Similarly, Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s decision not to allow Indian forces to cross the Line of Control during the Kargil conflict was another example of political clarity that led to the occupation of a high ground by India that demonstrated that it could balance the application of force with restraint.The fifth and last lesson, based on recent events in the security domain, highlight India’s attempts to shape new policies, strategies and structures to meet contemporary national security challenges. There is clearly a reduced threshold to absorb “first blows” and an articulated aspiration to migrate from diffidence and excessive restraint to a more assertive and proactive response mechanism. India’s recent cross-border strikes on its eastern and western frontiers, its response at Doklam and the firm, albeit delayed, reaction to transgressions by the People’s Liberation Army in eastern Ladakh have demonstrated this clearly. What emerges is that for any significant shift in strategy to be effective, there needs to be a strong bridge that connects politics, policy, strategy, doctrine, structures and capability, much like the Strategy Bridge suggested by the renowned English scholar, Colin Gray. Clearly, it is this bridge that needs significant bolstering at every level.Recent initiatives indicate that this process has commenced in right earnest with a top-down approach; there will be hits and misses along the way as India seeks a “new normal” in its national security and warfighting discourse. Lessons from the past will always offer instructive guidance..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/from-india-s-wars-five-lessons-for-the-present/story-h1nV9Q7nOm13XZeqaxreCI.html
30-11-2020||News||In memory of Frontier Gandhi, a plea for justice for Faisal Khan||It has been exactly a month since the October 29 arrest in Delhi of Faisal Khan, national convener of the Khudai Khidmatgars, an organisation he had revived 10 years ago. Denied bail, he has also not been brought to trial. Moreover, there are troubling reports that, after the arrest, he tested positive for Covid-19.Khudai Khidmatgars — God’s servants — were first organised 90 years ago, in the North West Frontier Province of yore, by that astonishing figure, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, whose people called him Badshah or Bacha Khan. To others, he simply was the Frontier Gandhi. Because they worked for Independence and for Hindu-Muslim partnership, many Khudai Khidmatgars, including the Frontier Gandhi himself, were jailed for long spells. They were among the freedom movement’s greatest heroes, and their presence was an unforgettable rebuke to the pernicious two-nation theory.After reviving the Khudai Khidmatgars in Delhi, Faisal Khan has striven without pause for two goals — communal harmony and relief for the neediest. He is also a wonderful singer of the Tulsi Ramayan. Hindus of all types, from venerated guru to college students, have been charmed by his rendering of the Ramayan’s verses. Keen, as part of his efforts towards harmony, to identify with the traditions of his Hindu friends, Khan, along with associates, recently performed the much-valued Braj Parikrama. On the last day of this 84-km yatra, they went to Mathura’s Nand Baba Mandir, where they were courteously received by the priest.When Khan bid farewell to the priest in order to offer namaaz elsewhere, the priest apparently said, “This is a sacred place. You can read the namaaz here.” Khan did this on a courtyard of the temple premises, along with one of his friends. Three days later, however, the Uttar Pradesh police arrested him in Delhi on charges of hurting relations between communities. It seems that misgivings were caused by a video taken at the temple by one of Khan’s associates, which perhaps was over-enthusiastically circulated. Anyone seeing this video, which includes a glimpse of two men doing the namaaz, can observe the friendliness and respect that marked their visit to Nand Baba, as also the priest’s courtesy to the visitors.A gesture of respect and friendship, which was also a painstaking effort at bridge-building, was later seen or described as an attempt to sow discord, even to pollute a place of worship.The real question here is whether a dedicated individual whose organisation recalls one of the finest chapters in our country’s history, and who himself has been striving to strengthen relations between communities, should continue to be kept behind bars and denied bail. How normal or acceptable is it that an Indian citizen should remain a month or more in detention without an open trial? Not that Khan is the only one caught this situation. Others have been shut away for much longer, which is not a tribute to the police or the judiciary, or to the ministers who control the police.If I add my voice to those of other citizens troubled by this episode, it’s for two reasons.One, I know Faisal Khan and have seen his selflessness, his tirelessness, and his passion for friendship and reconciliation. Second, I also knew Badshah Khan, whom I first met in 1945, when I was 10 and he was staying in our Connaught Circus home above the offices of the Hindustan Times, where my father, Devadas Gandhi, was the editor. I last met Badshah Khan in Mumbai in 1987, a year before his death at the age of 98. Later, I had the chance – and the privilege – of writing Badshah Khan’s biography, where, among other things, I had to address the betrayal meted out in 1947 to Badshah Khan and his Pathans.That India would permit the continuing incarceration of a gallant man who restarted, in Delhi and elsewhere in the country, the work of the Khudai Khidmatgars is not a thought I can easily stomach. I must express my anguish and request the authorities to free Faisal Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-memory-of-frontier-gandhi-a-plea-for-justice-for-faisal-khan/story-Vzto6Dx07UrkVoriCGEHSP.html
