06-08-2020||New Delhi||1,299 fresh corona cases take Delhi’s tally to 1,41,531; death toll rises to 4,059||Delhi recorded 1,299 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the tally of such cases in the city to over 1.41 lakh, while the death toll due to the disease mounted to 4,059, authorities said.Fifteen fatalities due to COVID-19 were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the latest bulletin released by the health department on Thursday.The city recorded 1,076 fresh COVID-19 cases and 11 deaths on Wednesday.The number of active cases rose to 10,348 on Thursday from 10,072 the previous day.On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases.The death toll from the coronavirus infection has risen to 4,059 and the total number of cases has climbed to 1,41,531 in Delhi, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/1-299-fresh-corona-cases-take-delhis-tally-to-1-41-531-death-toll-rises-to-4-059-122951
06-08-2020||---||31 dengue cases in Delhi till Aug 1; fever clinics set up, campaign intensified||New Delhi, August 6Over 30 cases of dengue have been reported in the national capital till August 1 this year, even as the civic bodies have set up separate fever clinics to attend to patients afflicted with the vector-borne disease, authorities said on Thursday.Besides, the corporations have also stepped up awareness campaigns as the dengue season has now coincided with the coronavirus pandemic the city is reeling under since March.According to data shared by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), the nodal agency that tabulates data on the vector-borne diseases for the entire city, 31 cases of dengue has been recorded in Delhi till August 1.The number of cases of malaria and chikungunya in the same period, stands at 45 and 18 respectively, it said.In 2019, the number of dengue cases reported till August 1 was 40, while the total number of vector-borne disease reported throughout that year was 2,036, with two deaths recorded, officially, as per the data shared by the SDMC.All three diseases, malaria, dengue and chikungunya are accompanied with high fever, a common symptom for COVID-19. And therefore, doctors say, people suffering from these disease might suspect they have contracted COVID-19.North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said, dengue fever clinics have been established at polyclinics run across the six zones of the NDMC.“Yes, people affected by dengue will have fever, but there are other symptoms too in COVID, like breathlessness, loss of sense of smell and taste. So, we are raising awareness and telling people to go to polyclinics if having simple fever, or visit our COVID test centres in case other symptoms also there,” he told PTI.North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital is a dedicated COVID-19 facility, and a testing centre.Dengue mosquito larvae breed in clear, standing water, while those of malaria thrive even in dirty water.Cases of vector-borne diseases are usually reported between July and November, but the period may stretch till mid-December.“We have also stepped up our campaign to combat dengue, by extensive fogging in different areas, distributing hand bills having the dos and don’ts, and disinfectants for spraying in flower pots etc, where water stagnates,” Prakash said.The mayor said posters have been put up in various areas to make people aware, and differentiate between suspected dengue fever and suspected COVID case. “People should not panic, we are trying our best to keep dengue cases to a minimum this year,” he added.Doctors have advised people to take precautions and ensure that there is no breeding of mosquito larvae around them. They have urged people to wear full-sleeves and use mosquito nets.Water coolers should be dried up when not in use as mosquitoes carrying dengue virus usually breed there. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/31-dengue-cases-in-delhi-till-aug-1-fever-clinics-set-up-campaign-intensified-122947
06-08-2020||New Delhi||‘Unlock-3’: Allow hotels, gyms, weekly markets to reopen in Delhi, AAP govt’s proposal to LG||The Delhi Government has again sent a proposal to Lt Governor Anil Baijal to allow hotels, gymnasium and weekly markets to reopen, saying that the COVID-19 situation has been improving in the national capital, sources said on Thursday.The government said that in accordance with the unlock guidelines issued by the Centre, it has right to take decision to allow such establishments in Delhi.In its proposal, the AAP government said that the COVID-19 cases have been increasing in several states and situation is frequently deteriorating, but hotels, gyms and weekly markets have been allowed there.The sources said that the government also sought to know from the LG as to why Delhiites are being stopped from earning their livelihood despite the fact that the number of coronavirus cases has been decreasing in the national capital.“The Delhi Government has again sent proposals to the lieutenant governor to allow hotels, gymnasiums and weekly markets in the city,” the sources also said.In its ‘Unlock-3’ guidelines issued on July 29, the Centre had allowed opening of yoga institutes and gymnasiums from August 5, but no fresh order has been issued by authorities in Delhi to permit functioning of these establishments.Last week, the Arvind Kejriwal government had decided to allow hotels and weekly markets to reopen in Delhi. However, Lt Governor Anil Baijal had overturned the government’s decision.In his recent letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had sought his direction to Baijal to allow hotels and weekly markets in the national capital.In the letter, Sisodia had also said that the AAP government would again send the proposal to Baijal to allow reopening of such establishments. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/unlock-3-allow-hotels-gyms-weekly-markets-to-reopen-in-delhi-aap-govts-proposal-to-lg-122930
06-08-2020||New Delhi||Sadia Dehlvi dies at 63; Delhi loses its favourite story-teller||Author, activist, food connoisseur and raconteur, Delhi's very own Sadia Dehlvi, whose name itself reflected her bond with the city, has died after a prolonged battle with breast cancer.  Dehlvi, meaning ‘one from Delhi', died on Wednesday at her home and is survived by her son Arman Ali Dehlvi. She was 63. Belonging to a family whose association with the city went back centuries, Dehlvi's Twitter profile read, “Columnist and author Sufism: The Heart of Islam & The Sufi Courtyard: Dargahs of Delhi. I live in Delhi, a city I love.” Dehlvi, who wrote about women, minorities, Islamic spirituality and Delhi's heritage and culture for more than 40 years, was laid to rest on Thursday at the city's Shidipura cemetery. A woman of many talents, Dehlvi also produced and scripted documentaries and television programmes, including "Amma and Family" (1995), with veteran actor Zohra Sehgal in the lead. She was also a close friend and confidante of the late Khushwant Singh, who dedicated his book "Not a Nice Man to Know" to her."To Sadia Dehlvi, who gave me more affection and notoriety than I deserve," he wrote. Singh's book "Men and Women in my Life", which has a chapter dedicated to her, also has Dehlvi's photo on its cover."Hers was a very illustrious family... I won't be exaggerating one bit if I tell you that the family was always leading from the front to keep Urdu alive in India,” Yasir Abbasi, who used Dehlvi's help for his book "Yeh Un Dinon ki Baat Hai", told PTI.Dehlvi, who belonged to the royal Shama family, edited the Urdu women's journal Bano. Her grandfather Hafiz Yusuf Dehlvi founded the iconic Urdu film and literary month Shama in 1938.“Under the Shama group, they launched other periodicals as well, including Bano and Khilona. Today we can't even imagine how popular the magazine Shama was. It was found in every Urdu speaking household," Abbasi said. Dehlvi was passionate about food, much like her family, which famously hosted Bollywood stars such as Dilip Kumar, Raj Kapoor and Waheeda Rehman in their palatial ‘haveli'."The Dehlvis' spacious house Shama Kothi in Delhi's tony diplomatic enclave of Chanakyapuri had become home to many visiting film stars. Their parties were the talk of  town. Food was something that the family was very passionate about. Sadia often talked about the many kebabs they used to serve in those parties," said Abbasi.In 1979, Dehlvi founded Al Kauser, the Chanakyapuri restaurant famous for its kebabs, with her mother. At the age of 60, she donned the hat of a chef and tied up with ITC to celebrate the capital's authentic cuisine over a six-day dinner buffet festival – Delhi Table spread.In 2017, she wrote "Jasmine & Jinns": Memories and Recipes of My Delhi", a book on Delhi's culinary history."She was in every which way ‘of Delhi'. She wrote about the food and culture of the city 30 years ago, a time when writing about Delhi was not fashionable like today. She was a true raconteur — she wrote about stories which she had not read or heard, but virtually lived," said author and friend Rakshanda Jalil."I remember Sadia was the kind of person who would travel across cities just to meet older people — her parents' friends, or her friends' parents, when they would be ailing or even otherwise, just to meet them for 10 minutes, with no agenda. That is the singular quality about her that I will always remember," Jalil told PTI.“Sad to hear about the tragic demise of Sadia Dehlvi, a well known cultural figure of Delhi, a dear friend and a wonderful human being. Rest in Peace," historian and author S Irfan Habib said on Twitter. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/sadia-dehlvi-dies-at-63-delhi-loses-its-favourite-story-teller-122861
06-08-2020||---||SC reserves order in Bhushan case||New Delhi, August 5The Supreme Court on Wednesday reserved its order on a suo motu criminal contempt case against activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan and Twitter Inc for his tweets allegedly scandalising the judiciary.A three-judge Bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra reserved its order after hearing at length senior advocate Dushyant Dave, on behalf of Bhushan. He said no institution should be free from public criticism.On Tuesday, it had reserved its order in an 11-year-old contempt case against Bhushan in which the lawyer has expressed regret, but refused to apologise.With regard to the suo motu contempt case, the top court Registry refused to accept a petition filed by 16 activists seeking to intervene in it.During the hearing, Dave tried to impress upon the Bench that Bhushan’s tweets critical of CJI SA Bobde and former CJIs didn’t amount to scandalising the judiciary.“He criticises the court because of love and affection for the institution. He did not impute any motive. Please don’t misunderstand him,” Dave submitted.On behalf of Twitter, senior counsel Sajan Poovayya said his client was only an intermediary in this case. “There are 50 crore tweets every day. It’s not possible for us to look at all of them. After the court’s notice we withheld the tweets in question. I (Twitter) should not have been impleaded at all,” Poovayya submitted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/sc-reserves-order-in-bhushan-case-122788
