10-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan governor gives ₹2 crore to CM relief fund for Covid vaccination||Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra has given ₹2 crore to the Chief minister's relief fund from the governor relief fund for Covid-19 vaccination in the state, an official release said on Monday. Of this amount, ₹1.11 crore was initially given by Mohanlal Sukhadia University, Udaipur to the governor relief fund for this purpose, it added. Mishra also called upon social organisations, trusts and others to come forward to contribute towards Covid relief works, according to the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-governor-gives-rs-2-crore-to-cm-relief-fund-for-covid-vaccination-101620655256614.html
10-05-2021||Jaipur||Follow lockdown guidelines with sincerity, Rajasthan CM Gehlot tells people||As a strict lockdown came into force in Rajasthan from Monday to curb the spread of coronavirus, chief minister Ashok Gehlot asked the people of the state to follow the guidelines with sincerity and responsibility. Lockdown restrictions were already there in the state but the state government on last Thursday decided to make it more stringent from May 10 to 24. Gehlot tweeted the lockdown guidelines, saying there is a complete lockdown from 5 am on May 10 to 5 am on May 24. He asked the people of the state to follow the guidelines with sincerity and responsibility. Under the complete lockdown, movement from one district/village to another district/village except in case of medical emergency, wedding functions, movement of all vehicles except those engaged in medical services are prohibited and several other restrictions are also there in addition to the guidelines issued earlier. The state government has called it "Pandemic Red Alert Public Discipline Lockdown".Places of worship are also closed, MGNREGA works have been suspended and movement from one city/village to another city/village within the state is prohibited, except medical emergency cases, under the lockdown. Those coming from outside the state will have to produce a negative RT-PCR test report which should be not older than 72 hours. In case there is no negative report, the person will be quarantined for 15 days.In order to prevent migration of workers, works are permitted in factories, construction sites and industrial units have been asked to operate buses for workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/follow-lockdown-guidelines-with-sincerity-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-tells-people-101620647098924.html
10-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan village has unique punishment for those violating Covid-19 norms||A small village in Rajasthan’s Dholpur is punishing villagers, who do not wear face masks, by making them stand guard at village check-posts in its bid to enforce Covid appropriate behaviour.The villagers of Kaithri in Dholpur say the punishment serves a message to the community that one person’s complacency cannot be allowed to put others life at grave risk at a time when nearby towns in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh are struggling to contain Covid cases with hospitals overflowing with patients.“Simple admonishments don’t work. We had some people within the village who shrugged off the gravity [of the situation] by calling Coronavirus an illness confined only to big cities. Therefore, we started community services at check posts to drive home the point that no one is immune from the illness and the attendant suffering,” said sarpanch Ajay Pal Sharma.Rajasthan recorded 159 deaths and 17,921 coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the death toll to 5,665 and the infection tally to 756,707. A strict lockdown till May 24 has come into force in the state from Monday restricting movement from one district/village to another except in case of medical emergency. Movement of all vehicles except those engaged in medical services is also prohibited.According to Kaithri sarpanch, in the last one week, as many as 28 villagers have been made to man the check posts since they didn’t wear masks properly. Apart from standing guard at the check-posts, they are instructed to spread awareness about the importance of social distancing and sanitisation in fighting the disease.Sharma said they realised the need for taking serious steps after noticing that several villagers continued to act irresponsibly despite 11 residents testing positive last month. “We held a meeting that something needed to be done, so we decided to set-up barricades for outsiders, and for people within the village, a two-day duty at the check posts was agreed upon.”The ideas seemed to have worked, at least for now, says the sarpanch Most of the villagers stepping out of their homes are now wearing proper masks or covering their faces with Gamchaas. The village has not reported any fresh case of Covid-19, and all the 11 patients have recovered too.According to the district collector Rakesh Kumar Jaiswal, Kaithri has been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. “The village has a very good vaccination record; they also undertake regular sanitization work. The efforts at the panchayat level will go in a long way in our collective fight against the coronavirus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-village-has-unique-punishment-for-those-violating-covid-19-norms-101620646698607.html
