15-05-2021||Jaipur||Volunteers step in to deal with Covid-19 crisis in Rajasthan||Jaipur/Kota/Udaipur: Volunteers have stepped in across Rajasthan to help deal with the shortage of critical supplies like oxygen and dispel misinformation about Covid-19 as infections have surged in the state. In Jaipur, Isha Juneja, a journalism student, leads a group that tracks people, who have recovered from the illness and can help others by donating plasma. The group of over 500 volunteers verify leads on social media and help potential donors connect with families of the patients. She said when she started the group, she would receive 50 distress calls a day. “There has been some decline in the calls and now we get about 25 to 30 calls daily,” Juneja said. “If some people have oxygen cylinders but do not need them anymore, we connect them to those in need.” In the Dungarpur district, a group of women volunteers have joined hands with police to encourage people to wear masks and stay home till the infection rate is brought under control. The group has also been creating awareness. Dungarpur police superintendent Sudheer Joshi said this “Police Sakhi” project has been very successful. “The girls also visit important junctions of the city where they tell people about the pandemic and the ways to prevent it. They are present at pickets where they carry out important duties as volunteers.” Similarly, young men have been helping people with hospital admissions and last rites in cities such as Udaipur and Kota. Imran Qureshi, 37, has been ferrying oxygen cylinders from the refilling centre in Kota on his bike. He is a part of a 15-member volunteers’ team. Amaranth Chaurasia, 52, who contracted Covid-19 along with his wife, Rani, 50, in Kota, said Qureshi helped them arrange oxygen as there was no one in their family who could help them. “Imran and his volunteers brought Oxygen from somewhere. We will remain indebted to him throughout our lives.” Qureshi and his colleagues have also performed last rites in crematoriums and graveyards. “We are available round the clock for the service of Covid-19 patients and their families who are in dire need of assistance and cooperation,” he said. Qureshi has also been facilitating hospital admissions and motivating those who have recovered from Covid to donate plasma. Rahul Jain, Founder of Social Youth Club, and its president, Zeeshan Ansari, have been providing water and buttermilk as well as oxygen cylinders in Kota. “...we have been doing this for over a fortnight now while we are running an Oxygen Bank in which we have 22 oxygen cylinders which we are providing free to those who are in need of them for refilling...,” said Jain. Farid, 40, and his friend, Tauseef Germanwala, 33, have been offering food to people under home isolation in Udaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/volunteers-step-in-to-deal-with-covid-19-crisis-in-rajasthan-101621081504427.html
15-05-2021||Jaipur||Jaipur man stopped to help a woman on highway, was robbed by gang||Jaipur: The Jaipur police were looking for a gang, which robbed and assaulted a man after posing as women at a dimly-lit stretch of a highway on the city’s outskirts on Tuesday.Umrao Pareek, the man, said the robbers targeted him when he stopped his car on his way back home after work near a secluded bypass as he saw a person, who appeared to be a woman, seeking help“As soon as I stopped, at least a dozen other men posing as women smashed the windows of my car and pelted me with stones. They also snatched my gold chain and looted ₹7,000 cash,” Pareek said.Police have registered a case against the gang under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), and 379 (theft).A police officer said they have stepped up night patrolling. “...men dressed in women’s attire have robbed someone. We are trying to retrieve the footage from CCTVs of the nearby areas,” said the officer.Pareek said the gang members were ruthless and repeatedly hit him,” They hit me before taking away my cash and gold chain. I could not seek help from anywhere because it was a desolate stretch of the highway,” he said.Pareek added he tried to resist. “Next day when I was passing through the same area, I spotted the same suspects... I quickly alerted the police about it. It is very unsafe now to pass from the same highway as the gang has many members and can quickly overpower anyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/jaipur-man-stopped-to-help-a-woman-on-highway-was-robbed-by-gang-101621068963405.html
