28-05-2021||Jaipur||BJP MP Ranjeeta Koli’s car attacked in Bharatpur, BJP hits out at Gehlot govt||Bharatpur: Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Ranjeeta Koli’s car was forced to stop and the rear windshield smashed by six goons shortly late on Thursday evening in Bharatpur, nearly 200 km from Rajasthan capital Jaipur, the Lok Sabha member told the police.The Lok Sabha MP said the unidentified attackers hurled a brick at her car and attacked the car with iron rods, presumably to intimidate them.“We all were safe but the car was damaged in the attack. I fainted but my security guard saved us. We have no enemy who wants to kill me,” the 41-year-old lawmaker said after the attack that provoked her party to amp up its criticism of the Ashok Gehlot government.Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje said the attack on the MP reflected the deteriorating law and order situation and contradicted the Congress government’s claims that women in the state are safe. “In reality, anarchy has only grown under the shield of political patronage,” she said, demanding that the police should track down down the culprits and take stringent action against themRanjeeta Koli said the car was intercepted and attacked near Dharsoni village on Hantara-Weir road at about 11.30pm when she was returning after visiting the Raj Bahadur Memorial hospital.A personal security officer, her brother, and two others were in the car when the incident took place.The first-time MP was taken to the district hospital for a check up and first-aid. She later returned to the circuit house.Bharatpur superintendent of police Devendra Kumar Bishnoi said a police team was rushed to soon after being informed about the incident. ”We have registered a case against unknown accused who attacked the MP. All accused will be identified and arrested soon,” he said.The MP told the police that she had been visiting health centers and hospitals in her constituency district to see the management for patients during a Covid-19 crisis.Rajasthan health minister Dr Subhash Garg told the police to arrest the goons and assured her that she would get better treatment and security.Ranjeeta Koli, a first-time MP, won the seat by a margin of over 300,000 votes. Her father-in-law Ganga Ram Koli was a three-time BJP MP from Bayana-Dholpur Lok Sabha seat.Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia said the Bharatpur MP during her recent inspections had exposed inadequate arrangements at CHCs (Community Health Centers). Leader of the opposition in the assembly, Gulab Chand Kataria, described the attack on the lawmaker as a matter of grave concern.“The manner in which she was attacked at a secluded corner in the night while visiting hospitals raises alarming questions. I have spoken to IG Bharatpur about the case. The government and the police should investigate this case diligently,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-mp-ranjeeta-koli-s-car-attacked-in-bharatpur-bjp-hits-out-at-gehlot-govt-101622205802426.html
28-05-2021||Jaipur||HC directs Rajasthan govt to submit report on vaccination of Pak migrants||The Rajasthan High Court on Friday directed the state government to submit a detailed report on June 3, complying with the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Central government to vaccinate the migrants group from Pakistan.The court also said the state should ensure that ration material and food packets are made available to all needy Pakistani minority migrants residing in various districts in Rajasthan either through the food supplies department, local bodies or the NGOs.In the division bench of Justice Vijay Bishnoi and Justice Rameshwar Vyas, Assistant Solicitor General Mukesh Rajpurohit filed an affidavit wherein it is stated that the Central government issued a detailed SOP on Covid-19 vaccination of those without prescribed identity cards through the CoWIN app on May 6 and that after receiving the requisite information from the state and district administration regarding the groups included in the SOP, the vaccines will be provided to them.The SOP states that the district task force may identify such groups of persons in respective districts without any of the prescribed individual photo ID cards with assistance from the concerned government departments/organisations, such as the department of minority affairs, social justice, social welfare, etc.Information regarding the identified groups and the number of beneficiaries must be covered, collated at the state level and the state government must issue clear instructions for the implementation of these SOPs along with the district-wise estimated maximum number of doses to be administered using this special dispensation.However, during the hearing, Additional Advocate General (AAG) Karan Singh Rajpurohit told the court that around 25,000 Pakistani minority migrants are residing in Rajasthan across various districts at present.“Every Pakistani minority migrant does not need free ration and food because many of the families are self-sufficient. It is further submitted that the district administrations are taking note of the situation and will ensure that no such person will be deprived of ration or food during the period of lockdown,” he said.He added, “So far, as the Covid-19 vaccination of the Pakistani minority migrants is concerned, SOP issued by the Central government is silent regarding the Pakistani minority migrants and, therefore, clarifications are being sought from the Central government regarding the vaccination of Pakistani minority migrants who have not been granted citizenship till date.”“We are of the opinion that the SOP on Covid-19 vaccination of persons without prescribed identity cards through CoWIN issued by the Central government is elaborate and in no way excluding the Pakistani minority migrants who are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination. We have also noticed that several directions regarding the identification of groups of people including in the SOP have been given but the state has not submitted any details regarding the identification of such groups,” the bench said.AAG Rajpurohit sought some time to furnish details regarding the steps taken by the state across districts as per the procedure given in Clause 5 of the SOP.Welcoming the court’s order, Hindu Singh Sodha, president of Seemant Lok Sangathan, which is fighting for the rights of Pakistani migrants, said, “we had been demanding this for a long time. Now we have hope”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/hc-directs-rajasthan-govt-to-submit-report-on-vaccination-of-pak-migrants-101622203102014.html
28-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM rubbishes BJP claims of vaccine wastage in state||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday rubbished the allegations from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that the state had wasted 1.15 million Covid vaccine doses. “By levelling such allegations, the BJP is working to break the morale of our Corona warriors, who have been working for 14 months now. I will appeal to the leaders of the Opposition not to do such negative politics during the time of pandemic,” he tweeted. Senior BJP leaders, including Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, have alleged that Rajasthan has wasted 1.15 million [11.5 lakh] vaccine doses.He said according to the data recorded on the CoWIN app, 16,367,230 people have been vaccinated in the state till May 26. Of these, 338,000 doses were wasted, which is just 2%. This is much lower than the national average of 6% and the 10% of wastage permitted by the Government of India. Also Read | Ensure more Covid-19 vaccines are available to states: Rajasthan CM GehlotThe chief minister attributed this incorrect figure to technical glitches in eVIN, the software for tracking vaccination. For this reason, the total number of vaccines on eVIN was stated to be 17,001,220, which is not correct, he said. Similarly, he pointed out, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand were also reported to have recorded vaccine wastage of 30.2% and 37.3%, respectively. However, he said, the chief ministers and health ministers of both the states reported 0.95% and 4.65% wastage respectively. “It seems that in the time of the epidemic, the Central government is deliberately trying to mislead the public,” he said. He pointed out that in the May 21 video conference, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had admitted to technical glitches in CoWIN, leading to inflated percentages. Gehlot said Harsh Vardhan had then assured the states that the Centre would discuss the issue with individual states to get the correct figures before releasing the data. He said that the BJP-led Centre failed to provide the vaccine and was trying to shift the blame on the states. “I will appeal to the Opposition leaders in Rajasthan to pressure the Centre in the interest of the state, so that we get more doses of the vaccine. The Centre should also ensure free universal vaccination. Rajasthan tops the country in vaccination and will continue to do its best work even further,” said the CM. However, BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek insisted that the CM should accept that a large quantity of vaccine doses were wasted in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-rubbishes-bjp-claims-of-vaccine-wastage-in-state-101622201652435.html
28-05-2021||Jaipur||‘Deliberate attempts being made to mislead public’: Rajasthan CM Gehlot on BJP’s claim of vaccine wastage||The war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government and states is intensifying over the wastage of the vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This time, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot refuted BJP’s allegations that 1.15 million vaccine doses have been wasted in the state.In a statement in Hindi on Twitter on Friday, Gehlot said that as per the CoWin platform, 16,367,230 people have been vaccinated against the viral disease till May 26 in the state. Of these 338,000 doses were wasted which is 2%, he said adding that this is much lower than the national average of 6% and the Centre’s limit of 10%.“At the beginning of the vaccination drive in Rajasthan, there were technical errors reported in the eVIN software -created for tracking inoculations- due to which there was double-entry of 295,000 doses at several vaccination centres. And hence, the total doses administered showed as 17,001,220 on the software, which is incorrect. Only 338,000 doses have been wasted,” the Rajasthan chief minister said in the statement.प्रदेश में कोविड वैक्सीन की 11.5 लाख डोज़ बर्बाद होने की खबर झूठी है। BJP ऐसे झूठे आरोप लगाकर 14 महीने से मेहनत कर रहे हमारे कोरोना वॉरियर्स का मनोबल तोड़ने का काम कर रही है जो निंदनीय है। मैं विपक्ष के नेताओं से अपील करूंगा कि महामारी के समय ऐसी नकारात्मक राजनीति ना करें। pic.twitter.com/q4sEvnDzR8Gehlot also reminded that during the review meeting of states with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on May 21, he accepted that there were technical issues with the Centre’s vaccine portal due to which the vaccine wastage figures were showing inflated. “Dr Vardhan himself assured that the Centre will speak to states and then only it will present the figures of vaccine wastage,” Gehlot said.Also Read| Over 224.6 million Covid vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far: CentreGehlot pointed out that by presenting forged figures, deliberate attempts are being made by the BJP to mislead the public during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. “We all are working together to manage Covid-19, but the BJP is trying to bring down the morale of corona warriors who have been working hard to combat the virus for the last 14 months.”He accused the Centre of failing to make vaccines available due to its wrong policies and appealed to all opposition leaders in Rajasthan to pressurise the Centre to provide more doses to the state rather than creating disputes.Rajasthan has so far inoculated 16,426,346 people of which 13,361,360 have received the first dose and the remaining 3,064,986 with both doses. For weeks, the state has flagged a severe shortage of doses due to which the vaccination drive has slowed down significantly. Health minister Raghu Sharma said on Thursday that the Centre had only allocated just over 1.26 million doses for June while the state needs 70 million doses for vaccinating beneficiaries between the ages of 18 and 44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-dismisses-bjp-s-claim-of-1-15-million-vaccines-wasted-in-state-101622200600409.html
