31-05-2021||Jaipur||Harsh Vardhan writes to Rajasthan health minister over ‘wastage’ of Covid-19 vaccine jabs||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday wrote to Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma over reports of wastage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in the state, urging Sharma to look into the matter.Click here for latest Covid-19 updates"Taking serious cognisance of reports of wastage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in some places in Rajasthan, I've written a letter to state health minister @RaghuSharmaINC and urged him to look into the issue. I've also asked him to make better preparations at the local level to avoid wastage of vaccine doses," a rough translation of Harsh Vardhan's tweet, posted in Hindi, read.राजस्थान के कुछ ज़िलों में कोरोना वैक्सीन की बर्बादी की ख़बरों को गंभीरता से लेते हुए मैंने राज्य के स्वास्थ्य मंत्री श्री @RaghusharmaINC जी को पत्र लिखकर मामले की जांच करने को कहा है।मैंने वैक्सीन की बर्बादी रोकने के लिए स्थानीय स्तर पर बेहतर योजना बनाने को कहा है।@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/nBsfGGAhtNQuoting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Union health minister posted further, "Wastage of even a single dose means failure in protecting an individual from Covid-19." He added in the same tweet that all states and Union territories (UTs) should target zero vaccine wastage.एक वैक्सीन बर्बाद होने का अर्थ है एक व्यक्ति को आवश्यक सुरक्षा प्रदान करने में अक्षमता :पीएम मोदीजीसभी राज्यों व केंद्र-शासित प्रदेशों को zero vaccine wastage को अपना लक्ष्य बनाना होगा।इसके लिए दायित्वपूर्ण व्यवहार ज़रूरी है!@PMOIndia @RaghusharmaINC @ashokgehlot51 #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/Qh3NhHT4aNIn his letter, the Union health minister cited stories published in Hindi dailies Dainik Bhaskar and Rajasthan Patrika. "In almost all districts of Rajasthan, vaccine wastage is more than the national average of less than 1%. Further, the Dainik Bhaskar article has also highlighted that more than 500 vials of Covid-19 vaccines were found in the waste bins of 35 Covid-19 vaccination centres in the state," he wrote."The high wastage, you would agree, is not acceptable," Harsh Vardhan added in his letter.Earlier in the day, Sharma, the state health minister, posted a series of tweets in which he called the Dainik Bhaskar report "misleading" and "bereft of facts."दैनिक भास्कर अखबार में डस्टबिन में वैक्सीन मिलने की खबर पूर्णतः तथ्यों से परे एवं भ्रामक है। वैक्सीन वाइल्स का उपयोग करने के बाद इन्हें नियमानुसार सम्बंधित चिकित्सा संस्थान में ही जमा करवाया जाता है। (1/5)Last Friday, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, too, accused the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), to which Harsh Vardhan belongs, of making "deliberate attempts" to mislead the public by claiming 1.15 million vaccine doses have been wasted in Rajasthan.Also Read | ‘Deliberate attempts being made to mislead public’: Rajasthan CM Gehlot on BJP’s claim of vaccine wastageThe war of words comes at a time when several states have reported a shortage of vaccine doses. In several states, vaccination drives have been put on hold, at least for a section of beneficiaries, due to shortage of jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/harsh-vardhan-writes-to-rajasthan-health-minister-over-wastage-of-covid-19-vaccine-jabs-101622471499374.html
31-05-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan recommends CBI probe in Kamlesh Prajapat encounter case||The Rajasthan government on Monday recommended CBI probe in Kamlesh Prajapat encounter case, said an official of home department. Prajapat, a resident of Barmer, was killed in a gunfight with the police on April 22 this year. Later, two videos related to Prajapat’s death went viral on social media, forcing people to question the police version of what led to the smuggler’s death. In the video, Prajapat did not fire at the police, even though the latter did. Soon after, leaders from both BJP and Congress claimed the exchange of fire was staged and demanded a CBI probe. Madan Prajapat, Congress MLA from Pachpadra assembly constituency in Barmer even threatened to resign if his probe demand was not fulfilled. Last Friday, Prajapat met chief minister Ashok Gehlot to reiterate his demand.Union minister and Barmer BJP MP Kailash Choudhary, Union minister and Jodhpur BJP MP Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Leader of Opposition at Rajasthan assembly Rajendra Rathore, former MP and Congress leader Manvendra Singh were the other leaders demanding a CBI probe in the matter. Also Read | Rajasthan woman claims receiving two jabs of vaccine on same day, doctors denyLater, Prajapat said as the family of the deceased as well as community members had raised doubts over the police theory, a CBI probe was necessary. Notorious smuggler and wanted in a hit-and-run case, Kamlesh Prajapat, a resident of Cheeter Ka village in Barmer, was killed on April 22. Police claimed they had gone to catch him following a tip-off but he tried to escape while trying to kill a police personnel. In self defence, they were forced to fire back, which killed Prajapat. On May 20, the Rajasthan high court issued notices to the state government and police in connection with a petition seeking CBI probe into the alleged fake encounter. Justice Vinit Kumar Mathur had issued notices to the police personnel involved in the incident, and state home secretary, director general of police, SP Pali and SP Barmer, on the petition of Prajapat’s wife.The court has asked the government to respond to the notice within four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-recommends-cbi-probe-in-kamlesh-prajapat-encounter-case-101622464729173.html
