04-10-2020||---||BJP protests against Congress over alleged goonda giri||Jalandhar, October 3The district BJP (urban) unit on Friday organised a demonstration over the alleged “goondaism” of the Congress leaders at Ludhiana on Thursday.Sushil Sharma, district president, led the protest in front of the Company Bagh in which BJP’s state general secretary Subhash Sharma, ex-minister Manoranjan Kalia, ex-CPS KD Bhandari, ex-Mayor Sunil Jyoti and party leaders including Mahinder Bhagat, Anil Sachar and Minta Kochhar also participated.Subhash alleged that party’s office near the Clock Tower in Ludhiana had been vandalised by Congress’ workers. He said that such an attempt had been made to divert the attention of the people over the poor performance of the Congress. He added the BJP workers are undeterred by any such attacks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-protests-against-congress-over-alleged-goonda-giri-150628
04-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Himachal youth found dead near Kandi Canal||Garhashankar, October 3The body of a 27-year-old youth was found near Kandi Canal in Shahpur village. On getting information, a police party reached the spot and took the body in its custody. The deceased has been identified as Narinder Singh, son of Santokh Singh of Ball Khalsa village in Una district of Himachal Pradesh.The victim’s father said that he left home at four-o’clock on Friday evening and thereafter he did not make any contact. He said my son had no enmity with anyone. The youth is suspected to have died of drug overdose. The police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.The body was handed over to his family members after the post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/himachal-youth-found-dead-near-kandi-canal-150629
04-10-2020||---||Custom hiring centres gaining popularity among farmers in Jalandhar: Deputy Commissioner||Jalandhar, October 3In order to ensure environment remains clean and pollution free by controlling stubble burning, the custom hiring centres being sponsored by the state agriculture department are playing a pivotal role in offering high-tech machinery to farmers for the management of crop residue.The high-tech equipment mostly required for managing crop residue in the fields including happy seeder, rotavator, paddy cutter-cum shredder, mulcher and zero till drill are being provided on rental basis to the farmers who cannot afford to purchase such equipment due to its high cost.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “The centres are providing modern machinery to even common farmer with objective in-situ management of crop residue and sowing the next crop by using equipment while the stubble is still standing and letting the straw mix in soil and work as manure”.He said during 2018-19, the government had established 43 custom hiring centres for paddy straw management which has now increased to 750 this year. He said the rise in number of custom hiring centres reflect these are gaining popularity among the peasantry.He said as per government’s guidelines the custom hiring centres had been asked to not to charge rent from small and marginal farmers. He said in Jalandhar, about 13,000 small and marginal farmers cultivating on 15,000 hectare are being given priority by centres for machines.He also told that the Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare was already running an intensive campaign to make the farmers aware about the harmful effects of burning of paddy straw on the environment and human health and it might worse the Covid situation in the district.He appealed to the farmers that they should come forward and adopt effective methods for its management through latest techniques.Meanwhile, Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh said these machineries help the farmers to decompose the stubble in the fields rather than resorting to burning which would save the environment and improve the soil health.He told that the state government was making every effort to provide these machines to each farmer through these centres in wiping out the stubble burning menace completely from Punjab.Dr Singh said, “Around 2,000 nutrients can be saved if the straw gets mixed in soil adding that equipment like happy seeder, rotavator, paddy cutter-cum shredder, paddy chopper-cum shredder and mulchers, which are easily available in the centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/custom-hiring-centres-gaining-popularity-among-farmers-in-jalandhar-deputy-commissioner-150631
04-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmer bodies hold protest in front of Reliance fuel station in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, October 3The Azad Farmers Committee, Doaba, surrounded the Reliance petrol pump near Punga village on Hoshiarpur-Phagwara road and held dharna at the site, raised slogans against the BJP government.Harpal Singh Sangha, A Farm leaderAt the behest of Modi government, corporate houses are plotting to grab the lands and this is why the laws have been enacted by the Centre. Much before the laws were made, Adani and Ambani bought land near Moga and Kotkapura and made big purchases; the laws were passed only then.On this occasion, farmers’ leaders Harpal Singh Sangha, Gurnam Singh Singriwala, Manjit Singh Rai, Gurdeep Singh Khun Khun, Davinder Singh Kakkon and Laurence Chaudhary addressing the protesters, said, on the behest of Modi government, corporate houses are plotting to grab the lands and this is why the laws have been enacted by the Centre. “Much before the laws were made, Adani and Ambani bought land near Moga and Kotkapura and made big purchases; the laws were only then passed,” the leaders were quoted as saying. They announced that apart from stopping the trains, boycotting the petrol pumps of the corporate houses, Jio SIMs and the goods sold by the Reliance should be undertaken. On this occasion Jagtar Singh Bhinder of Kirti Farmers Union, Ganga Prasad of Public Works Union, Jasvir Singh, former sarpanch Rajpur Bhaian were among the present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-bodies-hold-protest-in-front-of-reliance-fuel-station-in-hoshiarpur-150632
04-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Two-year-old sees world for first time||Hoshiarpur, October 3Bisma, a two-year-old infant from Baramulla in Jammu and Kashmir, saw the colorful world around her for the first time.The Rotary Eye Bank and Corneal Transplantation Society, Hoshiarpur, not only arranged cornea, but also bore all the expenses.A meeting of the Rotary Eye Bank and Corneal Transplantation Society was held at Dr Bali Hospital where Bisma and her father were present.Brahm Shankar Jimpa, vice chairman, Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation, was the chief guest.JB Bahl said the society has resolved to remove blindness from Jammu and Kashmir in association with the Vipan Langer Education Trust, Rajouri, led by KK Langer.Bahl said till now, the society has assisted around 3,300 people in Punjab, Hyderabad, Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-year-old-sees-world-for-first-time-150634
04-10-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Farmers relent as PAU, govt officials extend olive branch||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 3Farmers, who parked 250 combine harvesters on agriculture fields adjoining the Gurdaspur-Batala National Highway in the past 72 hours, finally relented after PAU and agriculture officials impressed upon them that “their demands would be looked into by a special committee.”Starting from this paddy harvesting season, the Punjab Government has made it mandatory, citing the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, for combine harvesters to instal Super SMS (Straw Management System) on harvesters.Officials said this was done to ensure clean environment, particularly taking the Covid-19 pandemic into consideration and also to reduce air pollution emanating from the burning of paddy straw.Anger got the better of impatient protesters on Saturday morning, as they kept waiting for the last two days for officials to find a solution. Once the word spread that they would block the National Highway, the cops swung into action. Since the area falls in the jurisdiction of the Batala police district, DSP (city) Parvinder Kaur was assigned the task to maintain law and order and also make sure traffic plied smoothly.Gurdaspur SDM Sakattar Singh Bal, too, played a pivotal road in diffusing the situation. Farmers claimed that they needed a lot of money to get the Super SMS installed. “The contraption costs anything between Rs1 lakh to Rs1.25 lakh. If the Punjab Government gives us subsidies worth Rs50,000, which in any case it had promised, even then we will have to cough up Rs50,000 to Rs75,000,” said Jatinder Singh of Qadian.The government had made it clear that it will impose a fine of Rs50,000 on anybody not installing the device. Officials said there was also a possibility of harvesters being impounded.Farmers had gathered from towns including Dera Baba Nanak, Fatehgarh Churian, Qadian, Batala, Gurdaspur and Sri Hargobindpur.The situation was threatening to snowball into a major controversy with protesters ready to spill on to the highway. However, SDM Bal and DSP Parvinder Kaur jointly managed to calm them down.Experts from the PAU and Agriculture Department, too, were roped in. They held a series of meetings with all stakeholders, following which the protest fizzled out on Saturday evening.The official version given to the farmers was that “their problems will be dealt with by a special committee of representatives from all groups.”Insiders, however, said the olive branch extended to the farmers was in the form of non-interference by officials till the owners get the contraption installed.“We told them that we will go slow in imposing fines and also informed them that nobody will be harassed or prosecuted,” an official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-relent-as-pau-govt-officials-extend-olive-branch-150636
04-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Underwater pre-wedding shoots catch fancy of couples||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 3With the wedding season around the corner, Jalandharites seem to have become little open to the concept of underwater pre-wedding shoot, the idea that was earlier in vogue in metro citiesCharanjit Lagah, a wedding photographerThe concept was not earlier popular in Jalandhar as either the groom or the bride would say they were not comfortable with it. Also, photographers themselves need to be good swimmers and have water-proof gadgets. I used Iphone for the shoot. The couple had to be given training on how to move in water, how to keep eyes open and give poses. It also consumes a lot of time.Recently, a Jalandhar-based couple chose to pose themselves inside a swimming pool. Freelance model Abhishek Gotra and his wife Neha, who works with a tourism company, got their photo shoot done in a swimming pool last week. “It involved a lot of effort but the results came out so well. Ever since I have posted these pictures on my social media pages, I have been getting a lot of inquiries from couples set to get married in due course of time,” said Charanjit Lagah, a wedding photographer.Says Lagah, “The concept was not earlier popular in Jalandhar as either the groom or the bride would say they were not comfortable with it. Also, photographers themselves need to be good swimmers and have water-proof gadgets. I used Iphone for the shoot. The couple had to be given training on how to move in water, how to keep eyes open and give poses. It took us the whole day. I clicked several pictures but ultimately could get the required quality only in about 15 pictures. We shot videos as well.”Abhishek, who got married three days back, said: “It was an awesome experience. We had a sitting with the photographer and we told him that we wanted an experience worth being remembered. He suggested underwater pre-wedding shoot and we agreed.”He said: “There was an issue that pools in all hotels of the city were shut owing to Covid but the photographer arranged a shoot for us at a private pool owned by one of his acquaintances. They first drained out the water, got it cleaned and refilled it for us. The underwater pre-wedding shoot was the major highlight of our marriage, especially for us as we knew that we were not going on a honeymoon owing to the pandemic. All our relatives, guests and friends have been asking us about it ever since.”Asked if their party-wear dresses got spoilt in water, “No, nothing of that sort happened. Our dresses are in perfect condition, though we had thought these would be one-time wear.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/underwater-pre-wedding-shoots-catch-fancy-of-couples-150637
04-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Shopkeeper dies in road accident in Hoshiarpur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shopkeeper-dies-in-road-accident-in-hoshiarpur-150633
04-10-2020||---||5 succumb to virus, 76 test positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 3With 76 people testing positive for Covid-19, the Jalandhar district tally reached 13,247 on Saturday. With five more deaths, the toll reached 401.As many as 11,278 people have been discharged so far, while there are 1,497 active cases and 1,093 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 59 people tested positive for Covid and a 30-year-old woman from Mian Bakerpur village at Fattu Dhinga in Kapurthala, died at a private hospital in Jalandhar on Saturday. An 18-year-old girl had succumbed to the virus on Friday.IMA, Hoshiarpur, starts 20-bed free Covid hospitalHoshiarpur: The Indian Medical Association, Hoshiarpur, started a full-fledged Covid-19 hospital on the premises of St Joseph ‘s Hospital, Ram Colony Camp, Hoshiarpur.Dr Harish Bassi, president, IMA, Hoshiarpur, said: “The Covid hospital has been started to serve the ailing humanity in this hour of the epidemic. This facility will be totally free for all patients, who need treatment for Covid.” The facility was inaugurated by Sunder Sham Arora, Industries and Commerce Minister. This facility is a result of the untiring efforts of the IMA, Hoshiarpur, Bassi said, adding that Dr Rajender Sharma, former president IMA Punjab assisted by Dr Taru Kapur secretary, IMA, Hoshiarpur, Dr Amit Gupta and Dr Rajesh Mehta worked very hard to make this project a success. In this facility, except for diagnostic and laboratory tests, the treatment and other logistics will be totally free. It will have 20 beds available round the clock. Qualified doctors and other medical staff will serve patients. Specialists from various medical fields will be available on call.“This service of IMA is probably the first such private health service, where treatment will be free. For any enquiry or need in this regard, the in charge of the facility can be contacted on mobile number 7009973900 any time,” said former president Dr Rajender Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-succumb-to-virus-76-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-150630
04-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Culture of rape: People’s mindsets need a massive change||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 3In July this year, a Dalit woman from the Bajuha Khurd village committed suicide minutes after posting a video claiming she had been insulted by her neighbours. In May, a 25-year-old was booked for raping his 16-year-old sister for years. During the lockdown months, the state and district witnessed many rapes, which bear testimony to the fact that women are not safe anywhere.Jasbir Jassi, Istri Jagriti Manch activistWe can only take up cases where the women are willing to speak. A woman's so-called 'honour' is still unfortunately the object of exploitation for anyone looking to seek revenge. This mindset exceedingly persists in villages. Insulting the women in someone's family is the best way to settle a score with a certain person.RsWhile massive protests have been planned across the country following the callous Hathras and Balrampur rape cases, same shall also pan out across various areas and villages in Jalandhar against the brutal rapes. Activists of the Istri Jagriti Manch held meetings at the Adra Mann among other villages on Friday and dharnas have been slated for October 4.In May, a brother raped his younger sister, who was a minor; a 14-year-old was raped by her mother's paramour in the same month at Nawanshahr. In July, a girl in Rama Mandi, who had gone to fetch wood, was kidnapped by men in a car and raped for days until she escaped; in September, too, two minor girls were raped in Jalandhar and Kapurthala. These were rape incidents which were reported in the media. Women activists fighting for justice for rape victims in the region also say the process is steeped in patriarchy and regressive mindsets, where getting many to speak up is an uphill task. The menace is much bigger than being reported. Many women don't even report cases out of fear of bringing dishonour and societal rebuke to their families.Jasbir Jassi, an activist of the Istri Jagriti manch, says, "We can only take up cases where the women are willing to speak. People's mindsets need a massive change. A woman was killed at the Nijjran village when she had been out in the fields to bring fodder for her animals. No one knows why or who murdered her, till date. A case at Pabwan village was lodged against a father-in-law for raping his daughter-in-law but no arrest has been made so far. Another boy in the same village has a case registered against him for raping a woman on the pretext of marrying her." She goes on: "A woman's so called 'honour' is still unfortunately the object of exploitation for anyone looking to seek revenge. This mindset exceedingly persists in villages. Insulting the women in someone's family is the best way to settle a score with a certain person."Activist Tarsem Peter, says: "There are many villages, where women fall prey to incidents and await justice. In some incidents such as the rape incident at Chak Maglani village, despite FIR under sections of the SC/ST Act in certain cases, and in others despite the intervention of the women's or the SC/ST Commissions the accused still get off scot-free."A string of recent incidents in and around district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/culture-of-rape-peoples-mindsets-need-a-massive-change-150624
04-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Retired Army man hasn’t lost  steam nor esteem||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 3Having faced major health issues owing to complications related to lymphatic cancer, Capt IS Dhami (Retd) remains a spirited man and a fighter to the core.At 59, he is still running the affairs of the Virsa Vihar as its secretary and doubling up as the manager of the 80-bed Youth Hostel at Burlton Park. His day starts at 5 am; jogging in the morning and yoga is next. He follows a healthy diet regimen, which he says has helped him get over his ailments for last few years.Capt IS Dhami (retd)I have enjoyed my work wherever I have gone. I served in the best of Army stations, including Binnaguri Cantonment along Bhutan border, Leh and Jammu. I served in the Youth Services Department for 28 years. I kept the Jalandhar youth engaged in several activities. During the stint, about 1,100 youth clubs were registered in the district, about 500 of which are still actively working. I roped in as many as 40,000 students of schools and colleges in the National Services Scheme and organised their camps and activitiesCapt Dhami has had a long spanning, multi-tasking career. Recruited through Short Service Commission (SSC), he was an army man for seven years after which he took up the job in the Youth Services Department of the state government and retired as the Deputy Director of Youth Services in March last year. Staying idle was never his habit; he continues to assist the district administration for various works even after his superannuation.A ‘jolly good fellow’ as he is known as in his friend circle, Capt Dhami shares, “I have enjoyed my work wherever I have gone. I served in the best of Army stations, including Binnaguri Cantonment along Bhutan border, Leh and Jammu. I served in the Youth Services Department for 28 years. I kept the Jalandhar youth engaged in several activities. During the stint, about 1100 youth clubs were registered in the district, about 500 of which are still actively working. I roped in as many as 40,000 students of schools and colleges in the National Services Scheme and organised their camps and activities.”It was during his tenure in the Youth Services Department in 2007 that Capt Dhami was detected with cancer. He underwent several cycles of chemotherapy and a three-year treatment for his disease at DMC, Ludhiana, and returned even stronger in the field in 2010. Ever since, he has continued to keep the youth engaged in activities and organised all youth-related events including district-level Independence Day and Republic Day functions. He has been recognised and rewarded for his activities at the district-level functions four times.As the Secretary of Virsa Vihar, he had set in motion monthly cultural programmes engaging colleges for the same. The ongoing series of programmes, however, had to be shelved off owing to pandemic.For all the tough phases that he passed through, Capt Dhami says that he sailed through with the blessings of almighty and support of his family. “It was in first week of March that I caught Covid. Being a cancer patient and having had very low immunity, I was quickly prone to it. But thankfully, that difficult time also just went by. My wife, who is a mentor and gives training to caregivers and trains children for etiquettes and table manners, has been my pillar of strength. So have been my son, a city-based dentist, and my daughter, who is a psychologist.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/retired-army-man-hasnt-lost-steam-nor-esteem-150625
04-10-2020||---||Provide services within 25 minutes of issuing token, Sewa Kendra staff told||Jalandhar, October 3As applicants had to wait for long to complete their application forms, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori directed the staff at Sewa Kendras to ensure that everyone who is issued a token was able to wind up his work within 25 minutes.Thori directed the staff to ensure promptness in delivery of services for residents’ convenience after having approached a Suwidha Centre. He said the district administration was duty-bound to provide citizen-centric services to people in a time-bound and hassle-free manner.Thori had conducted surprise visits to Sewa Kendras a few days ago while being accompanied by Assistant Commissioner Harpreet Singh. He had visited various service delivery counters and interacted with the public there while taking their feedback. Thori reviewed various phases of citizen-centric services from issuing of a token number to delivery of the service.He asked officials to carry out inspections of the working at Sewa Kendras intermittently, while laying emphasis on time-bound services without any inconvenience to the people.He said Sewa Kendras were opened by the state government to facilitate people and any sort of laxity on their part would not be tolerated at any cost. The DC said zero-tolerance policy must be adopted against any sort of inordinate delay by Sewa Kendras and stern action would be taken against the management of Sewa Kendra.The DC also asked the staff working in the Kendras to be polite and courteous to people as they were here to serve them. The work distribution among the staff members must be done in a proper manner to streamline the system, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/provide-services-within-25-minutes-of-issuing-token-sewa-kendra-staff-told-150626
04-10-2020||---||Rs 11.41L fine for stealing power in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 3In a major drive against electricity theft, 23 teams of Punjab State Pradesh Corporation Limited (PSPCL) on Saturday conducted raids under the supervision of Harjinder Singh Bansal, Deputy CE, Distribution Circle Jalandhar, and imposed a fine of Rs11.41 lakh on people indulged in stealing electricity.The teams during checking found irregularities in the areas of Model Town, Cantt, West, East and Phagwara Divisions.Jainender Dania of the PSPCL informed that as many as 19 connection holders were found to be stealing electricity, 72 of excess load and 13 were doing unauthorised use of energy, out of a total of 2,903 connections checked. A penality of Rs11.41 lakh was imposed on the erring consumers.Harjinder Singh Bansal, deputy CE, Distribution Circle Jalandhar, appealed to consumers to regularise their excess load after visiting to Suvidha centres under each division and not to misuse the electricity connection given to them for a particular purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-11-41l-fine-for-stealing-power-in-jalandhar-150627
