08-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Father of haemophilic son finds hard to make both ends meet||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 7It’s 11 in the morning and Bittu Pehelwan’s eyes are glued to his phone. He is waiting anxiously for someone from any industrial unit to call him to transport the goods. Earlier, things were different. He would start the work at 5 in the morning and would visit Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and other districts for the transportation of goods. But since the pandemic began, the work has almost stopped. Bittu Pehelwan shares his life journey. “I am illiterate. I had a horse cart initially, then I started riding rickshaw. Now, I ride tempo and transport goods. I also used to wrestle in akharas, so, hence I was named ‘Pehelwan’. It gives me a sense of strength,” tells Bittu.His daughter is also a wrestler and has been taking coaching in a college. His 10 year-old-son is suffering from a rare disease called haemophilia. These days, Bittu’s focus is on providing his children with a balanced diet so that their health doesn’’t suffer. He wants his children to become successful wrestlers, for which he is working hard to help them get a good diet.Bittu Pehelwan’s otherwise strong voice becomes bleak when he mentions his son, “He needs medical checkup every three months and we visit Chandigarh for his checkup, but since March, when the lockdown was imposed, we haven’t gone for his medical checkup. These days, I am taking an extra care.”After a pause, he adds, “Once his forehead was bruised and the bleeding wasn’t stopping. Several bottles of blood had to be given to control his condition. I have also got a goat for my son. I make sure that he drinks goat’s milk because it is good for his health. But these days, there is hardly any work, so, I am hard pressed. I have no idea regarding how I will look after my family as well as the goat. I have to ensure a good diet for the goat as well. It is getting difficult with each passing day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-of-haemophilic-son-finds-hard-to-make-both-ends-meet-152685
08-10-2020||---||5 die, 129 test positive in Jalandhar District||Jalandhar, October 7With five more people losing battle against Covid, the toll climbed to 422 in the district on Wednesday. Similarly, 129 people tested positive for the virus, taking the district tally to 13,680.As many as 12,098 people have been discharged so far, while 1,160 were still active and 849 people were under home isolation in Jalandhar.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 29 people tested positive for Covid on Wednesday. Two deaths were reported from the district including that of a 65-year-old man from Nasairabad village, who died at PGI, Chandigarh; and a 70-year-old woman from Nangal Lubana village, who died at GMC Patiala.44 test +ve in HoshiarpurWith the emergence of 44 new cases in Hoshiarpur district, the total number of Covid patients has risen to 4893. Civil Surgeon Dr. Jasbir Singh said that with the taking of new samples of 1750 people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken so far in the district has gone up to 117313. According to reports from the lab, 111226 are negative, while 1663 reports are awaited and 127 are invalid.The number of active cases in the district is 581 and 4135 patients have recovered. The death toll so far is 177. Out of 44 positive cases found in the district today, 13 cases are from Hoshiarpur city, while the remaining 31 cases are related to other health blocks.Nawanshahr reports two deaths, 8 positive casesTwo Covid deaths were reported in Nawanshahr on Wednesday. Both patients had co-morbidities.A 79-year-old resident of Sujjon block suffering from hypertension died during treatment in Ludhiana while a 72-year-old resident from Muzaffarpur block was suffering from kidney, liver and heart disease and also died in Ludhiana.A total of eight cases were reported from Nawanshahr today. So far, 56 deaths have been reported from Nawanshahr and there are 169 active cases so far.As per the information, as many as 838 samples were collected on Wednesday. At present, a total of 26 Covid patients are in home-isolation.Govt to give Rs 50 Lakh ex-gratia if sanitation worker dies of CovidHoshiarpur: Punjab Safai Karamchari Commission chairman Geja Ram Valmiki said the Commission was committed to safeguarding the rights of safai sewaks (sanitationn workers). During a meeting with municipal officials and sanitation workers in Hoshiarpur on Wednesday, he said Rs50 lakh ex-gratia would be given by the Punjab Government, if any sanitation worker dies of Covid. He said the Commission was visiting different districts of the state to find out about it so that no needy worker was left deprived of the benefit. Geja Ram said he had come to know through the municipal authorities that none of the sweepers in the district had died of corona, which was a good news. While replying to a question of journalists, he said the Commission had written to the government to ensure regularisation of sanitation workers (hired on contract or outsourced) hoping that in the coming days more recruitment of sanitation workers would be made. He said social justice was the right of every citizen and no sanitation worker or sewerman would be allowed to be exploited. He said the initiative of the government was to provide clean environment and social justice to all. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-die-129-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-152686
08-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Woman succumbs to injuries, husband, 2 kids still in hospital||Dasuya, October 7A woman succumbed to her injuries, while her husband and two children were seriously injured in a road accident that took place near Pandori Araian village on Sunday. Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Baniyal village, was going on a bike to Bhusha village with wife and two children, when he was hit by a speeding car. Dasuya police have registered a case against the car driver in this regard. Baniyal village resident Surjit Ram told the police that his son Sandeep, who serves in the Army, had come to village on leave. He was going to Bhusha village on his motorcycle with his wife Ranjit Kaur, son Harshadeep Singh and daughter Sarit Kaur, while he (complainant) was following them on his scooter. When Sandeep reached near Pandori Araiyan village, a car coming from the opposite direction hit him. It is alleged that car driver Harjinder Singh of Munnanwali, under police station Baharampur, Gurdaspur district, was driving at a high speed, which led to the accident.Sandeep Kumar, Ranjit Kaur and both children suffered serious injuries in the accident. They were admitted to the Military Hospital, Jalandhar, for treatment, where Ranjit Kaur (27) died on Tuesday, while the other three were still undergoing treatment. Dasuya police have registered a case against car driver Harjinder Singh under Sections 279, 337, 338, 304A and 427 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-succumbs-to-injuries-husband-2-kids-still-in-hospital-152688
08-10-2020||---||Covid WhatsApp helpline launched in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, October 7To facilitate Covid patients across the district, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal launched a WhatsApp helpline 62849-99100 on Wednesday, on which people can call for all kinds of Covid-related information, besides having live chat option with medical experts in emergency cases.While launching it, the DC said a person would only have to send a hello or hi on this helpline and in revert he/she would receive options to choose for valuable information by clicking points ranging from 1 to 9.She said now anyone can know the current status of Covid and number of positive, active, recovered and death cases in the district with a single click besides placing a request for Covid test at home.People, too, can contribute by giving suggestions and filing complaints besides reading positive news and inspirational stories of Covid warriors. The helpline number would also provide the contact numbers of all SMOs and health officers concerned.For home-isolated people, they would be able to submit vital health parameters besides having live chat option for emergency cases.The DC has appealed to people to call the helpline for any kind of information regarding Covid to escape themselves from rumours and baseless information regarding the epidemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-whatsapp-helpline-launched-in-kapurthala-152689
08-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court grants bail to two in triple murder case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7Three years after a triple murder in posh Lajpat Nagar locality sent shock waves across Jalandhar, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday granted bail to accused Amrinder Singh and Tajinder Kaur, alias Rubby.“At this stage, it is sufficient to record that the petitioners have been in custody for three years, seven months and two days and the trial is nowhere near completion. There is no other criminal case pending against the petitioners and they deserve to be granted regular bail,” Justice Sudhir Mittal asserted.The two, through counsel Divjyot S Sandhu, had moved the High Court seeking bail in FIR registered on February 23, 2017, at Division No.4 police station in Jalandhar for murder, house trespass, criminal conspiracy and other offences under Sections 302, 307, 452, 34, 120-B of the IPC and the provisions of the Arms Act.Appearing before Justice Mittal’s Bench through videoconferencing following the Covid outbreak, Sandhu argued that the petitioners had been in custody for over three-and-a-half years. The trial had not progressed much as only six out of 37 prosecution witnesses had been examined.The Bench was also told there was no other criminal case pending against the petitioners. The complainant had already been examined and there could not be apprehension of the petitioners attempting to win over the witnesses. As such, they may be granted regular bail.The state counsel conceded that only six prosecution witnesses had been examined. He, however, opposed the bail on the ground that petitioner Amrinder Singh had conspired with Tajinder Kaur to kill his mother, wife and wife’s friend through contract killers, as they were having an affair. “An extremely heinous offence has been committed and they cannot claim the discretionary relief of regular bail,” the counsel added.Justice Mittal asserted evidence had not been placed on record. As such, the court was not in a position to make any observations on the merits of the case. “In any case, any observation made on merits might affect the outcome of the trial,” Justice Mittal added. Allowing the petition, Justice Mittal directed the release of the petitioners on regular bail on furnishing bail and surety bonds to the satisfaction of the trial court/duty magistrate concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-grants-bail-to-two-in-triple-murder-case-152690
08-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Parents who fought for honour of martyred son lose battle to Covid||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 7A septuagenarian who had fought for 10 years to get a Jalandhar-based colony named after his martyred son (Lt Gurbinder Singh), succumbed to the Covid-19 on Wednesday.Both parents of the martyr lost their lives due to the contagion in a quick succession.While his mother, Paramjit Kaur (66), breathed her last on September 26, his father, Ajit Singh (77), died on October 7. Lt Gurbinder was a part of the advance party, when he was killed by insurgents on December 10, 2001 in Kashmir.Ajit is the same man, who had in March 2016, sought permission from the district administration to commit suicide. The trigger for his appeal was the fact that the name of the colony –‘Shaheed Lt Gurbinder Singh Nagar’ named after his son in 2005 – was changed to ‘British Town’ on the insistence of some residents by the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation.Following a long drawn battle and an inquiry by the Deputy Commissioner following Ajit’s appeal, the name of the colony was renamed ‘Shaheed Lt Gurbinder Singh Nagar’.Lt Gurbinder’s brother Davinder Singh said, “My father fought for the respect to be accorded to his martyred son for 10 years. My mother never revived from the shock. She became diabetic due to the trauma of my brother’s death and had to undergo dialysis twice a week even during the pandemic. She tested positive on September 10 and died on September 26. My father got sick soon after.”Lt Gurbinder’s elder brother Col Khushwinder Singh said, “My mother and father underwent immense trauma while fighting for my brother’s rights. Mother was pained at the ordeal my father went through. Sardar Ajit Singh’s son fought the Pakistanis on the border, but the former had to fight his own people to give him respect. In 2007, the name of the colony was clandestinely changed to ‘British Town’. Is this how martyrs are rewarded? The colony was finally renamed, but after a long drawn fight. Residents defaced and blackened boards. Still many of those adamant have stuck nameplates reading ‘British Town’.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-who-fought-for-honour-of-martyred-son-lose-battle-to-covid-152691
08-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers oppose MoS, BJP state chief in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, October 7Union Minister of State (MoS) Som Parkash and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state chief Ashwani Sharma, who arrived in Hoshiarpur on Wednesday to support the new farm laws framed by the Centre, faced strong opposition from farmers.Despite tight security in place, protesting farmers reached Hotel Amber Residency, where the duo was to hold a press conference.Farmers shouted slogans against the agriculture legislations and the Central Government and surrounded the hotel. As a result, the BJP’s leaders reached the venue around one-hour late. The district administration and the police officials somehow managed to persuade the farmers to leave the venue.A large number of farmers, including Om Singh Satiana, Gurdeep Singh Khun Khun, Nambardar Manjit Singh Khun Khun, Lawrence Chaudhary, Ajib Dwivedi, Harminder Singh Harmoian, Gurnam Singh Singriwala and Jagtar Singh Bhinder, were present.Sukhbir was aware of farm Bills, says Som ParkashWhile addressing mediapersons, the MoS said, “When the Prime Minister is saying that the MSP will continue, then I don’t think that there is any reason to doubt it.” He said these laws were an important step of the government to double income of farmers.He said the Congress has no moral right to oppose the agriculture laws as Rahul Gandhi himself was not present in the Lok Sabha when the Bills were introduced.Replying to another question, he said despite the implementation of the farm laws, the mandi system will continue as before and these laws have provided another alternative to farmers to sell their produce in the open market and get higher prices.Commenting upon the opposition of the agriculture legislations by the Akalis, he said SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had earlier spoken in favour of the farm Bills, but later started opposing it for his political interests. He said Sukhbir was aware of the outline of the Bills so how could he say that these were anti-farmer.Former national vice-president of BJP Avinash Rai Khanna, Subhash Verma and Nipun Sharma, were also present.BJP to contest 117 Vidhan Sabha seats: AshwaniBJP state chief Ashwani Sharma said Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government was opposing the Centre’s agriculture laws to cover up their failures.He claimed that the farm laws were in favour of the farmers. He said Cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot had embezzled crores of rupees from scholarships, which were meant for Dalit students and the chief minister had given him a clean chit.Sharma said the BJP would contest on 117 seats in the forthcoming Assembly elections. He said though the BJP used to contest at 23 seats earlier, they had a strong base in all the segments in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-oppose-mos-bjp-state-chief-in-hoshiarpur-152692
08-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Six more panchayats join hands in fight against stubble burning||Jalandhar, October 7Accepting the appeal of Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori to ensure zero stubble burning in villages, six more panchayats have joined hands with the administration and passed resolutions against the menace.The resolutions read that harvesting of paddy would be done only by the combine attached with Super Straw Management System (SMS) and they would inform the police and administration immediately in case someone violates the orders.Villages including Gag Dhagara, Cholang, Isspur, Bhojewal, Raipur Pharala and Kot Khurd passed a resolution on Wednesday against the unhealthy practice, which produces harmful gases and may exacerbate the coronavirus cases in the state.Sarpanch Beant Kaur of Gag Dhagara village said the village has an 800-acre area under paddy crop and 32 farmers, who own fields, have shown the resolve to not burn stubble and manage straw in fields. She said: “This resolution is our commitment to the administration that we are standing behind them in this war against stubble burning.”Cholang sarpanch Gurmeet Singh said apart from passing a resolution, proper announcements were being made from gurdwaras to apprise the peasantry about the harmful effects of burning paddy straw on the environment and human health. He said his village had around 250-acre land under paddy and 30 farmers were associated with it.Isspur sarpanch Gurwinder Singh said all paddy farmers have decided to manage stubble in their village and would not pollute the environment by burning it as it increases respiratory problems among people.Sarpanches Greeb Dass of Bhojewal, Sarabjit Kaur of Raipur Pharala and Ratan Kumar of Kot Khurd also said they have held regular meetings with farmers and made them aware of the harmful effects of stubble burning.DC Ghanshyam Thori said the administration was making concerted efforts in these trying situations to defeat the coronavirus in the larger public interest and save precious lives.He said the burning of paddy stubble produces 70,000 mg particulate matter, which harms human health and destroys 17 nutrients and several other micronutrients of soil. Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh said the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department was aggressively sensitising farmers against stubble burning, as it causes huge damage to human health and environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-more-panchayats-join-hands-in-fight-against-stubble-burning-152693
08-10-2020||Jalandhar||Fast food vendor dies in accident||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fast-food-vendor-dies-in-accident-152694
08-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Motherly love: A driver turns parent to an astrayed nilgai||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 7“Bijli jaisi daurti hai, maine naam bijli rakh diya. Mere bacchon jaisi hai (she’s quick as lightning, so I named her bijli. She is like a child to me),” Madan Lal says of a guest — that happens to be a nilgai — who is no longer around him.She was found all alone in the woods near Adoana village, five days old; needing urgent care, at a spot notorious for feral dogs more than a month ago. Perhaps the mother was chased away by other wild animals, but Lal took the onus on his shoulders. He mothered the infant painstakingly till it was life-ready. From feeding milk like babies to taking her for long walks in the fields near his place, he had made all special arrangements for the antelope.“She was brought by a village boy to me. I, my son and wife kept her for nearly a month like a child. I made special arrangements for goat and cow milk to feed her because the milk of a buffalo doesn’t suit nilgai calves,” he says. He would take her to the forested site on a bike everyday to find her mother but unfortunately couldn’t nor any herd of nilgais.“When our trips to the jungle didn’t yield results for a week, I decided to rear her. I called the Forest Department and conservator Nikhil. They helped me in the task,” he adds. A few days ago, bijli was taken to a bigger farm to prepare her for final release.For days the family felt the absence dearly, for she had taken abode not only at Lal’s residence but also resided in their hearts. “She ran around in fields but would always come running to me every time she spotted another animal or human in vicinity,” Lal, who is a mini truck driver, reminisces. He bid adieu to the growing bijli a few days ago as she was taken to a bigger habitat.Nikhil Senger, a doctor from the Sutlej zoo, two brothers who own a farm near the Shivalik foothills (and have presently kept her there) as well as another wildlife lover Anushii – all collaborated for bijli’s care. Nikhil himself has been visiting the calf twice to thrice every week.These days, her paws mingle with the grassland of Shivalik as she munches on the greens with her best friend, a cow’s calf, and bleats at times. Honorary Wildlife Warden and conservationist Nikhil, says, “It takes at least a year for a nilgai calf to go independent. If we lose her before then she won’t survive. Once she is big enough, we will release her into the wild again.” He has a few words for her foster parent: “Lal is extremely sensitive. He nurtured her like a child. She consumes four to five kilos goat and cow milk a day. We tried to offer him money for the milk but he refused. We need more people like him in the hills. She is currently at a farm kept by two brothers, who have volunteered to take care of her. They have a huge property where she runs around and plays with calves.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/motherly-love-a-driver-turns-parent-to-an-astrayed-nilgai-152695
08-10-2020||Vidushi Aggarwal has secured 313th rank in JEE (Advanced). Vidushi has always been an all-rounder. Apart from scoring well academically||District girl Vidushi gets AIR 313 in JEE Advanced||Ward-level committees to spread covid awarenessIn every ward and village in Nawanshahr, influential people like religious people have been approached to make people aware of the Covid situation. They will roam around and ask people to take proper precautions and follow the guidelines. Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal (pic) said ward-level and village-level committees had been formed under Sub Divisional Magistrates. Apart from this, the teams will ensure that camps are organised at various levels. Notably, the first positive Covid case and death in Punjab was reported from Nawanshahr’s Pathlawa village. But now, as compared to its nearby district, Jalandhar, Nawanshahr is reported to have comparatively lesser number of cases.100 given offer lettersSeveral persons have lost their jobs during the pandemic and recently passed out students are worried about their future. Under Ghar Ghar Rozgar mission, the District Employment Bureau held a placement camp at Modern Institute in Nawanshahr on Wednesday. As many as 163 students took part, of which 100 were shortlisted. Assistant Deputy Commissioner (General) Aditya Uppal handed over offer letters to the selected students. Earlier too, several camps were organised by the district administration in which people were given jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-girl-vidushi-gets%C2%A0air-313-in-jee-advanced-152700
