11-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Whatever happens, happens for the best||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 10Life is unpredictable. We desire something, carve out plans for it, but the result, most of the times, is something else. That’s exactly how Sukhjinder Kaur (73) sees her life, when she looks back at her journey as a show presenter to a producer in All India Radio (AIR). Her journey in the broadcast media kicked off around 1970, when she had come to Jalandhar from Delhi. As a journalism graduate, she was supposed to join a leading national newspaper, however, destiny, had other plans for her.After auditioning back then, she got selected as presenter and after joining the Jalandhar AIR office, many new roles and duties came along her way that she accepted wholeheartedly. Although, she had never thought of joining broadcast media, but her skill set soon trained her into a professional. Sukhjinder, worked here for nearly 20 years and before leaving she had become the Assistant Station Director.People used to know us from our character. I remember, whenever I used to interview any personality, they would mention about my character and appreciate it. Kaake di Amma, as character was very close to me. We raised various social issues through it. During 1990's issues such as dowry system, corruption, civic ones and others were prevalent. Hence, we tried bringing these to the fore in a satirical form. Besides, programmes related to children on weekends 'Bal Jagat' were in popular demand. 'Thandoo Ram', a dehati programme, was well-known among rural populace. —Sukhjinder KaurWhile she has presented various shows and contributed for drama voices, her character as ‘Kakke Di Amma’, in a popular show called ‘Jagrit’ made her an overnight star. “People used to know us from our character. I remember, whenever I used to interview any personality, they would mention about my character and appreciate it. Kaake di Amma, as character was very close to me. We raised various social issues through it,” she says. During 1990’s issues like dowry system, corruption, civic ones and others were prevalent. “Hence, we tried to bring them to the fore in a satirical form. Besides, programmes related to children on weekends; ‘Bal Jagat’ were in popular demand. ‘Thandoo Ram’, a dehati program, was well-known among rural populace,” she adds.Though she has performed several characters in the professional career, her ‘Kakke Di Amma’, a rustic character, evoked humour and is something that is hard to forget even now. “Owing to its popularity, people thought the character was real and used to send problems related to social issues to our office so that we could highlight them. We enjoyed the love showered by the listeners and gradually being in front of the microphone became my favorite task of the day,” she reminisces.During her tenure in the Capital, Sukhjinder was also awarded for best production. After retiring, she worked as a consultant with the AIR for nearly eleven years. She is at present residing with her family in New Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/whatever-happens-happens-for-the-best-154131
11-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||This UK-based NRI has an eye for society’s good||Tribune News ServicePhagwara, October 10We need more people like him. UK-based NRI Ashok Mehra (51) and his family have been doing yeoman’s service for the poor families of Punjab. Associated with NGO Punarjot for almost a decade, they have organised nearly 500 seminars promoting eye donation and have got as many as 1 lakh forms filled for the cause.Mehra, who has worked as a pharmaceutical packaging technologist in London, now owns a salon, a gym and an academy for personality development in Phagwara. In the last 10 years, he has organised nearly 500 eye camps in Punjab. “During each of these camps, nearly 500 people have got their eyes checked and about 200-250 have got their spectacles made. Nearly 50 patients turning up at each of these camps have got their cataract surgeries done free of cost,” he shared.The 500 eye camps that we have organised have been funded by my family. The rest has been done through the support of my friends and do-gooders of society. There are several people who keep on contacting me offering financial aid. All those interested in offering help are told to provide tea, coffee or packed meals directly to patients in a hospital. I just coordinate and collaborate for such works. —Ashok Mehra, An NRIAs the state coordinator of Punarjot, Mehra has been at it. He and his firm have been successful in collecting 100 eyes from the deceased persons. About 60 people in Punjab got to see the light. Not only this. “Since I am also the international coordinator of the organisation, we have also got 5,200 successful eye transplants done abroad,” he said.Mehra’s philanthropic activities are not just limited here. “I have also got done two state-level music competitions organised for the visually impaired and gifted them items like harmonium etc worth Rs1 lakh in each of the two events. We are also working in the slum areas of Mehatpur (Jalandhar) and on Phagwara-Hoshiarpur road,” he told, adding, “we have adopted some children and are providing them education through temporary schools. Some small development works in their colonies such as installation of solar lamps and son on has also been carried out.”No breaksA postgraduate in Punjabi from Patiala University, Mehra is also planning to up the ante. “We are now focusing on a new project which is promoting organ and body donation. We recently encouraged a mother to donate a kidney for his ailing child and in turn provided them entire medical aid of Rs4.5 lakh. We have also got donated 40 bodies for medical education in PIMS Jalandhar and DMC Ludhiana,” he spoke of other activities being undertaken. In Ludhiana, a music studio in a school for the visually challenged children at a cost RsRs 45,000 was also set up, apart from a medicine bank, wherein people leave behind medicines not required by them. “We check their expiry dates and batch numbers and hand over these to the needy patients,” he added.But, what about funding? How is he managing that sphere? He revealed: “The 500 eye camps that we have organised have been funded by my family. The rest has been done through the support of my friends and do-gooders of the society. There are several people who keep on contacting me offering financial aid.” He has never taken any from them — instead made them tie-up with the attendants of the patients. “All those interested in offering help are told to provide tea, coffee or packed meals directly to the patients in a hospital. I just coordinate and collaborate for such works.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-uk-based-nri-has-an-eye-for-societys-good-154132
11-10-2020||---||4 die, 77 test positive for virus in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 10With 77 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, the district tally reached 13,971. With four more deaths, the district toll increased to 433. As many as 12,523 people have been discharged and 1,015 are active. The home isolation cases have been reduced to 812 and those currently admitted to the Civil Hospital Jalandhar have been reduced to 25.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 37 people tested positive for Covid on Saturday, 56 people were discharged and two persons succumbed to the virus.1 dies, 36 +ve in HoshiarpurThe total number of samples has risen to 1,22,912 with 1,850 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms taken on Saturday.The number of positive patients increased to 5,035 after receiving 36 new positive cases out of 1,964 samples received on Saturday. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said according to the reports received from the lab, 1,17,007 samples were negative, while the reports of 1,365 samples were still awaited and 127 samples were invalid. The death toll increased to 180 with one more death from the virus today. He said the number of active cases was 515, while the number of patients who have recovered was 4,340. Of the 36 new positive cases in the district, eight cases were related to the city, while the rest were from different health blocks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-die-77-test-positive-for-virus-in-jalandhar-district-154133
11-10-2020||---||Anger over Hathras rape incident spills onto Jalandhar roads||Jalandhar, October 10The impact of the anger of the Dalits over Hathras rape and assault case was widely felt in Jalandhar as near-total bandh was observed on the call given by the Sant Samaj on Saturday.Protests and dharnas were held at various sites in the city including Buta Mandi, PNB Chowk and Bhagwan Valmiki Chowk. As protestors moved on bikes across the markets in the city during the shutdown, they carried placards ‘Justice for Manisha’, ‘Yogi Beti Virodhi’ and ‘Hang the rapists’.Various leaders, including Safai Sewak Union chief Chandan Grewal, led the protests also raising the issue of non-implementation of SC post-matric scholarship. Sukhwinder Kotli, Ramesh Chohkan, Jagdish Rana and Jagdish Deesha of Bahujan Samaj Front held their parallel protests. Kotli, along with other outfits and Sant Samaj, announced to gherao the houses of Punjab Congress MPs, MLAs and ministers starting from October 13, if the remaining amount of post-matric scholarship was not issued immediately.Complete bandh observed in Kartarpur tooA complete bandh was observed in Kartarpur against the Hathras (UP) gang-rape incident and the post-matric scholarship scam in the state on Saturday.Representative of various groups and social organisations gathered under the Ambedkar Chowk Highway and on the bridge, where they held a huge demonstration.A protest march was carried out by those on dharna. Extending help to the demonstration for the Hathras victims, farmers’ groups also extended support and served langar.Shops in the market remains closed and many women, too, participated in the protests. Activists raised slogans against the UP government and carried posters reading “Manisha Valmiki De katlan Nu Fansi Deo.”Activists demanded that the accused in the Hathras murder be given strictest punishment. They demanded that action be taken against those responsible for the multi-crore scholarship scam in the state. They also demanded the dismissal of farm laws and also sought dismissal of the Electricity Act, 2020. Kirti Kisan Union also extended support and prepared langar for those on dharna.Hoshiarpur city wears a deserted lookMarkets wore a deserted look in Hoshiarpur remained completely shut on the bandh call given by various Scheduled Castes organisations and the Sant Samaj to protest against the brutal gang-rape incident in Hathras, UP, and the post-matric scholarship scam in Punjab.The surrounding areas were also affected by the bandh. Various political, religious and social organisations laid siege to the entry points.Commuters had a tough time as traffic remained blocked from 11 am to 1 pm. A protest march was also held in the city. During a protest at Bhangi Pul Chowk and Naloian Chowk, various speakers lashed out at the Modi government at the Centre and the Yogi government in UP. They raised slogans against UP CM Yogi Adityanath and also against Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for the scholarship scam. The protesters demanded that the perpetrators of the alleged gang-rape in UP be arrested immediately and given death penalty. They said the victim’s family was forcibly detained by the police and kept away from the media. They said the shutdown was called to awaken the UP government and if the government still does not take drastic measures, the struggle would intensify. District BJP unit, too, held a protest against the SC scholarship scam. Traffic was blocked for some time on the national highway by various organisations of Dasuya in protest against Hathras incident, seeking justice for the victim. Under the banner of the Punjab Safai Mazdoor Federation, the employees of municipal council, including sanitation workers, pump operators, computer operators, bill distributors, protested demanding that the accused in Hathras case be punished at the earliest. Protesters blocked traffic and raised slogans against the Centre and UP government. They gave a memorandum in this regard to the DSP.Sloganeering against SamplaFormer minister of state and former Punjab BJP president Vijay Sampla faced stiff opposition from various organisations at Naloian Chowk. Sampla and his supporters were protesting over the post-matric scholarship scam at a pandal laid at the Naloian Chowk. Leaders of the United Front, formed in collaboration with minority communities’ organisations and SC organisations, were staging separate demonstrations at some distance. When some people of the BJP raised slogans supporting Sampla and the BJP, protesters of the United Front reacted to it by raised slogans against the RSS, BJP, Modi, Yogi and also started raising slogans against Sampla.Sampla says will support SC organisations“We will be extending full support to the Scheduled Caste organisations and the saints of the community. Whatever they will decide in protest against the scholarship scam, we will be following their decision,” Sampla said. He was addressing at the Naloian bypass in support of Punjab bandh by Sant Samaj and Scheduled Caste organisations. Sampla said giving a clean chit to Cabinet Minister was a scandalous act. He said the SC society will not spare the culprits at any cost. He said whatever decision the Sant Samaj and SC organisations will take, they will fully support it.Scholarship row: BJP seeks action against DharamsotJalandhar: BJP leaders on Saturday organised a dharna against the post-matric scholarship scheme scam at the BSF Chowk here. The protesters were demanding action against Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. Held under the SC Morcha president, Bhupendra Singh, the dharna saw participation of Manoranjan Kalia, KD Bhandari, Mohinder Bhagat, BJP district president Sushil Sharma, Rajesh Bagga and former mayor Surinder Mahey. The protesters raised slogans against the state government. Workers blocked the BSF Chowk and stopped traffic until afternoon demanding lawful action against the minister. Notably, the dharna was held on a day when Dalit organisations in the district were holding a bandh against both Hathras rape and the post-matric scholarship scam. Kalia said, “The minister is deliberately being shielded by the government and the CM.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/anger-over-hathras-rape-incident-spills-onto-jalandhar-roads-154134
11-10-2020||Avneet Kaur||English Booster Clubs at government schools soon||Jalandhar, October 10To improve the communication skills of students of Classes VI to XII at government schools in English, the Education Department has come up with a new initiative — English Booster Club (EBC).In this, guided videos, recorded tapes, sentences and phrases would be shared by the state resource groups at all government schools in the state and students would reproduce the given content in their own style and voice.About the projectThe EBC would be officially launched in government schools on October 12 at the district level, while the meetings of the district mentors and block mentors were already underway to chalk out a time table for different activities and plans for its implementation in the true spirit.As per the officials concerned, English has always been a top priority for parents while choosing the best school for their wards. So, they believe that improving the standard of English, especially spoken, in government schools would not only help increase enrolment, but would also send out a positive message in society that government schools are no less than private ones in the state.In the first phase, we have decided to take three students per section or class to make them curious and to motivate them, so that they themselves come forward to avail the benefits. —Chander Shekhar, State resource personState resource person Chander Shekhar said EBC would be established in schools in two phases. He said in the first phase, the formation of the club at different levels, including schools, district and block and at state level would be ensured.“In the first phase, which has been scheduled for one month, our utmost objective is to make students shed their inhibitions and speak a few sentences in English on any given theme/topic without any help. Besides, guided video, sample audios and audio tapes will be shared by the state resource group to enhance listening skills, pronunciation and vocabulary of students and they would further reproduce the given content in their own way,” Shekhar said.He said at first, three students per section or class would be made a part of the club and later, all students via Buddy Groups will join the club.Chander Shekhar said: “We have decided to take three students per section or class to make students curious about English speaking and to motivate them, so that they themselves come forward to avail the benefits of the club after seeing their counterparts performing well. However, in the second phase, all students would be a part of the club.“In this way, we can also ensure proper functioning of English Booster Clubs and analyse what is missing or how it could be made better,” he said.EBC benefitsTo strengthen students’ speaking competency and enable them overcome their language shyness and anxiety, the Education Department has come out with a new initiative called English Booster Club (EBC). It will be officially launched in government schools at district-level on October 12.Its benefits: As per officials concerned, the establishment of EBC will help in increasing enrolment in government schools as it will encourage healthy competition with private schools. Besides, it will prove beneficial in removing students’ shyness and would boost their confidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/english-booster-clubs-at-government-schools-soon-154136
11-10-2020||Our Correspondent||World Mental Health Day observed at YFC Rurka Kalan||Jalandhar, October 10Rotary Club, Rurka Kalan, in collaboration with Gram Panchyat, Rurka Kalan, and Youth Football Club (YFC), Rurka Kalan, celebrated World Mental Health Day at the football ground of the YFC in Rurka Kalan on Saturday. The celebrations were held in two halves.In the first half, special children from different community centres participated in activities based on interaction, following the instruction and engagement in fun. These activities were led by YFC’s young leaders. Besides, Gram Panchayat head, Kulwinder Kaur, Lupinder Kumar and YFC’s CEO Gurmangal Dass threw light upon the importance of mental health and said that it is the foundation of individual’s well-being and the effective functioning of a community.“Mental health has an impact on educational outcome, productivity at work, development of positive personal relationships and crime rates. More than 450 million people suffer from mental disorders. It also affect person’s health behaviour like eating sensibly, regular exercise, adequate sleep, engaging in safe sexual practices, alcohol and tobacco use,” said Lupinder Kumar.Meanwhile, in the second half, YFC’s international partner coaches across continent shared special session about physical activities linked to mental health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-mental-health-day-observed-at-yfc-rurka-kalan-154137
11-10-2020||---||Three farmers booked for burning crop residue||Jalandhar, October 10 Taking stern action against the stubble burning practices, the Jalandhar rural police following the directives of Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori have registered FIRs against three farmers for burning crop residue in the district. The FIRs were registered in Shahkot, Lohian, and Mehatpur areas, where stubble burning was reported by the authorities. SSP (Rural) Dr Sandeep Garg said that as a part of a mammoth exercise to curtail the stubble burning practice in the district, the police have taken legal action for violating the magistrate orders of not burning crop residue. The SSP mentioned that the concerned authorities had reported stubble burning cases in the Shahkot, Lohian, and Mehatpur areas and the police department had registered FIRs against the violators. Pointing out further, Garg said that keeping in view the current Covid-19 pandemic, the stubble burning by worsening the air quality index could aggravate the health conditions of Covid patients who were already suffering from the compromised immunity system. He said the Deputy Commissioner had categorically directed to take strict action against the stubble burning cases to upkeep the air quality, especially in these trying times. He said more action would be taken if anyone found violating magistrate orders. Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner said that any farmer found setting his crop residue ablaze, his subsidised farm machinery will be confiscated with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-farmers-booked-for-burning-crop-residue-154139
11-10-2020||Jalandhar||Lyallpur college gets nod to run athletics academy||The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports has approved the demand of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, to run an athletics academy on its campus under Khelo India talent development programme.Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra said: “The Ministry has given the nod in view of its sports achievements, wide range of facilities provided to students and high standard of sports quality in the college”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lyallpur-college-gets-nod-to-run-athletics-academy-154140
11-10-2020||Phagwara||Man ends life after killing sister-in-law||A 40-year-old man killed his sister-in-law (younger sister of his wife) and then committed suicide at Khera village near here on Saturday. Bodh Raj, a resident of Jethu Majra village in Nawanshahr, reportedly went to his in-laws’ place, where his married sister-in-law Parveen Kaur (32) was putting up these days. She was reportedly washing utensils, when Bodh Raj entered the house, dragged her inside a room and locked it from inside. Bodh Raj’s daughter saw this happening and immediately called the family members, who were not at the place. By the time they came in and forced the door open, both of them were found to be dead. While Parveen Kaur, who reportedly had been strangled, was lying dead on the bed, the body of Bodh Raj was seen hanging from a girder in the ceiling of the room. Usha Rani, SHO Satnampura, said the statements of the family members were being recorded to get a clue to the entire episode. Bodies of the deceased were sent to Phagwara Civil Hospital for postmortem. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-ends-life-after-killing-sister-in-law-154145
11-10-2020||Jalandhar||82 inducted as constables during passing-out parade||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/82-inducted-as-constables-during-passing-out-parade-154147
11-10-2020||While While various efforts are being made by the Education Department to provide students classroom like atmosphere through digital classes but lack of technical support couldn’t bridge the gap between the structure of learning and teaching. For principals and teachers of government schools the online education can never be an alternative to classroom teaching and learning. Since the conduct of virtual sessions the whole format of education||ACADEMICS IN PANDEMIC: ‘Digital sessions all right but classroom teaching is more crucial’||How has your school been tackling the challenges posed by Covid-19?The whole online education concept came as a challenge for us. Initially, the unavailability of phones posed a big problem to reach out to a large number of students. Students somehow made arrangements but now the costly net packs have taken a toll. The Education Department dealt with the issue a few months back by airing TV programmes with recorded lectures on Doordarshan. Apart from that, we have also formed buddy groups among students who would help others to complete their syllabus.Education sector was suddenly forced to change their way of functioning and depended largely on digital mode. But classroom teaching, being interactive, is also needed. And as far as sustainability of online education in government schools is concerned, it will take a long time as students need to be equipped with the technical support. Besides, it’s time the best brains of our country develop some sort of a system, where the holistic development of students’ personality and hands-on experiential learning could be used to bring out the best in students.  —Dalbir Kaur, Principal Govt Sr Sec school, Randhawa MasandaAre online examinations equally beneficial as the physical ones conducted in the schools?Undoubtedly, conducting examinations in schools is more credible than online exams. We frame questions accordingly and students also take them seriously. However, the digital format feels like a formality. Teachers send the question papers to the students on their phones and ask to submit the answers shortly. In addition to this, it becomes tough to communicate with the students who have moved to their native states. Some couldn’t even appear for their exams.Do you think the digital shift, especially in government schools, is here to stay?I believe that due to the pandemic, the education sector was suddenly forced to change their way of functioning and depended largely on digital mode. But classroom teaching, being interactive, is also needed. And as far as sustainability of online education in government schools is concerned, it will take a long time as students need to be equipped with the technical support. Besides, it’s time the best brains of our country develop some sort of a system, where the holistic development of students’ personality could take place and provides opportunities for interaction and hands-on experiential learning using technology, so that both the experience of teachers of classroom teaching as well technology could be used to bring out the best in students.How were the admissions this year?Fortunately, the pandemic couldn’t affect it this year. We had 30 per cent more admissions and our school was third in the district with maximum enrollment. We have 933 students in our school.Has the teaching of the Board classes been faring well?Since the beginning of the classes, Board students remained our prime focus. Notes are being supplied to them through WhatsApp groups and studying material is also sent in the form of PDFs. Rest, for better understanding recorded lectures help them solve their queries.What infrastructural changes have been made for the digital sessions?We have installed projectors and screens in every class so that teachers can easily go about their thing.What will be your concern once the classroom teaching begins?Apart from the health and safety of the students, we will have to do work harder and focus will be on completing the syllabus of the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/academics-in-pandemic-digital-sessions-all-right-but-classroom-teaching-is-more-crucial-154148
11-10-2020||---||Doaba shuts over ‘atrocities’ against Dalits||Jalandhar, October 10All markets in the Doaba region remained shut throughout the day as various Dalit organisations held a protest against the Hathras rape and murder case and the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scam in Punjab.Roads and highways leading to Phagwara, Pathankot, Nakodar and Hoshiarpur were blocked. Even as the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) did not organise any protest today, the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Sant Samaj, Bhim Army, BSP (A), Valmiki Tiger Force and Bahujan Samaj Front took up the issue of atrocities committed against the Dalit girl and her family in Uttar Pradesh.Bhim Army chief joins protestsBhim Army president Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan took part in the protests held in Jalandhar, Phagwara, Phillaur and Ludhiana. He also paid obeisance at a prominent dera in Doaba. At the dharnas, he condemned the Hathras incident and demanded a government job for the family of the victim.While ex-Congress minister Joginder Mann led the protests in Phagwara, Bhim Army president Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan took part in the protests held in Jalandhar, Phagwara, Phillaur and Ludhiana. He also paid obeisance at a prominent dera in Doaba. At the dharnas, he condemned the Hathras incident and demanded a government job for the family of the victim.Meanwhile, BJP leaders, including Manoranjan Kalia, KD Bhandari and Mohinder Bhagat, organised a parallel dharna at BSF Chowk over the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scam.In Bathinda too, various organisations held a protest against the Hathras incident. The protesters were seen holding placards demanding justice for the victim.The Bathinda Social Group, Democratic Right Sabha, Punjabi Sahit Sabha, Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha, Bhim Army, Bathinda, Suchet Punjabi, Bathinda, and Istri Sabha, Punjab, were among the organisations which took out a march in Bathinda city against the incident.The members said all the proof was buried as the victim’s body was cremated in the middle of the night. They demanded justice for the victim’s family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doaba-shuts-over-atrocities-against-dalits-153967
