12-10-2020||---||ASI ‘shoots self’ with his service revolver, dies||Jalandhar, October 11 A Punjab Police ASI, posted at the proclaimed offenders’ wing, shot himself dead with his service revolver around 9:30 am on Sunday.  The victim has been identified as Hira Singh (50). He took the extreme step when he was alone at his accommodation in the Police Lines. Survived by three children, including two daughters, and his wife, he was a native of Hoshiarpur.  Investigating Officer Inspector Ravinder Kumar, SHO, Navi Baradari police station, said the deceased committed suicide. Sources also said the ASI lost his life due to misfire from his revolver.  The bullet hit his head near the right ear. He was deployed at Jamsher Khas grain market and was dressed up in his uniform, when he was found lying in a pool of blood. While no suicide note was recovered from him, the SHO said the ASI was struggling with depression and was facing financial problems.  His body has been sent for post-mortem examination. A case under Section 174 of the CrPC has been registered at the Navi Baradari police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asi-shoots-self-with-his-service-revolver-dies-154367
12-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||AQI shooting up, stubble burning to blame!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 11With increasing number of stubble burning cases being reported in the district, the air pollution in the city has reached an alarming level. The ‘Air Quality Index’ (AQI), which had dropped to its lowest during the lockdown has again gone up.The AQI, at present, ranges between 130 and 160, which has raised a serious concern on the parameters that are adulterating the city’s air. As per the Punjab Pollution Control Board officials in the district, around 5 to 8 stubble burning cases are being reported every day for the past one week.As per the figures provided by District Environment Engineer Kuldeep Singh, 29 cases of stubble burning were reported in Jalandhar, while 38 cases have been reported in Kapurthala so far in this harvesting season. In three different cases in Jalandhar, environment compensation fine has also been imposed on farmers and two in Kapurthala.A penalty worth Rs7,500 as environmental compensation was issued to farmers in Jalandhar, who were caught burning paddy residue in their fields and Rs5,000 to farmers in Kapurthala.Consequently, the purity and cleanliness of air is being downgraded due to the smoke that billows out from farm fires.Breathing quality is depleting due to the rate with which the AQI level is escalating (150-160) on a daily basis. Importantly, smoke and dust produced in the rural belt and uncontrolled farm fires certainly remained the prime reason for the increasing pollution levels, the environment engineer said.While the AQI (PM2.5) was reported 167 on Saturday, it was 160 on Sunday. The air quality indicator also pointed out that the pollution level was reaching at alarming levels in the city. The day time visibility has apparently been reduced in the city areas. The pollution levels in the months of March and April had drastically improved due to the complete lockdown induced to curb the spread of Covid-19. The reduced vehicular movement had, however, helped in improving the air quality index.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aqi-shooting-up-stubble-burning-to-blame-154368
12-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Sampling ramped up to average 5,000 a day||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 11With the dramatic reduction in the number of Covid cases in the district, the Health Department has started an outreach drive to conduct sampling of people across various public places and spots in the district.Amid apprehensions of a winter spike, 73 mobile health teams are conducting sampling at chowks, malls, factories, nakas, public places4 die, 34 new infections in Hoshiarpur districtAs many as 34 tested positive for Covid in the district taking the tally to 5,069. With the death of four more patients, the toll increased to 184. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 916 new samples of suspected flu-like flu were taken in the district on Sunday, and with it, the total number of samples taken so far has reached 1,23,828, of which 1,18,162 samples were negative, while the report of 1,100 samples was still awaited. As many as 127 samples are invalid. The number of active cases is 424, while the number of patients who have recovered is 4,461. OC4 persons succumb to virus, 53 test +ve in distJalandhar: With 53 people testing positive for Covid, the district tally reached 14,024 on Sunday. With four deceased, the toll has risen to 437. As many as 12,663 people have been discharged, 924 are active and 845 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar. Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 19 people tested positive for Covid on Sunday. Two deaths were also reported from the district. The deceased include 77-year-old Sher Singh Wala of Surkhan village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; and a 64-year-old man from Prem Nagar, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. As many as 73 mobile teams have been conducting sampling daily and about 5,000 people are being tested on an average.While the Jalandhar Civil Hospital along with various community health centres witnessed serpentine queues at the peak of the outbreak, the number of people reporting to the hospital has now reduced massively. In such a scenario, to increase outreach, health teams are visiting various chowks, thoroughfares and public spots.While 77 people tested positive on Saturday, 53 tested positive on Sunday. Health Department officials say while the reduction in Covid case numbers might place a false sense of complacency among the populace, it is imperative to remember that Covid is not over yet and people have to continue to be very cautious. An average of 5,000 samplings are being done in the district.Health teams with testing kits can often be found at police nakas, near malls, on the roadside, at factories, slums and other high risk or commonly frequented areas. At places, teams were also witnessed stopping autos, two-wheelers, auto-rickshaws and conducting sampling.A source said: “Even though Covid cases presently witness a dip, we have to wait and watch to ascertain whether this reduction continues. With winter approaching, another peak is anticipated in November. As per the data from around the world, Covid intensifies in the winter months. So, people need to be very cautious. The dip doesn’t mean it is over yet. To keep strict watch on the scenario, teams have to meet a certain target per day. So, for that they randomly pick people at a public place and conduct sampling. People largely cooperate.”Nodal Officer for Covid-19 Jalandhar Dr TP Singh said: “We have increased the target for per day testing to make sure everyone is covered. As many as 73 mobile teams are conducting sampling at malls, factories, Suvidha Centre, nakas and other public places to ensure maximum reach. On Friday, over 4,400 samples were taken. Sampling reaches 5,000 or more per day on an average. The reduction in cases is a healthy sign, but also mandates a need to be more careful. Covid protocol needs to be abided by as stringently as earlier. The numbers are lesser, but the virus is still around.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sampling-ramped-up-to-average-5-000-a-day-154370
12-10-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Slogan drive to defeat Covid in Seechewal||Jalandhar, October 11 A self-safety slogan awareness drive to fight Covid 19 was initiated by Sewa Sankalp Society through its vice-president Advocate Harpreet Sandhu at Seechewal village on Sunday. Environmentalist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal along with cardiologist of Punjab Dr Bishav Mohan and MLA Shahkot Hardev Singh Ladi launched the brochures of the campaign.  Navtej S Cheema, MLA Sultanpur Lodhi, Sant Baba Seechewal, Advocate Harpreet Sandhu and Dr Bishav Mohan also distributed masks in bulk and sanitisation material among the Sewadars of Nirmal Kutia and residents of Seechewal village. Dr Bishav Mohan addressed the villagers and appealed to them to adopt health-safety guidelines and wear mask and keep maintain social distancing to fight Covid-19.  Harpreet Sandhu, also requested the residents of Seechewal to adopt and circulate safety slogans while sitting at home and follow guidelines to make Punjab Corona free and project Mission Fateh a success.  Shahkot MLA Hardev Singh Ladi lauded the noble cause initiated by Sewa Sankalp Society on the holy land of Sultanpur Lodhi. Sant Baba Seechewal outrightly supported the noble cause and said: “Our safety is in our own hands. Therefore, we must remain alert and follow all precautions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/slogan-drive-to-defeat-covid-in-seechewal-154371
12-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj ---||As Centre extends invite, farmers to meet tomorrow to discuss strategy||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, October 11 Farmers have received an invite from the Centre for October 14 and a meeting with farmers’ unions has been called on October 13 at Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall, where the decision would be taken to discuss future strategy.  Ladowal Toll Plaza in Phillaur, Behram in Nawanshahr, Cholang toll plaza, and several railway lines in Doaba region are occupied for the last couple of days as farmers are holding protests against the farm laws at these sites.  Five farmers’ organisations have been holding dharna at Ladowal toll plaza. Satnam Singh, spokesperson of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba) said they are holding dharnas day and night at these sites and there would be no stopping.  Farmers said several farmers were holding protest while their family members were waiting for them at home, but others have started bringing their wives and children to the protest sites.  Farmers’ protest against the farm Acts has become a massive movement, where not only farmers, but people from all walks of lives have come up in support of them. Another farm organisation leader said the Centre was now calling farmers, but why didn’t they call them before passing the farm Bills? Arhtiyas have also joined the protest. Naresh Bhardwaj, secretary of the Federation of Arhtiya Association, said arhtiyas were lending 100 per cent support to farmers. Farmers said the Centre passed the Bills amid the pandemic, because they thought farmers won’t be able to do much because of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-centre-extends-invite-farmers-to-meet-tomorrow-to-discuss-strategy-154373
12-10-2020||---||PSPCL imposes Rs 10.07 L fine on power defaulters||Jalandhar, October 11 Under the directions of A Venu Parshad, CMD, PSPCL, deputy director distribution DPS Grewal and Jainender Dania, Chief Engineer, Distribution North, today conducted a morning raid under the supervision of Harjinder Singh Bansal, Deputy Chief Engineer, Distribution, Jalandhar circle, in which 24 squads of technical staff participated.  Various areas of Model Town, Cant, West, East and Phagwara Divisions were checked by these squads. Various irregularities were found during the checking. A total of 2,494 connections were examined, out of which 20 were found indulged in electricity theft. As many as 106 connections were found with excess load and eight connections were making unauthorised use of power. An amount of Rs 10.07 lakh as penalty was imposed on the erring consumers. Harjinder Singh Bansal appealed to the consumers, if anyone is found indulging in the electricity theft (direct kundi) or found tampering with the meters of their neighbourers, then one can inform at 9646116301 while the identity of the informer will be kept secret.  Harjinder Singh Bansal appealed to the consumers to regularise the excess load running after visiting to the Suvidha Centres under each division and not to misuse the electricity connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pspcl-imposes-rs-10-07-l-fine-on-power-defaulters-154374
12-10-2020||Jalandhar||Councillor seeks sanitation beat system in wards||Two days after health and sanitation committee member Satinderjeet Kaur resigned over an inadequate number of safai karamcharis in the wards, a second active panel member, who had earlier threatened resignation, has also talked with MC officials on the issue.  Jagjit Samrai, councilor, Ward No.78, said that he had also taken up the matter with the ad hoc committee chairman and the MC officials. He said he had been assured that the   beat system would be introduced.  Balraj Thakur, chairman of the ad hoc committee, said he would also talk to the panel member, who has resigned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/councillor-seeks-sanitation-beat-system-in-wards-154375
12-10-2020||Our Correspondent---||This NGO is on a mission to preserve cultural heritage||Jalandhar, October 11 An NGO, Open Heritage Foundation, is making concerted efforts to preserve the rich cultural heritage of the country for the present and future generations. The organisation is involved in documenting and disseminating cultural heritage content among people via different platforms, supporting programmes and international media campaigns with an emphasis on bridging the digital cultural divide. Its founder and strategic director Rupika Sharma says they are working for preserving and sharing copyright-free data pertaining to the cultural heritage. She says their focus is on the preservation of culture in digital form.  Rupika runs international campaigns in collaboration with the Wikimedia community.  She says they recently organised an international photography contest, “Wiki Loves Folklore” in collaboration with Wikimedia Commons Community. The focus was on the folk culture, unique folklore and traditions that make up a large portion of the world’s intangible heritage and includes folk dances, music, activities, games, folk cuisine, traditional wear, folktales, arts, religion, mythology and others. She says the competition elicited 21,000 image submissions, 140 videos and 13 folk songs from over 125 countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-ngo-is-on-a-mission-to-preserve-cultural-heritage-154376
12-10-2020||Our Correspondent---||Woman among three arrested with 135-gm heroin, fake currency||Tanda Urmar, October 11  The Tanda police arrested three persons travelling in a car and seized heroin and fake currency from their possession.  Bikram Singh, SHO, said the accused were nabbed by a team of the police, led by SI Parvinderjit Singh, had been identified as Satnam Singh Satti of Paniad, Balwinder Kumar, a resident of Majra and Jyoti Rani, a resident of Ganna Pind, Phillaur. The SHO said a patrolling party of the police team got information that drug peddlers were coming towards Tanda for supplying heroin and fake currency. On the basis of information, the police arrested the accused coming in a Swift car at a check point near Dashmesh Nagar, Basti Amritsarian. During search 40 gm of heroin was recovered from the possession of Satnam Singh Satti and Balwinder Kumar each while 55 gm of heroin was recovered from Jyoti Rani.  Also, fake currency worth Rs 30,000 and Rs 33,000 was also recovered from the car. The police have booked all three under the NDPS Act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-among-three-arrested-with-135-gm-heroin-fake-currency-154377
12-10-2020||---||BSF personnel take part in mini-marathon||Jalandhar, October 11A mini-marathon was organised by the Headquarters of Northern Frontier of the Border Security Force here on Saturday. The event was organised as a part of the ‘Fit India Movement’ and to keep the BSF personnel and their families physically strong during the ongoing pandemic. Not only BSF officials and jawans, but their families also participated in the event. The participants covered a distance of 7 km. Kids participated in the event  enthusiastically.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bsf-personnel-take-part-in-mini-marathon-154381
12-10-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Real life Ghulle Shah refuses to fade away with timewhere are they now||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 11Sometimes, a character played by an actor is appreciated so much by the audience that it becomes his lifelong identity. One such character (and actor) in the Punjabi Entertainment Industry is Ghulle Shah. Back in those days, when a television show, a movie or a stage performance was never complete unless Ghulle Shah was on board, people did not even know that the artiste playing the character is Surinder Farishta. For people, he was Ghulle Shah and he still is.Born and brought up in the holy city, he has been actively performing on stage since his school days. Farishta left his college early to pursue his passion and became a household name in Punjab during the days of Doordarshan.While many artistes of his generation have faded with time, Surinder Farishta is still active. Presently, he is shooting for his new project, ‘Bhasoorian Nawwia Nawwia’. He revealed that his another project with a television channel is also in the pipeline.When asked about his time spent in the lockdown, he said he had been working on his scripts. “Besides I had been working for various advertisement campaigns of the government to create awareness about coronavirus and keep people in high spirits,” he said.An optimistic person, he believes that the world would be a changed and better place to live when the pandemic is over. “I think we all have learnt our lessons. The nature is more powerful than all of us and we must respect this fact.” He said those who have still not learned a lesson but do it.Talking about the Covid-19 induced change, the comedian quips, “Not long ago, parents would ask children to leave mobile and start studying. Now, they ask them to take the mobile and study.” He stated that he feels that education to a great extent would shift to online platforms.In an advice for the people, he said, “We all should try to live as close to nature as possible. The materials or money we accumulate over the years would not bring us happiness. Our focus should be on the right things.” He said nature had sent across a message and everybody should take it seriously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/real-life-ghulle-shah-refuses-to-fade-away-with-timewhere-are-they-now-154632
12-10-2020||Do you think relaxations amid Covid have been taken in best interests of public?||Ease in restrictions means we need to be more cautious||Move should have been avoidedThe decision of the Punjab government to order lifting of the night and weekend curfews is not wise. The relaxation on increasing the limit of gatherings in marriage functions and funerals also falls in the same category. Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is among highest in Punjab. The reason for this is the carelessness of people regarding wearing of masks and shunning distancing. 'Punjabi swag' is still in vogue. Another big reason is the high percentage of co-morbidities in Punjabis. Incidents of hypertension, heart disease, diabetes, obesity and cancer are also highest here. Another setback is the straw burning during paddy season. This adds to the pollution, resulting in respiratory problems - a gift for virus. Many European countries, including UK and Spain are preparing for another lockdown. So, what's the point of easing the lockdown and lifting night and Sunday curfews? Though the number of cases and deaths are decreasing, there is no guarantee that there would not be a second wave of spike in positive cases. This relaxation could and should have been avoided.Dr J S WadhwaMore awareness needed nowFaced with the dual challenge of ensuring economic revival and physical well-being of citizens in wake of the virus onset, the Central government has, from time to time, eased stringent restrictions in phases and issued advisories for health, hygiene and safety. Amid the rising cases and deaths, the decision of the State in the Unlock 5.0 to withdraw night and Sunday curfews and enhance the limit on gatherings at marriage functions and funerals, in line with Centre's guidelines, to 100 is certainly antithetical to larger public interests. There is an increased risk of catching infection at crowded hotels, marriage palaces and crematoriums. However, the government has again directed the state DGP to enforce strict adherence to the pandemic protocols and take immediate action against wilful violators. But, it has been observed that a majority of people do not pay heed to the official instructions because of sheer ignorance about the severity of infection or virus fatigue and the police authorities are too apathetic and lenient towards their carelessness. Despite official claims of substantial decline in average positivity, the cases are on the rise - particularly in rural areas. Till a drug or vaccine is found, the state government should make concerted efforts to contain the transmission. It should spread awareness about the health hazards of the deadly disease and refrain from unnecessary emphasis on high recovery rates, show no laxity in the observance of precautions amid the ongoing farmers' agitation and paddy procurement operations and the forthcoming festival season, reconsider its move to retire medical staff on extension and shut Covid Care Centres across the state and help provide cheap treatment to the poor in private hospitals.DS KangLearn to live with changing timesThe State decided to lift curfews and allowed maximum of 100 persons to attend marriages and funerals is fine. But, it should be ensured that distancing norms are followed strictly and strict action should be taken against the violators. Wearing mask should be strictly enforced. Social and economic life came to a standstill; people were suffering from anxiety, were stressed and depressed because of the curbs. Now, we have to live with the ongoing conditions by taking full precautions. People need to understand how to protect and mind the gap.Shashi KiranTime to shun the confinementIt's a right move by the government. Protecting people by confining them to their homes is not justified under any circumstances. Let the people plod along in their respective professions and fight against the virus too. Protection against the pandemic is the responsibility of one and all. Masses now understand that they have to move forward facing the challenge like any other challenge of life. Wedding palaces employ many people. So, depriving those of their livelihoods would eventually amount to poverty, unemployment and crime and it goes without saying that these things are as fatal as any virus in the world. People must be allowed to see their loved ones for the last time after their demise. People have already suffered enough in confinement. The government must not politicise this pandemic imposing redundant restrictions and pretending to be the well wishers of the masses.Anil SharmaIt will turn the wheels of economyThe recent relaxations were given because many became jobless due to the pandemic. Removal of restrictions will slowly start to turn the 'wheel of economy'. Many jobs are entwined, so the benefit of one will benefit the other. The marriage industry employs a large number of people like caterers, DJ, drivers and so on. Increasing the gathering in marriages will benefit all of them. This will also help in increasing the demand in the market which in turn help many other enterprises. But the thing is that the threat of virus is still there. So, all of the safety protocols as lay out by the WHO and the district administration must be strictly followed to ensure the safety.Jatinderpal SinghA premature step of the governmentThe Punjab Government’s decision to abolish night and Sunday curfews is a welcomed one as the general public was inconvenienced without yielding matching results. But, upward revision in limit of gatherings at marriages and funerals up to 100 is a premature step and could be avoided in view of available statistics relating to existing status of the pandemic. It is generally observed that distancing norms and other basic precautions are not strictly followed by the participants at such occasions. Moreover, the society had already adapted to the restrictions as social acceptance for greater cause. The step should have been deferred till the next unlocking phase for taking appropriate decision according to prevailing scenarios.Jagdish Chander QUESTIONThough the state has been witnessing a decline in Covid cases, experts say the threat still looms large and precautions are necessary. However, the Centre has allowed cinema halls to reopen from October 15 with 50 per cent capacity. Do you think it's the right decision and in the best public interest? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 15).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ease-in-restrictions-means-we-need-to-be-more-cautious-154633
12-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Pupil strength drops to zero in 2 govt schools in Jalandhar's Lohian block||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 11Two schools in the Lohian block in the district are without students. There is not even a single student in Government Primary School (GPS), Heran Boop Singh, and Government Middle School (GMS), Bara Jodh Singh.Sources in the department said these were the only exceptions, even as there were schools having a handful of students.In GPS, Hera Boop Singh, there were eight students in the last session. Since there was no permanent teacher and teachers would come here on deputation, the strength kept on decreasing. This year, not a single student took admission. Sources said a letter was sent to the Lohian Khas Block Primary Education Officer in which it was mentioned that parents had decided to admit their wards in a nearby school as teachers used to come on deputation in the school. A request to appoint a permanent teacher was also made in the letter so that students could be brought back to the school.Rampal, District Education Officer (Primary), said the matter was in his knowledge. “Parents have shifted their wards to other government schools,” he said.Government Middle School, Bara Jodh Singh, also has no student. In the last session, there were a total of 10 students, of which six were in Class VIII, who passed out this session. However, no new admissions took place this time. Teachers here have been shifted to other government schools now.Harinderpal Singh, District Education Officer (Secondary), said the school was not closed officially. “There were three teachers in the school. But because of low student strength last year and lockdown this time, no new admissions took place. However, once everything becomes normal, we will ask parents to admit their wards to the schools,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pupil-strength-drops-to-zero-in-2-govt-schools-in-jalandhars-lohian-block-154337
