13-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Now, see girls’ nameplates outside homes||Hoshiarpur, October 12Celebrating the International Day of the Girl Child, the district administration, in a first of its kind initiative, unveiled the nameplates to be installed at the front gates of homes of newborn girls besides giving away congratulatory letters to those who joined services in the Police Department.Rolling out the nameplate initiative on Sunday, DC Apneet Riyait along with SDM Amit Mahajan personally went to Bahadurpur, where she installed the nameplate under ‘Meri Beti, Meri Shaan’ (my daughter my pride) outside the home of Jaishita. She also planted a sapling under Beti Bachao Beti Padhao in front of the gate of Jaishita Niwas to mark the International Day of the Girl Child.Earlier, the administration had organised a function to observe the day at the District Administrative Complex, where Apneet Riyait also honoured 17 girls serving in the Punjab Police on different ranks.The DC pointed out that as many as 202 such nameplates would be installed in front of the homes of newborn girls. She said this initiative of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate would further ensure effective implementation of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign at the grassroots level. She said these nameplates had reflective effect, and the names of girls would shine at night.DC Riyait said Hoshiarpur district had already achieved first position in gender ratio across the state and now the district administration had been taking more steps to ensure the overall development of girls such as providing equal opportunities to get jobs in Rozgar Melas under Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission. She said these nameplates would be installed at 202 houses in a few days.Meanwhile, Riyait and Mahajan also gave away the nameplates to the family members of newborn girls, including Bhawna, Sunakshi, Chetna, Muskaan and Kirandeep. The DC also personally handed over bags having the logo of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao to a few groups of anganwari workers, which would be given to a total of 600 anganwari workers in the coming days.Riyait gave away congratulatory letters to Sub-Inspectors Sandeep Kaur, Gurjit Kaur, Head Constables Rajdeep Kaur and Neelam Rani. Apart from these, Constables Paramjit Kaur, Rajvir Kaur, Asha Rani, Lovepreet, Sapna and Daljeet Kaur among others were honoured with congratulatory letters.Prominent among those who spoke on the occasion include Child Development Project Officers Ranjit Kaur, Raj Bala and Jatinder Kaur, administrator of One Stop Centre Manju Bala and principal Middle Level Training Centre Seema Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-see-girls-nameplates-outside-homes-155072
13-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Some bravehearts risking lives to keep the need of blood in check||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 12While a simple procedure, which has witnessed a beeline of donors in the past, however, during the pandemic with everyone resigned to their homes amid the scare, blood donation has become the responsibility of a chosen few still venturing out to lend a helping hand despite the risks.This ‘no holding back’ acts by some bravehearts have kept the insatiable need for blood units and many medical emergencies satisfied amid the times of pandemic. And now as dengue has also moved in, the task of arranging blood had also become harder but it is being taken care of.A string of emergencies amidst a reduced supply are dealing with the tempest calmly and diligently.Factor this in, a Phagwara-based NGO has collected over 700 units in blood donation camps to keep the flow steady. In Jalandhar, a 49-year-old man along with his entire family has been donating and also mobilising blood for the needy.Vitin Puri, general secretary, Hindustan Welfare Blood Donors’ Club said, “The decrease in caseload has had a grave impact on blood donation. Emergencies and the demand for blood are same but donors are just not willing. As the pandemic continues, the attitude of people remains the same.”Previously, they used to get 700 to 800 units in a single camp, but during the pandemic they have got as much in five months. “Elderly donors don’t come out for reasons which we also support. Even the young are prevented from donating by family members. Moreover, dengue has made things worse. We have to make mammoth efforts to ensure donors. Our appeal is for people to cooperate and think about the lives that they can save,” Puri added.While Hindustan Blood Donors Club began holding camps in April, during the lockdown, Puri had even arranged ferrying people from home in need of blood. A camp held from September 27 onwards saw collection of 126 blood unit. He said: “Had it been pre-Covid times, the same camp would have yielded at least 700 units.”Does the virus add to the costs? “No it doesn’t. We keep masks and sanitisers and duly follow protocols but I think it’s a myth that this adds dramatically to the costs. A bottle of sanitiser is enough to sustain a camp even with generous use,” Puri explained.Jatinder Soni (49), a Jalandhar-based donor, has donated blood 135 times in all – three times (twice blood, once plasma) during the pandemic. Amid the dengue season, he gets at least 12 to 18 calls a day seeking blood and plasma/cells. His family members are also active donors — Brother, wife and son all have donated in the past few months.“I get 15 to 20 calls a day. I have called donors from home, arranged some at 2 am and 5 am because nights are trickiest. Nine of them have been challaned during the pandemic. Varinder Sharma, the previous DC, had given us an entire Red Cross ambulance to ferry donors to keep them from being challaned. Only last evening, blood was arranged for a pregnant woman,” he said.He has payed his dues in the past. “Since then, I decided I wouldn’t let anyone else suffer the same,” Soni added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/some-bravehearts-risking-lives-to-keep-the-need-of-blood-in-check-155073
13-10-2020||Our Correspondent||State-of-the-art Covid wing at Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital soon||Hoshiarpur, October 12The district will get a 50-bed state-of-the-art Covid wing, equipped with ultra-modern health facilities, including centralised availability of oxygen etc, within a month.Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary said this while reviewing the steps being taken by the district administration to contain the further spread of Covid on Monday.She said the said wing would have separate male, female and kids’ wards besides counselling room, testing labs and prayer room etc., which would go a long way in keeping the coronavirus under check.Later, the minister took a round of the Civil Hospital and also spoke with patients and expressed her satisfaction over the preparations, arrangements and facilities being extended under Covid care.The minister interacted with the Civil Surgeon and other officers to know the status of Covid and patients in the district. In a fervent appeal to people, the Minister advised people to follow Covid-19 guidelines strictly to avoid resurge of this virus. She said if the people falter in adhering to the guidelines, the virus can resurge again, which should be stopped at all costs in larger public interest.Chaudhary said as many as 21.45 lakh Covid tests were conducted in the state so far, of which 1.23 lakh people were found positive. Of these, nearly 10,000 positive cases were still active across the state.Inspects Dana MandiThe minister along with Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait also inspected the procurement process at local Dana Mandi. She spoke to farmers, arthiyas and officers of the procurement agencies asking them to ensure seamless procurement, lifting and payment within stipulated time frame.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/state-of-the-art-covid-wing-at-hoshiarpur-civil-hospital-soon-155074
13-10-2020||---||Trains cancelled, diverted due to farmers’ agitation||Jalandhar, October 12Keeping the farmers’ agitation in view, the Firozepur railway division has announced cancellation, short-termination and diversion of the following trains.The trains that have been cancelled include the 02425/ 02426 New Delhi-Jammutawi-New Delhi Rajdhani express, 02054/ 02053 Amritsar-Haridwar-Amritsar express and 20925/20926 Kalka-Ambala-Kalka express.Short-termination / short-origination of trainsThe 02903 Mumbai Central-Amritsar express will be short-terminated at Ambala. Consequently, the 02904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central express will short-originate from Ambala. It will remain partially cancelled between Ambala-Amritsar-Ambala.The 02925 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar express special, 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus express special, 02715 Nanded-Amritsar express, 02716 Amritsar-Nanded express special, 04649 Jaynagar-Amritsar express, the 04650 Amritsar-Jaynagar express, 04673 Jaynagar-Amritsar express will be short-terminated at Ambala, 04674 Amritsar-Jaynagar express, 03307 Dhanbad-Ferozepur express, 03308 Ferozpur-Dhanbad express, 02057 New Delhi Una Himachal express, 02058 Una Himachal-New Delhi express, 09025 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar express, 02357 Kolkat-Amritsar express special, 02358 Amritsar-Kolkata express, 00901 Bandra Terminus-Jammu Tawi express, 00902 Jammutawi-Bandra Terminus express special, 00468 Amritsar-Howrah express, 02407 New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar express special journey commencing on October 14, 2020, will be short-terminated at Ambala. It will remain partially cancelled between Ambala and Amritsar. The 05953 Dibrugarh-Amritsar express special journey commencing on October 13 will be short-terminated at Ambala. It will remain partially cancelled between Ambala and AmritsarTrains diverted05910 Lallgarh-Dibrugarh express special journey commencing from October 12 to October 14 will be diverted to run via Hanumangarh-Hisar-Bhiwani-Rohtak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/trains-cancelled-diverted-due-to-farmers-agitation-155076
13-10-2020||---||2 die, 32 test positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 12An all-time low tally of 32 cases was reported in the district on Monday taking the Covid positive tally to 14,056.With two more deceased, the district toll rose to 439. As many as 12,754 people have been discharged, 863 are active and 745 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar currently.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 28 people tested positive for Covid on Monday. One death was also reported from the district. The deceased is a 65-year-old man from Guru Ka Nagar, Kapurthala, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-die-32-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-155077
13-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Functioning as Civil Hospital takes its toll on Jalandhar ESI Hospital||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 12The responsibilities of the 550-bed Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, were put on the 100-bed ESI Hospital since March end, when the Civil Hospital was converted into a full-time Covid centre for level 2 and 3 centres. The ESI Hospital, which started operating with little staff, old electric wiring, choked sewerage and poor infrastructure, is more or less in the same condition today even after six months.After six months of functioning as civil hospital during the peak of the Covid pandemic, the ESI Hospital was finally relieved of its additional duties today. With a reduction in the number of Covid cases, the Civil Hospital resumed functioning as civil hospital.About a month ago, the ESI Hospital was in the eye of a controversy after two patients admitted there were found abandoned near the Domoriah bridge. It currently operates with nearly 50 per cent staff and only one fifth of the bed strength of the Civil Hospital. The 100-bed hospital with 45 to 50 beds occupied on average does not even have the infrastructure or staff to house the dengue isolation ward during its run.Also grossly understaffed, the hospital languishes due to some retirements recently. Of the five posts of medical officer, only two are filled. Of 40 posts of class four employees at the hospital, only six are filled. Of 25 posts of nurse, only 11 are filled and of 25 posts of sweepers only eight are filled. The hospital also does not have adequate lab technicians.Facing undue electricity cuts until recently due to very old wiring, a substitute line was recently laid by the authorities to address the issue. Even during the pandemic, the hospital witnessed as long as five-hour cuts at times. A choked sewerage line is another issue the hospital grapples with.The hospital also lacks specialist doctors. There is no radiologist to operate the ultrasound machine even as the number of patients is rising.The six staff nurses, three ward attendants and two sweepers — who were provided recently — left after the patients were shifted to the Civil Hospital today.ESI Hospital Medical Superintendent Dr Loveleen Garg said, “We have an erratic electricity supply. Besides, we have no lifts and no ventilators. The sewerage is choked. The work of the Civil Hospital was somehow managed in the 100-bed hospital. Our building is in a shambles and we are severely understaffed. Three of our ward attendants work as assistants in an emergency, labs and wards. We manage with three class four employees in three shifts as two have to be put in OT and OPD.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/functioning-as-civil-hospital-takes-its-toll-on-jalandhar-esi-hospital-155078
13-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Winning hearts, health with organic farming||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 12Surinder Singh Nagra (62), a resident of Kartarpur, started organic farming of medicinal plants around two decades ago.Extremely moved by the demise of his close friend due to diabetes, Nagra not just began growing medicinal plants, but also turned his passion into profession.“When I got to know that with the help of aromatic plants my friend could have been saved, I could not close my eyes. I got more curious towards natural herbs and tried to get information about plants. Soon I left my transportation business and started growing medicinal plants,” he said.“I visited various districts and tired to motivate people to buy medicinal plants as it was pivotal to spread information about their benefits. Initially, nobody took me seriously and considering me a salesperson, people used to avoid me. However, things took a positive turn after a government official impressed by my initiative spoke to me and got my interview featured in farming programmes,” said Nagra.“Gradually, everyone started taking me seriously and paid more attention to what I was conveying. Earlier, I didn’t had much area under cultivation, but now, I do organic farming on more than three acres,” he said.He has not just won hearts of locals, but also of non-resident Indians (NRIs) who make a beeline to purchase medicinal plants from him. Celebrities, including wife of Gurdas Mann, frequently visit his farm.After much recognition, Nagra also provides information related to aromatic plants on different YouTube channels.Nagra is a proud owner of numerous medicinal plants, including stevia, white sandal, ajwain, aloe vera, tulsi, turmeric, black pepper, ashwagandha odomos, insulin, rosemary and others.A large number of people who visit his nursery can choose among 25 medicinal plants to live a natural and healthy life. Motivated by Nagra, organic farming has many takers in the region.Being surrounded by different herbs, Nagra patiently listens to people who visit his farm and helps them in picking up the best medicinal plant. With patience and time, he didn’t know when he created a botanical garden, which would help residents.Kids left jobs to support their father’s passionNagra has three children, two sons and a daughter. While both his sons did mechanical engineering, his daughter is a computer engineer. His children left their jobs to support their father. They help him getting more and more types of aromatic plants and assist him in increasing more area under medicinal plants cultivation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/winning-hearts-health-with-organic-farming-155079
13-10-2020||---||Wildlife Week concludes||Jalandhar, October 12The department of zoology, Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, celebrated Wildlife Week which concluded with a series of online events.On October 3, a virtual trip to Nehru Zoological Park, Hyderabad, was organised for students to introduce them to various wild animals, including mammals, reptiles and birds, and promote love for animals, thereby spreading awareness of protection and conservation of wildlife.On October 5 and 6, online competitive events including poster-making and slogan-writing competitions were also organized, in which around 150 students from the institution and other institutes of different states such as KCES’S MJ College, Jalagaon, Maharashtra; Sree Narayana College Kollam, Kerala; IIS University, Jaipur; Kanoria PG Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Jaipur; Punjabi University Patiala; DAV University, Jalandhar; and DAV College, Jalandhar participated. The themes were sustainability of all forms of life on Earth, climate change and wildlife among others.Not only science students, but those from other streams also participated. On October 7, an online quiz on the conservation of wildlife was conducted and about 140 students participated in the quiz. Dr Seema Marwaha, head, zoology department, encouraged students to take part in the plantation drive and set up bird feeders at their residence with the aim to raise awareness towards the preservation of flora and fauna. Besides, students also recited poems related to conserving wildlife.Prof Ajay Sareen, while congratulated the winners, appreciated the efforts of participants and the zoology department for raising awareness regarding the conservation of biodiversity. This one week event was conducted by the collaborative efforts of Dr Seema Marwaha (coordinator), Dr Sakshi Verma (convener), Ravi Kumar and Avantika Randev (co-conveners).Poster-making competition winnersNancy Sahota (BSc Med I, HMV) won the first prize, Shalu Sethi (MSc Zoology, DAV College) and Prerna Narang (B Sc Med III, HMV) won the second prize, while Sunakshi Gaba (BSc N Med III, HMV) and Gauri Jindal (BSc BT II, HMV) received the third prize.Slogan-writing competition winnersDiya Gaba (B Sc Med III, HMV) won the first prize, Syeda Rubina Aziz (B Sc BT II, HMV) got the second prize and Shivani Malhotra and Pavvy Grewal (B Sc Med III, HMV) won the third prizeJyot Sift Kaur (B Com II, HMV), Simranjit Kaur (B Sc Med I, HMV) and Yukta (B Sc Med III, HMV), Kriti Gupta (M Sc Zoology, Punjabi University, Patiala), Rohi Jain (Kanoriya PG Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Jaipur), Madhur Kanwar (IIS University, Jaipur), Shikha Thakur (M Sc Zoology, DAV University, Jalandhar), Neha Kapoor (B Sc Med III, HMV) and Mehak Sukhija (B Voc Banking and Financial Services, HMV) received appreciation certificates||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wildlife-week-concludes-155080
13-10-2020||Jalandhar||Residents demand better connectivity||A delegation of the Surya Enclave Extension Society today met MP Santokh Chaudhary and handed over a memorandum seeking removal of illegal encroachments from 45-ft road along the railway boundary line and completion of the 120-ft road from Damoria bridge to the national highway. ML Sehgal, chief of the Surya Enclave Extension Welfare Society, said in 2011, the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) had framed a ‘residential scheme’ for the allotment of residential plots in Surya Enclave Extension on around 94.7 acres. He said even after nine years, there has been no development in the area and that many plot owners had not received their possessions. Therefore, we demand refund of the amount paid by the allottees along with interest, he added. Besides he said the delegation also expressed gratitude to the MP for releasing Rs 6.5 crore to the railway authorities out of the Smart City Project for the second entry of railway station from Damoria brigde, near Kazi Mandi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-demand-better-connectivity-155081
13-10-2020||Jalandhar||CT Group organises three-day fashion show||To enhance creativity and imagination, the department of fashion design, CT Group of Institutions, Shahpur, in association with Saurav Kumar, a make-up artist, organised ‘The Runway 2020’ - a fashion show on Monday.Young designers participated enthusiastically and presented themes, including masquerade sunrays, greeko mordore and denblue gloss floss.The event included six collections and every round was video recorded and would be released on social media. The choreography was done Saurav and his team.“It was a glamorous three-day show, which boosted the visibility of fashion and hard work of final year students. The event provided platform and opportunity to models to showcase talent and boost their confidence,” said Parminder Kaur Channi, co-chairperson, CT Group.The collections included the tribe inspired by traditional dance and outfits of kalbelia, aquaman inspired underwater world and treasures of its beauty, sheesha-e-aks inspired by mirror work of traditional Indian outfits; blossom- inspired by the booming floral beauties of spring, a delightful collection of gowns and a special collection inspired from disney characters.These collections were designed by students, including Guresh Kumar, Diksha Kumari, Pawanpreet Kaur, Navdeep Singh, Kareena , Simran, Amandeep Kaur, Simran, Navpreet Kaur, Jaspreet Kaur, Simranjeet Kaur, Sarabjeet Kaur, Isha, Pooja, Neha and Rajni.Ankita Kararia, HoD, Fashion Design Department, said, “It was a big platform for students of the CT Group to expose their hidden creativity.”Manbir Singh, managing director, and Dr GS Kalra, campus director, appreciated the efforts and motivated the students. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ct-group-organises-three-day-fashion-show-155082
13-10-2020||---||Science City, Kapurthala, to reopen on October 15||Kapurthala, October 12After remaining shut for visitors for nearly seven months owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Pushpa Gujral Science City will reopen on October 15.Dr Neelima Jerath, director general, PGSC Kapurthala, said: “The Science City will follow all guidelines of Unlock 5 released by the Department of Home Affairs, Government of Punjab. PGSC will be open for visitors for all seven days a week with social distancing norms.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/science-city-kapurthala-to-reopen-on-october-15-155085
