14-10-2020||---||Relief for students as GNDU slashes late fee charges||Jalandhar, October 13Students who are moving to the second, third or fourth year in colleges affiliated with Guru Nanak Dev University and had not paid their admission fee till now have heaved a sigh of relief.Reason: The varsity has decided to slash the late fee charges from Rs25,000 to Rs5000 for them. The late fee charges to the tune of Rs25,000 were imposed from October 9, after which as many as 10-20 per cent of the students in various colleges, who had not taken admission were finding it extremely difficult to continue with their education after paying such huge amount. But the varsity has conveyed to all colleges to levy only Rs5,000 as late fee charges till the last date, which is October 31. Already unable to pay the dues in time, owing to the pandemic, parents had expressed their inability to pay up for the continuity of their wards’ studies. President of Principals’ Association Dr Gurpinder Samra and principal of HMV College Dr Ajay Sareen expressed satisfaction over the decision of the GNDU authorities to slash the late fee amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/relief-for-students-as-gndu-slashes-late-fee-charges-155565
14-10-2020||---||Two die of virus, 85 new cases reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 13The district recorded around 85 new Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday. With two more deaths, the toll has risen to 441 in the district.The total count of people infected with the virus has reached 14,141. The infected people were from areas including Basti Bawa Khel, Ladowali Road, Model Town, Shastri Nagar and Kazi Mandi among others.Two succumb to virus, 29 test positive in HoshiarpurTwo more patients lost their lives to the contagion, taking the death toll to 189 in the district on Tuesday. Besides, the district reported 29 new persons who tested positive for the virus. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 2,071 new samples of people having suspected flu-like symptoms had been taken while the number of positive patients had increased to 5,147 with the reports of 29 out of the 1,763 samples returned positive. The total number of samples taken so far is 1,27,667. According to reports received from the lab, the reports of the 1,21,575 samples returned negative and those of 1,468 samples were still awaited and 127 samples were found invalid. The number of active cases is 416 while 4,542 persons have recovered so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-die-of-virus-85-new-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-155566
14-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Himmat Lal is doing good, but only on the surface||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 13These are good days for street vendor Himmat Lal, 40, and his family. Ever since there has been a spike in the dengue cases, the sales of his coconuts have seen a spurt. Parking his cart in the posh Model Town area right in front of the gurdwara, he manages to sell nearly 150 of them a day, reaching home with a pocket full of cash – over Rs7,000 each day.But Lal is quick to reveal the bigger picture, “Do not think that I am earning very good. The coconut sells here for Rs45 to Rs50 and my margin is very small. Since I am catering to most of the posh areas, I have to duly ensure that my product is good. With more vendors getting into the business, my sales have certainly got affected. Besides, I have to pay hefty fee to the MC staff to be allowed to run this trade from a good location,” he has paid his dues in the process.While he keeps on selling his coconuts in a fine way, slicing the top, keeping a tissue at the bottom and sliding in a bended straw, he shares how laborious his job is. Every morning him or his younger brother go to the market to fetch coconuts, they have to randomly check that all pieces purchased are good. He has to be on his toes all the while. “The arhtiyas are very smart and too good at layering the top of every pack with good items. The deeper you go, you will find that they have packed it all up with very ordinary stuff. Once you have the right stuff, you need to keep on standing almost the whole day waiting for clients and calling them to your cart. I come here at 9 am and leave past 10 pm,” he says.Lal, who has been doing this for the past six years, says, “I was initially into selling fruits only. My father did the same job before me. Even before I completed my matriculation, I had joined him. It has been over 26 years of street vending. Earlier, we were selling fruits on Nakodar road.”However, that didn’t suit his health as he would fall ill too often. A consultation with the doctor apprised him that it had something to do with the environment he was carrying out his business at. “Ever since I shifted here, I have been keeping fine. As my brother also got into the same business, we took two carts – one for fruits which is his and the other of coconut that I run,” he adds. The brothers stand apart at a distance of less than 50m and always take care of one another’s cart whenever required.The coconut seller, with a back-breaking rut he goes through every day, gives him enough time to contemplate about the future of his kids. “Both my children are in school. I am paying a good amount of fee for their education so that they get good jobs and need not do the hard labour that we are putting in,” he signs off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/himmat-lal-is-doing-good-but-only-on-the-surface-155567
14-10-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||CRPF gunslinger who creates terror among terrorists||Hoshiarpur, October 13Naresh Kumar (35), who is an Assistant Commandant of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), is a living inspiration for youths who wish to make their careers in the Indian Armed Forces.Naresh, who belongs to a small village in Garhshankar sub-division in Hoshiarpur, is the youngest and most decorated officer of the CRPF. He has been awarded seven Police Medals for Gallantry (PMG), besides the National Security Advisor’s appreciation and DG Commendation Disc, among others.Naresh joined the CRPF in 2012 and won his PMG for the seventh time on Independence Day, He is a real-life gunslinger, who has killed around 50 terrorists along with his team in Jammu and Kashmir.Naresh’s wife Sheetal Rawat is also an Assistant Commandant in the CRPF, while his father had retired from the Indian Army’s Engineering Regiment.Talking to The Tribune, Naresh said, “I was awarded the PMG on Independence Day for responding to the pre-dawn fidayeen attack on the camp of 182Bn, BSF, near Srinagar international airport. After conducting the rescue operation, we gunned down three Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists in the pursuit.”He had received his 6th PMG on Republic Day for an operation conducted by his team in Chatarbal area in 2018. “Our team neutralised Lashkar-e-Taiba’s (LeT’s) top commander Shaukat Ahmed Tak, who was among the 10 most-wanted terrorists.”He first posting was in Jammu and Kashmir and he stayed there for five years. He carried out operations in coordination with the Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police.Naresh had received his first PMG in 2017 for neutralising two foreign terrorists in Srinagar in 2016. In 2018, he was awarded two PMGs for neutralising two Hizbul Mujahedeen commanders. He was awarded two PMGs on Republic Day and Independence Day in 2019.He also has NSA Ajit Doval’s appreciation for Chattabal operation in 2018 and Shawkat Ahmed Tak’s elimination.He has 11 DG CRPF Commendation Discs, two DG Medals by the DG of J&K Police and the NIA appreciations on several occasions.Achievements at a glance||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/crpf-gunslinger-who-creates-terror-among-terrorists-155569
14-10-2020||---||Kanjli wetland to witness complete transformation||Kapurthala, October 13World-renowned wetland at Kanjli in Kapurthala will witness a complete transformation, as the work on new cycling track, walkway and lighting are underway.While reviewing the modernisation work of Kanjli wetland, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal has asked the officials to go an extra mile to complete the prestigious task, as it would not only provide a fresh face to this world-renowned wetland but promote it as a tourist place as well.The DC asked the executive engineer Bist Doab Mandal, Jalandhar, to ensure the completion of remaining work in stipulated timeframe.She said Rs19.2 lakh would be spent on walkway, cycle track and 25 per cent work on this has already been completed besides the completion of railing on both sides of wetland with Rs48.77 lakh. The work on railing was almost complete.Besides the rehabilitation of flour mills were also going on at full swing with the expenditure of Rs27.24 lakh. The DC has asked the officials concerned to submit weekly report in the work progress of the wetland.Work on full swing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kanjli-wetland-to-witness-complete-transformation-155570
14-10-2020||---||Facebook  account of singer Ginni Mahi hacked||Jalandhar, October 13 Popular Punjabi singer Ginni Mahi has alleged that her FB page has been hacked by some unscrupulous elements for the past six days. Though a verified page, she has failed to get any response from the Facebook authorities and even the Cyber Crime Cell of the Delhi police despite flurry of complaint mails to them. In her complaint, she has said that some unknown people have been using her content to promote their own posts to her 0.5 million followers. Also, she has not been able to regain the access to her account for the duration.  “It will be grateful if you could help me restore my account and page and take action against the culprits,” a statement in one of her mails reads. Rakesh Mahi, her father, has said even his daughter’s followers were surprised by the kind of posts which the hackers had been uploading every now and then and were asking her in her comments as to why she was uploading such posts instead of sharing links of her songs. He has also demanded a stern action against the hackers, who have been uploading videos of cutting of trees, chopping of sea animals, magic tricks etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/facebook-account-of-singer-ginni-mahi-hacked-155571
14-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Principals chalk out plans for Day 1||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 13The schools are going to reopen after a gap of seven months on October 15 after the state government gave the go-ahead. The Tribune staffer asked many government school teachers and principals as to what plans they had chalked out to welcome the students on the first day. However, nothing is certain about the school staff’s attendance in schools. The principals said they were not sure as to how much staff would come to their respective schools, but they would call teachers according to the number of students present.DEO (Secondary) Harinder Pal Singh said there were no guidelines yet on the matter and the principals could take their own decisions. “We might get some guidelines on the matter by tomorrow, but until now no certain decision has been taken on the same,” he said.As far as the primary classes are concerned, teachers are going to schools just for official work. Now, the teachers will have to ensure that every student wears a mask, uses sanitisers and soaps frequently and keeps a proper distance from his fellow students. And many of them showed concern that it would be difficult to look after the students all the time. “The students would definitely meet their friends by shaking hands or hugging. This is something we are worried about,” a school principal said.The principals said they were worried about the first day as it would be a completely different scenario now unlike the pre-Covid era. As per the advisory, only 20 students would be made to sit in a class.Khushdeep Kaur, Principal, Government Senior Secondary School (Girls), Adarsh Nagar, said she was planning to give priority to the board classes, students of Classes X and XII.“For the first two to three days, we are thinking of calling students of these two classes because these are board classes and important ones. Then looking at the situation, we would call the students from other classes too,” she shared her plan.The principal also said that soaps would be provided to the students so that they could keep their hands clean which is one of the major precautionary measures. She said she did not feel that all the students would attend schools because parents were still reluctant.Malsian-based Sardar Darbara Singh Memorial Government (Girls) Senior Secondary School Principal Harpreet Singh Sondhi said the teachers had been asked to carefully watch every student and not to leave them even for a minute. “It is our responsibility. We will ensure that students maintain proper physical distancing,” he said. Gurinderjit Kaur, Principal, Government Senior Secondary School (Girls), Nehru Garden, said a sanitiser would be kept at the entrance of the school premises and every student would have to sanitise his/her hands before entering the school.The most common concern the schoolteachers shared that not many parents had evinced interest in sending their wards to schools. The teachers shared that they were calling all parents to ask if they were willing to send their children to schools, to which the majority were showing reluctance.Schools to reopen in graded manner: ApneetHoshiarpur: As per the orders issued by Hoshiarpur District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, the schools and coaching institutions will reopen in a graded manner after October 15 subject to some conditions such as online/distance learning will continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and be encouraged. The orders also stipulated that schools, that are being allowed to open after October 15, will have to mandatorily follow the SOPs to be issued by the Education Department in consultation with the Punjab Health and Family Welfare Department. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/principals-chalk-out-plans-for-day-1-155572
14-10-2020||---||Videoconference of Union ministers with farmers a sham: Joginder Singh Mann||Phagwara, October 13Describing the videoconferencing by Union Ministers with farmers as a sham, former Punjab Minister and Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann on Tuesday asked as to why the Centre had not done this exercise prior to passing the anti-farmers’ laws.In a statement issued here, he said this was a futile attempt to mislead farmers and arhtiyas. He said had the Union government been sincere, it would have passed the ordinance in due consultation with farmers. Mann said as a matter of fact, the Union government had backstabbed the farmers by passing this ordinance.Mann also slammed the Union government for not releasing the share of GST of the state despite several reminders. Mann said the anti-farmers’ ordinance would ruin farmers, arhtiyas and farm labourers.He said the laws would prove fatal for the procurement agencies in the coming times. He said farmers were waging a decisive war against the Union government which would produce the desired results and the Centre would be forced to revoke these anti-farm laws. Mann paid homage to the bravehearts, who had lost their precious lives during this struggle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/videoconference-of-union-ministers-with-farmers-a-sham-joginder-singh-mann-155574
14-10-2020||---||Physics has a key role in development: Experts||Jalandhar, October 13A national webinar-cum-e-workshop on “Unique Ways to Physics” was organised at HMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School. The first resource person of the webinar was Dr Jaswinder Singh Shiksha Ratan, national awardee by President of India and Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. His “Lab on Wheels”, the mobile car laboratory is becoming a fascination for students around the state. The second resource person was Prof YK Vijay, Director, CIST (IIS University, Jaipur). The event commenced with the traditional lamp lighting ceremony followed by Gayatri Mantra. Webinar coordinator Meenakshi Syal gave brief introduction about physics in which she told students about key role of physics in the future progress of mankind as it provided quantitative and analytical skills for analysing data and solving problems. Afterwards Principal Ajay Sareen in the inaugural address welcomed the resource person and told students that how the study of physics helped to understand the world around us. A total of 650 eminent educationists, faculty members and students from universities, colleges and schools joined the webinar on virtual platform. The sole objective of the webinar was to teach students that how they can learn basic concepts of physics from basic objects available at their home especially in the kitchen and experimenting the concepts of physics will help to develop creative, critical thinking, reasoning and analytical skill of the students. Dr Jaswinder Singh demonstrated and simplified the complex mathematics and physics concepts with easy and interesting experiments. He also explained the concept of charge using charged balloon, concept of open and closed circuit and Teflon tape etc. He laid emphasis on practical learning. Prof YK Vijay explained various phenomena of physics like quantum science in visible range, reduction of friction, alpha decay model videos and demonstrated the Bohr’s Orbit through power point presentation. The concluding remarks were given by webinar organising secretary Sushil Kumar. Vote of thanks was accorded by president RC 2 Dr Major Singh and secretary RC 2 Dr Rajeev Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/physics-has-a-key-role-in-development-experts-155575
14-10-2020||---||Mandi Board Secy Ravi Bhagat inspects paddy procurement||Jalandhar, October 13Secretary Punjab Mandi Board Ravi Bhagat inspected paddy procurement operations in the grain markets of Jalandhar and Kartarpur amid the pandemic.Expressing satisfaction, Bhagat said the procurement was going smoothly in the district.He said around 34.48 lakh metric tonnes (MT) paddy arrived in the grain markets, of which 33.04 lakh MT had already been procured by various agencies across Punjab.He expressed complete satisfaction over the procurement operations in Jalandhar and said 2,11,981 MT paddy had reached grain markets so far, of which 2,11,358 MT paddy was purchased by various agencies. Besides, payment worth Rs160.86 crore has been made to farmers in Jalandhar.District Mandi Officer Mukesh Kailey on Tuesday said around 32,000 MT crop arrived in the Jalandhar grain markets and 4,000 MT arrived in Kartarpur grain markets. Meanwhile, Bhagat asked officials to ensure that the lifting of paddy was done within 48 hours of its purchase during the ongoing procurement season and elaborate arrangements are made in this regard to ensure that farmers do not face any sort of inconvenience.He also asked procurement agencies to regularly monitor procurement operations in the district for the convenience of farmers. He said the availability of masks, water, soaps have been made in all grain markets besides the sanitisation drive has already been carried out in grain markets.Bhagat also spoke with farmers, labourers and commission agents in markets and asked about any sort of problems being faced by them. He appealed to farmers not to burn stubble.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mandi-board-secy-ravi-bhagat-inspects-paddy-procurement-155577
14-10-2020||---||Self-safety slogan drive launched in Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, October 13To fight Covid-19, a self-safety slogan awareness drive was launched by Sewa Sankalp Society in Nawanshahr on Tuesday. Senior Superintendent of Police Alka Meena, along with Harpreet Sandhu, vice-president Advocate Harpreet Sandhu unveiled the self-safety slogan brochures depicting the safety slogan “Mask pake rakho ji, mahamari toh bacho ji” to emphasise the importance of wearing mask during the ongoing Covid era. The SSP, along with Harpreet Sandhu, distributed masks and sanitisation material among the police personnel at the event and urged them to adopt health-safety guidelines and instructed them to wear mask and keep social distancing to fight the ongoing pandemic. Harpreet Sandhu said the first Covid-19 case was detected in Punjab, but with the efforts of police officials, it had virtually became a ‘Corona Mukt’ district. He urged the police personnel present during the event to adopt and circulate the slogans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/self-safety-slogan-drive-launched-in-nawanshahr-155578
14-10-2020||Jalandhar||CP warns against storing crackers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cp-warns-against-storing-crackers-155579
14-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Shahkot farmer pedals to spread word on laws||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 13To condemn the Centre for doing injustice with farmers, Gurtej Singh croons ‘Klla Klla Banda Leero Leer ho gaya, Ikhath vich aake, Lohe di lath ho gaya’ while embarking on a 20-km journey on his cycle every day to spread the word on farm acts among people in remote areas.Through the lyrics,the Shahkot-based marginal farmer wants to convey how the farmers got together and started a mass movement against the agri acts. On his cycle, he has even displayed a message which says, ‘Kheti Bill Vapis Lao’.It is with the efforts of farmers like Gurtej that the movement has reached a point where it is today.Singh, who starts his day at 5 am, has covered Mehatpur, Udowal, Ramuwal, Balanda, Parjia villages.He cited that a high percentage of people didn’t have access to newspapers, social media and were oblivious to protests happening around, so he took it upon himself to educate people on these acts. “I won’t stop unless the acts are cancelled,” he said.To boost the morale of protesting farmers, he has been circulating self-composed poems on social media.“I even participate in protests happening around, and stay put there for 2 to 3 hours. However, I felt the need to do something more, which is when I put my bicycle and pen to use. I have been apprising people why it was vital for farmers to take such a huge step,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shahkot-farmer-pedals-to-spread-word-on-laws-155425
