17-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||This Sushant Rajput is winning hearts with his creativity||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16The country might have lost its heartthrob Sushant Singh Rajput, but Jalandhar city can still boast of its own 16-year-old Sushant Rajput who is bagging accolades for his creativity ahead of Dasehra.One can’t help but admire the work of Rajput. Having remained engaged in making and selling kites, working models of science and charts, this Class XI student of Junior Model School, Ladowali Road, is busy making short effigies of Ravana these days. He has come up with colourful effigies in two sizes – approximately 6 feet and 4 feet tall, he is selling these outside his residence at the Central Town here.The teenager explains why he feels his effigies will sell good, “The state government is yet to decide on whether to allow Ram Leelas and Dasehra melas. Also, most people would avoid visiting melas and would only go for small-level celebrations. I expect the mohalla leaders to buy small effigies from me for holding mohalla-wise celebrations of Dasehra.”The boy, who has already started displaying these effigies outside his residence, says that he has already begun getting orders and inquiries from the passers-by.Sushant’s father Gulzari Lal, who deals in jute sacks, says, “My son started experimenting with the craft items since his childhood. He has been selling handicrafts for the past four years and is already bringing in good income. His 6-feet effigy is getting sold for Rs 2,500 and the smaller one for Rs 1,200. He is doing everything on his own except that I get him bamboos required and cut them into the size that he needs.”His mother Malti recalls, “My elder son Kushant was also creative like him but we lost him a few years back.” She is all praise for Sushant too, “He works so hard and spends two days carefully cutting coloured papers and pasting them together over the framework of bamboo and under-layers of newspapers to give a proper shape to each effigy. He learnt it all by himself as no one in our family was into this business earlier. He is so passionate that he sometimes stays awake the whole night to complete the task that he began.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-sushant-rajput-is-winning-hearts-with-his-creativity-157005
17-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Wait gets longer for students, parents as NTA website crashes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16Anxiety gripped city students as their wait for the NEET results got longer and longer here on Friday. The reason behind the delay was that the website crashed. After the announcement that the NEET results had been declared, the site got crashed and the students and their parents spent the entire evening trying hard to know their results.Aditi gets AIR 291What followed was anxiety calls to teachers, friends and institute tutors. Also, various theories started surfacing with several saying that students would be able to see their results late night while others said that they could know their ranks tomorrow only. Some also said that some of the students could see their results, but nothing remained concrete.Several students also took to Twitter and other social networking sites to vent out their anger. Students said it was like a torture for them. “The pressure is so much when the results are to be declared but this technical glitch added to the worries of students, which is not acceptable at all,” said a student.MBBS aspirant Aarohi said herself and her mother were sitting in front of the laptop and their worries had mounted. The exam was delayed and it was said that the results would be declared this morning but even that did not happen and now continuously monitoring the site was troublesome and annoying, Aarohi said.Dr Dipple Malhotra, mother of another student Shaurya Malhotra, also shared that the family members were engrossed in this activity of looking at the laptop the entire day. “We have already spent more than five hours keeping an eye on the website, but nothing has happened yet,’ she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wait-gets-longer-for-students-parents-as-nta-website-crashes-157006
17-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Dauntless ex-serviceman cremated||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16Hundreds of people attended the last rites of the braveheart, a word fitting well with Surinder Singh, the guard at the UCO Bank, who lost his life on Thursday while fighting the robbers who shot him dead. A father, an animal and fitness lover, a farmer and a deeply pious man of the village was on Friday remembered dearly by all the villagers as they poured in condolences and regards during the cremation of the army man.Neighbours believed that being an Army man at heart, he had paid price for the incident — Surinder served in the Army as a jawan for 35 years. Manohar Singh, next door neighbour of Surinder, at the Darli Kalan village, has something intriguing to share. He refers to an incident that happened 20 years ago — when another ex-serviceman had lost his life defending a bank robbery in a nearby village. Fauji si tan fass gaya…20 saal pehlan vi fauji fasseya si (since he was an army man, that’s why he didn’t give it a second thought…same thing happened 20 years ago). He goes on: Dono pakke sii, asi mare tan mare prr paise nahi jaan dene… (both were men of steel, thinking that they may die but would not let the robbers flee with the money).Manohar and compatriots had never seen Surinder idling away hours. “Surinder Singh was 50 and always engaged in something,” he shares of his effervescence. The villagers had been seeing Surinder get up early daily and meeting them during his morning walk, something which he never skipped.Manohar had met him at the local gurudwara on the day of the incident. How could he have known it was the last time he would be seeing him. “He was a farmer, ardent and passionate cattle lover. He never would waste time. He tended to the cattle, worked in fields, met people. Always did his ‘ardaas’ in the local gurudwara morning and evening. I had never thought that it would be the last time I will meet him. It is a big loss for the village,” he says.About time and familySurinder Singh is survived by his sons, aged 21 and 19, who study in local establishments, his elderly parents, wife, and his brothers’ family. They all dwell together in the same house. This is a family of nine persons to be precise – all of whom were inconsolable as his last rights were being performed.The family was due to shift to the US to his sister who already stays there. All paper work was done and visas secured. The visit was on horizon but the pandemic dashed all their plans. And fate rewrote a wailing turn of events.After serving in the Army, Surinder was with a local college for few years and had been working as the guard at the bank for past eight to ten years. Manohar makes up for the rest. “He was 50 but looked much younger. Met everyone cheerfully and was a brilliant father. It is his bravery that has made us lose him. True to his spirit, he was never one to give up. We are proud of him.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dauntless-ex-serviceman-cremated-157007
17-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Nothing is concrete in ward No. 78, except ‘the remote area feeling’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16For residents of Shiv Nagar and New Guru Nanak Nagar dwelling in ward No. 78 is like living in a remote area. The surroundings with kutcha roads can make anyone feel the same, especially if the paths haven’t got concreted in 15 years.The area residents, while sharing their problems, said that not even a single road here is concrete even after the colonies came into existence 15 years ago. During rains, the areas become muddy and slippery making life more difficult.The commuters expressed that because of this situation water accumulates outside their houses, becoming a safe haven for mosquitoes. It could result in contraction of dangerous diseases. Crossing these roads to visit Maqsudan Sabzi Mandi and Wariana has become difficult for people.Pawan Kumar, one of the residents of Shiv Nagar area, said he had been living there for the past several years but the issue still remains the same. “It becomes problematic for the residents here to commute without losing balance. The new entrants from other areas to the colonies find it more difficult to maintain their balance,” he said.Sanjay Gupta, another resident who runs a small business in the area, said, they now felt that there was no use raising the matter again. “It seems as if people here have convinced themselves that no matter what they say, they will have to live in the same condition,” he said.As per the information, estimates for both the areas have been made. Jagdish Samrai, councillor of the ward, said, he never had to work so hard for getting other works done for other areas but this was really a painstaking task. “I am not going to stop. I am taking up the matter with the MLAs and working hard to find a solution and just like other facilities were provided, the problems of these areas shall be resolved soon,” he said, adding, “the estimate of the construction of the roads has already been made and the talks are also going on with the MLAs to kickstart the project.”He said an estimate of around Rs72 lakh has been made for the roads in New Guru Nanak Nagar, while for Shiv Nagar approximately Rs80 lakh has been reserved.While New Guru Nanak Nagar area falls under Jalandhar West Constituency, MLA Sushil Rinku, Shiv Nagar is under MLA North Constituency Bawa Henry. “The plan is prepared. Tenders will be floated and concrete roads will be constructed soon,” he said.Rinku said the work on roads of Guru Nanak Nagar area has already began, the work on New Guru Nanak area will be started at the earliest. “The area is huge. So, first we have covered the Guru Nanak Nagar area, now, we will get funds for New Guru Nanak Nagar too,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nothing-is-concrete-in-ward-no-78-except-the-remote-area-feeling-157008
17-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Kabaddi players, wrestlers extend support to farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16After popular Pollywood singers in the state, the national and international players have come out in support of farmers agitating against the contentious farm laws passed by the central government last month. Over a dozen Kabbadi players, wrestlers and other sportsmen extended their support to the Bhartiya Kisaan Union in its ongoing ‘Rail Roko’ protest.The players were part of their sit-in dharna at Bhogpur railway station. Toni Sandhu, general secretary, Major League Kabbadi Federation, said, being a member of the farm community it’s our responsibility to add more fuel to the voices of farmers. “Farmers are support system of our country. I am myself a farmer. My family members survived on farming only. Being the players of the state, we will always stand with the farmers for their rights. The Bills were passed without the consent of the farmers and now the government has turned a blind eye towards them. Trade would be impossible after its implementation. We should never forget that it’s the farmers of the Punjab only who paid a huge cost for ‘Green Revolution’. Punjab was never a paddy dominant state it was after the implementation that the farmers started producing paddy here, that almost depleted the ground water level. Hence, it’s unacceptable for the farmers to comply with the Bills which are against their profit,” added Sandhu.Similarly, Nanni Gopalpur, another Kabbadi player, said, the government should have taken the approval of farmers before drafting the Bills. Outpouring his support, he added, “The lathi charge on farmers is equally condemnable. It is depressing that instead of working in the fields, the farmers are forced to hit the roads and railway tracks. Already a small of chunk of farmers are getting minimum support price in the state and the anti-farmer laws would further decrease its credibility, hence the Bills should immediately be withdrawn.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kabaddi-players-wrestlers-extend-support-to-farmers-157009
17-10-2020||---||Admn, air force officials meet over garbage-free surroundings||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16Divisional Commissioner Raj Kamal Chaudhary along with Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday chaired a meeting of the Airfield Environment Management Committee regarding measures to be taken for the disposal of liquid and solid waste and prevention of open garbage in the surrounding areas of the air force station.Air Force officers, led by Air Commodore GKJ Reddy, gave a detailed presentation on various issues and apprised the Divisional Commissioner that garbage dumping in surrounding areas of the station could lead to presence of birds which could hit an airborne aircraft. Further, they informed that garbage dumping in villages near the air force station and adjoining areas had become a big cause of the presence of birds around it.In the meeting, they also discussed in detail various issues like proper disposal of carcasses and measures to maintain environmental cleanliness within a 10-15 km radius of the air force station, prevention of unauthorised slums, eating houses, butcheries, slaughterhouses, etc, near the air force station boundary, besides new constructions in nearby areas.The Divisional Commissioner immediately directed the officials to ensure that these issues were looked into and solved immediately. Prominent among those present in the meeting was SDM Dr Jai Inder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admn-air-force-officials-meet-over-garbage-free-surroundings-157010
17-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Go vocal for local stores, Jalandhar residents urged||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 16As the festive season draws near, there is a growing clamour in the local markets, appealing to the residents not to make online purchases and instead walk down to the nearby shops for buying lights, appliances, gifts, clothing and other stuff.Even the shopkeepers of Asia’s one of the biggest wholesale markets of electrical goods, which is based at Phagwara in Jalandhar, have appealed to the residents not to go in for purchase of any electrical or electronic stuff from online portals such as Amazon and Flipkart and instead help them to boost their business.President of Jalandhar Electrical Traders Welfare Association Amit Sehgal has said, “Our sales are down and we are in dire need of customers to bail us out of the grim situation that we are all facing. We are telling our customers not to make any online purchases as they are likely to face problems of guarantee or exchange of products, which won’t be a problem with us. Being locally available, we are ready to provide them all after sale services as well. So, they must depend on us or our local retailers instead of going for online shopping.”He added, “When the curbs were relaxed, we enjoyed good sales for nearly 1.5 months as people were in dire need of items and were waiting for us to open. But now, we are witnessing a huge dip in our sales and there is hardly any customer in the market these days. This is otherwise the time when our sales used to be the maximum. We used to have so many customers otherwise, this time of the season.”Rohan Sehgal, President of Model Town Market Association, too says that he is mulling over a ‘word of mouth campaign’ asking people to make purchases from their own local market instead of exploring the required items from the web. I have interacted with many shopkeepers selling gift items, clothes and other stuff. They are satisfied over the decision to extend time of opening of shops from 6 pm to 10 pm. In Model Town, most visitors are evening shoppers. They get free from work and come to have fun with family. They now say that their sales have resumed by 80 per cent since Coronavirus outbreak.”Rajiv Gupta, a manufacturer and MD of KCSAD LED Lights India Ltd, says, “I am really enthused by people chanting ‘Make in India’ slogan. It is a big boost for manufacturers like us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/go-vocal-for-local-stores-jalandhar-residents-urged-157011
17-10-2020||---||Three die of virus, 39 fresh cases in Jalandhar||Tribune news serviceJalandhar, October 16The district reported the death of three more persons due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 451 on Friday. Besides, 39 new positive cases were reported in the district, taking the count to 14,270.At present, as many as 13,154 people have been discharged, 665 are active cases and 586 people are under home isolation in the district. Meanwhile, in Kapurthala, 15 persons tested positive for the virus. No death was reported from the district on Friday.91 new positive cases, 2 deaths in distHoshiarpur: The district on Friday reported 91 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally to 5,318.With fresh two deaths in the district on Friday, the death tally has reached 192.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh informed that 1,306 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Friday, taking the total number of samples till date in district Hoshiarpur to 1,32,512, out of which 1,26,610 samples are negative, while the report of 1,201 samples is still awaited and 127 samples are invalid.The number of active cases in the district is 377 while the number of patients who have recovered till date is 4,749. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-die-of-virus-39-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-157012
17-10-2020||---||Cattle feed shop gutted||Our CorrespondentDasuya, October 16Goods worth Rs 4 lakh were gutted in a fire that broke out in a cattle feed store owned by a divyang (person with disability) on Thursday.According to information, Manoj Kumar, owner of Divyansh Feed Store located at SDM Chowk in Dasuya, said the shop was his only source of income. Moreover, his family’s survival depends on him.He said on Thursday feed was unloaded from a truck at his shop.Around three o’clock in the morning, he was informed by Sharma Transport owner Rakesh Sharma that a fire had broken out at his shop.He informed the Electricity Department and the Fire Department. Fire brigade rushed to the spot to douse the flames. By the time they controlled the fire, most of the items had been destroyed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cattle-feed-shop-gutted-157013
17-10-2020||---||‘Panghura’, a cradle of hope for abandoned infants||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, October 16To provide a new lease of life to abandoned infants, a ‘Panghura’ service has been started in the district today.The ‘Panghura’ service has been set up at Sakhi, a one-stop centre at Civil Hospital, Kapurthala, where caretakers have been appointed to look after the little ones in cradle. A bell has been installed with the cradle so that the people are able to ring it to make the caretakers aware of the new comers in cradle.Launching this noble scheme in the district, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said, “Abandoning a child is a crime but if anyone still wants to give his child, we appeal to them to leave the child in the panghura so that we can take care of it.”She said the message going out to the community was simple that no child is unwanted, so do not throw her or him away. She said, “Once the infant is in safe hands, he/she will be taken to a nearby civil hospital for a check-up and, if necessary, will be given medical care. Later, after the necessary documentation is completed, he/she will be sent to state government’s list of Licensed Adoption Placement Agencies (LAPA).The district administration has also launched a phone no 7814676459, where people can inform about the abandoned children. Their identity would be kept secret. Those present on the occasion included SDM Sultanpur lodhi Dr Charumita, Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Kumar and District Programme Officer Sneh Lata.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/panghura-a-cradle-of-hope-for-abandoned-infants-157014
17-10-2020||Kapurthala||Guru Nanak Stadium to get facelift||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guru-nanak-stadium-to-get-facelift-157015
17-10-2020||The Science City reopened on October 15. It sent a wave of cheer among science aficionados. In the first two days of its reopening||Kapurthala's Science City reopens after seven months||Food Court along the banks of Kali BeinFood Court along the banks of Kali Bein, solar lights for several approach roads, among other projects are in the offing as part of the preparation for the 551st Gurpurab in Kapurthala this year. The plans were discussed during the meeting held here on Thursday for the arrangements during celebration of the 551th Parkash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev. A meeting of key officials was held on the issue on Thursday. It was decided during the meeting that solar lights shall be installed on four roads – Sultanpur Lodhi to Lohian, Sultanpur Lodhi to RCF, Sultanpur Lodhi-Busewal and Sultanpur Lodhi to Talwandi Chaudhrian. The DC also instructed PEDA employees to begin a survey on the issue. Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema, DC Deepti Uppal, ADC Rahul Chaba, SDM Sultanpur Lodhi Dr Charumita SSP Jaspreet Singh Sidhu were among others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthalas-science-city-reopens-after-seven-months-157016
