19-10-2020||Cleaning of halls||Life should get back on track, but no room for complacency||Cinemas to tide over Covid bluesWith declining number of cases and flattening of the curve, the Centre has allowed opening of cinema halls with 50 per cent capacity. There is no doubt that because of the prolonged lockdown and being incarcerated, people are suffering from fatigue. It is also true that of all the businesses cinemas were among the worst hit. Opening would be beneficial both for the cinemas as well as the people. TV may be good for home entertainment but it can't replace the experience of a big screen. But, some precautions are very essential because there's no surety that covid-19 will not spike again - it is happening in many countries which have again taken to the lockdown. With capacity limiting to 50 per cent it is also necessary to sanitise cinema halls before and after every show. Preference should be given to online ticketing instead of physically getting tickets. The audience should be instructed to wear masks and also keep physical distancing during the interval. Even parking places should be made to observe same protocols. Opening of the halls will have a salutary effect on the psyche because many of them were/are suffering from depression and anxiety.Dr JS Wadhwa'Isn't it better to do your thing at home?'Buoyed up by the dramatic downswing in the number of positive cases, the Centre has allowed reopening of cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes with 50 per cent capacity across the country. Since there is no room for complacency, the decision has elicited a mixed response. Whereas the movieholics are elated over the prospect of watching a film on the big screen, medical experts have expressed serious concerns over the safety. They apprehend that the transmission may intensify during the upcoming festival season and winter months along with dengue and other influenza viruses. Despite assurances from the cinema owners to strictly implement the mandatory health and hygiene protocols including wearing of masks, socially distanced limited seating, frequent sanitising theatre facilities between screenings, temperature checks at the doors and upgrading ventilation systems, it is difficult to enforce these precautionary guidelines meticulously. Sitting in an enclosed space with strangers and eating and drinking for two to three hours involves an inherently high risk. In the midst of an uncertain pandemic situation, any laxity in adherence to safety measures may prove fatal. Prudence demands that we should ponder the following questions before deciding our priorities. Isn't there lot more to consider than what film to see and what to eat in the hall? Are movie theatres exactly an essential business? Will theatre operators act responsibly? Isn't it better to cuddle up at home and enjoy our choicest movies on TV and Netflix? Physical well-being is decidedly more important than recreation. Therefore, it is imperative to avoid non-essential locales such as hotels, restaurants, gyms, parlours, shopping malls, multiplexes and religious places to contain the scourge of covid-19. Over to the Indian populace in their best interests.DS KangQUESTIONThe Covid cases are falling in the state and the state government has decided to open the schools from today despite the fact that a majority of the parents have shown their reluctance to send their wards to school. What do you think is the best possible solution in the current scenario?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@ tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 22).Life has to be lived normallyAs the wave of Covid is receding in India and government allowing cinema halls to reopen with 50 per cent capacity, however, it will take a while for people to feel safe in an enclosed place. Bollywood is the biggest revenue generating industry and is suffering great because of the virus' impact, so it's a welcome decision to reopen the cinema halls but adequate physical distance is mandatory, meaning every alternate seat needs to be kept vacant. Instead of counter ticket, advance booking should be allowed to avoid crowding and delivery of food should not be allowed inside and people should be allowed after checking the temperature. It is the need of the hour. For how long the pandemic will stay, nobody knows, so life has to be lived normally but by taking all precautions as wearing masks, maintaing social distance and frequent sanitisation.Shashi KiranDecision welcomed, no time for laxityIt is heartening that the state's Covid curve in most of the parameters have started falling. But still there is no reason for being complacent and the situation needs to be closely watched to prevent resurfacing in near future. However, the proposed move of the state government in allowing reopening of cinema halls with half of capacity is welcomed, more because of the fact that we have to adopt certain strategy of co-existing with the virus which is going to stay for an indefinite period of time as per the opinion of some experts on the subject. The said strategy aims to keep the public sensitised about the impending risks coupled with basic precautions to be taken while leading a normal social life .The festival season is knocking at our doors and the people need to learn celebrating the occasions while remaining fully awakened to their responsibilities towards their own health as well as others.Jagdish ChanderREOPENING WITH NEW NORMS JUSTIFIEDReopening of cinema halls with all precautions and protocols is as justified as reopening any other thing in this unprecedented hard times. Proper cleaning of halls, use of body temperature detectors, grilling health check-ups of the staff and wearing masks while watching movies must be mandatory. Booking tickets and snacks online to avoid human contact would help too. Scores of people from diverse backgrounds depend on the Indian film industry for their livelihoods. The shutdown since March has cost the film industry beyond imagination. People would be sceptical about the preventive measures and it would be a challenge for the cinema owners to bring them back to the 70mm screen. Our film industry is the biggest in the world in terms of making maximum movies in a year but it is in a deep crisis now. Reopening of cinema halls by adhering to the stringent dos and don'ts would eventually help one and all.Anil SharmaRight decision amid all the gloomWith the scientific advancements, we are finding new equipments and gadgets to bring more and more comforts in our daily life. But practically it is a race between human being and nature. As we find solution for one problem, the next problem crops up. In case of health sector in the last more than 100 years, many deadly diseases came up but after great research when we controlled it the next disease showed its face. Recently, we were fighting cancer in this series but now as it is curable, hence the incurable coronavirus came up. If we wait for invention of vaccine for it than our already ailing economy will completely collapse coming to a grinding halt. So, the only solution is to open up all the sectors of the economy but with strict preventive measures like mask wearing and observing physical distancing norms. Our film industry is on the top of world in regard to number of films produced per year, thus, contributing a great share in form of employment and revenue generating. Its share in giving relief to the stressful human life is also significant. So, government''s decision to open up cinema halls with preventive measures is a step in the right direction. Prevention is better than cure, but prevention is the only cure for the virusHarsh N JoharGreat news for cinema-goers!The cinemas, theatres and multiplexes are all set to open from October 15 and fans are overjoyed. Cinema-goers had been waiting for reopening for many months now. As per the new Unlock 5 guidelines, cinemas and multiplexes have been allowed to reopen with 50 per cent seating capacity. Physical distancing is mandatory. For seating, every alternate seat will have to be kept vacant and clearly marked. Cinema-goers have been advised to avoid moving during intermission and as per the guidelines no delivery of food and beverages will be allowed inside the auditorium. During the film, it would be mandatory for the people to wear masks. After the end of the show, the entire hall would be sanitised, before the start of second show. Since the process is going to be time taking, only three-four shows could be shown in a day.Saahil Hans||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/life-should-get-back-on-track-but-no-room-for-complacency-157963
19-10-2020||Jalandhar||Polytech college  bags award||Proud moment for KMVJalandhar: The Innovation Cell of the Ministry of Human Resource Development has awarded 4.5 ‘Gold Stars’ out of 5 to Kanya Maha Vidhyalayas (KMVs) Innovation Council. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi said the KMV had been granted the prestigious rating in view of its commitment and dedication towards holding activities aimed at promoting entrepreneurial and innovative culture among students and faculty. “It is a matter of great pride that the KMV is among a few institutions to be conferred with this rating,” said Dwivedi. TNSStraw burning: Farmers bookedHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have registered a case against four farmers for burning paddy straw in violation of the orders of the Deputy Commissioner. According to information, Junior Engineer, PSPCL, Amrik Singh had lodged a complaint with the Tanda police in this regard. In his complaint, Amrik Singh alleged that farmers Amrik Singh, Hardyal Singh, Jagjit Singh, alias, Tirlochan Singh, a resident of Nangal Farid, and Sukhvir Singh, a resident of Jaura, allegedly set afire paddy straw by ignoring the orders of the Deputy Commissioner. The police have registered a case against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/polytech-college-bags-award-157966
19-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Even without work, she was paid full salary, ration during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 18For Geeta, who works as a house help, the pandemic-induced prolonged lockdown did bring along many miseries, but the only silver lining for her was that one of her employers had been paying salary to her even for no work.The lockdown had rendered several domestic helps jobless, forcing them to fend for themselves. Many of them had to face tough times making both ends meet.When things started opening up and house helps were allowed, Geeta too resumed work. However, after a month she was taken ill. Unfortunately, her husband also got injured at his workplace.Geeta said, “After completing my household chores, I leave for work at 9 am. I follow all Covid safety protocols such as wearing a mask and follow social distancing.”She said her husband worked at a factory, where he injured all fingers of a hand while operating a machine. He remained confined to bed for two months. Even she couldn’t go to work as she had to look after him. “I had lost all hopes and the worry of no salary was weighing heavily on my mind. When I shared my ordeal with one of my employers, she allowed me to take as many leaves. She asked me not to worry on the financial front as she will continue to pay her salary. That was the time when I believed in humanity,” she says. Now that Geeta has resumed work, she says that even during the lockdown, she was provided ration and had food to eat.“When I would heard the stories of other women living in my quarter that they weren’t given salaries, I would feel so lucky. But everything is fine for me. I just want that the pandemic ends at the earliest,” adds Geeta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/even-without-work-she-was-paid-full-salary-ration-during-lockdown-157958
19-10-2020||---||Schools reopen after 6 months today||Jalandhar, October 18||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/schools-reopen-after-6-months-today-157960
19-10-2020||---||In-situ machines should be optimally utilised: Agri Dept||Jalandhar, October 18With paddy harvesting season picking up in the district, the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has appealed to all 189 cooperative societies to ensure optimum utilisation of in-situ machines so that maximum farmers can manage the stubble and not burn it.The Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has written to the Cooperative Department to direct all societies to provide machines to the farmers of their areas so that they remain motivated for stubble management.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh said the district had 189 cooperative societies which have stubble management machines. He said underutilisation of machines must not take place at any cost. He also said all these societies have been given machines at 80 per cent subsidy by the government.He said the secretaries of cooperative societies are being asked to deliver the machines to each farmer by following a roster register. He said each society should write on display boards about the available machines and a special demand register should be maintained.He said reports of the underutilization of machines are being received which would not be tolerated.Giving examples of best-performing societies, he said the Chamiara Cooperative Society had been ensuring stubble management on 150-acre of the area for the past two years He said the society had a mulcher, rotavator, chopper shredder, RMB plough and tractor machines and regularly monitors the working of machines by maintaining the rotation register.He said the rent collected from the machines was being used for the wear and tear of the machines.Cooperative Society Sarai Khas has a mulcher, RMB plough and manages 125-acre stubble of small and marginal farmers of the village for the past few years, he said.Similarly, Dr Singh said with the collective efforts of Randhawa Masanda Cooperative Society, the whole village was not burning their stubble for the past two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-situ-machines-should-be-optimally-utilised-agri-dept-157962
19-10-2020||Avneet Kaur||No salaries, teachers take to social media||Jalandhar, October 18Upset over the alleged indifferent attitude of his school administration and the principal towards the non-payment of his salary for the last several months, Simer Jit Singh, a TGT in computer science, took to social media to narrate his ordeal and seek suggestions that what steps he should take to get his salary.He posted a long note on ‘NoticeBoard - Jalandhar’ by Tinu Luthra, (a popular Facebook group), with a title ‘Need help and suggestion’ #MeraBharatMahaan. In his post, he mentioned that being sick of the fact that he is not receiving his salary on time, he tendered resignation on September 25.Simer Jit said he was a teacher at one of the renowned schools here. Even before the lockdown, the school was releasing salaries after three months. “The lockdown worsened the situation and the delay period jumped to five months”, he said, adding that even after that they were not released the full amount.Talking to The Tribune, he said his pending salary amount had mounted to Rs 1.26 lakh. He had not received 25 per cent of his June 2019 salary, 50 per cent of March salary and 100 per cent salary for the months of June, July, August and September. “I contacted the authorities on several occasions, but in vain. They have even stopped taking my calls or replying to my messages,” he added. People have advised him to move court, but he feels it will only waste his time as well money.Simer Jit Singh’s social media post received such a good response that other teachers too came forward to narrate their ordeals. Teachers alleged that although parents had been paying fee and other charges, the school authorities had failed to clear their dues.Another teacher, Kavita Mishra (name changed), said she had been facing financial problems due to the non-payment of her salary for the last three months. “My husband’s business faced huge losses amid the lockdown. I am also not receiving my salary on time. I am struggling to pay my kids’ fee and meet other expenses,” she added.Assistant Labour Commissioner, Baljeet Singh, said all those teachers who were deprived of their salaries and being harassed by schools must write to the Labour Department and reach out to the labour inspector concerned in their district. “Salaries are teachers’ basic right, no school management can deny that,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-salaries-teachers-take-to-social-media-157953
19-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||They broke it to repair, but work on this stretch going at snail’s pace; traders lose customers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 18The Patel Chowk-Mahiran Gate-railway station road stretch was dismantled as the authorities were to repair it properly a few months ago. The delay in repairing it is causing inconvenience to residents. It has been over four months since the road was dismantled by order of the Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities but the work of repairing the stretch is on at a snail’s pace. While part of the road near Patel Chowk has been partially repaired, the contractors continue to break up the road leading to Mahiran Gate.Officials speakRahul Dhawan, Corporation Engineer, PWD (B&R), who is supervising the repair work, failed to mention as to when the road would be completely recarpeted. However, he claimed that the work is in progress. Vikas Bansal, one of the contractors, said the road till Valkimiki Chowk had been repaired and the remaining stretch would be open to vehicular movement by December.The worst-affected are commuters and shopkeepers who complain that since the day the road has been broken, the flow of customers to their shops has reduced. Harjot Singh, owner of an electrical goods showroom and who also owns a few service centres near Mahiran Gate, said, “Despite the fact that the festive season has begun, the number of customers visiting their shops is very poor. The sale is almost negligible. It’s been nearly a month since the road was broken up for repairs, but the construction has not started yet. Our shops always remain covered in dust and the spread of construction material on the road makes it difficult for us to reach our shops.”Besides thousands of shops, the road also leads to several residential colonies, hence local residents are suffering. A majority of the shops belong to stationery and text books dealers and the main road connects to interior markets of the whole area. Vikramjit Singh, a city resident, who had come to place an order for visiting cards, said, “The reduced space on the road has forced vehicles to ply on the single lane. Besides, it takes one a lot of time to cross the road. To add to commuters’ problems, now the railway road near the Damoria overbridge has also been broken up.”“The roads need to be repaired urgently as it is a suitable time for recarpeting them due to the lockdown. Instead of repairing it on time, the contractors are only delaying the repairing work. During the monsoon, rainwater remained accumulated in debris. The concrete is further aggravating the trouble as it is making tough for the commuters to cross the road smoothly,” said an optical shop owner. Harpreet Singh, who runs Star Opticals, said, “Though the authorities have taken a good decision to construct new roads, quick recovery was also needed. People from all over the city come here to buy all kinds of items. But this broken road discourages them. We witness quarrels between commuters after their vehicles collide with each other. There is a jam-like situation here every day, especially on the road leading to Adda Hoshiarpur and Phagwara gate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/they-broke-it-to-repair-but-work-on-this-stretch-going-at-snails-pace-traders-lose-customers-157954
19-10-2020||---||Graffiti of Saina Nehwal, PV Sindhu unveiled at Jalandhar's Hans Raj Stadium||Jalandhar, October 18Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today inaugurated the graffiti of ace shuttlers Saina Nehwal and PV Sindhu at Hans Raj Stadium here. The graffiti are being touted as the biggest-ever in any badminton stadium.The Deputy Commissioner said the graffiti would not only motivate girls, but also inspire budding players to achieve new feats in the field of sports. The initiative has been taken under the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ programme. Deputy Commissioner Thori lauded the Olympian Dipankar Bhattacharjee Academy for its decision to offer free coaching to the deserving children from the BPL families.Players thank admin via TwitterIn their tweets, both ace shuttlers thanked the administration for their graffiti and wished for the success of the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ programme in the district.He said since badminton was an expensive game, those from BPL families who would pass the trials would be imparted free training.On the occasion, the Deputy Commissioner handed over corona warrior certificates to 30 trainees of the academy, who have been discharging their duties non-stop since Unlock-1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/graffiti-of-saina-nehwal-pv-sindhu-unveiled-at-jalandhars-hans-raj-stadium-157955
19-10-2020||---||Industrialists burn copies of notices||Jalandhar, October 18The Khel Udyog Sangh members in protest against inhuman behaviour meted out to industrialists on Sunday burnt the copies of notices sent to them by the Excise and Taxation Department. The members said why the department had sent notices to submit C forms from year 2013-2014, when the date of submission of the forms has been extended to December 31 2020. Ravinder Dhir of the sangh said that why was the department adopting this attitude.“They have also started sending the notices on our emails. Instead of giving us relief amid the grave situation due to pandemic, the department has increased our burden,” he said.Notably, the members had earlier also condemned the Excise and Taxation Department for issuing notices to deposit C forms from 2013-14 to 2016-17 and had demanded its immediate withdrawal, when the due date for furnishing forms was August 17.The members had then rued that industrialists would not be able to collect their C forms amid this situation. “This is already a tough time for us when the pandemic has given a serious setback to the industries, how the government could now put another burden on us. Even during normal times when the business run in its normal pace, getting C form is not a cakewalk, how could they expect that we would be able to collect these forms now,” they had said.“There is hardly any industrial activity taking place these days, and the existence of the units is already under question. Even now, the government could ask for the deposition of C forms, this is strange,” said one of the members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industrialists-burn-copies-of-notices-157956
19-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur logs 105 fresh cases, 1 succumbs to virus||Hoshiarpur, October 18The district reported 105 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday. The tally of the infected persons has mounted to 5,470.With one more person succumbing to the deadly viral infection on Sunday, the death toll in the district has increased to 195.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 1,306 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken today, taking the total number of samples taken in the district to 1,34,735 till date.Out of this, 1,28,961 samples are negative, while the reports of 1,008 samples are still awaited, 127 samples are invalid. The number of active cases is 345 while the number of recovered patients is 4,930. Out of 105 positive cases today, 37 cases are related to the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-logs-105-fresh-cases-1-succumbs-to-virus-157957
19-10-2020||  ||Dairy 2||Giving back to society  Abohar: Indian American Shree Saini, who has roots here in Abohar, was last week selected as Miss World America “Beauty with a Purpose” (BWAP) National Ambassador. The organisers have created the title in many countries and Indian American representative from Washington Shree Saini has been selected as the American National Ambassador of the programme. BWAP is the service aspect of the Miss World organisation and has fundraised $1.3 billion for thousands of charities around our world. “I’ve dedicated my life to service and BWAP inspired me to start creating positive change 10 years ago by serving over 100 non-profits. All thanks to Julia Morley, who started the BWAP service aspect of the pageant in over 150 countries. I will continue to be a vessel of change every day for the rest of my life,” says Shree Saini.    Contributed by Raj Sadosh  Photo: Shree Saini||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dairy-2-157728
