20-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Schools reopen amid thin attendance||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 19After a six-month hiatus due to the Covid-19 pandemic, schools from Classes IX to XII reopened in the district on Monday in compliance with strict measures and protocols.Although special teams duly inspected the schools premises and reviewed the arrangements of sanitisation and social distancing norms inside the classrooms, there was a poor student turnout in most of the schools.With students and teachers getting used to remote teaching, which has been the norm for much of this year, getting back to the traditional classroom environment seems to be challenging.District Education Officer (DEO) Harinder Pal Singh said only 5-10 per cent students attended classes in government schools. The situation was similar in private ones.As the school timing has been kept for three hours a day from 9 am till 12 noon, some students with jubilant faces started entering their schools even before the scheduled time. In most of the schools, normal classes were resumed in a graded manner. Schools having high strength have allotted time slots to their pupils and asked them to attend classes in a phased manner.Gurinderjit Kaur, Principal of Nehru Garden School, said, “On the first day of the resumption of classes, the attendance remained minimal. Only 30 out of a total of 1,200 students came to the school. They were screened and given sanitisers at the entrance. Students were allowed to attend classes only after furnishing a written permission from their parents or guardians. We are expecting more students to attend classes in the coming days. Those who came today were delighted to meet their teachers and friends.” Apart from regular classes in schools, teachers continued to impart online teaching.SK Gautam, Principal, Dayanand Model Senior Secondary School, Dayanand Nagar, said, “Teachers have been told to conduct online classes for those who could not come. Only three students attended the school today. We also received a number of calls from students and parents regarding safety measures. We are hopeful of an increase in students’ strength in the coming days.”Education Secretary takes feedbackEducation Secretary Krishan Kumar on Monday held a webinar with the district education officers and school heads to take feedback in view of the reopening of schools. The Education Secretary was told that there was a lot of enthusiasm among teachers and students on Day 1. Principals told the official that parents, especially those who have shifted their wards from private schools to government ones, were apprehensive about safety arrangements in the schools. However, they were impressed when they witnessed all Covid guidelines, including sanitisation, thermal screening, and wearing of mask, being followed strictly. The school heads said Class IV staff worked with dedication and zest to ensure proper cleanliness on the school premises. The Education Secretary asked the DEOs and principals to honour such employees.This new is not normal for studentsEven as students were happy to attend live classes after such a long gap, they did face psychological stress due to social distancing and masks. Lakshay Verma, a Class IX student, said, “It feels sad that they cannot shake hands with their friends. They have been seated separately at a distance of five metre. “Wearing masks all the time is tiring and without the entire classroom strength, the lectures won’t be interesting said Satnam, another student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/schools-reopen-amid-thin-attendance-158445
20-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||It’s a bumpy ride on potholed roads in Focal Point area||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 19All roads in the Focal Point area, which is home to several big industrial units, are in a state of utter neglect.Industrial unit owners say it so embarrassing to take parties or clients from other states and abroad to their factories because of the poor condition of roads. Potholes in the middle of roads had made travelling riskier for them. Even pedestrians found it difficult to reach their workplace. Water remained stagnated in huge potholes that keep appearing and enlarging every day. Sand had accumulated on their margins, giving the roads a look of desert. “It is a nightmare to travel on these bumpy roads, especially when it rains. We have spent crores in establishing our units. Does the government expect us to shell out money to improve the road infrastructure too? Focal Point is the place where dealings in crores take place every day. Why is the government ignoring its upkeep. No government official has ever visited here. They are just trying to ignore the issue,” said an industrialist.Another industrial unit owner said they now preferred to take their clients to some hotel to save themselves from humiliation. Sources said with the efforts of factory owners, some roads in the area were repaired, but those built 20 years ago were crying for attention.Balram Kapur, owner of an auto part manufacturing unit, said the situation was very pathetic. “It is the duty of the government to ensure proper road infrastructure. But who pays heed? Nobody. We are tired of repeating one thing several times.” Recently, some roads were rebuilt by spending an amount of Rs 7 crore after they raised the issue on several occasions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/its-a-bumpy-ride-on-potholed-roads-in-focal-point-area-158446
20-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Prof Sarita Tiwari: A voice that still echoes in the hearts of people||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 19When Prof Sarita Tiwari came back to college in the morning after having featured in a play on Doordarshan Jalandhar, she would find the name of her character, played previous night, written on the blackboard by her students.Having given over two decades of her life to the channel, Sarita has been etched into the minds of the city’s populace. Her various characters have taken off from the blackboard and remain printed in people’s memories, and that delightful voice on the radio – all through 80s and 90s — has made the pleasant visage of hers hard to forget. A loved professor and a TV actor, she has featured in 350 plays spread across DD Jalandhar, Shimla, Delhi, Patiala, Chandigarh and DD Kashir (the name for Doordarshan Kashmir). She taught English but did plays in Punjabi and Hindi.Patience is a virtueWhile most people start acting early on, she had to wait until her first son was born. Hailing from Mandi Ahmedgarh in Sangrur, she could not get approval to pursue acting as a profession due to reservations at her conservative household. “Apne ghar jaa ke jo marzi Karin” (do whatever you want when you get married,” his grandfather would say. She spent her childhood with her grandparents after her father – an army officer – was posted to Siliguri (among other places).“My music aspirations also couldn’t be realised because my family didn’t deem music a respectable subject. Even my home science (music and English) classes in BA first year were referred as ‘dal banaun di BA kardi hai’ (BA in cooking dal) by relatives,” she adds.However, the stars were already aligned. In her second year, she changed her subject to BA English (Hons), eventually pursuing MA in the same. Soon, Sarita began teaching and tied the knot in 1980. She was blessed with a son in 1982. The very next year she was blessed by the heavens again — this time with a breakthrough in her dreams and career. It was in 1983 while teaching at Khalsa College Garhdiwala her first outing to DD Jalandhar happened. Thanks to the steadfast support of her husband and eminent educationist Dr VK Tiwari.“My husband backed me all throughout. He gave me the freedom to realise my aspirations,” she says. It was his friend Zahid Mansoor who had asked her to read a dialogue from a soliloquy of Razia Sultan. “And when I did, he led me to DD’s then director Bashir Ahmed Batt. Both being Kashmiris, they mumbled something in Kashmiri and the next thing I knew was that I had been cast in the telefilm ‘Lakeerein’,” the professor reminisces.Playing a Dalit widow, who sacrifices much for her daughter’s education, the 1.5 hour running film based on a theme of communal harmony became an instant hit. From there on, she would star in the first DD Kisan play ‘Adhaar Shila’ among many others like ‘Pratishodh’, ‘Apna Apna Dayra’, ‘Adh Khere’ based on struggle of freedom fighters.Staying active across 25 years, she soon made the transition to radio and was also favoured to anchor events for myriad of departments and private ones in Jalandhar for her enticing articulate voice. Apart from TV and radio laurels, the professor, after retiring in 2015, penned two books on her husband titled ‘Father Mere Puttran De’ (2017) and a short story book ‘Aap Hamare Dil Mein Baste Hain’ after his demise in 2016. In 2018, she became the lone woman to be awarded with a citation for her achievements in education and social work at the Lyallpur Khalsa College.Speaking on how life’s been during the pandemic, Sarita says, “It has been extremely serene. I’ve been watching and reading spiritual things and have had the rare honour of enjoying the views of the snowclad mountains from Jalandhar”.“I’m trying to make the most of my time. I would also like to pen another book on my husband,” said Sarita Tiwari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/prof-sarita-tiwari-a-voice-that-still-echoes-in-the-hearts-of-people-158447
20-10-2020||---||Denied admissions, SC students hold protest||Jalandhar, October 19Nearly 100 SC students on Monday lodged a protest outside the DC office and even blocked the BMC Chowk over their demand for intervention of the administration regarding their stuck-up admissions for the new session in the local colleges.The students accompanied by some Dalit activists gathered outside the DC office at around 11.30 am and sat on a dharna in front of the main gate raising slogans against the state government and the administration. The students said all local colleges had withheld free admissions for them saying that there was no clarity on whether they would be refunded the fee. The students asked the administration to come to their aid and help them continue their higher studies.Student activists, who led the protest, were Randeep Singh, Deepak Bali and Navdeep Dakoha. The students also got the support of Sukhwinder Kotli of the Bahujan Front, Punjab, AAP leaders Darshan Bhagat and Balwant Bhatia and members of the Guru Ravidass Front and the Bhagwan Balmik Tiger ForceThe students demanded that they might be allowed to enter the premises and meet Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori. SDM Jai Inder Singh and ADC Jasvir Singh sat in the meeting but the DC stayed back. Waiting for the DC for some time and not getting any assurance about his arrival, they finally came out and sat on a dharna at the BMC Chowk. They blocked the six connecting roads at the intersection for about 40 minutes till Deputy Commissioner of Police Balkar Singh came up to them and assured that a meeting would be arranged with the DC tomorrow at 11 am.The activists said a Joint Action Committee of colleges had declared that all 1,650 colleges would not permit free admission to the Dalit students which was not acceptable to them and that the government and administrative interference was needed for them at this crucial juncture when just 11 days were left for admissions to most of the colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/denied-admissions-sc-students-hold-protest-158448
20-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||He loves to host winged visitors in his garden||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 19While most of the people would just plant a garden in the hope of enjoying a green space – he plants them to host birds, butterflies, skippers, moths and insects.A doctor, photographer, bio-diversity documenter – 32-year-old Dr Tanvir Bakshi — has turned his passion into an extended vocation.The whole purpose of building a pleasure garden was to host birds and butterflies. His garden has become a manifestation of his penchant for photography. A rose garden, a butterfly garden and his two towering coral trees form his treasured plant world. He is also planning to come up with a moth garden which he plans to plant in the near future.An avid photographer, who has meticulously recorded the bio-diversity of Punjab, it was to study and photograph birds, butterflies and moths that Dr Bakshi began planting a garden 5 to 6 years back. Today, it is home to a variety of sunbirds, insects and the butterflies.He first planted two coral trees just for ornamental purposes. However, once they bloomed – myriad sun birds began flocking his garden. He woke up to surreal views in his balcony – countless birds chirping their hearts away on his beloved coral tree. He witnessed rare birds with beautiful plumage. Due to the proximity of the tree to his balcony – he got to photograph them the way he had never done before.“I love photography and had been documenting the biodiversity and insects, birds, butterflies of Punjab for years. I was also interested in what kind of birds and insects frequent Jalandhar. A coral tree I planted by accident began hosting unusual sunbirds which I never saw in the region before. These have beautiful plumage and I just loved the birds I saw right by my balcony. I planted the trees about five years ago and now they are now quite tall. It presents a beautiful sight in March and April when they bloom.”Speaking about his fascination about moths he laughs, “For most people moths are pests. But I have documented them a lot before I began planting the garden and I just want to study and photograph them. Moths also have a huge variety and I want to document those in the region.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-loves-to-host-winged-visitors-in-his-garden-158449
20-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||4K containers stuck in Ludhiana: EEPC||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 19Kamna Raj Aggarwalla, Regional Chairperson (NR) Engineering Export Promotion Council (EEPC) India today highlighted the problems faced by the industrialists. She said the issues such as non movement of the containers from Ludhiana, scarcity of empty containers for exporters, unavailability of raw material due to non-movement of trains has been troubling the industrialists.“There are about 3,500-4000 containers containing goods that have been stuck in Ludhiana. These containers are ready to move. The lowest cost container is worth Rs 25 lakh to Rs 30 lakh. So, if we make an approximation, the amount goes to hundreds of crores that is ready to move but is lying dead. This is only the figures of Ludhiana. This is just the amount that is lying stuck there, we have goods in our factories, which are ready to move but it is not possible, so, this tells the gravity of the situation,” Aggarwalla said.“Industries, including bicycles, fastener, hand tool, agriculture machinery, sports goods, hosiery, auto parts and rice are struggling to get the raw material and export of existing orders is not going in time due to the current situation of non movement of trains and unavailability of containers in Punjab.The industrialists said this indicated the dire situation among the exporting community of Punjab. Tushar Jain, from EEPC also informed that the road transport was also not that useful due to national permit issues and it was costing a Punjab exporter INR 35,000 just to get the empty containers from Delhi.Oaykay Tools owner Sharad Aggarwal said since the holiday season was approaching Europe, USA and Russia and most of the orders from these countries are for festive sale only, so, the buyers are also getting panicked and this situation was bringing them bad name to the Punjab exporters. “This may hamper the exports from Punjab in longer run as once we lose the trust of buyers there is a very little chance of getting the order from the same buyers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4k-containers-stuck-in-ludhiana-eepc-158450
20-10-2020||Jalandhar||Session on bridging industry-academia divide||Founder’s day celebrated at Sanskriti KMV SchoolJalandhar: In the global turnover towards technology, Sanskriti KMV School stepped in to celebrate its 18th founder’s day by connecting masses through expertise of technology and observing a hawan. Rachna Monga, Principal and staff joined in the hawan prayers in the school premises, praying for the educational growth, social bonding and healing.The moment was all the more graced with the virtual presence of Chander Mohan, President, Dr Sushma Chopra, Vice-President Arya Shiksha Mandal, and Neerja Chander Mohan, Member, Arya Shiksha Mandal, and members of the Managing Committee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/session-on-bridging-industry-academia-divide-158451
20-10-2020||Our Correspondent---||No Covid death in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, October 19 The total number of Covid patients in the district has increased to 5,595 with 126 new cases reported in the district on Monday. Of these, 85 have been reported through national health portal.  Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the total number of samples taken so far in the district was 1,36,679 with 1,944 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms today.  According to the reports received from the lab, 1,30,599 are negative, while 1,289 reports are awaited and 127 are invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 321 and 5,079 patients have recovered. The Civil Surgeon said out of 126 positive cases found in the district today, Hoshiarpur city has nine cases while the remaining cases are related to other health blocks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-covid-death-in-hoshiarpur-158452
20-10-2020||Jalandhar||LPU’s distance education programme gets UGC nod||The Distance Education Bureau of University Grant Commission (UGC) has approved LPU’s distance education programmes. This is the 14th consecutive approval for the LPU’s distance education programmes since its inception in the year 2007.  The approved distance education programmes offered by LPU include MBA, MCA, BBA, BCA, DCA, MSc IT, BSc IT, M Com, B Com, MA in economics, education, English, Hindi, history, mathematics, political science, sociology, BA, MLIS, BLIS and DLIS. Admission for the 2020 batch has already started online.  The LPU is providing these courses through Online Learning Management System ‘LPU e-Connect’ and interactive Mobile App ‘LPU Touch’ along with the provision of Personal Contact Programmes (PCPs) at the university campus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpus-distance-education-programme-gets-ugc-nod-158453
20-10-2020||---||43 samples of sweets collected in one week||Kapurthala, October 19 In view of the forthcoming festival season, the Food and Drug Administration Department has launched a checking drive at sweet shops and dairies. Assistant Commissioner, Food, Harjot Pal Singh, along with Food Safety Officers Satnam Singh and Mukul Gill, collected 43 samples of sweets, including ‘khoya burfi’, ‘rasgulla’, ‘gulab jamun’, ‘patisa’ and ‘petha’, and milk, paneer and desi ghee from various areas of the district in the last week. The officials said cold stores and other such places that were used to store sweets would be inspected in the coming days. A team would keep an eye on railway stations to check the transportation of ‘khoya’ or other such items from other states. Shopkeepers have been directed to display ‘best before date’ on loose sweets as directed by the FSSAI and not to store ‘khoya’ and sweets in cold stores. The shopkeepers can store sweets and ‘khoya’ for a limited period only in their own cold chambers situated inside their shops. The procurement of both items from other states and districts may invite action as it is deemed to be of inferior quality and is usually supplied under inferior storage and transport conditions. “Shopkeepers can procure both items from the manufacturers of good repute,” said Harjot Pal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/43-samples-of-sweets-collected-in-one-week-158454
