23-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Cases against 3 travel agents||Fire in factory, no loss of lifeHoshiarpur: A fire broke out in a rosin factory on Bharwain Road on the outskirts of the city at around 3 pm here on Thursday. A team of the Fire Brigade reached the spot and controlled the fire.A major incident was averted. No loss of life was reported. Fire Station Officer Jaswant Singh Kahlon said the team worked hard to extinguish the fire with two fire tenders and later a third fire tender with mist spray was also called there which helped in controlling the fire. OCMan arrested for killing wifeDasuya: A man allegedly killed his wife over a domestic dispute here on Wednesday. The police have registered a case in this regard and arrested the accused. According to information, Hardeep Singh (23), son of accused Rajinder Singh of Daulowal, has lodged a complaint with the Dasuya police station in the regard. In a statement to the police, Hardeep stated that his mother Kanta Devi (55) had some domestic dispute with his father over some petty issue. Infuriated, Rajinder killed his wife by slitting her throat and escaped. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cases-against-3-travel-agents-159940
23-10-2020||Studying the pattern of migratory birds||Theh Kanjla village: A birder’s paradise||As winter season is just round the corner, Tribune lensman spent two days at the village site to capture a variety of birds through his lenses. Spending six hours a day from as early as 6 am to 12 noon, he was successful in capturing some rare species swimming in the lotus-filled sewage ponds formed out of vacant industrial plots of the Urban Estate, while others were captured in flight or while perching atop trees and wires. Some of these birds are local, while others have migrated in this new breeding ground from surrounding Asian countries. Ajay Sidhu, an avid bird watcher, guided The Tribune team towards the new location. Red-naped IbisThis species is found in the plains of the Indian subcontinent. It is a large black bird with long legs and a long down-curved bill. The wing feathers and tail are black with bluish-green gloss, while the neck and body are brown minus the gloss. The top of the featherless head is a patch of bright red warty skin. Purple SunbirdIt is a small bird found mainly in South Asia. Like other sunbirds, it feeds mainly on nectar, although it also consumes insects. It has a fast and direct flight and can take nectar by hovering like a humming bird, but often perches at the base of flowers. It has a dark and short square-ended tail and has a down-curved bill. Indian SilverbillIt is a small bird found in the Indian subcontinent. It has a conical silver-grey bill, buff-brown upperparts, white underparts, buffy flanks and dark wings. The tail is black and the wings dark. It feeds mainly on seeds, but also takes insects and has been known to visit nectar-bearing flowers. Although largely sedentary, some populations make seasonal movements. Purple HeronIt is a wading bird in the heron family, which hunts fish, rodents, frogs and insects by either stalking them or standing and waiting in ambush. EgretIt is a heron, which has white or buff plumage and develops fine plumes (usually milky white) during the breeding season. Black-winged KiteIt is distinctive with long wings; white, grey and black plumage; and owl-like forward-facing eyes. They are non-migratory, but show nomadism in response to weather and food availability. Jacobin CuckooIt is a member of the cuckoo order of birds that is found in Africa and Asia. It is partially migratory and in India, it has been considered a harbinger of the monsoon rains due to the timing of its arrival. White-breasted KingfisherIt is a tree kingfisher, widely distributed in the Indian subcontinent to the Philippines. It feeds on a wide range of prey that includes small reptiles, amphibians, crabs, small rodents and even birds. During the breeding season, it calls out loudly in the mornings from prominent perches, including the tops of buildings in urban areas or on wires.  Black-winged StiltIt is a long-legged wader. It has slender, pink legs, a long thin black bill and is blackish above and white below with a white head. Little CormorantIt belongs to the family of seabirds. The entire body is black in the breeding season, but the plumage is brownish and the throat has a small whitish patch in the non-breeding season.  Pheasant Tailed JacanaIt has elongated toes and nails. It swims or walks on aquatic vegetation. The body is chocolate brown, with a white face and the back of the crown is black with white stripes running down the sides of the neck. The wings are predominantly white. A dark eye stripe runs down the sides of the neck and forms a dark necklace on a slightly sullied white front. Plain PriniaIt is a small warbler found in the Southeast Asia. It has short rounded wings, a longish tail, strong legs and a short black bill. Black-headed SwamphenIt is a large bluish-purple gallinule with a red bill and forehead shield, and red legs and feet with long toes. It is a common inhabitant of marshy, vegetated freshwater bodies such as swamps, rivers and lakes and usually lives in small groups. Spot-billed DuckThis bird is a large non-migratory breeding duck found in freshwater wetlands in the Indian subcontinent. Its name is derived from the red spot at the base of the bill. It has a scaly patterned body with a green speculum bordered by white.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/theh-kanjla-village-a-birders-paradise-159939
23-10-2020||Academics in pandemic||‘It is a challenge to keep students satisfied during online classes’||Officiating Vice- Chancellor of DAV University, Dr Jasbir Rishi, needs no introduction. A multi-talented personality, she has worked in the fields of academics, theatre, social work and media. She holds M Phil and PhD degree in psychology and has 33 years of experience in teaching. Dr Rishi also directs plays and skits. She holds 30 years of experience as a journalist, who also worked as the news reader of Doordarshan Kendra, Jalandhar. She also worked at the international level for promoting Punjabi culture and ethos. In a conversation with Deepkamal Kaur, she shares her experience and challenges she faced in her professional journey. Excerpts.How has been your new experience as the VC of DAV University?I joined DAV University as the officiating VC in June this year. Prior to this, I was serving as the Dean, Students Welfare, here since 2017. For me, my college management has been the same as I had a long innings in HMV College (also run by the DAV College Management Committee) where I also served as the head of the Department of Psychology. My experience has been good, especially when there were several challenges keeping in view the Covid times.What have been your challenges so far?It was a challenge to keep the students satisfied as they were taking online classes from their places. We ensured that we took up all their grievances well in time and responded to them on priority. It was little difficult to keep them satisfied with regard to the pattern of online classes, conduct of examination, doing assignments from home and incorporating suggestions from everyone in the system to make it work well. Of course, the biggest challenge that came in my tenure has been with regard to admissions.How have the admissions been?The admissions to almost all courses went quite well with regard to the previous year. We have got a much better response to our courses, including BBA, B Com BSc (Agriculture), B Tech (Computer Sciences), MA (English) and BA (English honours). Our admissions to undergraduate courses are still underway and will continue till October 31. We have got a good number of students from surrounding areas, including Jalandhar, Pathankot, Hoshiarpur city, Mukerian, Dasuya and Adampur. Owing to proximity from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, we have got a sizable number of students from these states too, especially for the last fortnight after the restrictions on movement got eased. While we already used to have students from Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and Bihar, for the first time this year we have also got registrations from West Bengal and Odisha. Since the examination of the final year graduation courses took place late, the admissions for PG courses will remain underway for sometime in November too.When do you intend to start the classes for students?Even though admissions to UG courses will remain on till October 31, we had started classes for them in August-end. Since students were feeling bored and frustrated sitting at home, we started classes around the same time as other colleges did, but maintained very slow pace. Our orientation programme went on for five-six days. We practically started classes in the first week of September.Now that the government has allowed to hold campus classes, when do you intend to start offline classes for them?We are done with all our preparations and will apprise the DAV management regarding all arrangements we have made in the forthcoming meeting. A decision will be taken after the meeting. In the meantime, we have also passed on consent forms to the parents and will seek their approvals too.What all arrangements are you making to keep the students safe on the campus?We have got readied more hostels so that a safe environment can be provided to all students staying here. We will have regular sanitisation system. Since we have a huge campus, maintaining social distancing will not be an issue. We will have very few kiosks for eatables on the campus – only for tea, coffee and juice. These too will be placed at a large distance. No outside food will be available on the campus. Our messes will serve clean food, cooked in-house. Our day scholars will be allowed to have food from the mess. We have also installed UV-enabled sanitisation boxes at various points. Our staff will remain agile and will use thermal scanners for checking the body temperature of every entrant inside the campus and hostel. We will also have a proper dispensary in place so that we are able to isolate and handle any sick student well in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/it-is-a-challenge-to-keep-students-satisfied-during-online-classes-159934
23-10-2020||---||52 more test positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 22The district on Thursday reported 52 new Covid cases and one death due to the infection. The positive cases have been seeing a declining trend for the last few weeks.The death toll stands at 459 while the tally of the infected persons has reached 14,569.Hoshiarpur: The death toll in the district crossed 200-mark with three more fatalities reported on Thursday.With 129 new infections today in the district, including 47 new positive patients reported out of 1,752 reports received in the district, while 82 cases have been reported from the National Health Portal, taking the total number of patients in the district to 5,916.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the total number of samples taken so far in the district was 1,42,723 with 1,921 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms today. According to reports received from the lab, 1,35,723 samples are negative, while reports of 1,495 samples are awaited, and 127 samples are invalid. The death toll increased to 201 due to the death of three more patients today. The number of active cases is 240. Out of 129 positive cases in the district today, 15 are related to the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/52-more-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-159932
23-10-2020||---||Scuffle between farmers, BJP leaders||Jalandhar, October 22High drama was witnessed when BJP leaders and farmers got into a scuffle with each other here on Thursday. The farmer unions are holding dharnas and are openly opposing and criticising the BJP after the Central Government passed the three farm laws.The incident happened when some BJP leaders, including local leaders Poonam Manik and Jeevan Kumar, wanted to garland the statue of Dr BR Ambedkar, to which farmers raised objection and did not allow them to proceed. A huge police force was also there and police officials tried to pacify both sides.As per information, one of the leaders then forcefully tried to garland the statue. This prompted some members of the farmer union to resist the former resulting in a scuffle and minor injuries to some of BJP workers.The police then detained members of both parties and then after a while let them go.Even at the Behram toll plaza, where scores of farmers have been holding protests for the last 14 days, got together today and decided to gherao the BJP leaders on their way to Chandigarh.Davinder Singh, a member of the farmer union, said the police personnel were gathered in numbers. “But looking at the situation, the BJP leaders didn’t even come this side. We just want to let them know that we oppose them and we can never forget what the central government has done with us,” he said.Poonam Manik, a BJP leader, said anyone could garland the statue of Dr BR Ambedkar and none could stop them. “The incident is condemnable,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/scuffle-between-farmers-bjp-leaders-159931
23-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Riddled with potholes, this stretch lacks streetlights too||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 22The Pratap Bagh road, one of the busiest routes in the city, is in a state of neglect. Its condition has turned from bad to worse in the last three years, but the authorities seem to be in a deep slumber. Despite several complaints, no step has been taken to minimise hardships being faced by commuters everyday.The road connects several residential areas with each other, besides being the route to Bhagat Singh Chowk, the railway station and the Ladowali area. Potholes with their margins filled with sand give a hard time to commuters. The concrete used in its construction can’t withstand even light showers. And it is a nightmare to use the route during the monsoon.Residents of the Pratap Bagh area said the road required immediate repair. The patch work carried out to fill potholes and repair broken stretches did not last even a month due to substandard material and the lack of proper supervision.Ajay Kohli, a local resident, said the civic body should repair dilapidated roads on a priority basis to prevent fatal accidents.“The level of the road is uneven. Despite taking up the issue with the authorities on several occasions, nothing has been done so far. There are no streetlights on the route. Many fatal mishaps have been reported in the past. Driving during night hours is a risky affair,” said Kohli.Goldy Walia, who runs a shop in the area, said the stretch along Food Bazar had been re-carpeted a number of times, but due to substandard material, potholes appeared even after one hour of downpour.Rita Sharma, area councillor, said the re-carpeting work was likely to be taken up in two-three months as a tender had been floated for the same.When contacted, Mayor Jagadish Raja also gave an assurance that the issue would be resolved on a priority basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/riddled-with-potholes-this-stretch-lacks-streetlights-too-159930
23-10-2020||---||CM inaugurates Rs 525.85-cr water supply scheme for Jalandhar today||Jalandhar, October 22To check further depletion of groundwater and ensure round-the-clock drinking water supply to residents, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will virtually inaugurate the much-touted Rs 525.85-crore surface water supply scheme tomorrow.12 crore litre water to be saved dailyThe city requires just 20 crore litre of water daily while the remaining 12 crore litre is wasted due to leakages and faulty supply systems.Under the new system, there will be an online monitoring of the supply using the SCADA system, which will generate alerts in case of any leakageThe scheme, which will be operated under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) programme, will involve water extraction from the Sutlej. Once the project is made functional, 400 of the 535 existing tubewells in the city will be rendered inoperative. The remaining will be used as a backup plan in case of any technical issue in the supply.As per the current system, 535 tubewells are being operated for about nine hours a day and are digging out 32 crore litre of water from the water table. As per the estimates, the city requires just about 20 crore litre of water on a daily basis while the remaining 12 crore litre is wasted due to leakages and the faulty supply system.Under the new system, there will be an online monitoring of the supply using the SCADA system. The system will generate alerts whenever there will be any leakage at any point in the channels. Less leakage will lead to reduction in the pressure on the STPs. Storage tanks and treatment plants will also be set up. The government is in the process of acquiring 70 acre near Adampur. A treatment plant will have a capacity to treat 275 million litre of water per day (MLD), which will be a sufficient requirement up to year 2036. The city will be divided into 37 pockets to channelise the water supply system.The civic body is also planning to get the metered water supply policy started soon. Currently, houses built in less than 5 marla are exempted from making any payment for water usage. But once metres are installed, all houses will have to pay the requisite charges.SE Satinder Kumar said the L&T company had already started a survey and the tubewells were being geo-tagged for online monitoring. Meanwhile, 13 projects that the Chief Minister will inaugurate on Saturday include those that have already been formally launched by party ministers, MP or MLAs and are underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-inaugurates-rs-525-85-cr-water-supply-scheme-for-jalandhar-today-159929
23-10-2020||Jalandhar||BJP leaders detained in Jalandhar||Several BJP leaders, including Union Minister of State Som Parkash, BJP state president Ashwani Sharma, former state party chief Vijay Sampla and general secretary Subhash Sharma, were detained by the police here today.The BJP had planned ‘Rally for justice for SCs’, which was supposed to start from here and culminate at the Chief Minister’s residence in Chandigarh, with an aim to highlight the non-implementation of the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme and harassment of a Dalit man in Fazilka.BJP leaders had gathered at Surya Enclave, the site for its new party office, from where they were to head towards PAP Chowk and to Chandigarh. However, as soon as leaders got on to vehicles to begin the rally, a huge posse of police personnel prevented them for proceeding. The BJP leaders raised slogans against the government and insisted they be allowed to move. The BJP leaders were ultimately detained and taken to Circuit House where they staged a dharna on the premises.“Neither me nor my party would get intimidated by the government. The CM is not acting against his minister in the SC students’ scholarship scam. Nor the Congress government is doing anything to prevent the increasing crime against the Dalit community. We will continue to raise our voice,” Sharma said.Congress Dalit leaders, including MLAs Raj Kumar Chabbewal and Sushil Rinku, were quick to react. “The BJP should stop shedding crocodile tears when its image is already tarnished in the Hathras case. If it is concerned about scholarships of the students, why did the Centre stop the scheme? The Congress we will not let Dalit students suffer,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-leaders-detained-in-jalandhar-159660
