25-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Woman nabbed with 400-gm heroin in Hoshiarpur||54 more test +ve, no death reportedJalandhar: With 54 fresh cases of Covid, the tally of the infected persons in the district had mounted to 14,721. No death was reported. As many as 13,780 persons have recovered from the infection until now, while 467 cases are active. As many as 395 persons are in home isolation. In Kapurthala, nine more people tested positive for the infection. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-nabbed-with-400-gm-heroin-in-hoshiarpur-160691
25-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Leaving dreams behind, entrepreneur looks for job||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 24Waiting is never easy, but what makes it even harder is uncertainty. This is what happened with Kamal Kishore, who started his own venture in Phagwara four years ago, but had to give up his dream after he found himself caught between a rock and a hard place. Troubled over the prolonged slump in his business in the wake of Covid-induced lockdown, Kamal was forced to shut down his office and look for a job.Kamal Kishore, An entrepreneurSince I was not in a position to bear any further expenses, I shut my business around two months back. I couldn’t pay salaries to my staff of three persons, who, like me, are now out of work. In the beginning, I thought the lockdown would be lifted soon, so I kept paying the rent of my store and salaries to my staff. However, by August I was running out of my savings. It gave him a sense of Deja Vu when he was uploading a post on his social media account, asking people for employment.“Since I was not in a position to bear any further expenses, I shut my business around two months back. I couldn’t pay salaries to my staff of three persons, who, like me, are now out of work,” said Kamal.With hopes of a bright future, he had left his job in Panchkula and decided to start his own company by the name of ‘Amrit Asian Electronics’. An expert of hardware and software items, he started his service centre here along Banga road in Phagwara in 2016. His hard work started yielding him rewards, and soon his supply chain expanded due to the positive word of mouth. Within a year, his turnover was in lakhs. Before lockdown was announced, he was making satisfactory gains.To his credit, he had repaired mobile phones of Sonia Gandhi and actor Amir Khan in early 2000s.“In the beginning, I thought the lockdown would be lifted soon, so I kept paying the rent of my store and salaries to my staff. However, by August I was running out of my savings and with no orders in store, I was tight-handed. Subsequently, what I had dreaded happened and I had to seal my company. At present, I am in a dire need of a job to keep the stove burning in my home,” shared Kamal.There are many others who share the similar tale of Kamal.Jaswant Rai, deputy director, Employment Bureau, Jalandhar, said, as many as 2,651 people had approached the bureau during lockdown to enrol themselves in various schemes with hopes of starting new businesses with the help of loans.Jakesh Sandra, who runs a private employment agency, said over 150 people had got themselves registered with his agency for employment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/leaving-dreams-behind-entrepreneur-looks-for-job-160693
25-10-2020||Avneet Kaur||For the love of society!||Jalandhar, October 24Not many have the courage to follow the voice of their heart. It requires immense belief in oneself. But Sandeep Kumar Chadha has taken the road way less traversed and has found the peace of mind and contentment flowering all along.Sandeep left a well-paid job to pursue his passion of serving humanity. His previous jobs detail of Assistant Professor at DAV College from 2013 to 2018 and then District Programme Coordinator for Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan, for a year, gave him all that he desired for — but the inner peace.Sandeep Kumar Chadha, A social workerI started the Youth Services Club in 2019. I always had the aspirations to help bring about realistic social change and I knew I cannot bring this change if I don’t engage the young and energetic minds. I am living my passion. “I am living my passion. A true sense of security and peace cannot be obtained simply by personal gains. Rather, it is achieved by helping others and putting a smile on other faces,” he says. Divulging details about his life as a social worker, he shares, “We through this club are making sure we help all those in need. We even feed stray animals on a daily basis and the work is solely being managed by teams of youths, so that we put in them the feeling of compassion.”Having realised the fact that youth in Punjab has got immense potential but have gone astray on the path life indulging in drugs and other felonies, there is no one to lead and show them the light of life, so he decided to do humanitarian services and engage youth in a cause that helps bring about a change in the society. “I started the Youth Services Club in 2019 with the aim to give return the favour. I always had the aspirations to help usher realistic social change and I knew I cannot bring this change if I don’t engage the young and energetic minds,” he tells.He now has a team of around 15 members and there are also many students, even teenagers, as volunteers. The work undertaken includes greenery, waste management, traffic discipline, equality and women empowerment among others. “Besides, we have also conducted more than 30 events in rural areas of Jalandhar like seminars, rallies, competitions, sports tournaments, to attract more youth towards social service and aware people of their rights,” Sandeep lists.No stopping amid lockdownDuring the lockdown the 29-year-old’s club religiously worked to help those rendered jobless and the adversely affected ones. “The pandemic has been a tough time for all. Though things are heading back to normalcy, people are still facing boulder of difficulties. My team during the lockdown period worked so hard to serve all those migrants who were going back home and were rendered jobless,” he said.From distributing ration, cooked meals to feeding stray animals to sanitising the localities, the bands of Youth Services Club went door to door to sensitise people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/for-the-love-of-society-160694
25-10-2020||---||12 committees in Jalandhar get permission for Dasehra celebrations||Jalandhar, October 24Unlike the previous years when 45-50 grand Dasehra melas used to be organised in the city every year, this time only 12 committees sought permission for holding small and symbolic events in view of the Covid threat. The administration has allowed a gathering of only 100 persons at the venues.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet S Bhullar said, “Initially, we were reluctant in giving permission in view of the Covid threat and we were waiting for the government’s directions on this. Finally, we allowed the committees to hold small festivities limiting the gathering to 100 persons as per the prevalent guidelines. Since there were no prior preparations, several committees backed out and only 12 said they did not want to discontinue the age-old religious custom”.Bhullar said security had been strengthened to maintain law and order. Teams had been formed to check the footages of CCTV cameras installed at these venues.Bhullar said teams would monitor and patrol these places round the clock.All guidelines were being followed to ensure social distancing at the venues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/12-committees-in-jalandhar-get-permission-for-dasehra-celebrations-160692
25-10-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||It’s tough ride for commuters on Sethi marg in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, October 24There are a few stretches in the Fatehgarh area that never change, say residents. Craters and potholes are a permanent feature of Rambha Sethi Marg in Ward No. 13, the lifeline of the Fatehgarh area.It connects Fatehgarh Chowk to TB Hospital and several residential colonies with each other. For road users, especially motorists, it is a daily struggle to navigate the damaged stretches.Meenu Sethi, former Councillor In 2017, the reconstruction of Rambha Sethi Marg was stopped midway due to substandard construction material. A tender was refloated in June 2019, but nothing has been done so far. I have paid Rs 20,000 from my own pocket to get the potholes filled. The MC is dilly-dallying over the project. Residents say they do not recall the last time any of these stretches was relaid. Apart from two-wheelers, pedestrians also face hardships as they have to walk on slippery and potholed roads.Recently, Meenu Sethi, a former councillor, was injured when her two-wheeler skidded off a potholed stretch in the locality. The roads in the area witness a constant flow of vehicles. However, their poor upkeep is adding to the woes of the commuters.Sources said the Marg was built in June 2011. Re-carpeting work on some stretches was carried out in June 2015. In 2017, its reconstruction was taken up, but the former councillor got the work stopped midway as the construction material was of substandard quality. Since then, the work is yet to see the light of day.Although a tender was floated in June last year, nothing has been done so far. The condition of New Fatehgarh Bazigar Road, which connects Ward No 13 and Ward No. 14, is equally bad. “It is not only the elderly, but many two-wheeler riders are affected,” said a local resident. She urged the authorities to carry out repair works at the earliest. Former councillor Meenu Sethi said, “In 2017, the reconstruction of Rambha Sethi Marg was stopped midway due to substandard construction material. The project was scrapped and action was taken against the contractor. The MC House approved the road project again and a tender was floated in June 2019, but nothing has been so far. I have paid Rs 20,000 from my own pocket to get the potholes filled. The Municipal Council is dilly-dallying over the road project.”The former councillor said following protests by residents, the authorities did initiated repair works in November last year, but after a few days, the work was again stopped. “On October 13, a delegation of senior citizens had met the Superintending Engineer, who assured it of initiating repair works on October 15. However, nothing of the sort has happened so far,” she alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/its-tough-ride-for-commuters-on-sethi-marg-in-hoshiarpur-160682
25-10-2020|| Deepkamal Kaur||Agya Pal Singh Randhawa had no looking back after his short film on legendary singer Surinder Kaur won national award||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 24Having won a national award from Doordarshan for his documentary on legendary singer Surinder Kaur and accolades for producing a string of videos on Punjab Armed Police, Denmark-based Punjabi singer Anita Lerche, hockey Olympian Pargat Singh and global warming, Programme Executive of Doordarshan Agya Pal Singh Randhawa (65) has been a name to reckon with.Agya Pal Singh Randhawa It took me three years to complete my documentary on Surinder Kaur, interviewing her and her daughter Dolly Gulleria on several occasions, recording her music clips, taking points from her on how ex-PM IK Gujral intervened to save her house in Delhi from being demolished during a metro project, taking video shots on her from the PM, and even Capt Amarinder Singh in 2004 when he was the CM. Now retired after having served for additional five years on extension, Randhawa cherishes the good old days with the public service broadcaster. At his house in Adarsh Nagar here, he has maintained a nice rack of all awards and trophies that he won during his 30 years of service with the DD. He has preserved all his certificates and citations well in a folder and has also preserved some records of videos of his work.Randhwa shared: “Though I started working casually with the DD in 1977-78, my regular innings started in 1991 after I cleared my UPSC examinations. My initial training was as the sports producer for which I took sessions from NIS Patiala, learning about sports and its jargon to make a good commentary. My first big assignment was the coverage of 1982 Asian Games, after which I covered Commonwealth Games, Afro-Asian Games and international hockey tournaments on several occasions and got a chance to travel a lot with the DD teams.” He went on: “But my ultimate desire always remained to be a news reader. There was a slot but I missed that chance and it hurt me a lot. Then I took upon myself to achieve something bigger and finally got an opportunity to serve as the news producer. For over 20 years, it was I who decided the agenda for the following day and prepared rosters for the news readers. My name kept appearing as producer with most news bulletins”.Having achieved one target, he set his eyes on another. “I got the desire to produce entertainment programmes too and finally got associated with one of the most popular music shows ‘Lishkara’, which I produced from 2002-06. The programme got the maximum TRP and all singers, including Hans Raj Hans, Malkiat Singh and Diljit Dosanjh, used to come to my channel. Having a background in economics, I put up a suggestion to make the show remunerative and from then on, every singer had to pay Rs 22,000 to the DD for getting his 3-minute music video recorded on the channel.”Randhawa was also seen on the screen in the DD’s monopoly days as the anchor of shows including ‘Sajri Swer’, ‘Khaas khabar ik nazar’ and ‘Gallan te geet’. He also got a video album, titled ‘Sadke Punjab ton’, readied for Danish singer Anita Lerche. “It was a sheer chance that I came in contact with her through a Hoshiarpur-based friend. She was so quick at learning Punjabi that she began singing ‘Heer’ so well. She even took lessons in Punjabi from my wife, a Punjabi lecturer, and became a close family friend,” he recalled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agya-pal-singh-randhawa-had-no-looking-back-after-his-short-film-on-legendary-singer-surinder-kaur-won-national-award-160683
25-10-2020||---||Jalandhar administration's nod to acquire land for Delhi-Katra Expressway||Jalandhar, October 24Moving a step closer to the execution of the much-awaited Delhi-Katra Expressway, the district administration has issued a 3(D) notification to acquire 1,485 acre in Phillaur, Nakodar and Jalandhar-II subdivisions of the district.Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy Commissioner Process initiatedProcess has been initiated to decide compensation award for the acquired land. Being an expressway, there will be a limited number of access points to it and Jalandhar will have only two. Around 68-km stretch of the Delhi-Katra Expressway would be in Jalandhar, including 29 km in Phillaur and Jalandhar-II and 10.09 km in Nakodar, for which 1,485 acre land would be acquired. Out of the total 1,485 acre to be taken under possession, 435 acres fall in Phillaur, 237 in Nakodar and 813 acre fall in Jalandhar-II subdivisions.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said officials had initiated the task to decide compensation award for the acquired land so that a notification under 3(G) for award distribution could be issued at the earliest. He said the 3(G) notification was issued when the entire details of land to be acquired, such as area, name of landowners, etc were published after completing the survey.The Deputy Commissioner said being an expressway, there would be a limited number of access points to it and Jalandhar would have only two access points, including one at Kang Sabu village, Nakodar, and the second from the Kartarpur area.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) was likely to invite tenders for the project next month. The travelling time from Jalandhar to Katra would reduce to just 2.20 hours from the present five hours with this expressway, Thori said.Manager, National Highways Authority of India, Prashant Kumar said the project in Jalandhar was expected to cost around Rs 1,870 crore, including the cost of land acquisition and civil works. The work on the stretch in Jalandhar was expected to start in February 2021 and would be completed in two years, Kumar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-administrations-nod-to-acquire-land-for-delhi-katra-expressway-160684
25-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||This govt school in Jalandhar sees 1,100 new admissions amid Covid outbreak||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 24A whopping 1,100 new students took admission to Nehru Garden Girls Senior Secondary School in Jalandhar, a prestigious government school with an illustrious past.Even as only 30 students turned up on the first day as the school re-opened after six months on October 19, the overall strength has increased to a record 2,830.Of the 1,100 new students, 800 are from private schools. Thanks to the exodus of students from private schools, government schools are again witnessing a golden period, the likes of which they saw over a decade ago. While the district saw 10 per cent attendance in schools on the first day, it witnessed a huge surge in admissions during Covid. Many prestigious government schools are witnessing a record increase in admissions. The illustrious trio of Nehru Garden school, Junior Model and Senior Model Government Secondary Schools in Jalandhar, have seen the biggest spike. As many as 30 schools in Jalandhar now have an increased strength of 900 to 1,000 students. The strength at Nehru Garden stands at a whopping 2,830 today.Junior Model has a strength of 1,515 (464 new admissions, over 350 from private schools) and Senior Model’s strength is 805 (200 new admissions, 175 from private). Other secondary schools witnessing huge spikes include those at Jamsher and Mithapur, among others. Academicians opine that the pandemic had provided visibility and numbers to government education like never before.While the student presence is dwindling after the opening day (Nehru Garden today saw only 19 students), principals said it could be due to the festival season.Senior secondary education in Jalandhar witnessed a hike of 10.89 per cent in admissions. Jalandhar East block alone, witnessed a 15 per cent increase. Compared to 83,533 admissions in 2019, this year has seen 92,630 admissions – 9,097 more admissions than last year.Gurinderjit Kaur, principal, Nehru Garden Girls Senior Secondary School, said: “In 2010 when I joined, the school had mere 1,734 students. Even in the golden era of education, the school had a strength of 1,800. We had 2,559 students last year, this year they have risen to 2,830. At least 800 of the 1,100 new admissions are those who quit private schools. This, despite the 850 outgoing students of Class XII. The attendance was less but we hope it will pick up. The pandemic has indeed played a huge role. Sadly, many students report that their families can’t afford private education anymore.”Harinder Pal, DEO (secondary), said: “While 10 per cent students across classes IX to XII turned up on the first day of school, the number might increase in the coming days. Across Doaba, there has been about 11 per cent increase in admissions. In Jalandhar too, there has been 10.89 per cent increase. The brilliant Class XII results this year and students’ exodus from private schools have both played a role in the spike in admissions. A majority of admissions are being witnessed in cluster of urban schools in Jalandhar.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-govt-school-in-jalandhar-sees-1-100-new-admissions-amid-covid-outbreak-160685
25-10-2020||Our Correspondent||MGNREGA employees stage protest in Jalandhar, seek job regularisation||Jalandhar, October 24Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) employees working with the Rural Development today burnt the effigies of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, former Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission of India Montek Singh Ahluwalia and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over non-fulfillment of their demands.The protesters said they had been working for the last 12 years, but the state government was yet to regularise their services.Satnam Singh, one of the protesters, said the recruitment of MGNREGA employees had been done in a transparent manner and as per the criteria used for the permanent recruitment. “Employees have been seeking their job regularisation for long. Every time we approached a government official, we got mere an assurance,” he alleged.He accused the government of violating the employees protection Act.The protesters threatened to intensify the agitation if their demands were not fulfilled. “The state government is not keen on regularising the jobs of MGNREGA workers. It is exploiting us by paying meagre salaries for much workload,” alleged Satnam Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mgnrega-employees-stage-protest-in-jalandhar-seek-job-regularisation-160688
25-10-2020||---||Works worth Rs 663 crore launched in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 24Paving the way for next level of development, Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary along with MLAs Pargat Singh, Sushil Kumar Rinku, Rajinder Beri and Junior Avtar Henry, alias Bawa Henry, kick-started development works worth Rs663.41 crore in the district under Phase-II of the Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Programme.The works include construction of surface water source based water supply project having 275-MLD Water Treatment Plant at Jagrawan village worth Rs 525.85 crore, construction of new 50-MLD STP and rehabilitation of existing 100-MLD STP in Pholriwal at the cost of Rs69.72 crore, LED lights worth Rs43.83 crore and 203 development works worth Rs24 crore in 12 Municipal councils here.Participating in the virtual launch of Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Programme Phase-II from Jalandhar, the MP along with MLAs, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and MC Commissioner Karunesh Sharma, said that the schemes would ensure comprehensive development of the urban areas of the district. He said directions have been issued to the officers to adhere to the timelines for the completion of ongoing projects under the scheme.The MP said that LED lighting project would not only help commuters but would also keep the crime under check and minimise the expenditure on the power. He added that the STP at Pholariwal will ensure clean environment and use of sewage water for the irrigation after proper treating.Manjeet Kaur, president of Bilga Nagar Panchayat, also spoke with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in the video-conference and Local Bodies minister Brahm Mohindra and thanked for issuing Rs5 crore for several developmental works in Bilga town.On the occasion, Senior Deputy Mayor Surinder Kaur, Deputy Mayor Harsimranjeet Singh Bunty, ADC Development Vishesh Sarangal, SP (HQ) Ravi Kumar, DDLG Darbara Singh, Assistant Commissioner Hardeep Singh and others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/works-worth-rs-663-crore-launched-in-jalandhar-160689
