28-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||10 out of 10 for him!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 27There’s no stopping Massa Singh in his quest. Not even the retirement. Having dedicated almost 30 years of his life to education as District Education Officer (secondary), Kapurthala, he’s now to adopt government schools to provide quality education at these establishments.His list already entails a Government Senior Secondary School in Kapurthala, another one at Sidhva Dona, and Government High School, Bhanolanga. That’s just three – and he’s going for ten.A postgraduate in physics, Singh says he has plans to improve enrollment in the government schools. “Private education is very costly. Already in the state, the government school admissions have seen a high jump of 15-20 per cent. In Jalandhar also, 10 per cent increase has been witnessed. So, I have planned that good quality education, proper infrastructure will be provided in these schools to increase the numbers,” he adds.The 58-year-old began his career as a teacher of physics at Government Sr Sec School (GSSS), Gakhal Dhaliwal, in 1991. Divulging his ambition, Singh, who has also served as District Education Officer (primary) here, says that some pilot projects will be started in these schools and also the students’ caliber will be put under scanner so that he/she gets to know the areas which need more focus. “I will remain in touch with the teachers and students on a regular basis and will follow up on everything,” he shares.Mind giving a hand?Singh said it was his initiative and had also thought of taking help of other retirees in this cause by forming an NGO or an educational group. He was also the principal at Meritorious School, Jalandhar, in the initial year and as many as 21 students had attained merit positions under his shade.During his tenure as DEO in Kapurthala, the district schools excelled in Class XII Board results. “Our district had stood first in the performance of the government schools in Punjab, which never before happened,” he reminisces.While talking about his future goals, he says, “For now I have thought of taking care of ten schools, but if everything goes well, I will not stop and will serve the government school students my whole life.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-out-of-10-for-him-162263
28-10-2020||---||A tale of substandard work, poor raw material & neglect||Jalandhar October 27Rutted roads around Workshop Chowk tell a tale of poor raw material, substandard work, and utter lack of monitoring. Though the re-carpeting work has been carried out on this stretch several times, cracks start appearing within a few days of repair.The area houses the mobile market, a hotel, fruits and vegetable market, temples and garment stores. The stretch from Old GT Road till Workshop Chowk-Old Jail is filled with potholes. The material mixed with gravel is lying scattered at several places, risking the lives of commuters, especially two-wheeler riders.The lanes leading to Patel Chowk are also in bad shape. A number of potholes popped up during the monsoon, but the authorities are yet to take any action. The main road in the police division number 2 area is broken at several places. Long queues of vehicles can be seen on the stretch during morning and evening rush hours.Although the plying of overloaded and heavy vehicles is banned on this stretch, which is supposed to be used by the city traffic only, no rules are being followed in the absence of any check.Last month, a youth was killed after his two-wheeler was hit by a truck near Workshop Chowk. Fatal accidents have become a routine affair in the area, but the authorities seem to be in a deep slumber. An employee at a petrol station, near Patel Chowk, says due to broken roads, vehicles often ram into each other, leading to fights.When the re-carpeting was being carried out, residents had urged contractors not to fill in deep depressions with sand, but they did not pay heed to their repeated pleas. Rather poor quality concrete was used to fill the patches, which had now come off at several places, he added.Residents said the poor quality of work had exposed the tall claims of the civic body with regard to using good quality material for the patchwork. Sand used in the concrete had made the roads dusty and scattered stones and pebbles had turned these into accident zones.Dalbir Singh, a resident of the Old Jail area, said: “It has become difficult to drive on such dilapidated roads every day. Monsoon rains have added to the woes and scattered concrete has made the things worse.” Another commuter, Dharampal Singh, said, “My vehicle has broken down on this stretch several times.”The worst affected are those commuting to Dolphin Hotel, Gurmandi, Mai Hiran Gate, Workshop Chowk-Grain market-Ramnagar Phatak and the DAV-Maqsudan road via this stretch. Commuters said the contractors should be held responsible for the poor state of roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-tale-of-substandard-work-poor-raw-material-neglect-162264
28-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Migrant couple killed, 9 others injured in bus-truck collision||Dasuya, October 27A tourist bus of a private company ferrying migrant labourers from Chhattisgarh to Jammu and Kashmir in search of work met with an accident near Dasuya on the Jalandhar-Jammu highway on Monday midnight. A labourer couple died in the accident while nine others were injured.The accident occurred when the speeding bus collided with a truck parked on the roadside. The deceased have been identified as Satish Yadav and his wife Santosh, residents of Raigarh district in Chhattisgarh. According to information, the bus was going to Jammu from Chhattisgarh and it collided with a parked truck on the roadside. The accident was so tremendous that the front cabin of the bus badly rammed into the truck and the truck collided with a eucalyptus tree.Passengers aboard the bus said that the accident occurred because the driver fell asleep while driving. The bus driver escaped from the spot after the accident. The police admitted the injured to the Dasuya Civil Hospital. The injured have been identified as Rajeshwari, Dakeshwar, Sunita, Chain Singh, Dhani Lal, Shashi Bai, Rajeev Bai, Aman and Pooni Lal. Investigating Officer Jagga Singh said the driver of the bus, Shamsher, a resident of Chhattisgarh, abandoned the vehicle and fled the spot. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrant-couple-killed-9-others-injured-in-bus-truck-collision-162265
28-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Speakers share struggle stories at open mic event||Jalandhar, October 27Giving a platform to people who have contributed their bit to society, the CT Group organised a one-of-its-kind event — Open Mic Season-2 — at CT World School. Five speakers from several fields shared their life struggle, challenges and accomplishments during the event.Speakers namely founder president of NGO Dastak Sandeep Chahal, fashion consultant Shelja, Punjab’s first female ambulance driver Manjit Kaur, founder Rising Star Disable Youth Club Harinder Pal Singh and Indian Hockey Player Harjeet Singh shared their inspiring stories with the audience. A guest performance was given by Ritik Gill, a budding singer.While sharing her story, Manjit Kaur said, “It was a struggle against a series of unfortunate episodes in life that led me to make a mark for myself by choosing a profession usually dominated by men. While seeing male ambulance drivers outside the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, is a common sight, I stand out among them by being the only woman driver. It is a satisfying experience when I get to know that I managed to save precious lives,” she said.“Being a woman, I face a lot of interrogation from the patients’ attendants. They would keep on asking me if they are safe in my ambulance. Sometimes, it takes me a lot of time to convince the kin of the patients to hire my vehicle. Initially, I had to offer my services at lower rates as compared to my male counterparts to attract customers. I have seen many experiences in life on personal front as well. But all this made me strong and independent,” she added.Indian Hockey Player Harjeet Singh shared how he started the journey of his life when he started playing hockey in the year 2005 just to get a free t-shirt and shorts. He discussed at length how he rose from just an amateur player to the winner in World Cup in 2016.Founder of the Rising Star Disable Youth Club, Harinder Pal Singh threw light on his struggling phase when society and bhangra teams refused to get associated with him. He narrated his story that how he entered into bhangra and after getting criticism for his disability, he took this as a challenge and today he leads a bhangra team of 22 performers.On this occasion, Parminder Kaur Channi, CT Group co-chairperson, Madhu Sharma, Principal, CT World School and Amrit Kalsi, HoD, Centre of Happiness, were present. The event was anchored by Vikrant Rehani, Assistant Professor, and coordinated by Davinder Singh, cultural officer.Parminder Kaur Channi, CT Group co-chairperson and Manbir Singh, managing director, thanked the speakers for sharing their inspirational stories and also extended her support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/speakers-share-struggle-stories-at-open-mic-event-162266
28-10-2020||Our Correspondent||We must make efforts to promote scientific temper in society: Expert||Kapurthala, October 27To promote scientific temper and develop a spirit of enquiry in society, Pushpa Gujral Science City in collaboration with Vigyan Prasar today organised a webinar on science journalism. The webinar was attended by over 300 persons, including students and teachers of journalism and mass communication of different universities and colleges from different parts of country.Dr Nakul Prashar, Director, Vigyan Prasar, was the chief guest of the event. Speaking on the occasion, he said the developments and advancements in science and technology have benefitted society and the common man in the fight against various social evils and even Covid-19 Pandemic, while generating self-confidence, courage and faith in them.“It has become necessary that we take such measures and make such efforts that promote scientific temper in the society. It is in this context that science communication is considered as the vital key to develop scientific temper among the masses”, said Dr Prashar, adding that spreading science communication through journalism is need of the hour.Director-General Science City, Dr Neelima Jerath, in her introductory remarks said that science journalism has been progressively developing in India, in terms of quality and quantity. “There has been a considerable progress in this field over the years due to emergence of several science magazines, social media, feature services, programmes on radio and television etc”, she said.She further added that science journalism in India, however, has yet to come out of its present stage of infancy and a good deal still remains to be done in this field.Dr Rintu Nath, scientist from Vigyan Prasar, pointed out that science coverage attributed to mass media has been abysmally poor, which needs to be enhanced with the efforts of the scientific institutions. The media coverage of the scientific events and programmes related to development of scientific temper and sustainable development has been steadily increasing. Further, he discussed in detail about science and technology policy of the Government of India.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, said the Constitution of India encourages the citizens of India to have a sense of scientific temper. In the current scenario, science communication and science journalism can play a significant role in the society to develop the spirit of scientific inquiry. He emphasised the need to train professional journalists so as to pick up innovative achievements in science and translate them into a lay person language to be understood without any ambiguity, he said.A short film competition held on the occasionA short film making competition based on Covid-19 was organised by Science City. More than 60 short film entries were received from participants. Out of these, three best short films were selected for the award. Alka tomar, president and founder of the Centre for Environment Communication, New Delhi, was Jury head of this event. Gaganpreet Kaur from Kamla Nehru Public School, Phagwara, won the first prize, second position was bagged by Sanjana from Government Middle School, Kamalwala Khurd, Ferozpur, and third position was won by Garv Bhupesh Verma from Chitkara University, Rajpura.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/we-must-make-efforts-to-promote-scientific-temper-in-society-expert-162267
28-10-2020||---||NCC R-Day camp kicks off at HMV||Jalandhar, October 27 The campus of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya has been chosen by the NCC group headquarters for organising a month long NCC Republic Day Camp. The camp has begun under the aegis of Brig Advitya Madan.  He said a total of 25 cadets had been selected and after undergoing training for drill and firing, the best cadets would be selected. Cadets from various institutes of Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Phagwara, Jalandhar have been participating in the camp. The training time is from 8.30 am to 4 pm.  Cadets are also receiving training in group discussion and specialised subjects. These cadets once selected will participate in the Youth Exchange Programme with friendly foreign countries. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen thanked Brig Madan and congratulated Lt. Sonia Mahendru for choosing Hans Raj Mahila Maha VidyalayaCollege for the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ncc-r-day-camp-kicks-off-at-hmv-162268
28-10-2020||---||Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya selection examination in April||Jalandhar, October 27 For admission to Class VI in the next session, Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya Selection Test (JNVST) has been scheduled for April 10, 2021. The process of filing online application for the test has begun and the last date for the same is December 15, 2020. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the registration for Class VI is being done through the online portal on www.Navodaya.gov.in and navodaya.gov.in/nvs/en/admission-JNVST/JNVST-class. He said the birth date of the candidate should be between May 1, 2008 and April 30, 2012. Thori added that if any candidate faces problem in online registration, he or she can visit Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, village Talwandi Madho, during working hours from 9 am to 4 pm.  The DC, who is also the chairman of the Vidyalaya Management Committee, exhorted people to utilise this opportunity optimally  for their children as these co-educational schools, one of which was imparting education in village Talwandi Madho of the district, were operational in all districts of the country and were equipped with separate hostel facilities for boys and girls. He said these schools offer free education, boarding and lodging facilities for the students, besides ensuring holistic development of the students through wide cultural exchange programme through migration scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jawahar-navodaya-vidyalaya-selection-examination-in-april-162269
28-10-2020||---||Amid Covid-19 crisis, traders seek time to submit C forms||Jalandhar, October 27 Industrialists, who are bearing the brunt of the Covid-induced lockdown, are being forced to submit C forms  at the earliest.  A delegation of industrialists, along with MLA (Jalandhar Central) Rajinder Beri, today visited the GST Department  with their grievances.  Industrialist Ravinder Dhir said they had received notices for VAT assessment for 2013-2014. Sources said at least 10,000 cases had been pending with the department. Undue pressure was being mounted on industrialist to submit the forms despite the fact that MLA Rajinder Beri had a talk with the Finance Minister on the matter and the authorities might come out with a one-time settlement policy for the same. Another meeting in this regard was scheduled to be held in the coming days.  Industrialists and traders have demanded that they should not be issued ex-parte orders until any decision was taken on the policy.  “I don’t understand why there is such a hurry. The department should wait for a notification from the government,” said Dhir.  District Excise and Taxation Commissioner Paramjit Singh said the deadline to resolve cases related to the VAT assessment was November 20 and they were supposed to clear all pending matters before that.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-covid-19-crisis-traders-seek-time-to-submit-c-forms-162270
28-10-2020||---||Power engineers flay govt policies||Jalandhar, October 27 In a zonal-level meeting held here on Tuesday, the PSEB Engineers Association criticised PSPCL management and the state government for going against the interests of the common people of Punjab and the power sector. The wrong decisions being taken by the management are costing the customers of Punjab dearly. They also alleged that the management instead of hiring staff was bent upon reducing the already miniscule manpower, which they said will have a direct impact upon the services and revenue of the PSPCL. The engineers also raised the issue of power sector land grab worth Rs4,000 crore in Punjab. More than 150 engineers of Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr districts participated. Jasvir Singh Dhiman, president of the association, raised the issue of acute shortage of staff in PSPCL. He informed that the functions being performed by the PSPCL have gone through change in the last decade. He stated that the regular and sufficient hiring must be carried out by and new distribution offices should be created as per workload requirements to attain the motto of providing reliable quality and affordable power to the people of state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/power-engineers-flay-govt-policies-162271
28-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Despite probe report, no action against DBA so far||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 27Notwithstanding a 35-page inquiry report submitted by Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Jasvir Singh against former office-bearers of the District Badminton Association (DBA), Jalandhar, for causing huge financial losses and not maintaining account books, no action has been taken by the administration so far. The report was submitted in February last.The lifetime members of the association have sought the registration of a criminal case against the accused. They said while an FIR had been registered against officials of the District Cricket Association, Ludhiana, on the complaint of a former joint secretary with regard to misappropriation of funds, nothing has been done in the Jalandhar case even after the inquiry report.The members, who had lodged complaints against Rajinder Paul Singh Kalsi and Ashwani Kumar, the last two honorary secretaries of the DBA, demanded that the accused should be brought to book.The allegations against Kalsi and Kumar include negligence in maintaining the record of membership and books of accounts during their tenure, unlawfully inducting new members to the DBA, failing to discharge their statutory duty of holding the elections to the DBA, revenue losses, and utilising funds without taking the executive committee into the loop.As per the report, the rent of the shops had not been increased since 1999, though there was a clause of 10 per cent annual increase in the agreement.The DBA got only Rs 75,000 monthly rent from eight shops in the prime location, of which 35 per cent went to the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation as per the agreement. The rent deeds are also missing, causing a huge financial loss to the MC as well as the DBA.Following the submission of complaints, the ADC investigated the matter and submitted his inquiry report to the then Deputy Commissioner, Varinder K Sharma, on February 12 this year.Sharma had ordered an inquiry into the matter on October 30, 2019. The inquiry report clearly concluded that serious lapses were committed by Kalsi and Kumar.While Kalsi served as the honorary secretary for over 23 years, Kumar served for nearly nine years even as their tenure was only for three years.On the other hand, Kalsi, while talking to The Tribune, termed the allegations as baseless. Ritin Khanna, a member of the interim committee, however, claimed that all allegations against Kalsi and Kumar were true to their facts, hence, the authorities should intervene and take necessary action against them.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshayam Thori said, “The matter was brought to the notice during the tenure of my predecessor, hence he would look into the inquiry report and the issue will be resolved as soon as possible.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/despite-probe-report-no-action-against-dba-so-far-162272
28-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||‘We can have one power... and that is the political power’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 27“Now coming to the ensuing general elections I appeal to the Scheduled Castes people to treat the elections as a struggle for life and death and work in that spirit during the coming months. We must use all our strength to get our candidates elected. Man derives strength from the number of people behind him and from the wealth he possesses. We are a minority, we are not wealthy. Our population in an average village does not exceed 5 per cent of the total population. Owing to poverty we are unable to have the authorities on our side. But we can have one power and that is the political power. This we must win. Armed with this, we can protect the interests of our people.”It was with this huge exhortation to Dalits that Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar addressed a gathering of lakhs on his first visit to Jalandhar on 27th October, 1951. Almost 69 years later, Dr Ambedkar continues to remain a popular icon among the populace of India and the Dalits in Punjab. However, more or less the same questions continue to haunt the downgraded community.The city bears countless testimonies to its Dalit and Buddhist legacy. While several Buddhist viharas erected to commemorate his ‘pravartan’ (conversion) to Buddhism dot Doaba, the Jalandhar-based Ambedkar Bhawan also bears testimony to the memory of his visit. Lahori Ram Balley formed the ‘Ambedkar Bhawan Trust’ in 1972 to take care of this property and it continues to act as a centre of Ambedkarite legacy under its current set of trustees.Ambedkarite and scholar Baldev Bhardwaj, says, “Dr Ambedkar exhorted Dalits in the middle of what were huge fields then. On October 27 he addressed a gathering at Ramdaspura. The next day he addressed at DAV College, Jalandhar. To perpetuate his legacy; where he delivered his speech, Ambedkarite scholar, author and an associate of Dr Ambedkar, Lahori Ram Balley, as well as Karam Chand Bath bought a piece of land, in the name of Ambedkar Bhawan before 1963, by collecting a rupee from people.”Bhardwaj adds, “After Jullundur (as it was then called), Dr Ambedkar subsequently visited Ludhiana and Patiala. A portrait of the 1951 visit with the Ambedkarites commemorates Babasaheb’s legacy.”LR Balley, Founder Trustee, Ambedkar Bhawan and Editor Bheem Patrika (a magazine started to mark the legacy of Dr Ambedkar), says, “In the portrait he is seen flanked by Seth Kishandas Kler, then (1951) president of the Schedule Caste Federation (SCF), Punjab, who brought him to Jalandhar from Raja Sansi and accompanied him. He remained MLA with SCF till 1937-46. During that visit, I was in Agra on duty regarding the same elections.”When Dr Ambedkar was critically ill on 30th September, 1956, Balley made a promise to him to spread the Ambedkar Mission throughout his entire life. On the day of Mahaprinirvan of Babasaheb Dr Ambedkar on 6th December, 1956, he resigned from his permanent government job.Excerpts from Babasaheb’s Jalandhar speechGovernment job? No way!Babasaheb said: “When I came from England after getting my degree in Doctor of Philosophy, there was nobody in India with such qualifications. So when I reached Bombay and settled in the Mohalla from where I had gone, the Bombay government after a great difficulty found my place, as nobody knew where I was residing – it was such an unpopular place – and approached me to accept the post of Professor of Political Economy. I refused the offer. If I had accepted, I would have been at least the Director of Public Instructions. I would have got three or four thousands of rupees per month. I refused it because I had a great feeling for the service of my community which I could not have done remaining in that service. A government servant, you know, cannot serve his community as he has to go according to the wishes of the government and follows their flawed, self-centered policies.”Community first, rest can come later“I got birth in an Achhut community and will die for it and the cause of my community is supreme to me. I did not join any party or body. I remained independent while in the Congress government, I remained true to my people. Many people thought that I had joined the Congress as I had accepted the Cabinet ministership of the Congress. The critics pointed out that Dr Ambedkar had joined Congress and why the SCs should continue to remain in the Scheduled Castes Federation. I explained about it at Lucknow that earth and stone are two different things and they can never mix together. Stone will remain the stone and the earth will remain the earth. I am like a rock which does not melt, but turns the course of rivers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/we-can-have-one-power-and-that-is-the-political-power-162273
28-10-2020||Our Correspondent ---||KCL-IMT students get placed in MNC||Jalandhar, October 28  Six students of the KCL Institute of Management and Technology (KCL-IMT) have been absorbed in a top-notch MNC during a placement drive. MBA students were selected by the Education Culture Pvt Ltd, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Vinove Softwares, at a package of up to Rs 5 lakh. Among the selected ones were Amrit Pal Singh Kahlon, Shruti Sharma, Shefali, Rahul Dadwal and Sumit Nijawan.  Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) congratulated the students and their parents for their incredible achievement. Dr SK Sood (Director, KCLIMT) stated that along with providing quality education, the institute was also providing best placements in the region and will continue to strive for excellent placements in the upcoming years as well.  Dr Inderpal Singh (HOD, Management) congratulated the students and their parents on their achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kcl-imt-students-get-placed-in-mnc-162274
28-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Juvenile held for raping minor||PSPCL engineer suspendedJalandhar: After the video of an assistant junior engineer (AJE) seeking a bribe from a customer went viral, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited has put him under suspension and ordered a probe into the matter. AJE Baldev Raj was posted in the Patel Chowk subdivision of PSPCL. Daljit Inderpal Singh Grewal, Director (Distribution), said Chief Engineer (North Zone) Jainender Dania had been entrusted with the inquiry. On the basis of his report, the probe was further assigned to Deputy Chief Engineer Harjinder Singh Bansal. TNSThree booked for fraudHoshiarpur: Three persons have been booked for duping a man of Rs 28 lakh on the pretext of providing him a huge bonus from the insurance sector. Ravinderjit Singh, a resident of Ghogra, complained that Pavitra Naskar, a resident of Haryana and Chhotu Yadav, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, allegedly took Rs 28 lakh from him to invest it in the insurance business draw a huge bonus. He said the accused did not even return the principle amount. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/juvenile-held-for-raping-minor-162275
28-10-2020||Jalandhar||MLA Rinku hurt in mishap||Congress MLA from the Jalandhar West constituency Sushil Rinku and two others were injured when the Fortuner SUV they were travelling in hit a tractor-trailer near Nawanshahr this morning.The accident took place on the Nawanshahr-Chandigarh highway at Jadla village, 10 km ahead of Nawanshahr town, around 10.30 am when the MLA was heading to Chandigarh from Jalandhar for a meeting. The front portion of the vehicle hit the tractor-trailer coming from the wrong side.The MLA suffered minor injuries on his left wrist, hand and legs. His driver Vicky was seriously injured as his legs and hip were fractured. His gunman too was hurt. All three were taken to a private hospital in Nawanshahr.MLA Hardev Laddi, who too was heading to Chandigarh around the same time in his car, reached the hospital to take care of his colleague. Nawanshahr MLA Angad Saini also called on Rinku, who was discharged for being given preliminary treatment. He came back to Jalandhar in the afternoon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-rinku-hurt-in-mishap-162073
