29-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Navigating through Milap Chowk in Jalandhar a herculean task||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 28Though the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation has started re-carpeting a majority of roads in the city, the stretch around Milap Chowk (also known as Luv Kush Chowk), which happens to be one of the important landmark is in a shambles.Three of the four roads leading to Milap Chowk had been recently constructed, but the civic authorities failed to repair the road around the chowk, which has badly worn out. Thousands of commuters find it hard to navigate on gravel laden roundabout.Varinder Sekhon, a resident of Central Town, said, “I commute through Milap Chowk on my scooter at least four times a day. I know where the potholes are, but still I have to drive very cautiously to keep myself safe. The vulnerability of a motorist to fall at a roundabout increases as four roads meet here.”The road from Company Chowk to Milap Chowk was repaired recently and one heading towards Naya Bazaar and Phagwara Gate were in good condition. However, the fourth stretch leading to police station Division No. 3 has potholes.Police personnel posted at this police station said they had requested the authorities numerous times to get the road repaired, but to no avail.“We have to rush to crime or accident spots, but this damaged road creates bottleneck as we are not able to speed up,” they fumed adding that the garbage pile up along the road side was another major issue which they had to tackle daily.Congress councillor Radhika Pathak said, “As the roads are to be made of concrete and the ring around the Milap Chowk is to be built out of bitumen, it is taking some time. The roads have been repaired and estimate of the road around the chowk is cleared. We expect the work to start in a short span of time.”Regarding the road to Division No. 3, the councillor said, “The dump is to be cleared by the PUDA. There are some encroachments too. We are looking into it and will get the road repaired.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/navigating-through-milap-chowk-in-jalandhar-a-herculean-task-162491
29-10-2020||---||Businessman kills self in Jalandhar; family claims was depressed||Jalandhar, October 28Gurinder Singh Sehra (pic), a business tycoon and son of Jagdish Singh, who owns Guru Nanak Auto Enterprises, reportedly shot himself with a revolver here on Tuesday night. He was taken to a private hospital where he died after failing to respond to the treatment.The 40-year-old victim shot himself with his licensed revolver at around 2 am. The incident took place at his residence in Virk village (of Goraya) where they own a factory and a farmhouse.Was owner of Guru Nanak Auto Enterprises The police said Gurinder was immediately rushed to a private hospital in Phagwara after the family members heard the gunshot. He was referred to Johal Hospital in Rama Mandi where he breathed his last at around 12.30 pm on Wednesday. The doctors stated Gurinder was in a critical condition and could not be saved even after a prolonged operation. The bullet had pierced through his head from the right side.Dr Amit Choudhary, medical superintendent, Johal Hospital, said, “The patient was brought here at 3.14 am and after a few tests and scanning, he was taken to operation theatre. The bullet shrapnels had covered the whole skull of the patient and his brain was completely damaged. After performing a surgery which lasted three hours, the patient was shifted to another ward but there was no improvement in his condition.”While no suicide note was recovered from the spot, sources claimed that Gurinder took the extreme step due to a family feud. However, denying all the claims, Hardeep Singh Mann, SHO, Goraya police station, said, the family members claimed that Gurinder had been suffering from depression for the last few months and had developed the drinking habit.He is survived by his two minor children, wife and parents. The SHO said the victim committed suicide when everyone was sleeping in their rooms and he was in a different room. The autopsy was done in the evening. The police have started proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/businessman-kills-self-in-jalandhar-family-claims-was-depressed-162492
29-10-2020||Jalandhar||Students in Jalandhar still miss out on sports activities||Almost 10 days have passed, but the attendance of students in the government schools remain at 15 per cent, which shows that a majority of the parents have not given the consent to send their wards to schools. There are students, who usually take part in sports activities, too have not returned to sports fields. Though fitness activities are being held in a few schools by maintaining proper social distancing, most students are learning the sports technique online.Sudhir Kumar, a physical education teacher at Government Senior Secondary School (Girls), Nehru Garden, said, “Only four-five students are coming to school and he was only asking them to do fitness-related activities. I give coaching in judo and the sport requires physical contact which I cannot approve of looking at the situation, so the physical activity is what I am restricting to for now,” he said.District Education Officer (Secondary) Harinderpal Singh said for now there could be no sports activities in the schools. “Already the strength is very poor. That could only be possible if the schools will open properly and more students will start coming,” the DEO said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-in-jalandhar-still-miss-out-on-sports-activities-162493
29-10-2020||Avneet Kaur||This entrepreneur adds another feather to his cap||Phillaur, October 28Vishal Kalra (24), founder of Designistic (an IT start-up), has added another achievement to his kitty. After winning the title of the Indian Achievers Award for Young Entrepreneur, 2020, this young entrepreneur this time won the Global Icon Awards 2020, in the category of youth icon in web development and the IT services in Pan India.Vishal Kalra, EntrepreneurIt all started way back in 2018 when I was still in the college. I always had a penchant for something on my own since the beginning of my graduation. I worked with two renowned companies before I started my own IT startup. But I could not work for more than five to six months. So, I resigned and in November 2019. I developed my own website and got successful as my startup fares among the top startups of the world.The award has been presented to him by Brand Opus India which organised these awards virtually for various categories to encourage and empower the go-getter attitude and courage shown by the winners during the pandemic.Talking to The Tribune, Vishal, a resident of Apra village in Phillaur, said, he had been awarded the Global Icon Award for his internationally-accredited website — Designistic, which provides services such as website designing, mobile application development, graphic and logo designing, software development, market research and online promotions.He said he had a slew of clients and majority of them were from the foreign nations. “I have developed a billing, a database and desktop software for Hobart Beauty Salon and Desi Grocers based in Australia. I have also worked for the RP Impex in USA and Anakh Productions in England. Besides, I have also developed softwares for the renowned firms and amusement parks and have also developed political softwares for MLAs regarding data entry. I have been handling the social media accounts of many government and private officials as well as NGOs,” he said.Sharing his journey, he said, “It all started way back in 2018 when I was still in the college. I always had a penchant to do something of my own since the very beginning of my graduation. I worked with two renowned companies before I started my own IT startup. But unfortunately, I could not work for more than five to six months because I had a dream to come up with something of my own, so I resigned and in November 2019, I developed my own website and eventually I have succeeded as my startup is now considered one of the top startups worldwide,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-entrepreneur-adds-another-feather-to-his-cap-162494
29-10-2020||---||Let’s pledge to end the menace of corruption||Jalandhar, October 28The Vigilance Awareness Week being observed by all units, sectors, establishment under Punjab Frontier of the Border Security Force started on Tuesday and will continue till November 2.On Tuesday, Pratul Gautam, DIG, Border Security Force (BSF), Punjab Frontier, administered integrity pledge to the officers, subordinate officers and jawans at the BSF Jalandhar to fight menace of corruption. The main aim of observing Vigilance Awareness Week is to bring awareness about the malaise of corruption by organising various programmes, he said.During the week various events will be organised at the Frontier Headquarters BSF, Jalandhar and all units including the display of banners, posters, slogans at prime locations, essay competitions, debate, lectures on the subject “Satark Bharat, Samriddh Bharat” (English/Hindi) and taking online integrity pledge, which is available on Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lets-pledge-to-end-the-menace-of-corruption-162495
29-10-2020||Jalandhar||Plays, film & poetry session to mark ‘Mela Gadari Babeyan Da’||Dedicated to the 150th birth anniversary of founder president of the Ghadar Party Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna, Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall will organise one-day ‘Mela Gadari Babeyan Da’ on November 1. Book exhibition, speeches, poetry recitation, plays and film screening will be a part of the festivities.President of the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall Committee Ajmer Singh, Assistant Secretary Dr Parminder Singh and cultural wing convener Amolak Singh said the event would commence with the unfurling of the Ghadar Flag in the morning by Surinder Jalaldiwal, grandson of founder member of the Ghadar Party Baba Dulla Singh Jalaldiwal.Among the prominent speakers of the day would be Dr Swarajbir, Editor of Punjabi Tribune, prominent scholar and playwright. Professor Anupama from Punjabi University too will address the gathering. The committee members said the discussions would focus on current issues such as rising communal divide, suppression of intellectuals and their arrests, new farm laws and steps by the government to empower big corporate houses and atrocities against the Dalits. A book exhibition would begin on October 31. A film ‘Ram ke naam’ will also be screened at 6 pm on Saturday by People’s Voice. On November 1 several plays will be staged. Poetry sessions will also be conducted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/plays-film-poetry-session-to-mark-mela-gadari-babeyan-da-162496
29-10-2020||Our Correspondent||KCL-IMT students get placed in MNC||Jalandhar, October 28Six students of the KCL Institute of Management and Technology (KCL-IMT) have been absorbed in a top-notch MNC during a placement drive. MBA students were selected by the Education Culture Pvt Ltd, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Vinove Softwares, at a package of up to Rs 5 lakh. Among the selected ones were Amrit Pal Singh Kahlon, Shruti Sharma, Shefali, Rahul Dadwal and Sumit Nijawan.Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) congratulated the students and their parents for their incredible achievement. Dr SK Sood (Director, KCLIMT) stated that along with providing quality education, the institute was also providing best placements in the region and will continue to strive for excellent placements in the upcoming years as well.Dr Inderpal Singh (HOD, Management) congratulated the students and their parents on their achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kcl-imt-students-get-placed-in-mnc-162497
29-10-2020||Nawanshahr||Education Dept organises quiz competition for Classes VI to VIII||A state-level online quiz competition from Classes VI to VIII was conducted by the Education Department, Punjab, today, under the National Innovation Campaign.While the Government Middle School, Jabbewal, Nawanshahar, bagged the first position, Government High School, Cheema Bath, and Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Model Town, Ludhiana, bagged second and third spot, respectively. There were 66 students in the teams from 22 districts in which five hours of online competition was held in four rounds for the first, second and third place. The winning teams won Rs 2,500, Rs 1,500 and Rs 1,150, respectively.Rural school bags first prizeThe team comprising Anchal (Class VI), Vidhya (Class VII) and Reetika (Class VII) students of Government Middle School, Jabbowal, has brought laurels to district by bagging first position in the state-level quiz for the students from Classes VI to VIII organised online today under the Rashtriya Abhishkar Abhiyaan. As many as 22 district winner teams, comprising three students, each participated in the quiz. There were four rounds of the online quiz and a tough competition was witnessed during the five hour duration of the quiz. District Education Officer (SE) Sushil Kumar Tuli, Deputy District Education Officer (SE), Amrik Singh congratulated the students and the staff members Anoop Rani, Satinderjit Kaur, Harvinder Kaur. The team would get a cash prize of Rs 2,500.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/education-dept-organises-quiz-competition-for-classes-vi-to-viii-162498
29-10-2020||ACADEMICS IN PANDEMIC||‘Pandemic-driven online exam shift is not credible’||While a majority of schools in the state have reopened after a gap of nearly seven months, school authorities are still finding it difficult to adapt to the new normal. Manjinder Singh, Principal, St Soldier school, Friends Colony, while talking to Ajay Joshi, shares that it has been over a week that schools are still finding it difficult to bring students to the schools.The pandemic pushed the educational institutions to shift to digital mode to prevent students from skipping their studies. However, the online classes failed to equip students with the technical education. He believes online education can never be an alternative to practical education and learning. Excerpts from the interviewHow has your school been dealing with the challenges posed by Covid?Now that the situation is normalising, we are hoping that we won't be facing the same challenges in the coming months. The whole online education concept came as a challenge for us. Initially, we lacked the technical support to reach out to a large number of students, so teachers used to send recorded lectures to students and waited for the lockdown to get over. But as it kept extending, teachers had to try their hands on online education, hence by June this year, we introduced our students to online classes. It was troublesome for the teachers to understand the whole concept of digital education and focus individually on every student.Manjinder Singh, Principal, St Soldier schoolUndeniably, conducting examinations in schools is more credible than the online exams. Though, teachers diligently frame question papers, students remained a worried lot. As even the average scorers were getting marks equivalent to the good scorers, there was a feeling of discontentment among the toppers. There is no proper verification of the exams conducted. The authenticity is only guaranteed through viva tests.As the schools have reopened, what is the response of the students?As the schools reopened only for Classes 9-12, the footfall is still not much. Most of the students told their teachers that their parents were not allowing them to attend school due to the Covid threat. In addition, those who are attending the school prefer offline classes over the online. Students complain how their concepts remain unclear in the digital classes. Presently, only 20-30 per cent students are coming to school and we are hoping above 50 percent attendance after Diwali.What psychological changes have you observed among teachers and students amid pandemic?The pandemic came as a big shock to us. In the beginning, we thought this would be over in a month or two and teachers also recorded lectures accordingly. However, now, not only do the teachers, even the children have begun to feel the heat. The concept of 6-7 hours of teaching and learning has unexpectedly changed to a full-day course and teachers are overburdened. After reopening of schools, the teachers not only have to take classes in the school but also digitally. Likewise, the timings of lectures as per different schedules affect students. Due to online education, the teachers feel as if they have lost control over the students.Are online examinations equally beneficial for the students as compared to the physical exams conducted in schools?Undeniably, conducting examinations in schools is more credible than the online exams. Though, teachers diligently frame question papers, students remained a worried lot. As even the average scorers were getting marks equivalent to the good scorers, there was a feeling of discontentment among the toppers. There is no proper verification of the exams conducted. The authenticity is only guaranteed by the viva tests.What will be your concern once the classroom teaching begins for all students?Apart from the health and safety of the students we will have to do more hardwork and will have focus on completing the syllabus of the students. We will make sure that there won't be any psychological change among the students.What infrastructural changes have been made for the digital sessions?We have installed Internet devices with better bandwidth in the school. Projectors, webcams, WiFi and screens were placed in four classrooms specifically, so that teachers can easily take their online classes. Besides, teachers sans gadgets were given the equipment. The classrooms were named zoom labs.How were the admissions this year?The pandemic has drastically impacted the admissions this year in almost all the private schools. After suffering huge financial losses, parents even preferred to admit their kids to government schools. The admissions in the lower classes, including KG reduced largely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-driven-online-exam-shift-is-not-credible-162501
29-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Police book Travel agent in Hoshiarpur||One succumbs in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The district reported 28 new positive cases on Wednesday. With this the count has reached 6,104. A person succumbed to the Covid-19 and the toll reached 208. The total number of samples taken so far in the district has reached 1,52,432 with 1,807 new samples taken from people with flu-like symptoms. The number of active cases in the district is 244 while the number of recovered patients is 5,652. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said out of 28 cases reported today, 10 are from the city, while the remaining cases are from other blocks in the district. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-book-travel-agent-in-hoshiarpur-162502
29-10-2020||MP Manish Tewari took a tour of the Government College||MP Manish Tewari visits Nawanshahr's Jadla Government College||Civil Hospital finally gets ICU healthcareNawanshahr Civil Hospital has finally got ICU healthcare facility. Now, serious patients from the district will no longer have to visit other districts for the treatment. MP Manish Tewari inaugurated the ICU. Notably, residents were facing major problems because of the absence of one of the most important health facility in the hospital. The ICU is equipped with a ventilator, and other important medical equipment. DC Dr Shena Aggarwal said MP had provided the medical equipment by providing funds worth Rs 25 lakh.Health teams on toes to meet targetReaching out to people on bikes door-to-door is what the health teams are doing to complete the targets of collecting the samples for Covid testing. The sources from the department said there was a huge pressure on them to meet the target, so, they were visiting people and asking them to get themselves tested. The team reached some stall vendors selling eatables and apprised them how it was important for them to ensure their safety as many people eat from their stalls. Asha workers also accompanied the health team and convinced those who refused to give their samples.(Contributed by Aakanksha Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-manish-tewari-visits-nawanshahrs-jadla-government-college-162504
29-10-2020||Institute conducts trial using low cost decomposer capsules in Muktsar ||Now, manage stubble on 2.5 acres with just Rs20||Archit Watts Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, October 28Giving a solution to farmers to manage paddy stubble in their fields, the Indian Agriculture Research Institute (IARI) on Tuesday gave a demonstration to some farmers in Kattianwali village in the Lambi Assembly segment here which is affected by waterlogging.Dr Livleen Shukla, principal scientist from the IARI, New Delhi, today gave practical knowledge to a group of farmers on the use of a decomposer capsule, which costs Rs 5 each. Notably, in 2.5 acres (one hectare), just four capsules are required, which cost a total of Rs 20. Besides, some things easily available in almost every house like jaggery and gram flour, which are required in little quantity.Gurmeet Singh, a farmer of Kattianwali village, who has been given the Innovate Farmer Award-2020, said, “As a trial, I today sprayed the solution prepared from these capsules in five acres. The IARI scientists told me that it will start decomposing stubble in the fields within a week. It is easy to prepare the solution. We have to mix 200-gm jaggery in 5-litre water and heat it. After five days, we have to mix 50-gm flour, four capsules and 200-litre water in this solution. It is then ready to be sprayed on the paddy stubble, which is spread in the field using a mulcher.”He said, “Many farmers showed their willingness to buy these capsules as it is a cheaper and environment friendly remedy. The IARI is sending these capsules by post as well.”NS Dhaliwal, Deputy Director, KVK, Muktsar, said, “This is a scientific and cheaper method to control stubble burning incidents. Further, it will make the land fertile by converting stubble into manure. We will regularly inspect fields of the farmer, who sprayed the solution prepared from these capsules.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-manage-stubble-on-2-5-acres-with-just-rs20-162470
29-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||NOC applicants a harried lot, PUDA server glitch to blame||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 28Applicants at PUDA offices across the state are a harassed lot as they are not getting NOCs for their plots for the past over a month due to a problem in the server.Palwinder Juneja, an industrialist, said, “I had bought a plot near the Pathankot road recently and wish to raise an industrial unit on it. I need NOC from the authorities before going ahead. I have been making rounds of the Jalandhar Development Authority office to get my work done, but to no avail. My project has got stuck and the only reply I get is that it is a pan-state problem and will be rectified from the office headquarters in Mohali.”Month on, problem persists has not been solvedAnother applicant Bakshish Singh said, “I am also waiting to get an NOC from PUDA for my plot near the Nakodar road, which I have to sell. The buyer is insisting on an NOC. I have been contacting everyone, including officials in Mohali, but to no avail. I am being told that there is an issue between two private banks for processing the fee due to which the work has been stuck. I have been asking if my file can be cleared on offline mode, but was told that this process has been stopped.”The staff at PUDA office said the state government was suffering a loss of Rs 12 lakh to Rs 15 lakh per day due to the delay in getting the problem rectified. The fee for getting NOC varies depending on the size of the plot.Navneet Bal, Estate Officer, Jalandhar Development Authority, said, “We have been getting a lot of query, but the problem is at the end of the head office. We have apprised them of the issue and expect it to be rectified soon”.MS Jaggi, Chief Administrator, PUDA, said the issue was being dealt with by the Chief Town Planner (CTP) office.However, Pankaj Bawa, CTP, said the problem had nothing to do with his office and was to be handled by the PUDA office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/noc-applicants-a-harried-lot-puda-server-glitch-to-blame-162443
