30-10-2020||---||Elderly couple found brutally murdered in Sultanpur Lodhi village||Kapurthala, October 29An elderly couple was found brutally murdered in their house at Shikarpur village in Sultanpur Lodhi here this morning. There were deep cuts on the victims’ necks.The victims, identified as Jarnail Singh (75) and his wife Joginder Kaur (65), were found lying in a pool of blood by their neighbours, who informed the police about the incident. The couple had been living alone for the past many years. The couple has two sons, one is living abroad and the other (Balwinder Singh) runs a medical shop in Sultanpur Lodhi.The police are clueless about the assailants. SP (Headquarters) Mandeep Singh, SP Sarabjit Singh, Sultanpur Lodhi DSP Swaran Singh Bal and SHO Sarabjit Singh reached the spot to inquire about the incident. The police said that they were exploring all angles to investigate the blind double murder case. Teams of forensic experts and dog squads had been called in. Fingerprints too were taken in the house and all CCTVs in the area were being scanned.Victim Jarnail Singh’s cousin Gian Singh said when he came to their home this morning, he found the couple murdered. “After the attack, sacks of grains were used to press their bodies and suffocate them to death. There were injury marks on the back of their ears as if they had been attacked with a sharp-edged weapon,” he said.Villagers said some looters could be behind the incident as the belongings of the couple had been found to be ransacked. The police did not investigate the case from that angle.While the police suspect that it could also be a case of vengeance, his son Balwinder Singh denied any such possibility. DSP Swaran Singh said a case of murder against unknown persons had been registered. “We are investigating it and will apprehend the accused at the earliest,” said the DSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/elderly-couple-found-brutally-murdered-in-sultanpur-lodhi-village-162977
30-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Tired of holding meetings offering no solution: Traders to minister||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 29It seems that industrialists, traders and manufacturers are losing their patience. Attending a meeting with Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora here on Thursday, some of the traders raised their voice and said there was no point of holding meetings when no solution to the problems being faced by them was suggested. Ravinder Dhir, convener, Khel Udyog Sangh, told the minister that only meetings were being held, but there was no proper solution to their problems.The minister listened to the various problems raised by traders of hand tools, leather, sports, auto parts, surgical, textiles, pipe fittings, etc, and almost all problems that were raised were old and never got resolved.Ravinder Dhir said, “Whenever a meeting takes place, at least the minister should tell them which issues discussed in the previous meeting were resolved. We have given a suggestion that when the next meeting will be held, we must be told about what action was taken with regard to the problems we discussed today,” he said.Gursharan Singh, president of the Federation of Jalandhar Industrial and Traders’ Association, said the industry stood ruined. During the meeting, he told the minister that he was the custodian of the industries but they weren’t getting any fruitful answers from him. “We will see now how many of our issues discussed are taken into consideration,” he said.One of the major issues troubling the industrialists these days is the submission of C-form. So, the minister said the Punjab Government was set to unveil a one-time settlement policy (OTS) within a few days for resolving the long-pending issue of C-forms and others, raised by the industrialists in the state.The minister said the industry in the state was facing an unprecedented crisis due to the cancellation of goods trains as export or import worth Rs 2,000 crore was stuck amid the farmers’ protest.Describing the industry as the backbone of the state’s economy, the minister said that every problem of industrialists would be solved on priority. He said the state government was committed to ensuring holistic development of the industry in the state.Arora said ever since the Capt Amarinder government took over in the state, every problem of the industry was being resolved. He said the Industrial Policy framed by the state government in 2017 had been instrumental in giving an impetus to the industry in the state and acted as a catalyst in reviving the industry in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tired-of-holding-meetings-offering-no-solution-traders-to-minister-162978
30-10-2020||---||Sweet shop owners warned against use of artificial colours||Kapurthala, October 29The food wing of Kapurthala held an awareness meeting of sweets shop owners on Thursday, ahead of Diwali.In the meeting, owners of sweets houses were apprised of the harmful effects of artificial colours and various adulterants on human health. They were told to prepare fresh sweets for sale as microbial growth could lead to deterioration of the quality of sweets with the passage of time. All businessmen, especially those dealing in sweets and milk and milk products were directed to ensure use of good quality raw material, and prepare the food items in a clean and hygienic environment.The teams headed by Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner Food, along with food safety officers Satnam Singh and Mukul Gill seized 66 samples in the last fortnight and the count mainly comprises sweets and milk and milk products from various parts of Kapurthala. The wing has already started the checking drive, keeping in view the Diwali festival and inspected food business operators especially sweet shops, and milk dairies.The wing has also planned to check cold stores and other such places likely to be used to store sweets etc and teams will also have an eye on railway stations to check arrival of khoya etc from other states. Dr Harjot said the meeting and inspections were held on the directions of Balbir Singh Sidhu, Minister Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, and Kumar Rahul, Commissioner Food and Drug Administration, Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sweet-shop-owners-warned-against-use-of-artificial-colours-162979
30-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Potholed link between 2 posh areas in dire straits||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 29Even as the adjoining plush Model Town and Green Model Town have good roads, Latifpura, a small colony, falling between the two main pockets remains ignored.The roads of this colony are pothole-ridden and in dire need of repair. Instead of commuting through busy Model Town to reach Green Model Town, it is convenient for commuters to use this link road to reach their destination, especially during the peak hours.Karandeep S Malhi, a social activist and resident of Latifpura, said, “Our colony has a 60-ft link road, which connects Model Town with other areas, but the authorities are not paying any heed. People have started dumping garbage and debris along the roadside.” He said, “We have urged the authorities to instal street lights in our locality as this area goes into complete darkness during night.”Latifpura has around 350 voters, but the officials are reportedly not developing the area as it has some major encroachments in the part falling under the Jalandhar Improvement Trust.The officials want to evict illegal occupants before developing and reshaping the area, but residents said they were being unnecessarily deprived of the facilities for no fault of theirs.Congress councillor Aruna Arora said, “Due to leakage of water in the area, the road which was repaired sometime ago, broke again. I have got the leakage repaired and have told the MC to get the repair work done. We are working to improve this stretch.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/potholed-link-between-2-posh-areas-in-dire-straits-162980
30-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers’ protest taking toll on their health, produce||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 29Continuous protests are taking toll on farmers’ health, their personal lives and work as well. Notably, almost a month has passed since the farmers had been voicing their concern regarding the farm laws by holding dharnas in the state. Farmers who are coming to the protests on a daily basis have also been facing trouble back in their families and fields.Satnam Singh Sahni, spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba), said continuous dharnas had affected his health. “I am not worried about my health, but I am always thinking about my mother as she doesn’t keep well. Also, I have no one to look after my fields. You can imagine what personal loss I might have been going through,” he said. Sahni said sowing of wheat has also got delayed due to continuous protests.“We just want our rights, which nobody can take away from us,” said a farmer.Manjit Rai, chief of the union, said at this point, he usually sows fodder for his cattle, but he couldn’t do it because he was busy strategising for future moves and attending meetings at the state and central level.“No one can understand the problems we are going through. It is such a tiring work. We are fighting for our rights, but are also missing out on looking after families and fields,” he said.Farmers protest outside Reliance store Hoshiarpur: A demonstration was held in front of the Reliance store by the Kul Hind Kisan Sabha headed by former sarpanch Jagdish Singh and Ajit Singh. Addressing the protesters, Punjab vice-president of the Kul Hind Kisan Sabha Darshan Singh Mattoo and secretary Gurnek Singh Bhajjal said their demands included getting three ‘anti-farmer’ laws and Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 revoked and getting the movement of goods trains restarted in Punjab. For this, a demonstration would be held at the Banga Chowk, Garhshankar, on November 5 where they would block the road from 12 to 4 in the evening. They said the agitation would continue till their demands were met. Subhash Mattoo, Comrade Harbhajan Singh Gulpur, Capt Karnail Singh Panam, AAP’s farmer wing leader Gurdial Singh Bhanot, Prem Singh Rana former sarpanch and former sarpanch Jagdish Singh also addressed the protesters. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-protest-taking-toll-on-their-health-produce-162981
30-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||2 fall prey to virus, toll 210 in Hoshiarpur district||The district reported 32 new positive cases on Thursday. The total number of positive patients has gone up to 6,136. Two more deaths were reported and the toll reached 210.The total number of samples taken so far in the district has increased to 1,54,355 with 1,923 new samples taken today. The number of active cases is 240 while the number of recovered patients rose to 5,686. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said out of the 32 positive cases, six were from the city while the remaining were from other parts of the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-fall-prey-to-virus-toll-210-in-hoshiarpur-district-162982
30-10-2020||---||Jalandhar braveheart Kusum to get Rs 2L from Chief Minister||Jalandhar, October 29The Chief Minister’s Office, Punjab, has sanctioned a financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh for 15-year-old braveheart Kusum, who took on two motorcycle-borne snatchers, despite sustaining severe wrist injuries, following an attack by one of the accused on August 30, in the local Deen Dyal Upadhya Nagar.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said a cheque for Rs 2 lakh had been received from the Chief Minister’s Office for Kusum and it would be handed over to her on Friday for her exemplary courageous act.Thori stated that Kusum had made Punjab and Jalandhar proud and it was just a token of appreciation for her immense courage which foiled snatching. He said the administration had already recommended the name of Kusum for national and state bravery awards.It is pertinent to mention here that the Deputy Commissioner himself handed over a cheque for Rs 1 lakh to Kusum on September 10.Notably, Kusum, a student of Class VIII from Lala Jagat Narayan DAV Model School faced a snatching attempt on August 30 in which two bike-borne youth had tried to snatch her mobile phone, which was given to her by her brother to attend online classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-braveheart-kusum-to-get-rs-2l-from-chief-minister-162983
30-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Phone found from inmate||‘Poor’ IELTS score: girl kills selfJalandhar: Upset due to her unfulfilled foreign dreams, a 28-year-old girl committed suicide on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Manpreet Kaur (28), a resident of Guru Nanak Pur Colony. Jatinder Kumar, SHO, Nakodar city police station, said they did not found suicide note from the spot. He said family members of the deceased claimed that Manpreet was depressed after getting fewer bands in IELTS exam. She was reportedly residing with her aunt in Nakodar. The police had sent the body for the post-mortem and filed case under Section 174 of the CrPC. TNSLPU expert helping MHAJalandhar: Lovely Professional University (LPU) had deputed its forensic science expert faculty member Dr Mohit Soni to the Ministry of Home Affairs (Government of India) for showing an exemplary expertise in the related field. Providing valuable consultancy, Dr Soni assisted the Government of India, at the back end and the policy level, for opening the first-ever National Forensic Science University in the country. He also coordinated for preparing brand new course of ‘Cyber Crime Investigation’ with a new structure module. He worked in New Delhi for a year, along with high-profile authorities of India engaged in the fields of law enforcement and intelligence. A PhD in digital forensics, he has trained many army, police and intelligence officers on cyber security, offence/ defence, information security, biometrics and related aspects. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phone-found-from-inmate-162987
30-10-2020||---||Punjab Roadways staff flay merger with PRTC, to hold series of protests||Jalandhar, October 29Protesting against the merger of the Punjab Roadways into the PRTC and flaying the recommendations of the Montek Singh Ahluwalia Committee, members of the Permanent Roadways Workers and Contractual workers held a joint meeting at the local city bus stand here.The meeting was led by members of the Punjab Roadways Joint Action Committee and Contract Workers Union. Agitating against the policies of the Transport Department, leaders of the committee stated that the government was taking up privatisation of government-run buses.“There is a monopoly of private buses in time table and roadways buses have been given lesser routes. And this has been causing huge losses to the earning of the Punjab Roadways.”He added, “Besides, demands of the roadways workers have still not been fulfilled,” added Chanan Singh, general secretary, Punjab Roadways Contractual Workers Union.Major demands of the workers include regularisation of contractual workers, discontinuation of salary cuts, cancellation of mergers of roadways buses into private buses, no implementation of Montek Singh Ahluwalia Committee recommendations, time table of roadways buses to be scheduled fairly, release of installments of dearness allowance, implementation of the old pension scheme and others.The roadways staff also announced to hold an intensified protest on October 31 at Ludhiana, on November 4 at Jalandhar and on November 20 at Amritsar. Presidents of various unions Harjinder Singh Cheema, Satpal Singh Satta, Daljit Singh, Baljit Singh, Gurjit Singh,Amrik Singh Gill, Davinder Pal Singh, Balwinder Singh, Ramandeep Singh, Ruplal Chanan Singh, Paramjit Singh and others were present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-roadways-staff-flay-merger-with-prtc-to-hold-series-of-protests-162988
