31-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Sumit used to have long days, not anymore though||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 30As marriage season has set in, video editor Sumit (31), based at Islam Ganj here, has a ray of hope lighting his face again. For nearly four months, he was out of work as there were no social functions.Being used to a busy life, Sumit had the habit of sitting in front of his system for 12-14 hours a day and going about the computer mouse swiftly to edit the videos of marriage, ring ceremony, birthday, baby shower and mundan (head tonsuring) functions. Using a set of five or more editing softwares, including converters and DVD writers, he and his team of four experts often worked from 10:30 am till midnight; sometimes at 2 am when the days called for wrapping up of the work in time.However, none of that is likely to happen again. “Thank god, the Navratri came at a time when Covid cases had fallen. There were quite a few marriages in these auspicious days. I have a tie-up with the photo, video studios of the city which shoot the social functions and get video editing done from us. As of date, I have four-five assignments in hand to work on,” he said.Thank god, the Navratri came at a time when Covid cases had fallen. There were quite a few marriages in these auspicious days. I have a tie-up with the photo, video studios of the city which shoot the social functions and get video editing done from us. As of date, I have four-five assignments in hand to work on. —SumitHe is hopeful that the coming wedding season will bring in more work for him. But he is not much enthused, “It is only the big, fat Punjabi NRI weddings that we look forward to in each season. One such big budget photo-video shoot package of about Rs10 lakh or so helps us earn Rs30,000 as well. But I do not think it is happening. Marriage functions may not be as big and the budgets, too, could be low. Low budget packages would imply more effort and less income for us.”Sumit, who did a course in animations after his schooling, says, “The course did not come of any use to me. I spent two years with a video editor in his shop where I learnt all the nuances and got adept in the work. Now running my own business, I charge from customers on per hour basis. The lengthier the data of the shoot, higher are the charges.”The youngster shared that amid the Covid days, he would work on any assignment that came his way. “Some people laid their hands on old video tapes, some of them dating to times as old as 1950s. I enjoyed working on all such videos. I enhanced their sound and image quality to the best possible levels.”He even got his hands on Punjabi video song mixing works that he managed to get through his sources. “The lockdown days were not easy for us. Even though, I got a lot of time to spend with my wife and my son, it was not easy paying my staff the salary for four months when there was absolutely no work. Fortunately, we had work till April as there were weddings till mid-March. So, we kept doing all those video jobs that came to us. But after April, it was a complete lull,” said Sumit, hoping for better days ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sumit-used-to-have-long-days-not-anymore-though-163488
31-10-2020||---||25-yr-old murders father, stepmother||Nawanshahr, October 30In a shocking incident, 25-year-old Hardeep Singh, a resident of Burj village in Balachaur, allegedly murdered his father and stepmother with a sharp-edged weapon here on Thursday night. As he suspected that the stepmother was pregnant and there would be a division of the property of his father between him and the newborn, he committed the crime. The accused is absconding. The deceased have been identified as Joginder Singh and Paramjit Kaur.Joginder’s brother Jang Bahadur lodged a complaint with the police. The complainant, who lives right next to the house of Joginder, said it was late on Thursday night when he heard the cries of his brother and sister-in-law. When he along with his son came outside, Hardeep was found running with the weapon in his hand towards his car. Jang Bahadur entered the house and found both of them in a pool of blood.In the complaint, he stated that his brother (Joginder) had gone to Lebanon 40 years ago where he married a girl with whom he had three children, including Hardeep. It was in 1997 when both got divorced and Joginder remarried. He had no child from his second marriage, but for the last couple of days, Hardeep was continuously suspecting that his stepmother was pregnant and he would get nothing in the property, which is why he committed the crime.”However, the police are still awaiting the postmortem report to find out whether Paramjit was pregnant. A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been filed against the accused. During the interrogation, it was also discovered that the elder son of the victim who lived abroad would often send money to Hardeep Singh and had also bought him a car recently.Jarnail Singh, who is the investigating officer, said the rumours that were doing around that Hardeep Singh was a drug addict could not be believed until he was caught and interrogated.“We are searching at various places and are taking into consideration various angles. He will be caught soon,” said Jarnail Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/25-yr-old-murders-father-stepmother-163489
31-10-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Udaan’ launched to help students crack entrance tests||Jalandhar, October 30The Punjab Education Department, lending yet another new dimension to its Sikhiya Sudhar Muhim, has launched ‘Udaan’ (a competitive exam series project). The project aims at giving wings to the hopes and aspirations of the medical and non-medical students, especially belonging to the underprivileged section of society, who are aspiring to get admission in medical and engineering courses in premier institutions.Under ‘Udaan’, the students of 11th and 12th classes (science stream) would be provided sheets comprising multiple choice questions (MCQs) in the subjects of physics, chemistry, mathematics and biology on a daily basis. These sheets would be uploaded on “Punjab Educare App” and at the education department’s Facebook page. Besides, these sheets would also be sent to the students through WhatsApp groups.Apart from providing the MCQs and motivating the students to attempt the questions daily, the doubt clearing sessions would also be organised by the school lecturers. —Jaswinder Kaur, Assistant DirectorDivulging details, Jaswinder Kaur, Assistant Director, said the competitive exam series would prove a boon for the science students, especially those who cannot afford coaching from private institutions. “Therefore, to help them prepare for various entrance examinations to seek admission in medical, engineering, nursing, paramedical courses, architecture courses free of cost, this project has been launched”, she said.A team of resource persons, comprising Principals, who have been deputed as district mentors along with lecturers serving at government schools and meritorious schools, have been assigned the duty to prepare the question banks, she added.“Apart from providing the MCQs and motivating the students to attempt the questions daily, the doubt clearing sessions would also be organised by the school lecturers” said the Assistant Director, adding that these sessions would be organised both online and offline as per the convenience while adhering to the guidelines issued by the health department. Besides, the periodical tests to take stock of the progress of learning outcomes of the students would also be organised, she said.Moreover, the District Education Officers, Principals, district mentors and school lecturers have been asked to sensitise the students of science stream to avail the maximum benefit of the facility. “The teachers, students and parents are also being informed about it by making optimum utilisation of the wide network of the social media groups of the department. Eye catching posters and other details are being shared in the WhatsApp groups for the purpose”, said officials of the department.The ‘Buddy Groups’ formed in the schools would also prove helpful to make the students aware about the new initiative of the department as well as ensuring its successful implementation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/udaan-launched-to-help-students-crack-entrance-tests-163490
31-10-2020||---||Jalandhar district reports 65 new cases||Jalandhar, October 30The district reported 65 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the count to 15,032. No death was reported in the district today. As many as 14,000 people have been discharged in the district until now, 565 are active and 386 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar.In Kapurthala, 10 people tested positive for Covid today, while one person died. The deceased is a 74-year-old man from Phagwara, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-65-new-cases-163491
31-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Non-stop luddi by folk society enters Int’l Book of Records||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 30The Folk Blaster Society has entered the International Book of Records by performing luddi, a Punjabi folk dance, non-stop for more than 112 minutes 53 seconds.As many as 10 artistes, two singers and five folk instrument players performed to set the world record.Bhupinder Singh, one of the artistes, said their aim was to take the Punjabi folk dance to the next level. An engineer by profession, he said all team members were in the 20-30 age group and belonged to different professions. “But all of us have one thing in common — love for luddi. This is a traditional folk dance about which people have forgotten. Our aim is to let everyone know about this dance form,” he added.Promoting Punjabi culturePrior to setting the record, the team practiced hard during the lockdown. “We utilised the lockdown period in preparation,” said Bhupinder.Arshdeep Bains from Mohali, who is the director of the society, convinced the team members to perform at the international level. “Everyone knows about bhangra, but a few know about luddi. People are now attracted to western dance and music. Our aim and mission is to let the youth of Punjab know about other folk dances of the state too. We will continue doing the same in the future,” he said.He added that they were taking out time from their busy schedules to spread a message that Punjab was rich in its folk dances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/non-stop-luddi-by-folk-society-enters-intl-book-of-records-163492
31-10-2020||---||Singla felicitates winners of ‘Ambassadors of Hope’||Jalandhar, October 30School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Friday felicitated winners of ‘Ambassadors of Hope’ belonging to Jalandhar district with Apple iPad, laptop and android tabletx during a brief ceremony in view of Covid-19 pandemic held at PAP Complex here.The minister specially visited Jalandhar to give away the prizes to the winners of record breaking online competition, ‘Ambassadors of Hope’. Apart from congratulating the winners, Singla assured them every possible help in achieving their future goals.Notably, Gopesh Gupta, a Class X student of Apeejay School has been awarded an Apple iPad, while Ramanjot Singh, a Class VIII student of MGN Public School Urban Estate, who stood second in the district, was given a laptop. Meanwhile, Mona Kashyap, a Class X student of RK MGM Senior Secondary School, has been felicitated with an android tablet. However, as many as 6,180 entries were registered from Jalandhar district. The winners thanked Singla for organising an interesting competition during the lockdown.While giving away the prizes, Singla said the ‘Ambassadors of Hope’ competition had served its purpose by nurturing skills of students in a positive manner.He said that as many as 1,05,898 school going students had shared their videos in eight days for ‘Ambassadors of Hope’, the campaign which was launched for students of Punjab to share their creativity during lockdown. He categorically said, “Winners have been selected strictly on merit basis.”The minister said that apart from a total 66 main prizes, as many as 1,000 consolation prizes were also being given to the winners in all 22 districts under the ‘Ambassadors of Hope’.Title prize winner Gopesh Gupta said that he was curiously waiting for his prize and receiving it from the minister made the day very special for him. Meanwhile, Mona, who clinched third position in the district, said that her family had been leading a hand to mouth existence which could have hampered her higher studies but now she was confident to achieve her desired goals. She added that the android pad would help her in online study and she would also clear her doubts with the help of internet after virtual classes.On the occasion, DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, IGP Dr SK Kalia, SDM Rahul Sindhu, DEOs Harinder Pal Singh, Ram Pal and others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/singla-felicitates-winners-of-ambassadors-of-hope-163493
31-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||The route can prove to be more than just a bumpy ride||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 30While huge gaping holes and bumpy rises are the bothersome aspects of most of the roads which commuters tend to complain about, the primary road leading to city’s eminent medical care institute has problems aplenty.Dysfunctional traffic lights, encroachments, rubble dumped by a gate and a tree right in the middle of the road are some of the reasons which make the bus stand to Garha road a tad different from others. Notwithstanding, repeated letters to the administration to address their grievances have gone in vain. Right at the backside of the depot a holed, rugged stretch of the road starts. On one hand it is an already arduous task to take the road, the encroachments by juice, fruit and vegetable kiosks all through the boundary of the bus stand make it even more harrowing.Dr Rajiv Arora, Vice Principal, Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences, says, “I have myself written to the authorities several times, made complaints to the grievances website of the administration. All the three traffic lights on the stretch are non-functional. It splurges on them and once they are up, they won’t work. I have myself seen at least three accidents on the road. Had my daughter not driving slowly, she, too, could have had a grave accident. A PIMS employee also had an accident right outside the gate.”Further up beyond a burly speed breaker and a traffic crossing, the accident prone Defence Colony begins. While the road itself smoothens as it reaches a residential area, the bend in the road compounded with the lack of traffic lights make it a very accident prone.Dr Arora adds, “Ideally a straight road should come to PIMS. The lack of functional lights just really is an invitation to mishaps. The gate No. 2 of the establishment is site of a huge pile of rubble staying put ever since the stretch was laid over with concrete tiles. That stretch also caused problems but was fortunately reconstructed.”Dr Taniya Moudgil, who also works at PIMS, vents, “Both the main road to PIMS and the road leading from Cambridge school to PIMS are very accident prone. It is especially dangerous at night as none of the lights work. Even the area behind the bus stand near railway crossing and Defence Colony turns really scary at night. All doctors and students take this road, so do many critical patients. The administration should get rid of potholes and repair the streetlights as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-route-can-prove-to-be-more-than-just-a-bumpy-ride-163494
31-10-2020||---||Impart online traffic education to students, Jalandhar DC tells officials||Jalandhar, October 30Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori asked the Education Department and the Police Department to impart online traffic education to students in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Chairing a meet of the District Road Safety Committee, the Deputy Commissioner said in order to sensitise children and parents against underage driving, a special online campaign should be launched until regular classes resume in schools.He further directed the officials to launch an awareness and enforcement drive to curb underage driving and promote road safety in the city.Thori directed the police to initiate stern action against those involved in selling firecrackers in the congested markets. He asked the Transport Department to rein in overloaded vehicles.The traffic police informed that they had issued 50 challans related to overloaded vehicles in the last two months, besides impounding vehicles of violators.Members of the committee raised issues regarding traffic jams and road safety.The Jalandhar Municipal Corporation stated that new roads were being constructed at cost of Rs 28 crore and would be completed in a stipulated period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/impart-online-traffic-education-to-students-jalandhar-dc-tells-officials-163495
31-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||People’s choice of working out at home weighs down gym owners||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 30Despite the fact that gyms in the city have begun to welcome back guests, the home workout sessions have over time turned into a norm in terms of personal fitness. Instead of visiting gyms, people are either appointing personal trainers or are relying on digital sessions. This has taken a huge toll on the income of hundreds of people who run fitness centres for their livelihoods.As part of the unlocking phase, these were reopened in August after a gap of over four months. While the fitness centres, including gyms and yoga institutions, brought smiles on the faces of enthusiasts, the owners are still trying to find their feet.Adapting to the Covid blues, Himanshu Chaddha, owner Neo Fitness, said, “Since the start of the pandemic, whether it was a fitness enthusiast or any health conscious person, everyone experienced effective virtual workouts in their own living rooms and relied on fitness programmes for nutrition as well. So, working out at home became an essential aspect of staying healthy. This has directly affected the footfall in the gyms as people are still waiting the pandemic to loosen its grip.” At present, only 40-50 percent of his regular clients have turned up apart from some new admissions. Therefore, the road to making profits seems too far and the frequent sanitisation and other measures have only added to the expenses.Likewise, many people also purchased bicycles and home fitness equipment to keep up their fitness levels. It is also one of the major reasons people have avoided gyms. Chaddha added: “Earlier, there were equal number of locals above 50 years of age in the gym, but the virus has forced them to stay home.”Abhishek Pandit, a fitness lover, said, “I believe the online subscription to home workout sessions are cheaper than the gym fee, so I haven’t visited mine yet and would start after December only.”Only if it’s neat and clean!While on the other hand, the establishments are still coping with the losses suffered and struggling to get new clients, Sumit Sharma, owner of Gold’s Gym, says the only new thing witnessed at his place is distancing, face shields, sanitisers and so on, rest everything is same. “We have started getting new clients and around 70-80 have rejoined. Considering safety as the major part, people prefer to visit only those gyms where proper hygiene is being followed; they don’t mind spending extra bucks. Those who gained weight during the lockdown are opting for centres that offer hygiene and more space to avoid contact with unknown people,” added Sumit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/peoples-choice-of-working-out-at-home-weighs-down-gym-owners-163496
31-10-2020||---||Shobha yatras take a back seat this festive season||Jalandhar, October 30It is for the first time since the past few decades that no big shobha yatras or nagar kirtans have been taken out in the city ahead of any of religious occasions, including Gurpurab, Ram Navmi and Valmiki Jayanti. All thanks to the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, the city used to witness at least two big shobha yatras ahead of each occasion by two rival groups in the city, but it’s a breather from traffic snarls this year.Not just the commuters but even shopkeepers along the Old GT Road and old markets of the city which is the most common route for shobha yatras have heaved a sigh of relief as they did not have to keep their shops shut and suffer any business losses.In the event of any procession in the city, many important roads, intersections and market places used to be shut down for the entire day as a security check and for the movement of dignitaries coming to participate in the events. Cops used to be deployed throughout the day at every few metres to check any untoward incident.Today a day ahead of Valmiki Jayanti, a short symbolic shobha yatra was taken out in which around 15 people participated. There was no road block and the commuters could easily pass by slowing down for a minute or two.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shobha-yatras-take-a-back-seat-this-festive-season-163497
31-10-2020||Jalandhar||Online session on media avenues||Pledge-taking ceremonyJalandhar: The NSS Department of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised a pledge-taking ceremony under the Jan Andolan campaign of Govt of India here on Friday. During the programme, NSS Programme Officer Veena Arora administered an oath to faculty, staff members and students to follow the unlock guidelines. She told that this campaign was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen said that cases of coronavirus had decreased but the danger was still there. “Government is trying to aware people through media regarding unlock guidelines. We are getting some relief during the unlock but that is for strengthening our economy. We should take proper precautions. We should not panic if any symptom of virus occurs. Rather we should go for test and medication. The time of pandemic was really tough for all of us but we have crossed it with our positivity”. Veena Arora administered the pledge to the NSS members and students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-session-on-media-avenues-163501
31-10-2020||A detailed plan is being devised by the district administration to revive Kanjli Wetland yet again as a tourist spot. A meeting in this regard was held at the Deputy Commissioner Office on October 28. While the basic infrastructure at the wetland will be upgraded||Kanjli Wetland revival||Voter awareness campA voter awareness camp was held at Naroor village in Kapurthala on Thursday. The camp was led by sarpanch Surjit Singh. Aangwanwari workers were asked by Phagwara circle supervisors to encourage boys and girls who would attain the age of 18 years on January 1, 2021 to get themselves enrolled as voters. People who got married and those from the differently-abled community were also invited to vote. Supervisor Sushil Lata informed about the right to vote and how to exercise franchise. An awareness rally ‘Sadi Vote, Sadi Awaaz’ and ‘Sadi Vote Desh Da Bhavikh’, was also taken out.Subsidy for fish farmingForty per cent subsidies to women in the general category and 60 per cent subsidies to women in the Scheduled Caste/Tribe category will be provided for those applying for fish farming and promote the Blue Revolution under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY). To raise living standards of farmers, the Fisheries Development Agency, Kapurthala, said this declaration was as per the policy to promote diversification under the PM’s aforesaid scheme. Chief Officiating Officer HS Bawa said as per the Blue Revolution scheme, Rs 7 lakh expenditure has been estimated on a 2.5 acre fish pond, on which the government will provided 40 per cent subsidy. He said five training camps will be held from November 2 to 6 during which training will be provided to famers on facilities being given by the government to ensure maximum productivity on limited land under the RAS system and Bio flock systems. He said Fish Propagation Officer Baljit Singh can be contacted for more information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kanjli-wetland-revival-163502
