01-07-2020||Mumbai||Final-year exams in Maharashtra: Centre still to take call on issue||Despite the state government clarifying its stand to the Centre that Maharashtra is in no position to conduct exams for professional courses due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, respective central examination councils which have to take a call on the issue, are still contemplating a final decision.“We’ve already held a meeting with vice-chancellors and senior officials of various technical institutes and universities across the country, and soon another meeting will be held to discuss the fate of examinations. We will share our views with the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) at the earliest,” said Anil Sahasrabuddhe, chairman, All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).A decision taken by AICTE will apply to engineering, pharmacy, architecture, and management institutes across India.Last week, the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led government reached out to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to direct governing bodies of all professional courses to cancel final-year exams.On June 19, state higher education minister Uday Samant announced that final-year exams for all non-professional courses will be optional, and students will have to submit a written undertaking to clarify their decision. However, a decision on ATKT (allowed to keep term) backlog of final-year students as well as the fate of professional courses were left pending.“We have clearly stated in the letter that we are not in a position to conduct examinations. Now, the decision has to come from the Centre,” said a senior official from the state higher and technical education department.Students, meanwhile, are worried, with many groups having approached the state government and Governor’s office, seeking clarity on the status of examinations. Many have also taken to social media to address the central government as well as the University Grants Commission (UGC).“Constant changes and lack of clarity are leaving students in a fix, especially those who are pursuing degrees from different cities or plan to pursue higher education or a take up a job in the future. Any more delay will have severe effects on the future of final-year students,” said Siddharth Ingle, president of Maharashtra Students Union (MASU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-exams-in-maharashtra-centre-still-to-take-call-on-issue/story-NDjWdRcCKEU46fsYoTTxrK.html
01-07-2020||Lucknow||UP govt to roll out red carpet for Microsoft to set up world-class hub in Greater Noida||The Uttar Pradesh government is preparing to roll out the red carpet for software giant Microsoft to set up a world-class technology hub in Greater Noida, UP foreign investment and export promotion minister Sidharth Nath Singh said on Wednesday. “The state will roll out the red carpet for Microsoft to make it easier for the company to do business,” said Singh, who has been holding virtual road shows with global industry players in order to convince them to invest in the state by offering incentives. Microsoft has said it wants to set up its North India campus in Greater Noida and the next step will be site inspection by the team both in Greater Noida and along the Yamuna Expressway. This will be followed by the company’s proposal which the state government will examine, he said. A virtual agreement by Microsoft India MD Rajiv Kumar was concluded during a discussion with Singh on Monday and it will soon be followed by a site visit by the global software major. Singh said the authorities have identified options for land for Microsoft in Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway. The government had earlier said it will make it simpler for investors willing to acquire land within 1 km distance on each side of the state’s expressways. Following the coronavirus pandemic, the state government has been trying to increase investment in the state and create additional employment opportunities, the minister said. He said that in the next three-four years, the campus strength would reach its maximum potential of 4,000, making it the second-largest tech hub of Microsoft in India. The company already has two hubs in Hyderabad and Bengaluru with a strength of 5,000 and 2,000, respectively. “With Microsoft coming into the fold, Noida and Greater Noida will become a major destination for electronics and IT in the country,” Singh said in the context of TCS also putting up a campus in the area. Tech giant Wipro already has a campus there. The Microsoft India Managing Director had evinced interest in setting up a tech hub in Noida in February. In a statement made at that time, he had said, “We are excited to tap into the engineering talent available in this part of the country to create a truly pioneering organisation that will build innovative solutions for global impact.” The UP government also plans to set up an electronic city near the upcoming Jewar International airport along the Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-to-roll-out-red-carpet-for-microsoft-to-set-up-world-class-hub-in-greater-noida/story-RzE18IdZarhP4dVOKSe2yI.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Thane, 25 cities adopt smart tech to combat coronavirus||From developing an app for emergency responses, and setting up a social media platform where experts can share their opinions, to creating a surveillance dashboard that monitors traffic and crowding, 25 smart cities in the country, including Thane and Pimpri-Chinchwad, have adopted innovative and smart techniques to combat the pandemic, states a Central government report.The report, ‘Smart Responses to Covid-19’ published by the Central government’s Smart Cities Mission, National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), and World Resources Institute (WRI) India was released on June 25. It lists measures taken by 25 smart cities across India in five key categories of action — tracking and monitoring, diagnostics, sanitisation, awareness and capacity building, and citizen support.Kunal Kumar, joint secretary and mission director (smart cities), ministry of housing and urban affairs, said, “By July 25, we will be releasing a report on all 100 smart cities and the measures adopted by the civic administrations. These are innovative techniques looking at information gathering, management, accurate predictions and communication that can be adopted by other cities too.”The report talks about measures taken in Agra, where the government has created a hyper-local AI-driven app that allows citizens to raise requests for emergency help across nine categories like food, medicine, medical help, etc. “Citizens can select the category of help needed and press the SOS icon. The help request will go to volunteers in a 300-metre radius,” the report states.The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) installed 298 ‘point-tilt-zoom’ surveillance cameras at 85 locations in the city for the civic body and police to monitor traffic and crowd movement. PCMC also created the ‘Smart Sarathi mobile application’ which includes a Covid-19 self-assessment test, list of containment zones, ‘Near Me’ services (showing nearby Covid hospitals, fever clinics, market places, food distribution centres, shelters, etc.), e-pass applications, and volunteering forms. An M-governance app created by the Greater Vishakapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) collects data from surveys conducted in containment areas and also connects the field team with a rapid response team of doctors for emergency cases.OP Agarwal, CEO, WRI India said, “The report serves two purposes – it acts as a compendium for other cities to look at innovative ways to tackle problems, and it also serves as an encouragement for the civic administrations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-25-cities-adopt-smart-tech-to-combat-coronavirus/story-9OU9dgwHPuKNJyjNmlI9tL.html
01-07-2020||City||Come out only if necessary, says Ludhiana police commissioner on FB live||Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal on Wednesday went live on Facebook and answered queries of city residents about lockdown.Most of the Facebook users complained of lockdown violation by residents, especially morning walkers. People also complained about the opening of liquor shops till 11pm in the city.The police chief asked people to avoid going out without reason and to improve their immunity. Answering a query, the police chief said that police will not tolerate violations, adding that the police had already issued 15,000 challans for not wearing masks and were issuing 500 such challans daily. He said not more than 50 persons were allowed in wedding parties and the organisers had to obtain written permission from the district administration.“It has been observed that after taking permission from the DC office, people invite more guests. The police have already lodged seven cases in such matters,” he said.“We have also observed that morning walkers are using open gyms and collect groups. We are keeping a tab on it and will take action,” he added.Replying to a query the police commissioner said people can travel in private vehicles in full capacity. Public movement is allowed till 10pm. He added that on Sunday only shops dealing in essential things can operate.The police chief also clarified that gyms were not allowed to operate, nor were IELTS centres.The police commissioner urged people to wear reusable masks. He also said that the police had decided to distribute masks among labourers.Finally the police chief said that 3,000 police personnel had undergone tests and 25 were found positive, but they are asymptomatic and fit. They will join active duty after treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/come-out-only-if-necessary-says-ludhiana-police-commissioner-on-fb-live/story-ab1bPWLKPNU7T3zSZFOM1I.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC bench denies bail to self-styled godman Rampal||The bail plea of self-styled godman Rampal was dismissed by a high court bench, while another bench sought affidavit from a senior police officer on security arrangements. Rampal had sought bail to attend the marriage ceremony of his granddaughter on July 22. The Satlok Ashram head has been convicted for life imprisonment without ‘remission’ by a Hisar trial court in murder cases registered against him in 2014. The FIRs were registered after large-scale violence was witnessed at his ashram in Hisar during a November 2014 operation launched by multiple agencies to nab him as he refused to appear before the high court. In the entire operation, six lives were lost and 110 police personnel and 70 civilians had sustained injuries. He was convicted in October 2018 in two cases. Dismissing the plea, the bench of Justice SN Satyanarayana and Justice Archana Puri observed that the bench was ‘shocked and surprised’ to see details of what transpired in 2014. “With such a background and also considering that there are four more cases registered against him... His antecedents would indicate that it would not be in the interest of the state to show any concession to the applicant/appellant until this matter is taken up and heard on merits,” the bench said while dismissing the plea. The bench also took note of the fact that his son has already been released on bail. Meanwhile, the bench of Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan sought within two days an affidavit from the officer in charge of law and order in Hisar assuring the court that adequate security will be deployed at the wedding venue to ensure that there is no large gathering of people and that Covid-19 guidelines would be followed. Assurance has also been sought that Rampal will surrender peacefully after the bail. The court is to take up the matter again on July 6. Senior advocate Vinod Ghai, who appeared in both the petitions, said the bail was sought in two different FIRs. Hence, there was nothing wrong in filing two different petitions. However, ordinarily, these are listed before one bench, he said, adding that judges were intimated about this as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-bench-denies-bail-to-self-styled-godman-rampal/story-XJtsUIgr9TjtNAMRuwmpHP.html
01-07-2020||Kolkata||Man dies from coronavirus, family keeps body in freezer for hours as officials fail to respond||The body of a septuagenarian coronavirus patient was kept inside a freezer by his family members here for at least 48 hours as “no help” came from the authorities to cremate it.The 71-year-old man, who suffered from breathing issues, had died on Monday at his home on Raja Rammohan Roy Sarani in the central part of the city, health department sources said on Wednesday.The doctor he had visited on Monday had asked him to undergo coronavirus tests, which he did. However, his situation deteriorated after returning home and he died in the afternoon, a family member said.The doctor, after being informed, visited the man’s apartment wearing a PPE. But he refused to issue a death certificate saying that it was a Covid-19 case and advised the family members to contact the Amherst Street police station, under which the area falls, he said.The police directed the family to contact the local councillor. “But there too we did not receive any help and we were asked to get in touch with the state health department,” he said. “We even made several calls to the helpline given to us by a person when we called up the health department but nobody responded,” another family member said. Unable to conduct the last rites, the desperate family members contacted a number of mortuaries but they too refused to keep the body after hearing of the circumstances of the man’s death. The family members then managed to procure a freezer to preserve the body till the last rites. “We made several calls to the local councillor and the state health department but no one helped us. Calls were not answered. That’s why decided to keep his body at home inside a freezer,” the family member said. The test results on Tuesday night confirmed Covid-19. “In fact even after getting the test reports we kept on calling the state health department but there was no response. On Wednesday morning, we got calls from the health department and told them everything,” he said. Within an hour, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) employees reached the apartment and took away the body for cremation, the family member said. “His body will be cremated as per the ICMR guidelines for Covid-19 deaths,” a senior KMC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/man-dies-from-coronavirus-family-keeps-body-in-freezer-for-hours-as-officials-fail-to-respond/story-bntBkLJsTdbX8L6nd7viaM.html
01-07-2020||City||Decorated cop is Delhi Police’s 10th Covid casualty; 2,000 personnel infected||New Delhi: “My oxygen level is 92. I am better. Ab aap log hospital mat aana (Don’t come to the hospital anymore),” — these were inspector Sanjeev Yadav’s last words to his family on June 18, the day he was put on ventilator support at a private hospital in the city.The 48-year-old Delhi Police inspector, posted with the anti-terrorist squad (special cell), died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) early Wednesday — the 10th policeperson to succumb in the city to succumb to the infection. As of Wednesday evening, around 2,000 police personnel in the Capital have tested positive for Covid-19.Just weeks ago, the decorated and well-regarded police officer, who had in January 2020 been conferred the President’s police medal for gallantry, was instrumental in nabbing two key members of a gang in Punjab’s Zikarpur — his last major operation, his colleagues and friends said.Inspector Yadav had been posted in the special cell’s south-western range since March 2018, and was instrumental in arresting over 60 criminals in his time there, including those belonging to gangs led by jailed gangsters Jitender (known as Gogi) and his rival Sunil (known as Tillu), according to inspector Maan Singh, a close friend of Yadav’s and a member a colleague in the special cell.Yadav was awarded the gallantry medal for his work in cracking down on members of gang that had shot dead two employees of a cashvan while robbing it in Narela in 2018.During his two-year tenure in the special cell, Yadav came face-to-face with armed criminals on 13 occasions, each of which involved an exchange of fire.The officer was also a recipient of 25 Commendation Rolls, 13 Commendation Certificates and 26 Commendation Cards issued by the Delhi Police.His last rites were performed at Lodhi Colony crematorium around 11.30am on Wednesday, with several officers of the special cell in attendance.Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal offered their condolences on Twitter.“Extremely saddened at the death of Insp Sanjeev Kumar Yadav in the line of duty fighting COVID-19. A great warrior, recipient of Police Medal for gallantry, he brought laurels for @DelhiPolice. His untimely demise is irreplaceable loss for the organization. My deepest condolences!,” the L-G tweeted.Kejriwal tweeted, “My deepest condolences at the death of Insp Sanjeev Kumar Yadav who died of Covid-19. A very brave policeman and recipient of Police medal. His death is a great loss to @Delhi Police.”A life cut shortInspector Singh said he was the first one in the team to be tested positive for the virus — on May 31. “All 12-15 team members quarantined themselves and got themselves tested for the virus. However, their reports, including Yadav’s came negative. But Yadav developed symptoms after June 10,” he said.Yadav was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital on June 16, after complaining of breathlessness, fever and a sore throat, Yadav’s brother-in-law Devraj Yadav said.He was tested at the hospital the same day, the reports confirmed he was positive for the infection on June 17. When his oxygen levels dipped on June 17, he was shifted to Max Saket hospital, Devraj said. He was put on ventilator support a day later“His oxygen level never improved. I had texted him, asking if he was in the intensive care unit (ICU) or a ward. But he did not respond to that question, and instead asked me not to visit the hospital,” Devraj added.Police said the source of his infection was still unclear.Three days later, Yadav’s wife Kalpana tested positive for the virus, while their 16-year-old a son and 13-year-old daughter, and six other relatives tested negative.Kalpana was, on June 22, admitted to the same hospital as her husband.“She was discharged on June 26, but doctors advised her to quarantine at home for seven days home quarantine. Since Kalpana insisted, she was allowed to attend the funeral. She wore a PPE [personal protective equipment] kit and followed all protocols,” said Devraj, adding that Yadav’s mother and two siblings have reached Delhi after being informed about his death.Originally from Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh, Yadav had joined police in 1996 as a sub-inspector. He completed his schooling and higher education from Rajasthan. After being promoted to inspector rank in 2015, Yadav served in Tughlaq Road police station in New Delhi.Cases rising, preventive measuresSo far, 10 officers of the Delhi Police have succumbed to Covid-19. However, while 2,000 personnel have tested positive for the infection, more than 1,300 have recovered from the viral infection and resumed their duties so far, a Delhi Police spokesperson said.Head constable Dheer Singh, who was posted in the police control room (PCR) unit in north zone, died at Lady Hardinge Hospital on Tuesday afternoon, a day after he was tested positive and initially advised home quarantine.“The head constable’s health condition suddenly deteriorated and was admitted to the hospital where he died around noon on Tuesday. He is survived by his wife and two children, who live in Wazirabad,” said deputy commissioner of police (PCR) Sharat Sinha.The other dead personnel include two sub-inspectors, three assistant sub-inspectors and three head constables. From managing containment zones, ensuring social distancing, feeding the homeless and maintaining law and order, the city’s police force has been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. Officials said Delhi Police administration has taken several measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 outbreak among the personnel and their family members.Beds have been reserved for them in government and private hospitals and isolation centres have been set up for asymptomatic personnel, who are advised to home quarantine. A dedicated Covid-19 test centre for police personnel has also been set up at Shalimar Bagh, which can collect and test 50 samples a day.A circular has been issued on how to work amid the pandemic and avoid physical contact with colleagues and the public, senior officials said. For instance, most of the police team’s meetings are being done via video-conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/decorated-cop-is-delhi-police-s-10th-covid-casualty-2-000-personnel-infected/story-deUn4f50r6ghj5Nmz7TSTM.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana schools to reopen on July 27 for teaching, non-teaching staff||Schools in Haryana will reopen from July 27 for the teaching and non-teaching staff, the state government said on Wednesday.However, students will not attend schools, education minister Kanwar Pal said.His statement came after the directorate of school education’s previous order caused confusion among the students and their parents. “The schools will reopen on 27 July, 2020 i.e. Monday. This is for your kind information and further necessary action,” read the order issued earlier by the assistant director (academic) on behalf of additional chief secretary (school education).Mahavir Singh, additional chief secretary, school education, said the educational institutions will be opened for students only after the approval from the Centre and issuance of the standard operating procedures (SoPs).SUMMER VACATIONS TILL JULY 26Minister Kanwar Pal said the schools will remain closed from July 1, 2020, to July 26, 2020, for summer vacations.“During the vacations, there is no need for teachers and non-academic staff to be present at the schools. The Union home ministry will issue necessary guidelines regarding the decision to permit students to attend schools as per the circumstances prevailing at that time,” he added.He said during the summer vacations, the Chief Minister’s Distance Education Programme will continue to function.Last month, the state government had asked the teaching staff of government and private schools to return to their offices to carry out urgent administrative works. As the teaching and non-teaching staff needed summer vacation, the fresh orders were issued on Wednesday..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-schools-to-reopen-on-july-27-for-teaching-non-teaching-staff/story-dueWxKIrF859G2BrPWWPHL.html
01-07-2020||City||Noida: Wife strangulates alcoholic husband to death, arrested||Noida: The police on Wednesday arrested a woman for allegedly killing her husband, whose body was found last week near their accommodation in Noida’s Sector 8 JJ cluster, officials said.According to the police, a complaint was filed by the nephew of victim, identified as Chunnu (32), a resident of Ghoswari village in Bakhtiarpur, Patna (Bihar), at the Sector 20 police station, alleging that his uncle had left for work on June 25 and the following day, his body was found near his accommodation at around 6am on June 26.Police said that prima facie, it had seemed that the victim was choked to death and an investigation was started.“On the morning of Friday, June 26 we received information about the body of a man at a shanty in Sector 8. Later, it was found that the body was of a daily wager named Chunnu who lived in the same area with his family. It seemed that the cause of death was strangulation. We sent the body for post mortem and started an investigation, which later revealed that it was his wife who killed him. We have arrested her and sent her to jail,” said Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida.The investigation also revealed that the victim – an alleged regular drinker who would often beat his wife Gudiya – had another row with his wife on the night of Thursday, June 25. Police said following the fight, his wife allegedly tied his hands with a rope and choked him with a rolling pin, due to which Chunnu died. Police said in a statement that the accused has allegedly confessed. Police also recovered the rope and the rolling pin used in the murder.“It was revealed that the accused had killed her own husband after getting fed up with his conduct. Her husband was an alcoholic and would often beat her. Possibly they had to change their accommodation because of their fighting and the landlord would often object to the fighting. The overall impact of such circumstances moved her to tie her husband with a rope and strangulate him with a rolling pin on the night of June 25, when he reached home drunk again and started a fight,” said Singh.A case was registered at the Sector-20 police station under Sections 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-wife-strangulates-alcoholic-husband-to-death-arrested/story-hPYghNl9BiN8hJw7ydfxmN.html
01-07-2020||City||Occult practitioner nabbed for raping woman on pretext of curing her of negative energy||Police on Wednesday nabbed an occult practitioner for allegedly having raped a woman near a village in Rabupura area of Greater Noida on the pretext of helping her ‘get rid of negative energy’, officials said.According to the police, the suspect — 35-year-old Pappan — is a resident of Faleda village under Rabupura police station, Gautam Budh Nagar . On Monday, a couple — a 20-year-old married woman along with her husband — had approached Pappan, seeking help with some personal troubles that they believed were paranormal. The women later accused Pappan of having allegedly raped her. The incident was reported by the woman’s husband. The accused was on Wednesday afternoon arrested from outskirts of his village , police said.“We had arrested the suspect and post medical examination presented him in front of the district court, from where he was sent to jail. The man, an occult practitioner, was known locally and often offered to cure villagers from the influence of spirits. After the victim registered a complaint, we had launched a manhunt for him. He was finally nabbed today afternoon,” said Vineet Kumar, station house officer, Rabupura police station.He added that the man, though an occult practitioner, had no criminal history and this was the first time he had been booked.According to the victim’s husband, they had gotten married in February but started looking soon after their marriage. His wife, he claimed, often became very aggressive with little provocation. He also claimed that unexplained things had started happening in their home. The man then contacted Pappan for help, because he believed that his wife was under the influence of a spirit. The man has also claimed that the suspect had visited the family four days ago, taken Rs 5000 from them and had asked them to bring the woman to his village, a few kilometers away.“We reached his village at around 11am on Monday and he took us to a field nearby and gave us some ash to taste, which was probably laced with sedatives. Both me and my wife lost consciousness after that. When I woke up, my wife recounted her ordeal to me. We confronted the tantric, but he threatened to kill us. It was then that I decided to approach the police,” said the husband.Based on the man’s complaint, a case was registered at Rabupura police station against the suspect under sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/occult-practitioner-nabbed-for-raping-woman-on-pretext-of-curing-her-of-negative-energy/story-Bfca3iW3bJwFnZ3hMQIyJK.html
01-07-2020||Noida||Amid pandemic, forest department to hold plantation drive with help from paramilitary forces||With most officials engaged in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic and citizens unlikely to be roped in for the state’s annual mass plantation drive set to be held on July 5, the Noida administration has turned to paramilitary forces.According to an Uttar Pradesh government order dated May 8, the state will plant 250 million saplings during the one-day event, of which Gautam Budh Nagar will be expected to plant 850,000. Last year, the drive was held on August 15 and over a million saplings were planted through at least 26 different public departments in the district.Forest department officials said that while they have recruited officials from different departments, they have also sought help from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), both under the central government, and the Uttar Pradesh Provincial Armed Constabulary (UP-PAC) to meet for the shortfall in staff. The department did not give an exact number on the number of people they already have and on how many they will require.“Last year citizens participated in the plantation drive in thousands. This time we are neither expecting nor promoting public participation due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The ITBP, CRPF and UP-PAC have assured help. Officials of 25 departments have been roped in as well, but the staff shortage is likely to be felt. We have also hired about 2,000 daily wagers to dig the pits and transport the saplings. The estimated expenditure towards this labour is around ₹5 lakh,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer (DFO), GB Nagar.The department will distribute saplings to villages and houses in the district sectors on Thursday. They will be asked to plant them in their own locality. According to the CRPF, they will provide as much support as possible.“We have two battalions -- 221 and 235 -- stationed here that looks after X-plus, Y-plus and Z-plus security of VIPs, but we will provide support and promise to plant at least 45,000 saplings at a Greater Noida site and 45,000 in Noida. We expect to extend support of 100 to 150 personnel, and I can assure that one CRPF jawan will do proper plantation, ensuring survival of at least 1,000 saplings,” said Pradeep Kumar, Assistant Commissioner, CPRF.Forest department have said that they have also received offers from villages.“A large part of the drive is held around villages, especially for the timber trees. We have maintained a stock of over 12 lakh healthy saplings of different species including neem, mango, peepal, sahjan, seesam, arjun and banyan including others at five departmental nurseries in the district,” Srivastava said. ITBP and UP-PAC officials could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/amid-pandemic-forest-department-to-hold-plantation-drive-with-help-from-paramilitary-forces/story-Z1hcWB2k1njYJji8KQBNxL.html
01-07-2020||City||Industry minister inaugurates Rs 51 crore projects in Gautam Budh Nagar district||NOIDA: Uttar Pradesh minister for industry Satish Mahana on Wednesday inaugurated an underground parking facility in Noida’s sector 1, a restroom in Sector 44 and 104 spots that were previously dump yards but now converted for general public use. According to Noida authority, the projects were budgeted at ₹51 crore.He also met top officials at Gautam Buddha University and asked them to finish ongoing projects on time. He asked them to focus on attracting investment and creating jobs to boost growth so that those lost livelihood due to the Covid-19 pandemic can be rehabilitated.Sector 1, which is home to public sector undertakings, government offices, industrial units, offices witness traffic congestion on a regular basis due to the illegal parking due to which the underground parking was mooted. The plot can accommodate 534. “The sector 1 parking facility will help to address the parking issue there and adjoining sectors. The authority should immediately start functioning at this facility after inauguration,” said Vipin Malhan, president of Noida entrepreneur association. At erstwhile dumpyards, the authority has planted saplings, ornamental trees and placed benches for people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industry-minister-inaugurates-rs-51-crore-projects-in-gautam-budh-nagar-district/story-kwBxPZgxyi4VdaLvHuHcAL.html
01-07-2020||Noida||With 50 teams Noida to start antigen tests from June 2||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration on Thursday will begin deploying teams into containment zones to conduct rapid antigen tests.The Gautam Budh Nagar district includes Noida, Greater Noida and other adjoining areas, and accounted for 2362 cases as reported by the state government on Wednesday in its 12-hour summary report, which is nearly 10% of the total cases in Uttar Pradesh. The district had 293 containment zones as of Wednesday. The testing exercise will continue till all people in these zones are tested.“The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has trained our officials. Our doctors and health experts have, in turn, trained a total of 50 teams, which will start antigen testing beginning from June 2 in high risk containment zones,” said Suhas LY district magistrate Gautam Budh Nagar.A team will have three health workers -- assistant nursing staff and two lab technicians. They will collect swabs from the patient’s throat and nasal cavity to do the antigen test.On Wednesday, a district health team led by Dr Amit Kumar, a government doctor in charge of Police Lines, conducted antigen tests on 77 personnel at the police commissionerate located in sector 108. The district administration did not share the results of this exercise.On June 25, the ICMR released a document where it detailed the need for rapid antigen tests to massively scale up testing capacity as the number of Covid-19 cases rise and lockdown restrictions are gradually relaxed.With 15,000 rapid antigen test kits in their kitty, the district administration has constituted teams to identify high risk groups, influenza-like illness symptoms (ILI) and co-morbidities.These tests detect the presence of a foreign substance in a person’s oral or nasal swab that triggers the production of antibodies, and, therefore, can find infections. But these are non-confirmatory tests. This means that those who test positive through rapid antigen detection tests are considered “truly positive” for Covid-19 but those who test negative must go for an RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test for re-confirmation. Rapid antigen tests are quicker -- taking just 30 minutes and can be conducted on-site, compared to RT-PCR’s minimum of two hours and requires a laboratory. They are also cheaper and differ in technology as they look for a specific protein associated with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. RT-PCR tests look for the exact nucleic signatures of the virus.The administration may keep people, who in a doctor’s opinion may have the virus, in home quarantine. “If a patient tests negative in the antigen test, but and doctors advice the RT-PCR for confirmation, then the doctor doctor can recommend home quarantine or institutional quarantine,” said Suhas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-50-teams-noida-to-start-antigen-tests-from-june-2/story-ZdjNPpHTmFn4Hg3SN8efGI.html
01-07-2020||City||UP CM approves lab for Ghaziabad with capacity to conduct 500 tests a day||In order to bolster the testing capabilities of Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has approved a laboratory for the district that will have a capacity to conduct about 500-600 Covid-19 tests a day.Announcing this, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said on Wednesday that a request for a larger testing facility was made by Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey during a video conferencing meeting held on Tuesday night. Ghaziabad, at present, has no facility for conducting real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT -PCR) tests. The samples from the district are currently being sent to Noida, Meerut or Delhi.The district has also been provided with a TrueNat machine, which can take up 30 to 40 tests a day and provide results within the hour. A TrueNat machine is a portable testing device which is used for detection of negative status of different forms of infection.The health department officials said that they have been provided with Covid-19 kits by the state government and presently the machine is used for getting true negative status of a Covid-19 sample.“If the sample tests negative on TrueNat, it is confirmed as negative. But it tests positive, then it has to be sent for a confirmatory RT-PCR test. The TrueNat gives us results within the hour and we generally use this in case of an emergency or women in labour, to check their Covid-19 status. One more TrueNat machine is proposed to be provided to the women’s hospital,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, said.Currently, Ghaziabad sends an average of 450 samples a day for RT-PCR testing. Since June 26, the district has also started conducting an average 275 antigen tests a day.HT, on June 22, had reported that plans are underway for an RT-PCR testing laboratory in Ghaziabad.“The CM also reviewed each district under the Meerut division (Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut, Baghpat, Hapur and Bulandshahr) and directed that heightened steps be taken in order to spread of Covid-19. During the special screening and surveillance drive that will start from Wednesday (July 2) in the Meerut division the CM has directed that more antigen tests be conducted. The districts in Meerut division will be provided an additional 50,000 antigen test kits,” Awasthi said.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey was not available for comment.Dr Gupta said, “At present, Gautm Budh Nagar and Meerut have their own labs but there is no RT-PCR lab in Ghaziabad. We are dependent on other districts for getting our samples tested. There is considerable daily expenditure on fuel as we have to send vehicles with our samples to Noida, Meerut or Delhi. The results generally arrive on the third day. Once we get our own lab, we can get our test results within 24 hours. The proposed laboratory is expected to have a capacity of conducting anything between 400-600 tests per day and we have also identified a space for it at our Sanjay Nagar government hospital.” According to officials, an antigen test confirms a true positive. But those not found positive have to be tested again in order to ascertain a true negative.In the meanwhile, the health department has come up with quarantine facilities of 200 beds, combined, at RKGIT College and Ideal College for testing and treatment of influenza-like illness (ILI) patients.During the drive starting July 2, surveillance teams will identify patients having ILI and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) symptoms, so that they can be treated beforehand..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-cm-approves-lab-for-ghaziabad-with-capacity-to-conduct-500-tests-a-day/story-zRSkeKJ00ukKfvrPUXvGjL.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Wife, minor daughter among five held for man’s murder in Tarn Taran||A week after a 40-year-old man was found hacked to death in Valtoha village of Bhikhiwind sub-division, police on Wednesday arrested five people, including the victim’s wife and minor daughter.Santokh Singh of Mutheyanwala village under Patti sub-division was hacked to death by some unidentified people in his sleep at his in-laws’ house in Valtoha village on June 24 where he had been living for the last seven years. Victim’s wife Gurjit Kaur (39), his 17-year-old daughter and her alleged lover Manjinder Singh (20) of Valtoha, and Manjinder’s two friends Jagroop Singh (21) of Chohla Sahib and Sajan Singh (21) of Gharka village.Addressing a press conference, Bhikhiwind deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rajbir Singh said, “The victim’s father-in-law Kashmir Singh (70) had told the police that his son-in-law was sleeping in the courtyard and was hacked to death on June 24.”“During our investigation, we found that Santokh was against his daughter’s relationship with her neighbour Manjinder Singh. We rounded up Manjinder for questioning and he confessed to having killed Santokh,” the DSP said. It was also found that the murder was planned by victim’s wife and daughter, he said. Police have also recovered three sharp-edged weapons used in the crime, and the mobile phone of the victim. Police had already registered a case under section 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC at Valtoha police station on the complaint of the victim’s father-in-law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wife-minor-daughter-among-five-held-for-man-s-murder-in-tarn-taran/story-LFoJ0KVRV7HkWmYOkkLohK.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two beaten to death in Rohtak, Jind||Two men were beaten to death in separate cases in the last 24 hours, police said. In the first incident, a 40-year-old man, Udaibhan of Uttar Pradesh, was bludgeoned to death by his colleague Nazir at a dhaba following a heated argument in Rohtak’s Sampla on Tuesday night, police said.A case of murder has been registered against Nazir, who is at large. In the second incident, a 32-year-old man was found dead on Wednesday morning at Jind’s Karsola village. The deceased has been identified as Shiv Kumar of the same village. A spokesperson of Jind police said the man was beaten to death with sticks and bricks by unidentified assailants.“The victim’s family members said that he had left the house around 6.30pm on Tuesday and did not return home. A passerby spotted his body today and informed his family and the police,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-beaten-to-death-in-rohtak-jind/story-10xzGs28i7Dc9Fb9B4iWyK.html
01-07-2020||City||Gurugram: City bus service to resume on six routes from Thursday||Gurugram: The district administration on Wednesday granted permission to the city bus service to start operations from July 1, after which two routes made were operational on the first day. According to the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMBCL), city bus service would be resumed in three phases. The bus service was suspended on March 22.In the first phase, the city bus service will become operational on six routes with a fleet of 68 buses, from Thursday, officials said.These routes are route 212: Basai Chowk - HUDA City Centre (Mudrika); route 134: Iffco Chowk to IMT Manesar; route 112D: Gurugram Bus Stand to Sec-56 (Ghata); route 218: Gurugram Bus Stand to Sohna; route 116F: Rajesh Pilot Chowk to Railway Station; route 122: Gurugram Bus Stand to SikanderPur Metro.Sonal Goel, CEO, GMBCL said that the service has been granted permission to operate in public interest and it has resumed service in a phased manner. The permission came in light of the difficulty faced by people to move from one place to another in the city, she said.GMBCL officials said that they would be following the guidelines issued by the Union Home Ministry and social distancing norms will be adhered to. Buses will be operating with 50% seating capacity, they said. GMCBL said it has also worked out a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) that would apply to bus drivers, passengers, depot staff and special measures for creating public awareness.It also said that passenger advisory banners have been put up at four main bus stops: Iffco chowk, Hero Honda, Gurugram Bus Stand and near Mini Secretariat Up and Down sides, for safe travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-city-bus-service-to-resume-on-six-routes-from-thursday/story-iFQJCjKuuRq3208xRV1xLP.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Pvt hospitals in Karnal told not to admit patients showing Covid symptoms||With the number of coronavirus cases reaching 325 in Karnal, all private hospitals in the district have been told not to admit the patients exhibiting Covid-19 symptoms. All such patients should be sent to the civil hospital, directed Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav. The orders mentioned that strict action will be taken against the hospitals found admitting Covid-19 patients or people showing symptoms of the disease. The district administration swung into action after 16 staffers and two patients of a private hospital tested positive for the virus in the past two days. “Private hospitals are not allowed to treat coronavirus patients and they have to be referred to the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital,” read the order. As per the orders, if the private hospitals failed to comply with the norms, action against the owners of the hospitals will be taken under Section 188 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pvt-hospitals-in-karnal-told-not-to-admit-patients-showing-covid-symptoms/story-T1GRU3sVOCxjHElF5ULvzL.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||PAU develops new pest-resistant BT cotton variety with a better shelf life||The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) claims to have developed a new variety of genetically modified Bt cotton seed which it says is pest-resistant besides having a better shelf life as it can be used in the subsequent sowing seasons. The variety is in final stages of getting notified by the central sub-committee on crop standards, notification and release of varieties that functions under the Union ministry of agriculture, said university officials. The new variety is resistant to pests such as American ballworm, pink ballworm, spotted ballworm and tobacco caterpillar, the varsity experts said. Also, the farmers will not have to buy seeds every sowing season as they can use the seed procured during the previous season, they said. Pankaj Rathore, director, PAU’s regional research station (Faridkot), said the variety has undergone trials by the Indian Council for Agriculture Research (ICAR) and they were also supervised by the All India Coordinated Cotton Improvement Project. “Generally, the private companies sell seeds which have to be purchased every season. We may start supplying this seed to the cotton growers in 2-3 years from now,” said Rathore. “The trials were held in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan where our variety showed excellent results. Once it is notified, we will start our own field trials on a larger scale,” he added. The BT-II has two genes while the BT-I the PAU launched in 2018 had only one gene. “The new variety is an improved version of the previous one,” Rathore said. Secretary (agriculture) KS Pannu said, “As the area under cotton cultivation has expanded threefold since 2017 from 4 lakh acres to 12.5 lakh acres we need new varieties which are resistant to pest attack.”It was in 2005 that US-based firm Monsanto introduced BT cotton variety in India. “In South and central India, Monsanto seeds have become vulnerable to pink, American and spotted ballworm pests,” said Dr. Rathore. THE NEW VARIETY •The new BT variety is resistant to pests such as American ballworm, pink ballworm, spotted ballworm and tobacco caterpillar, claim PAU experts•The farmers will not have to buy seeds every sowing season as they can use the seed procured during the previous season, they say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pau-develops-new-pest-resistant-bt-cotton-variety-with-a-better-shelf-life/story-BGnz0hh3ulCdbeSxE7Vc0I.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMS to conduct clinical trials of Covaxin||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Haryana’s Rohtak is all set to conduct the clinical trials of the country’s ‘first’ indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology.Professors at PGIMS’ pharmacology department Dr Ramesh Verma, Dr Savita Verma, and Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Dhruva Chaudhary constitute the three-member team formed to conduct the trials. Dr Savita, who is also the principal investigator, said, “Rohtak PGIMS is among 12 institutions across the country chosen to check the efficacy of this vaccine. The safety of this vaccine has already been proven in animal studies by Bharat Biotech. It is an inactivated vaccine created from a strain of the infectious SARS-CoV-2. Inactivated vaccines use the killed version of the germ that causes a disease. It helps the immune system create an antibody response towards virus,” she added. Dr Chaudhary said this trial was planned to be conducted in two phases: seamless phase 1, followed by phase 2 of randomised, double-blind, multicenter study to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity, tolerability and immunogenicity of the whole-virion in activated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine in healthy volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgims-to-conduct-clinical-trials-of-covaxin/story-1uSlUR95HFbUqALXp9lpdN.html
01-07-2020||Gurugram||Three illegal buildings on Delhi-Jaipur highway demolished||Three illegal under-construction buildings were demolished in Binola village near the Delhi-Jaipur highway were demolished on Wednesday morning, said officials from the department of town and country planning (DTCP) that monitored the exercise.District town planner R S Bhath said they had put the owners of the buildings, being constructed in an illegal colony in the village, on notice six months ago. They tried to get a stay order from the courts, but the court did not grant it, he added. Bhath said the enforcement team reached the spot with police and machinery around 11am and started the demolition. “The owners tried to raise objections, but we warned them to stay away or else they could face penal action,” he said. “Two large buildings being constructed on 500 square yards and another being constructed on 1,000 square yards. These structures were being built for commercial purposes.” “We appeal to the plot buyers not to purchase property in illegal colonies as this would entail serious action and demolition,” said Bhath. The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Wednesday demolished nine milk booths in its plots on sector 38, 39 and 47. Hari Singh Jakhar, HSVP subdivisional engineer, said that these booth owners had taken no permission from the authority. On Tuesday, the authority had demolished 10 such booths in sector 56 and 56 in the city. Jakhar said that warning has also been given to the booth owners and if they encroach upon the HSVP land then complaints will be lodged against them in area police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-illegal-buildings-on-delhi-jaipur-highway-demolished/story-kc1eKBHlWJE7H94wBCdUrJ.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Delegation meets jathedar as part of campaign against caste practices among Sikhs||A delegation of Sikh intellectuals led-by Kendri Sri Guru Singh Sabha, Chandigarh, on Wednesday met Akal Takht’s acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and pressed upon him to support the ongoing campaign against the caste practices among Sikhs. The Jathedar held an interaction with the delegation members who asserted that prevalence of casteism was against the Sikh spirit. Jathedar reportedly gave his consent to join the Dalit March from Jallianwala Bagh to Akal Takht on October 20 this year, marking the centenary of taking of ‘parsad’ by Dalits to Akal Takht. The Jathedar also agreed to preside over a seminar on the subject next month. The Jathedar reportedly agreed to the delegation’s proposal that the theme of the forthcoming 400-year birth anniversary celebration of Guru Tegh Bahadur should be “rangrete-gur-ke-bete (Dalits, the chosen sons of Gurus)”.Members of the delegation included Gurpreet Singh from Global Sikh Council; Khushhal Singh, general secretary Kendri Sri Guru Singh Sabha; Prof Manjit Singh, former head of Dr Ambedkar Chair, Panjab University Chandigarh; Jaspal Singh Sidhu, member Institute of Sikh Studies, Chandigarh; Rajwinder Singh Rahi from Baba Jiwan Singh Foundation; Ajalpal Singh Brar, an author; and Prof Jagdish Singh from Naad Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delegation-meets-jathedar-as-part-of-campaign-against-caste-practices-among-sikhs/story-fh9xXxOcGVWnk4d23bPsuI.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||State issues government resolution to fix private ambulance fares||The Maharashtra government has decided to fix the fare for private ambulances and also requisition ambulances across the state to provide free services to patients. A government resolution (GR) in this regard was issued on Wednesday. In Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the per-kilometre fare is expected to be between ₹14 and ₹24, depending on the vehicle and facility. The minimum fare to be charged by private ambulance operators will be decided in conjunction with the regional transport authority (RTA).Ambulance prices in Mumbai and the MMR range between ₹700 for 24 hours or ₹14/km, to ₹1,190 for 24 hours or ₹24/km. An ambulance with basic facilities would cost ₹700 or ₹14/km, while an ICU or air-conditioned ambulance would cost ₹1,190 or ₹24/km.“Based on the prices fixed, the collectors and municipal commissioners will decide the rent for ambulances they requisition, and how much a person will pay if he hires a private ambulance. The fare and rent are expected to be around what RTA decides,” said a state transport department official.The public health department, which issued the GR, said that with the rising number of Covid-19 cases, there is a need to increase ambulance services. The order was issued after several complaints of private ambulances charging exorbitant fares to ferry Covid-19 patients.A note from the public health department said that the requisitioned vehicles will be used to ferry patients who are not in a serious condition, while private ambulances will be used for patients in serious condition.The district collector and municipal commissioners requisition private vehicles and ambulances on rent. In case a private operator wants to ply, minimum fare must be fixed based on the recommendation of the RTA of the district or city, on a per-kilometre basis. These ambulances will be available 24X7 to ensure prompt medical assistance to citizens.Last week, health minister Rajesh Tope had said that the state is working to fix the fare and get more ambulances. He had said that the Maharashtra government had decided to intervene to fix rates of these essential services and items so that there is no profiteering during the pandemic.The district administration or municipal corporation will pay for the ambulances their requisition, fuel, and drivers’ fee. Persons hiring private vehicles will have to pay the per-km fare. The state government has also asked district administrations and civic bodies to set up a mechanism to tackle complaints of inflated fares for ambulance services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-issues-government-resolution-to-fix-private-ambulance-fares/story-XUJgSrERyLTCoYWbdOPeLM.html
01-07-2020||City||Four of gang held for over 100 thefts in Gurugram during lockdown||Gurugram: The Sector 17 crime branch on Tuesday night arrested four members of a gang over their alleged involvement in at least 50 daytime burglaries in six residential areas across the city in the last three months, said the police.The gang used to target only locked houses in areas such as sectors 56, 57, 53, 54, Sushant Lok-1 and Palam Vihar, said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime). “The gang members had two various modus operandi. The first was to place a piece of paper on the door latch of the locked houses on the first day and check it the next day. If the paper was found missing, they used to target that house. In the second case, they used to ring the doorbell at least thrice, if no one answered within 10 minutes, they used to break the lock and ransack the house,” he said.Police said more than 100 theft cases were reported in the month of June alone from across the city.Sangwan said many families had left the city between March and April and returned in June. He said they received calls from these areas informing the police that their houses were targeted and electronic gadgets, cash and valuables are missing. In many cases, they had even picked up kitchen utensils and groceries.According to Sector 30 crime branch incharge Narender Chauhan, the suspects have been identified as Hari Kishan alias Sonu, Golu alias Vimal, Dalip Kumar and Ranjeet Soni, who are from areas of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Acting on tip-offs, the crime team arrested them from Sangam Vihar and Sainik Farms in Delhi. The gang is suspected to be involved in more than 100 cases of burglary in the city but police are working to identify more cases the suspects may have been involved in.The police said the suspects are history-sheeters who served time in Bhondsi, Tihar, Faridabad and Uttar Pradesh jails at different occasions in the last five years.Pankaj Kumar, a resident of Sector 56 who works in an IT firm in Sector 38, had reported that he had gone out of town with his family on April 2 and found their house ransacked when they returned on June 21. He alleged that cash, jewellery and electronic gadgets were stolen. “The entire house was topsy-turvy; the bed boxes were open, a cash locker fixed inside the almirah was missing. The television and computer were also taken away by the thieves. It seemed that they had spent enough time in the house as they had taken valuables from all rooms and took all utensils as well,” he said.Police said after they formed teams and recovered CCTV footage from different areas and got leads on location where the suspects were seen scouting repeatedly.They would usually steal items such as cash, jewellery and laptops, which are easier to carry in bags but due to lockdown, they picked up whatever they could even from the kitchen and the fridge, said the police, adding that they would spend more than two hours in a house or apartment without any fear.Sangwan said it is very shocking that the neighbours did not get to know about their movements or questioned any of them while they were leaving with bags and electronic gadgets which were visible.“During questioning, they revealed they carried out burglaries in locked houses as they were aware people had left for their hometowns and would not return during their operation. They would also switch off their phones to avoid detection via surveillance after leaving the spot, and changed numbers,” Sangwan said.The police said cases are registered against the gang members at four city police stations, and they are working on identifying more such cases. They are career criminals and have more than 100 cases registered against them in Gurugram, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh.Police said FIRs against them are registered under sections 380 (theft in dwelling house), 454 (house trespass) and 457 (house trespass in night) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-of-gang-held-for-over-100-thefts-in-gurugram-during-lockdown/story-WfuUUJFplkobo2rjPZ8l9N.html
01-07-2020||City||Haryana declares summer vacations for schools but online classes to continue||Gurugram: The state education department on Wednesday declared summer vacations for both government and private schools from July 1 till July 26 but with the caveat that distance-learning programmes and online classes would continue as usual -- leaving teachers confused and unhappy at the ambiguity of the decision. Schools will reopen only for teachers and administrative staff on July 27. Department officials said private schools could continue with online classes as usual during this period. Most private schools in the city had already declared vacation for a varying number of days between April and June in view of the Covid pandemic. The state government usually declares vacations in May-June every year. Government schools have been holding online classes since the first week of April due to the Covid pandemic. The state launched an e-learning campaign ‘Ghar se Padhao’ formally on April 14. Private school followed their own trajectory with some of them starting online classes in March itself.Indu Boken, district education officer, said declaration of the summer break was essentially a relaxation for government schools teachers, who had been reporting to work physically since last month. “School teachers and administration workers had been reporting to work so far. The declaration of summer vacations simply means they will not be required to visit schools during the specified period. Everything else including online classes will continue as before. The break will benefit staff members, especially at a time when cases in Gurugram are at an all-time high,” Boken said.The officer said schools will reopen only for teachers and staff after the vacation. “Physical classes for children will not start from July 27. The status quo remains as of now,” said Boken. Government school teachers who have been taking online classes since April said they were dumbfounded by the twin orders issued by the department on Wednesday. The government had initially issued an order declaring the onset of vacations, which was followed by another order clarifying that online classes would continue during the break.Teachers said the declaration of vacations was perfunctory at best and they had only been given a reprieve from physical visits to schools and not a break, as was being claimed. School heads and teachers have been asked to monitor online classes from home and submit a report as before.“We were under the impression that vacations had been declared for the benefit of teachers who were offering online classes since April. However, we have been asked to continue teaching as before. We are only getting a reprieve from physically visiting the schools. It is misleading to say that we will be on a break,” said a government school teacher who did not wish to be named. Another teacher, on condition of anonymity, said children were exhausted due to online classes and needed a break. “With easing of restrictions during the unlocking process and people resuming work, many children don’t have access to mobile phones during most part of the day. Some of them are going back to their native villages for a break. An actual break from classes would have helped these students,” said the teacher. Private school representatives said they were yet to receive any order through government channels. “We are yet to receive the order from official channels. So far, the understanding is that the order applies only to government schools. It doesn’t mention private schools specifically,” said Aditi Misra, principal, Delhi Public School, Sector 45. Boken said private schools could continue with online classes as usual.Parents are not happy with the decision. Kailash Sharma, general secretary of the Haryana Abhibhavak Ekta Manch, a parents’ body, said the summer vacation order was irrational and did not offer any relief to students who had been taking online classes for over three months now. “The government doesn’t understand that we are living through unprecedented circumstances. Students are already exhausted with online classes. They desperately need a break but by continuing online classes. The government is redefining the meaning of vacation,” said Sharma.Dayanand Singh Dalal, state president, Haryana School Lecturers Association, said the government failed to take cognisance of the interests of students and teachers who were stressed and were in need of a break. “Besides taking online classes, teachers have been actively involved in dispersal of mid-day meals and other requirements since the lockdown was first imposed. Students are stressed too, especially those who don’t have access to mobile phones. The government should have called off online classes and given time for revision instead,” said Dalal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-declares-summer-vacations-for-schools-but-online-classes-to-continue/story-OHu5WeVE1OrSP2PcccUMHK.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana logs 4 deaths, 393 fresh infections||Three patients in Faridabad and one in Gurugram died after battling coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday even as 393 fresh cases were recorded in the state, increasing the case count to 14,941, as per the health bulletin. However, the doubling rate of the infection on Wednesday stood at 16 days, while the recovery rate remained at 70.27%.Faridabad recorded 165 cases, Gurugram 116, Rohtak 22, Ambala 9, Palwal 10, Bhiwani 26, Karnal 14, Mahendergarh 5, Jhajjar 1, Nuh 8, Panipat 6, Kurukshetra 4, Fatehabad 4, Yamunanagar 2 and Kaithal 1.Meanwhile, 527 patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 were discharged from across the 17 districts. While 180 patients recovered and were discharged in Faridabad, 117 in Gurugram, 44 in Sonepat, 67 in Rohtak and 52 in Bhiwani.So far, 240 Covid-19 related fatalities (178 men, 62 women) have taken place in the state. Total 10,499 Covid-19 patients have recovered till now, while there were 4,202 active cases in Haryana on Wednesday.HOSPITAL STAFF TEST POSITIVE IN KARNALAmong the 14 persons who tested positive for the infection in Karnal were seven staff members and two patients of a private hospital in the district on Wednesday, taking the number of infected persons to 325 and active cases to 106 in the district.The fresh cases included two doctors aged 34 and 30 years, four nurses, a 30-year-old technician, and two patients of a private hospital of Karnal.Among other fresh cases were a 5-year-old boy, 49-year-old woman from Sector 7, who is also a staff nurse of KCGMCH Karnal, two men aged 24 and 39 from Gharaunda and a 78-year-old woman from Moti Nagar of Karnal.At least six new cases were reported in Panipat district, said chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma. The infected persons included a 6-year-old girl and a 60-year-old woman, besides a 20-year-old woman from Karad village. The CMO said there are 75 active cases in the district and 124 patients had been cured and discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-logs-4-deaths-393-fresh-infections/story-d01y0ZRq6ktYUfiNuDGvYP.html
01-07-2020||City||Gurugram: 16-year-old house help kills self||Gurugram: A 16-year-old girl, who worked as a house help in Gurugram’s Palam Vihar area, was found dead in a park on Wednesday. Police said they suspect it to be case of suicide, adding that according to her family members, she had been under stress as she had very few work opportunities since the lockdown was imposed. No note was recovered, the police said.Officers said the incident was reported around 6am when a morning walker at a park noticed her body suspended from a tree. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 (enquiry and report on suicide) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.Police said the girl had been staying with her parents and an elder brother in a rented accommodation.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “According to the statement of her family members, she was stressed as she was struggling to find work as a maid since the lockdown, due to fear of infection among households. Her father, who is a construction worker, and her brother, who works as a labourer, had been unemployed since the lockdown. The family said she was worried about their financial condition due to lack of work. It is suspected that she went to a park near her house sometime during the night and took the extreme step.”The body was taken to a private hospital in Palam Vihar and then referred to a civil hospital, where doctors declared her dead on arrival. Police said the girl’s body was handed over to her family after the post-mortem on Wednesday, following which the family left for Malda district. Suicide prevention helplines:+914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-16-year-old-house-help-kills-self/story-CV4nnbTyTIgdS1PhJuiJSJ.html
01-07-2020||City||Health dept to distribute pulse oximeters to home isolation patients for better monitoring||Gurugram: To monitor the health of Covid-19 patients isolated at home, the health department is planning to provide them with pulse oximeters on a returnable basis. The department on Monday issued 200 such instruments to rapid response teams (RRT) engaged in contact tracing of Covid-19 patients. 2,000 oximeters will be distributed to patients at home across the city. Health officials said monitoring through oximeters, which are being distributed for the first time, will help in early detection of patients whose oxygen saturation level becomes low as they develop sudden complications. In association with the district administration, the department on Wednesday also started online counselling sessions for home-isolated patients. The department carried out 1,225 rapid antigen tests in the city on Wednesday out of which 46 people tested positive for Covid -19, health officials said. On Tuesday, the department carried out 1,074 rapid antigen tests in eight large outbreak areas (LORs) out of which 58 patients were found to be Covid-19 positive, according to data shared by health officials. Rapid antigen testing starting in the city on June 23 “Our target is to conduct 2,000 rapid antigen tests daily to ensure maximum people are covered in these areas by July 14. We are in the process of procuring pulse oximeters and these would be distributed to patients isolated at their homes,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. The health department has formed seven teams for LORs and four teams for the rest of the city to conduct rapid antigen, RTPCR and sero tests in these areas. Eight municipal wards in the city have been designated as LORs as the number of cases there have exceeded beyond 15, the district administration said. Apart from testing and contact tracing, the administration has imposed restrictions on movement in these areas. Yadav said 500 masks, Covid awareness booklets and other material have been given to each team which is constantly engaging with patients. “We will distribute immunity boosting medicine through Ayush in LORs in the coming days,” said Yadav. As part of the online counselling, two doctors from the health department will hold two sessions daily from 11 am to 1 pm and 5 to 7 pm for patients isolated at home. These doctors will operate from the Gurugram mini-secretariat and provide counselling free of cost. To motivate the residents of large outbreak areas, the authorities have taken local social workers and councillors into confidence so that maximum people come for testing. “The decision to involve locals was taken after it was observed initially there was resistance among people to get tested,” said a government official. A senior government official on the condition of anonymity also said the objective of the health outreach in containment zones and LORs was more focussed on voluntary participation and awareness rather than taking coercive measures, which would alienate the people. “Already, the lockdown has hit the morale and it would be better that this exercise is participatory,” he said. The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, which is engaged in contact tracing of Covid 19 patients, meanwhile, said that to boost data-collection efforts across public health centres, it is holding a workshop for health care workers of those primary health centres (PHCs) that are lagging behind. “There are some PHCs where more training is required to streamline data collection and contact tracing. We are holding a workshop for them on Wednesday evening,” said Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer 1, HSVP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-dept-to-distribute-pulse-oximeters-to-home-isolation-patients-for-better-monitoring/story-wgej0I2TbK7ilLYBWLw9JO.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||In more relaxations, pillion rider allowed on bikes in Chandigarh||Now, a two-wheeler can have a pillion rider while three people can travel in car besides the driver. These are among a few relaxations allowed by the Chandigarh administration on Wednesday, following the announcement of Unlock 2 guidelines by the central government on June 29.Among other easing of restrictions, odd-even formula has been done away with in congested markets and serving of liquor has been allowed in marriage functions with approval of the excise department.As night curfew was relaxed by an hour on Tuesday, and will now begin at 10pm, shops and restaurants can remain open from 10am to 9pm. However, serving of liquor is still not allowed in restaurants, clubs and hotels while bars and pubs will remain shut.Also, call centres and industrial establishments can operate in night shifts, provided their employees do not leave the premises during the curfew period (10pm to 5am).Earlier, a two-wheeler was not allowed to have a pillion rider while a car could have only two people other than the driver. Besides relaxing these restrictions, the administration has also allowed auto-rickshaws to ferry up to two passengers, instead of just one.While odd-even formula was discontinued in markets during later phases of the lockdown, it remained in place in congested markets, such as Patel Market in Sector 15, Palika Bazar in Sector 18, Sadar Bazar in Sector 19 and Shastri Market in Sector 22. Besides doing away with it in these markets, it has also been discontinued at street vending sites.NO LIQUOR AT RESTAURANTSThe hospitality industry, which was the last to be allowed to open in Chandigarh, is one of the worst-affected sectors because of the Covid-19 lockdown.Its representatives expressed disappointment over the administration’s decision to not allow serving of liquor. “Though the administration has been allowing staggered opening of hospitality services, liquor, which is an integral part of guest requirements, continues to remain prohibited. This will have a negative cascading impact on the already paralysed industry,” said Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association. “The industry is in a severe crisis in the city. We have suffered more than ₹400-crore losses in the last three months. Even now, nearly 60% restaurants are closed, particularly because of the liquor ban,” said Arvinder Pal Singh, president, Chandigarh Hotel and Restaurant Association, while urging the UT to follow in the footsteps of Punjab for the sake of “survival of the industry, which is a major employment generator”. As liquor has been allowed at marriage functions, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said: “Opening of bars has been banned by the central government. In a marriage event, social distancing can be maintained.”Meanwhile, welcoming the UT’s decision on night shifts, Pankaj Khanna, president, Industries Association Chandigarh, said: “The administration should also address other issues faced by the industry in these extremely tough times.”NO APNI MANDIS FOR NOWWith concern over maintaining of social distancing norms at the congested apni mandis and organic markets, the administration decided to keep them closed for the time being.Also interstate bus service will continue to remain suspended, till further orders. With Covid-19 cases continuing to rise in Chandigarh, the administration on June 12 stopped the operations of all interstate buses just two days after Chandigarh Transport Undertaking had resumed its long-route services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-more-relaxations-pillion-rider-allowed-on-bikes-in-chandigarh/story-rRcu1qcSJoiLshyAGbZVzH.html
01-07-2020||City||Covid hits North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s tax collection||New Delhi: Already facing mouting budgetary losses, the Covid-19 pandemic has further crippled North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s finances as it struggles to pay its employees and contractors. To aggravate the problem, property tax collection, one of the main components of the civic body’s income, in the first quarter is running short by Rs150 crore, say officials privy to the information. Senior officials in both South Delhi Municipal Corporation and East Delhi Municipal Corporation also admitted to losses due to the pandemic but refused to share financial data. Civic authorities said that every year, the maximum amount of property tax is collected between April and June (the first quarter of the financial year) because of special discount of 15% offered by the municipalities.But, the authorities confirmed that collection in these three months was “very less” due to Covid-19 crisis and technical issues people faced while submitting the property tax online. Unable to meet its target, the North DMC has also extended its deadline for availing 15% rebate in property tax by one month till July 31. Officials said they have pegged the target for property tax collection 2020-21 financial year at Rs 1200 crore.Explaining the deficit in tax collection, a senior north corporation official, who did not wish to be named, said Rs 85 crore was collected in April, May and June while the collection in the same period last year was around Rs 264 crore -- Rs 179 crore less. The revenue collection in the same head during the first quarter in 2018-19 fiscal was Rs 250 crore.Officials said property tax collection in 2019-20 financial year was around Rs 600 crore, while in 2018-19 it was Rs 508 crore. “Generally, maximum share of property tax is collected either in the first quarter (April-June) or in the last quarter (January-March) because rebates are provided in these periods. The tax collection remained minimal in the first quarter this year because of lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic. Because of the crisis, we have revised target for the first quarter to Rs 150 crore. After relaxations began in June, we started setting up camps in different parts of the city for offline submission of property tax but the collection was still low,” an official of the north corporation said requesting anonymity.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has been struggling to pay its employees including doctors, teachers, sanitation employees and civil contractors. According to municipal officials, there are around 12 lakh property tax payers under the north civic body’s jurisdiction but only 4.25 lakh regularly pay their dues. The annual income of the north civic body is around Rs 2,000 crore. This includes revenue collections from property tax, parking contracts, advertisements, stamp duty and aids from central and state governments.“Due to Covid-19 crisis, we are facing a loss of over Rs 150 crore. Our income has been curtailed due to lockdown. For example, we did not get even a single penny during lockdown period from parking contracts and conversion charges,” Jai Prakash, mayor North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said.Officials also said that the other reason behind low tax collection is “unfriendly” online tax submission process due to technical issues with the website. The residents had complained that they were not able to submit their property tax online as the website was slow and the process had become complex, which was not the case till last year.Prakash said that corporation was working to solve the issue. “To boost our property tax collection, we are setting up camps where people can deposit their property tax. We have also extended the last date of availing 15% rebate on property tax by one month. It is now July 31. We are hopeful that we will be able to recover our losses by the end of this financial year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-hits-north-delhi-municipal-corporation-s-tax-collection/story-YSfwUT7nBMSCGdMCJDt5NJ.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Man gunned down in Yamunanagar||Three unidentified assailants opened fire at a 45-year-old man near his residence in Yamunanagar’s Mandhar village, police said on Wednesday, adding that the victim died on the way to hospital. The firing took place when Gurvinder Singh reached his house with his brother-in-law Jaswinder, who is the complainant in the case, on Tuesday night. “I was opening the lock of Gurvinder’s house while he was coming from a nearby shop with my son. Right then, three unidentified men came on a bike and started following him. He ran and entered a shop to save his life, but one of the assailants pumped three to four bullets into him,” Jaswinder said. An FIR was registered under sections 302, 34 and 120-B of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act against the accused at Chappar police station. SP Kamaldeep Goyal said, “As per the family, at least three assailants were involved in the firing. We are investigating the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-gunned-down-in-yamunanagar/story-ZuRjxbDLNQKEIRtV9v7KJN.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer unions support Punjab CM on sending strong message against agri ordinances||Supporting chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s call to send a strong message to the Centre on the agricultural ordinances and the proposed amendments to the Electricity Amendment Act, farmer unions in Punjab on Wednesday passed a resolution urging the Narendra Modi-led government to reconsider and withdraw the statutes. Attending a video conference meeting convened by the CM, the union leaders said the ordinances and the proposed amendments are anti-farmer besides being a direct attack on the federal fabric of the country.The CM slammed the Centre for undermining the contribution of the farmers and the soldiers, pointing out that they had clearly forgotten ‘kisan’ in the ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ slogan that reverberated through the country when Punjab’s farmers made India self-sufficient in foodgrains. Amarinder added, “The Centre is trying to take away all powers from the states. We should raise a united voice to send a strong message to Delhi that we will not allow this to happen.”He said the state along with the farmer unions will fight the Centre’s move to ruin the agriculture sector even without the support of the Akalis whom he accused of adopting double standards. He would try to get the CMs of other states on board to put up a united fight against the Centre on the issue, Capt said. On a suggestion of state Congress president Sunil Jakhar, the CM said he would get the proposal of challenging the ordinances in court legally examined besides discussing the issue in the Vidhan Sabha. He warned against trusting the Union government on the issue of continuation of minimum support price (MSP). “It is our responsibility to save Punjab’s future,” he said.A government official spokesperson said the farmer unions demanded the resignation of Harsimrat Kaur Badal from the central cabinet, citing the Akalis’ failure to protect the state’s interests to further their own political ambitions.Bhupinder Singh Mann, national president of Bharti Kissan Union (Mann Group) said they are with the state government in the fight against the ordinances. Bharti Kissan Union (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said the Centre could not be trusted on its promise to continue MSP and procurement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmer-unions-support-punjab-cm-on-sending-strong-message-against-agri-ordinances/story-vTAOcaMVvRfcnRmmGwgF5O.html
01-07-2020||Lucknow||Eyeing a govt job, rowers struggle in the absence of training||Sports has been known to get recognition as well as job in a state like Uttar Pradesh. Be it the government-run sports hostels or sports colleges or private and government academies, the aim is to get their sportspersons a suitable job, especially in the government sector.Uttar Pradesh has been a nursery for sports quota recruitment in police, railways and even in armed forces across the country and going by the record so far, an umpteen number of sportspersons from the state have been serving the country in various capacities. It’s an uninterrupted process since long but the pandemic COVID19 has put breaks on this process.Latest on the list of such sufferers are 60-odd rowers, based in Allahabad, Kanpur, Varanasi and Lucknow, who have been struggling to get trained before taking up jobs mainly in defence services. Despite being not a fully ‘contact’ sport they haven’t been allowed to train in the water and the Uttar Pradesh Rowing Federation has urged the government to allow them to do the training so that they could prepare for jobs.“Unlike swimming and gymnasium where chances of getting infected with corona virus, rowing doesn’t have that much of a problem as rowers with single and double scull could be allowed by the government, but there is no response to our appeal so far,” UP Rowing Association’s secretary, Sudhir Sharma said on Tuesday.“Our rowers have already lost important three months of training due to the coronavirus and now the rainy season is all set to give little time to rowers to get ready for the trials for jobs in October-November,” said Sharma, who has been trying hard to bring professionalism in the UPRA ever since he took over the reins in 2018.The 44-year old UPRA, which came into existence in 1976, has its existence at the Boat Club in Nishatganj here at the banks of river Gomti with the availability of 16 international standard boats, including four single scull, four pair, four double scull and four-four. “We could get these boats under the government’s scheme, where the remaining expenditure of 50 percent was born by the Rowing Federation of India.”In fact, the season for rowers in India was due to start in July with the conduct of sub-junior nationals at Kolkata, followed by junior nationals at Pune in August and senior nationals at Bhopal in October. “Successful rowers at these championships get a good attention of government organizations, who recruit people through sports quota but due to the corona now things look almost bleak,” said Sharma.After a long time, two youngsters from the state, Yuvraj Singh Yadav and Himanshu could finish fourth at the sub-junior nationals at Pune in the under-13 category in 2019, whereas Allahabad’s Shivam Nishad lost out in the semi-finals only in the under-15 category. But the real achievement for UP came at the senior nationals at Hyderabad when the duo of Manish Singh Yadav and Akshat won a bronze medal in 500m men’s pair event. In 2018, Kiran Devi, Raj Narain and Prem Sankar also had bronze medals in different events.“Now, Kiran Devi has a job in Assam Rifles. Two of our former rowers like Indian team member at the Doha Asian Games, Munshadi Khatun has been hired by the Haryana Sports Department, whereas Kudrat Ali was given the prestigious Laxman award by the UP Government in 2018. Few others like Rajesh Yadav and Dalbir Singh were given Yash Bharti and Arjuna awards, respectively.”Sharma, however, said that getting jobs in Uttar Pradesh has been a difficult preposition as for the last many years, the concerned authorities are struggling to formulate plan for this. “Look at the non-implementation of the policy of giving jobs in 2015 in which sportspersons with international achievements were supposed to be appointed on gazette posts so expecting anything in near future is very difficult. But if our rowers get proper training now they could be successful in getting jobs in central government’s organisation,” said a senior rower on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/eyeing-a-govt-job-rowers-struggle-in-the-absence-of-training/story-00zDb9KPXssTCrW25MLIqN.html
01-07-2020||City||AIIMS doc teams up with IIT-Delhi to launch app for patients needing plasma||New DelhiA resident doctor from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has collaborated with IIT-Delhi students to develop an app that enable users to track eligible and willing plasma donors who have recovered from Covid-19 at the hospital.The app – COPAL-19 -- was launched on the occasion of National Doctor’s Day on Wednesday. The doctor came up with the idea after running into trouble while looking for plasma for one of his seniors. Convalescent plasma therapy uses the blood component from a recovered person, which is rich in virus-fighting antibodies that boost the immune response of a patient.“One of my seniors had to be admitted to the intensive care unit in the hospital and his oxygen saturation kept dropping. That’s when the doctors suggested he be given plasma therapy. But even for us doctors it was difficult to get a donor after putting up messages on social media and calling up patients who had been treated at the hospital randomly. We got a donor after 12 hours,” said Dr Abhinav Singh Verma, a resident doctor in the department of neurosurgery at AIIMS.With no convalescent plasma bank or a dedicated registry in place, the app will help patients in need of the therapy. It will have the names, addresses, contact numbers, and blood groups of patients who have recovered from AIIMS 28 days ago and are willing to donate their plasma.To ensure that a donor is Covid-19 free before giving the plasma, government guidelines suggest the donation be taken 28 days after the recovery of the patient. And, in case the donation is taken after 14 days, the donor has to test negative twice.“The app will list details of only those who are willing to donate plasma and have pledged to do so before discharge. When we were searching for plasma for our senior, we realised many people declined to donate,” said Dr Verma. He said the app is open source and databases from other hospitals can be incorporated too.The Delhi government, encouraged by the results of a small trial at its Lok Nayak hospital, is also in the process of setting up a plasma bank. However, plasma is still not a proven therapy and the union health ministry allows its use only in Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms whose oxygen need does not come down despite receiving oxygen support and steroids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aiims-doc-teams-up-with-iit-delhi-to-launch-app-for-patients-needing-plasma/story-RSfEJMiWEMpUAWVnt6OeeJ.html
01-07-2020||City||Jammu: ACB arrests ex-MD of corporation in disproportionate assets case||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Wednesday arrested the former managing director of Small Scale Industries Development Corporation Limited (SICOP) for amassing huge wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income.The retired official has been identified as Bhupinder Singh Dua.According to an official spokesperson, Dua amassed “massive wealth” and raised a number of assets in his own name as well as in the names of his family members and close relatives.“He had acquired these assets with the ill-gotten money earned through corrupt practices during his stint at SICOP in various capacities,” the spokesperson said.On October 14 last year, the ACB had conducted a search on the premises of the former MD of SICOP and recovered valuable assets, including gold ornaments weighing 1.834kg, 1.470kg silver and ₹9, 57,400 cash.“During investigation, it was discovered that Dua has also acquired massive movable and immovable assets, including 12 different factories under different names and styles established by him and his family members including M/S Modern Plastics, M/S Neptune Plastics and Modern Fabrications,” the spokesperson said.He also acquired large number of goods carrier and trucks, two houses, two plots and four luxury vehicles.“In addition, the retired public servant has also raised a double-storey palatial house in Nanak Nagar area over 2 kanals of land, which clearly indicates that the accused is having property disproportionate to his known sources,” the spokesperson said.The accused was given ample time and opportunity to provide details of the assets and properties acquired by him.“He was taken into custody by ACB for questioning regarding assets acquired by him. Further investigations are going on,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-acb-arrests-ex-md-of-corporation-in-disproportionate-assets-case/story-fVvvkH6CJiJeZcOXuNNnZI.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||‘Congress govt has abolished ACR for Punjabi teachers’||Former state education minister and spokesperson of the Shiromani Akali Dal, Daljit Singh Cheema, on Wednesday, said that during the tenure of SAD-BJP government there was provision of annual confidential report (ACR) of teachers to give eight marks those who promote Punjabi language, but the Congress government has done away with it.In a statement, Cheema said that instead, the government has started giving five marks to those who promote English language in schools. He said that people of Punjab are surprised with this decision of Congress in a state whose official language is Punjabi.Cheema said that earlier, the government had made a provision to give five marks to those teachers who will teach 10% students of their class in English language and now taken this decision to abolish provisions to give eight marks to those who promote Punjabi language.“It means that those who are pro-Punjabi and work for the language will lose 13 marks according to the new rules framed by the Congress government. The message is clear – no need to promote Punjabi as you will get nothing,” he said.Cheema has written to Punjab higher education and language department minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa to apprise him of the development and demanded an independent probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-govt-has-abolished-acr-for-punjabi-teachers/story-3gJZOVxXnEABJCsq7fnN9N.html
01-07-2020||City||Fatal accident victim tests positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana||A 20-year-old man, who died in a road accident, was found positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Besides, 25 more people were found infected, taking the district tally to 865.Of the total patients, 592 have been discharged, while 22 people have succumbed to the virus. There are now 251 active cases in the district. The 20-year-old youth, Vikas, a resident of Rania village, was referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, under a critical condition. But, he died during treatment on June 30. Health officials said his sample was collected during treatment and he was found positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Among the 25 other patients are a 35-year-old doctor from BRS Nagar and a mother-son duo, aged 58 and 34, respectively. The two patients are contacts of previously positive people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fatal-accident-victim-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-ludhiana/story-baR95EIrjrjbB0c0fYYNDI.html
01-07-2020||City||Probe if medical certificates issued by a city doctor used to seek bail in criminal cases: Delhi high court||New DelhiThe Delhi High Court on Monday told the police, directorate of prosecution and police’s legal cell to examine their records and ascertain the number of cases in which people had applied for bail, interim bail and suspension of sentences in the last two years based on medical certificates and pathological reports issued by a city doctor. During a hearing, police said they found that the doctor handed several fake certificates to securing favourable court orders.The court issued the order while hearing the bail plea of one Abdul Rehman, who was involved in an Arms Act case. Rehman had attached a medical certificate prepared the doctor, Gajinder Kumar Nayyar.Opposing his bail, police had on June 22 filed a status report, alleging that Nayyar frequently prepared medical prescriptions in heinous cases in which the accused were granted bail or managed to get free from judicial custody and, in certain cases, the medical certificates were found to be fake.The doctor denied all allegations. “This is a planned attack on my reputation and I want a CBI enquiry into it. I have been falsely implicated by the police. I am running two charitable hospitals where several poor people come without documents. I cannot keep asking their criminal antecedents while treating them,”Nayyar said.“...the allegations raised by the prosecution and the orders passed by Delhi Medical Council, in my view, it would be appropriate if an inquiry is conducted by the crime branch ...into the allegations raised by the prosecution that Dr Gajinder Kumar Nayyar is issuing fake medical certificates to accused/convicts and/or family members of the accused/convicts for extraneous consideration and not for medical considerations to facilitate then in obtaining favourable orders of bail, interim bail and suspension of sentence,” the court said.The prosecution also said several certificates were issued by Nayyar in serious criminal cases. The police said the probability of him being part of a syndicate, if any, could not be ruled out. Advocate Rahul Mehra, the standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal), said that despite the suspension of his licence from April 19, 2019, till November 29, 2020, Nayyar continues to practise as a doctor and issue medical certificates based on which several applications are being moved in courts seeking bail, interim bail and suspension of the sentence by accused.Following this, the court ordered the police to conduct an enquiry and file a status report in the matter. It said a copy of this order should be sent to all district judges of Delhi for immediate circulation it to all the judges of their respective courts dealing with applications for grant of interim bail, regular bail and suspension of sentences by accused people or convicts. The matter would be now heard on July 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/probe-if-medical-certificates-issued-by-a-city-doctor-used-to-seek-bail-in-criminal-cases-delhi-high-court/story-LlcTsKWZSSk6d0teycytQO.html
01-07-2020||City||Covid facilities: High court seeks Delhi govt response on plea by banquet hall owners||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Delhi government to respond to concerns raised by owners of more than 100 banquet halls, who are challenging the administration’s move to convert them into Covid facilities in order to meet the increasing demand for beds as coronavirus cases spike in the capital.Justice Jayant Nath asked the Delhi government to file a short reply after advocate Sachin Chopra, who is representing the banquet halls, told the court that the government had already readied 20,000 beds for mild or asymptomatic patients, of which only 50 had been used. Chopra said while 10,000 beds had been created at the Radha Soami Beas Satsang facility, 8,000 beds have set up in 500 train coaches.The Delhi government initially plans to use eight banquet halls as Covid facilities and make space for at least over 1,100 beds in such spaces across the city. These eight are part of the 77 banquet halls identified and requisitioned by the Delhi government. At first eight halls will be used and if the need arises, the rest would be roped in.Highlighting the problems faced by banquet halls, Chopra said these facilities are not feasible to be used as Covid care centres because there are only 4-5 common toilets that are used by everyone.The court, at this point, interjected and said, “Why can’t it (banquet hall) be converted into a Covid care centre? It has a big hall which can be used. It is for the government to decide on the permutations and combinations of how the facilities can be used.”Advocates Ashutosh and Ayush Gupta, appearing for another petitioner, said no standard operating procedures (SoPs) had been followed by the government while taking the decision.Appearing for the Delhi government, additional standing counsel Satyakam told the court the decision was taken due to the increasing number of cases in the city. Delhi had till Wednesday recorded 89,802 cases of Covid-19.Satyakam said that in any case, the halls were not functional at present and the government had not granted them permission to operate even though a gathering of not more than 50 people had been allowed for marriages. After the arguments, the court asked the Delhi government to file its reply and posted the matter for July 7.The hall owners contended they had bookings for marriages. They argued that the government’s June 12 order to convert banquet halls into extended Covid hospitals was contrary to the law and liable to be quashed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-facilities-high-court-seeks-delhi-govt-response-on-plea-by-banquet-hall-owners/story-MwlsxTSxHhfgVVX9zVkD8I.html
01-07-2020||City||Two men end life in Mohali||A 52-year-old Rajasthan man and a 22-year-old Haryana man on Wednesday allegedly committed suicides in two separate cases here.In the first case, the victim was working under a local contractor for the last 30 years and had been living alone, said the police.On Wednesday morning, when another contractor reached the victim’s room, he found him hanging from a ceiling fan. Police said a suicide note was recovered in which the victim had written that he was taking the extreme step following mental stress and no one [else] was responsible for that.The victim’s body has been kept in the mortuary of Dera Bassi civil hospital for postmortem. Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC have been initiated.In the second case, a 22-year-old youth hanged himself at his paying guest accommodation in Phase 11 on Wednesday evening.The victim was working in a private company at Bestech Towers in Sector 66 here. The youth was found hanging from a wooden ladder on the terrace of the PG building. The suicide was captured on CCTV camera.The victim’s friends said he had been in his room all day due to a weekly holiday. Inquest proceedings were initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-end-life-in-mohali/story-WXwDkihevTBOtae5Dv0BjK.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Departmental inquiry ordered against Chandigarh woman cop booked in ₹5-lakh graft case||More trouble brews for inspector Jaswinder Kaur, who is on the run after the Central Bureau of Investigation booked her in a ₹5 lakh graft case on Tuesday, as Chandigarh Police have ordered a departmental inquiry against her after placing her under suspension.Jaswinder Kaur, who was removed as the Manimajra station house officer after being booked, had allegedly demanded the money from a Manimajra resident, Gurdeep Singh, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him. The CBI had arrested the conduit, Bhagwan Singh, while accepting ₹1 lakh as part of the bribe amount on Monday.“We are taking action against Jaswinder, who has been placed under suspension. A departmental inquiry has been opened against her,” said superintendent of police Manoj Kumar Meena, who holds the charge of both crime branch and headquarters.Continues to evade arrest, CBI writes to SSPThe CBI after raiding Jaswinder’s house and police station had summoned her to join investigations on Tuesday, but she remains untraceable after switching off her mobile phone. During the raid, Jaswinder had maintained that the money recovered from Bhagwan is part of a compromise reached between Gurdeep and Randhir Singh, who had accused him of ₹28-lakh fraud in the name of getting his wife a government job. The CBI wants the inspector to join investigations in order to quiz her along with Bhagwan. The CBI has now written to senior superintendent of police Nilambari Vijay Jagadale, asking her to direct Jaswinder to join investigations. A reminder was also sent. The SSP is a supervisory officer.However, the SSP office on Tuesday had conveyed to the CBI that Jaswinder was transferred to the police lines and asked it to write to the SP headquarters, who oversees the police lines. The SSP office had also informed the CBI that for taking action against an inspector-rank officer, the deputy inspector general (DIG) or above is the disciplinary authority.Meanwhile, the CBI has seized a few more documents regarding the case, after Jaswinder on Tuesday claimed the complaint was not pending with her and she was being falsely implicated. She reportedly told the CBI that she had forwarded the file to her “seniors”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/departmental-inquiry-ordered-against-chandigarh-woman-cop-booked-in-5-lakh-graft-case/story-5CtiiZgqJ9ui8IelXJpXhM.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh education department likely to cancel reappear exams for classes 9, 11||In a fresh turn of events, the UT education department may cancel compartment examinations for classes 9 and 11 in which over a thousand students are supposed to sit.During the lockdown, the department in April had released term-end results for classes 9 and 11 digitally, after which students were supposed to appear in compartment examinations in May. However, since the lockdown was extended, the exams were postponed and the final date sheet was never released.Harbir Anand, district education officer, UT, said, “We have moved the file. The government of India has already said that schools cannot re-open till July 31. CBSE, too, has cancelled the board exams. Even the Supreme Court has heard the matter, so what can we do. Formal orders are yet to be received.”Anand further said, “Most probably we will test the students based on their previous assessments. The students cannot be let to fail simply because we are not able to hold exams. Our efforts are concentrated on promoting the students given the current situation and keeping legality in mind.”In Class 11 of 14,000 students who appeared in the term-end examination, 560 got compartments, whereas in Class 9, 4,100 of 12,000 students have to reappear.This when the students were also awarded 30 grace marks. In 2019, 55% students passed the Class 9 examinations, whereas this year, the figure is 72.2%. For Class 11, 70.5% passed last year, while this year, 95.15% did.Government schools in Chandigarh had registered a 20% rise in the number of students who have cleared examinations for classes 9 and 11 compared to last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-likely-to-cancel-reappear-exams-for-classes-9-11/story-JKVghWVgrx7y8mshIIVXJI.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Post-Matric Scholarship: Educational institutes appeal to state govt to release central share||Educational institutes from Punjab on Wednesday appealed to the state government to release central share to the tune of ₹309 crore of the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme to arrange for beds and other facilities for Covid-19 patients on their premises that are being used as quarantine centres.Addressing a press conference in Jalandhar, members of the Confederation of Punjab Unaided Institutions said the state government had not released ₹1853 crore under the scheme for last three academic years even they had received the share from the Centre.“We have requested the chief secretary to release at least ₹309 crore to that the Centre released for this year. The state government has not issued funds for the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20,” said confederation chairman Ashwani Sekhri.He said neighbouring Haryana and Himachal Pradesh had paid the dues to their institution on time.The members said in the 2015-16 academic session, the colleges and universities, both public and private, received funds under the scheme. Now, the scholarship has turned into a financial burden for these institutions due to the pendency that was ₹415 crore in 2016-17, ₹538 in 2017-18, ₹437 crore in 2018-19 and ₹450 crore in 2019-20.In Punjab, over 2.5 lakh students belonging to the scheduled castes (SC) are the direct beneficiaries of the scheme. The scholarship (mainly as academic fee waiver) is paid to the students whose parents and guardians’ annual income from all sources does not exceed ₹2.5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/post-matric-scholarship-educational-institutes-appeal-to-state-govt-to-release-central-share/story-Tpm02OxxoTu8C69gtBm1DN.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Five deaths, 100 fresh corona cases in Punjab||Punjab on Wednesday reported five deaths and 100 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the state’s infection tally to 5,668 and death toll to 149.Three deaths, one each from Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts, were reported in Amritsar hospitals on Wednesday, health officials said.“A 73-year-old-man from Green Avenue, Amritsar, was was admitted to a private hospital when he showed symptoms of Covid-19. His samples were sent for testing and reports came out to be positive. He died during treatment on Wednesday,” said civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh.Also, a 56-year-old man of Bhijhiwind area of Tarn Taran, was admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, since June 29 when he was tested positive for Covid-19. The patient showed no signs of recovery and passed away on Wednesday.Another Covid-19 positive patient of Ammo Nangal village, located in Batala area of Gurdaspur district, was admitted at GMCH Amritsar, a few days back and he also died on Wednesday.9 FRESH CASES IN AMRITSARThe Amritsar district reported nine fresh cases of Covid-19 of which five are fresh community transmission cases and four close contacts of the Covid-19 patients. The district’s total tally is now 966, out of which 44 have died and 759 have recovered, said the civil surgeon.23-YR-OLD MAN SUCCUMBS IN LUDHIANA A 23-year-old man died while 28 persons, including 25 from the district, tested positive for coronavirus in. A resident of Rania village had met with an accident on Sunday. He was rushed to Government Rajindra Hospital under critical condition where he died during treatment on June 30. According to the health department, his samples were collected during treatment and he tested positive for the virus.A 35- year old doctor form BRS Nagar and mother and son duo aged 58 and 34 years, who are from a noted industrial house of Ludhiana, tested positive of Covid-19. With this, the district has reported 865 cases so far, of which 592 patients have been cured. 11 FRESH CASES IN JALANDHAR Eleven more people tested positive for the virus in Jalandhar. With this, the district has reported 733 positive cases, including 476 recoveries and 22 deaths, so far. Five persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Moga. Moga civil surgeon Dr Amarpreet Kaur said that all the patients are contacts of a 55-year-old police personnel, who was tested positive on Tuesday. In Faridkot, three persons, including a cop, tested positive for Covid-19.SIX MORE CONTRACT INFECTION IN HOSHIARPURA merchant navy staffer of Chak Sarwani village of Mukerian sub-division and five close contacts of a Covid-19 woman of Tanda Ram Sahai village tested positive for the virus. A one-year-old child is also among the infected. Civil surgeon Jasbir Singh revealed that the jawan had come on leave and before re-joining his duty, when he got himself tested, he was found to be suffering from corona infection.Meanwhile, five more people tested positive in Mohali district, taking its total to 276. The number of active cases stands at 73.The patients include a 39-year-old woman from Zirakpur, two women, aged 19 and 35, from Behda village in Dera Bassi and another 20-year-old woman, all contacts of previous cases.The fifth case is of a 61-year-old man from Khanpur who had recently returned from Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-deaths-100-fresh-corona-cases-in-punjab/story-6BG6nX5EzbGWK7DRfD2kyL.html
01-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 60 fresh coronavirus cases; tally rises to 2,490||Sixty more people, including three Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) jawans, were on Tuesday tested positive for coronavirus in Jharkhand, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 2,490 in the state, a government bulletin said here.The total infected cases include 1,974 migrants who have returned to the state since May 1, it said.The bulletin said 1,884 people, including 35 during the day, were discharged from hospitals across the state after they recovered from the disease. Fifteen people have died due to coronavirus infection.The state now has 591 active cases, it said.Ramgarh Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Singh said the three CISF jawans, who are posted at the National Thermal Power Corporation at Patratu, have been in an institutional quarantine facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-60-fresh-coronavirus-cases-tally-rises-to-2-490/story-wmTsI0hAAy7ZhudfXggA3I.html
01-07-2020||City||3rd Punjab-origin man held in a month for smuggling marijuana from Canada into US||A third Indian man has been caught within a month allegedly smuggling marijuana valued at millions of dollars from Canada into the United States, according to officials. Prabjot Nagra, 26, was arrested while bringing in 4,296 kg of marijuana valued at $20 million in a commercial truck across the Peace Bridge connecting the two countries near the Niagra Falls, officials said on Monday.“For the third time in as many weeks, the diligence of Customs and Border Protection Officers has resulted in the seizure of literally tons of illegal controlled substances destined for our country,” James Kennedy, the federal prosecutor for Western New York said.Arshdeep Singh, 21, was caught smuggling 816 kg of marijuana valued at $2.5 million on June 5 and Gurpreet Singh, 30, was arrested on June 13 while transporting 1,517 kg of marijuana worth $5 million, according to prosecutors.Like Nagra, they are also Indian citizens and used commercial trucks with trailers to cross the Peace Bridge about 20 kilometres from the Niagra Falls with the contraband, officials said.Nagra and Gurpreet Singh face a minimum sentence of 10 years in prison because of the quantity allegedly smuggled and Arshdeep Singh five years.Nagra was arrested when an x-ray of his truck that was said to be carrying 55 storage containers showed “inconsistencies” in the trailer and an examination found the marijuana in vacuum-sealed bags before midnight last Thursday, according to prosecutors.It was probably the largest seizure of marijuana at the northern border in New York, WIVB TV reported quoting an official.Kennedy said, “We will remain vigilant to protect our border from those who seek to profit from the importation of these illegal substances, as they not only fuel the violent drug trafficking organisations who distribute them but jeopardize the health and well-being of those, including minors, who use it.”Using marijuana for recreational purposes, growing it and possessing it is legal in Canada since 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3rd-punjab-origin-man-held-in-a-month-for-smuggling-marijuana-from-canada-into-us/story-iZWvCZimFIvFIwJ9fdil4O.html
01-07-2020||City||Sisodia orders audit of college over ‘irregularities’||New Delhi: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday ordered an audit of Delhi University’s Bhagini Nivedita college over complaints of financial irregularities. The college is among the 10 colleges fully funded by the Delhi government.Citing multiple complaints over financial irregularities as a “serious matter”, Sisodia, in the order, said, “These complaints have come from different stakeholders such as students, parents, teachers, etc.” The other allegations include financial irregularities in tendering processes, buying of unnecessary items not needed in educational institutions.”Acting Principal Charru Sharma said she wasn’t aware of the order and had joined the college only a year ago. A university official, requesting anonymity, said, “The order is like an intimidation tactic over the governing body elections in the college. They don’t have the numbers there to ensure that their candidate wins the elections for the post of the governing body chairperson.”“Directorate of Higher Education should immediately get the accounts of the last two years of Bhagini Nivedita College audited, preferably by a CAG empanelled auditor,” the order read, adding the compliance report should be submitted within 15 days.This is not the first time the Delhi government has levelled allegations of financial irregularities in DU colleges. In May, Sisodia had written to DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi, alleging that the varsity was deliberately delaying the formation of governing bodies in 28 Delhi government-funded colleges of the varsity to shield corrupt officials.Across colleges, these governing bodies (GB) take decisions for smooth the functioning of a college, including the appointment of teaching and non-teaching staff. The 10-member governing bodies in these colleges have people nominated by both the university and the Delhi government. The tenure of the governing bodies in 28 Delhi government colleges expired in March 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-orders-audit-of-college-over-irregularities/story-9kRIMxTmEl30f4yhD4e7CI.html
01-07-2020||City||Constable found hanging from tree in Delhi Cantonment||New Delhi: The decomposed body of a 26-year-old Delhi Police constable, who was missing since June 28, was found hanging from a tree at an isolated place near the railway tracks in Delhi Cantonment area in southwest Delhi on Wednesday morning.The constable was not in police uniform. His body was spotted by a passerby who called the police control room, senior police officers associated with the incident said.“Prime facie, it appears the constable died by hanging. However, we are waiting for his autopsy report for a final conclusion. The police identity card found in his pocket helped us ascertain his identity,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya.Officials said testing will be done on the constable’s body to ascertain if he was positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)A police officer privy to the incident said the constable was unmarried and lived with his father in Delhi. “Through his relatives, we have learned that the constable had an altercation with his father before he left home on June 28. He did not return home since then and was untraceable. We will verify the information after speaking with his father,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/constable-found-hanging-from-tree-in-delhi-cantonment/story-U2AVXNH5vEkfM3lHi8sn5I.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Year on, PU yet to decide on promotion policy for faculty of dental college||Even after a year, Panjab University is yet to decide on promotion policy for faculty members of Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital.In June last year, Punjab and Haryana high court in its order had directed PU and Dental Council of India (DCI) to decide on a promotion policy for the faculty of the varsity’s dental college.In May 2019, as many as 37 faculty members had approached the HC arguing that PU has framed a promotion policy/career advancement scheme as per regulations of the University Grants Commission (UGC) for faculty of all other colleges. However, the benefit of the same is not being given to faculty of the dental institute, they said.At first, a four-month deadline was given to PU in June last year, which the varsity missed. In January 2020, PU was given another deadline till March, but no hearing took place amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Now, as per reports, the high court has given a show-cause contempt notice to the vice chancellor and registrar of the university for willful disobedience.A committee was also formed by PU last year to examine the matter and make recommendations. It is learnt that despite the committee making its recommendation, the university has still failed to submit its reply to the high court.A member of that panel said, “As per my understanding, the dental faculty opted for the Punjab government’s scales for medical faculty, and there are some technical issues in implementing the career advancement scheme approved by the UGC.”Earlier, in 2017, the university had written to UGC which had opined that the matter does not come under the purview of the commission and recommended that it should be taken up with DCI.Dr Ikreet Singh Bhal, a faculty at the dental college, said, “We have been waiting for a promotion policy for the last nine years. I think the university has no intention to decide on it.” PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “We are in the process of deciding the policy and will adhere to the HC’s order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/year-on-pu-yet-to-decide-on-promotion-policy-for-faculty-of-dental-college/story-2JJNjoB4AnkoNUacmi3sEJ.html
01-07-2020||City||Five ITBP personnel among 26 fresh Covid-19 cases in Himachal, tally rises to 979||Five Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) jawans in Kinnaur were among 26 fresh Covid-19 cases recorded in Himachal Pradesh, taking the total number of cases in the state to 979.Kinnaur chief medical officer Dr Sonam Negi said the five jawans came to Reckong Peo from Jammu. He said a total of 173 samples, including 164 of ITBP jawans, three of Himachal Pradesh Police and five of Border Roads Organisation (BRO) labourers were sent for testing on June 30 of which five have come out positive.TWO ARMY JAWANS TEST POSITIVE IN KANGRASix people, including two army jawans, tested positive in Kangra. The soldiers aged 33 and 21 were deployed at the Army Headquarters in Delhi. One of them had returned on June 22 and other on June 26. Other patients include three men and a woman.Two cases were reported in Bilaspur. Among the patient is a 17-year-old youth who returned from Bengaluru while the other 23-year-old returned from Delhi. Both were under institutional quarantine.One person tested positive in Sirmaur. The man had returned from Delhi with his family on June 16. He initially tested negative twice but his sample sent for testing on June 29 came out positive, said Rajpur block medical officer Ajay Deol.A 24-year-old student, who returned from Tamil Nadu, has tested positive in Shimla district. He has been shifted to Covid-care centre Mashobra.341 ACTIVE CASESActive cases in the state now stand at 341 as 42 more patients have recovered. The total number of people cured is 617. The recovery rate is above 63%. Eleven people have migrated to other states and seven have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-itbp-personnel-among-26-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-979/story-gCh8L9hoaJyIYKdJ9J37qN.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Doctor’s Day: Front-line workers of Ludhiana civil hospital ask people to follow safety measures||On Doctor’s Day, health professionals working on the front-line at civil hospital said they wish for the well-being of people in these testing times.Dr Anmol Rattan, who is deployed at the Covid-19 unit of the civil hospital since the beginning of March, said, “On this day, I hope this phase ends and people remain healthy.”Dr Rattan said he also hopes that perception of residents towards the civil hospital changes. “There is a general perception among residents that they may fall ill or contract the virus if they visit the civil hospital. This perception should change. Covid-19 tests are being conducted here for free and government is providing best facilities for patients,” he added.Dr Milan Verma, who had first raised the issue of poor quality PPE kits and face masks, was busy collecting samples in a PPE kit.“Each day has been Doctor’s Day since the virus spread in the country. However, I wish people follow government guidelines seriously and help authorities curb the spread,” said Verma.Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga, civil surgeon, while congratulating the staff on Doctor’s Day, said that this day was celebrated in all health institutions in Ludhiana district.Speaking on the occasion, he said doctor serve the society at all times. But today, doctors all over the world are engaged in public service. Praising medical professionals, he said service rendered at such a time is even more important as doctors are now dedicating all their time to the service of society.He lauded the staff and appealed to them to continue serving the needy.He also appealed to the public to take precautionary measures and contact the health institution if necessary for any information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/doctor-s-day-front-line-workers-of-ludhiana-civil-hospital-ask-people-to-follow-safety-measures/story-GTwKIgiRGL53MmZZPkb4vJ.html
01-07-2020||City||Fire breaks out at synthetics unit in Ludhiana, no casualty reported||A major fire broke out at Sahib Synthetics situated near Jalandhar Bypass on Tuesday night, the police said. No casualty was reported, but goods and machinery worth crores were gutted.Fire department officials said that the fire may have broken out due to a short-circuit at around 9.15pm. The labourers residing in the factory quarters raised an alarm after they saw smoke emanating from the unit. Six fire tenders were deployed and the fire fighting operation continued for over four hours.One of the labourers sustained an injury on the arm after he broke open a window to pull out important documents. He is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Owner of the factory, Amarjit Singh, said, “The unit was closed at 8pm. It is suspected that there was a short circuit and labourers apprised us about the same at around 9:30pm. We have suffered losses of around Rs 3.5 crore as imported machinery was gutted and the building has developed cracks.” Sub fire officer (SFO) Maninder Singh said, “Six fire tenders were rushed to the spot after we received an alert at 9.30pm and the fire fighting operations continued till 1.45am. No casualty was reported and flames were also restricted to a certain area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-at-synthetics-unit-in-ludhiana-no-casualty-reported/story-3J1c8o9qE2JsKLa0NgdQ0L.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dial 0161-4085039 on facing waterlogging during rains in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has set up a 24/7 flood control room - 0161-4085039-to deal with water logging woes during the rainy season.A team of 242 members has also been deployed to deal with the problem in over 80 low-lying areas, which have been identified by the MC.The control room will remain operational from July 1 to September 30, and work in three shifts. The field staff will have to apprise them of the action which has been taken against the complaints. The residents can also complain about slow lifting of garbage at the helpline number.Officials said that two poclain machines have been deputed to clean the main drain of the city – Buddha nullah. Different teams will patrol the nullah to avoid overflow of sewer water.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said,”No leave will be sanctioned during the monsoon, except in case of emergency. Cleaning of road gullies is also being taken up. The employees will remain on field and I will also conduct inspections.”Apart from the control room, the residents can also complaint at the following numbers in case of emergency:Zone A:Zonal commissioner Navraj Brar: 9888888802Superintending engineer Rajinder Singh: 9780900123Superintending engineer Tirath Bansal: 9780039429Executive engineer Pradeep Kumar: 9780039407SDO Ekjot Singh: 9780013004Nodal officer (health) Ashwani Sahota: 981444448Zone B:Zonal commissioner Swati Tiwana: 7508161360Superintending engineer Rajinder Singh: 9780900123Superintending engineer Praveen Singla: 9780039433Engineer Parshotam Lal: 9780039479Chief sanitary inspector Ameer Singh Bajwa: 9988096286Zone C:Zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain: 9988234600Superintending engineer Ravinder Garg: 9988820840Superintending engineer Rahul Gagneja: 9780039434Engineer Amandeep Grewal: 9988830795Chief sanitary inspector Jagjit Singh: 9646101121Zone D:Zonal commissioner Kulpreet Singh: 9855883389Superintending engineer Ravinder Garg: 9988820840Superintending engineer Rahul Gagneja: 9780039434SDO Anshul Garcha: 9815144612Chief sanitary inspector Bantu Singh: 9646006886||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dial-0161-4085039-on-facing-waterlogging-during-rains-in-ludhiana/story-E2UpxRQleuINeUgwgwOmaP.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh saw wettest June since 2013||With 170.3mm rain, this June was the wettest since 2013, according to records available with the India Meteorological Department. “Even before the monsoon arrived, there had been a confluence of western disturbances with low-lying easterly winds that led to higher rainfall that usual,” said Surender Paul, director, IMD, Chandigarh. “The city is expected to receive 107% of the normal rainfall during the monsoon (June to September).”According to the data, bulk of the rain was recorded before premonsoon showers began on June 21. Only 35.3mm rain has been recorded since then.RAIN TO RETURN AT WEEKENDAfter an early declaration of monsoon on June 24, there has been a lull recently. Officials said the system has weakened in the northwestern region of the country, but is likely to become stronger from Saturday onwards. “Light rain is likely from Saturday night,” said the weatherman.Maximum temperature went up from 36.3°C on Tuesday to 36.5°C on Wednesday. Minimum temperature went up from 28.1°C to 29.8°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 36 and 38 degrees while minimum temperature will be around 28 to 30 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-saw-wettest-june-since-2013/story-frm1AdwJKJLjBR7zG6hxQO.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Govt schools in Ludhiana to get improved sports facilities||State authorities have directed government schools to send them information regarding sports facilities available so that infrastructure/equipment can be upgraded. The state education department has decided to uplift sports infrastructure by setting up facilities for athletics, basketball volleyball, badminton and football to encourage students to participate in games. Schools have been instructed to provide information on the number of students, equipment required, area of the ground and if basketball and volleyball courts can be set up on campus.To avail of the upgraded sports infrastructure, every primary and middle school must have 100 or more students. For high school, the school must have a strength of 400 or more, while for senior secondary, the school should have 500 students or more. The school heads can email the information to aeo.ludhiana@gmail.com.The sports teachers in government schools said games help students learn various skills like leadership, teamwork, social skills, patience and discipline. They said every school must have a physical education instructor who can guide students and help them practice the game they are interested in. District education officer (secondary), Swaranjit Kaur, said, “For the holistic development of students, they need to participate in academics and other co-curricular activities. There are many schools in district which have grounds and tracks can be set up to organise games and students can use them for practice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-schools-in-ludhiana-to-get-improved-sports-facilities/story-c03M66geezFpSIYEEf3xGN.html
01-07-2020||City||First IAS officer with J&K domicile counters fake posts attributed to him on social media||Navin Kumar Choudhary, who recently became the first IAS officer to get the domicile certificate of Jammu and Kashmir, on Wednesday expressed regrets over “false and malicious” reports being carried against him.Choudhary said, “Reports were being published quoting me from Twitter and other social media portals, but the fact of the matter is that I have not been using any platforms for the past several years.”“Those carrying reports should have first verified them,” he added.The senior IAS officer also refused to react to Naitonal Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah’s remarks soon after the former was given domicile certificate by Tehsildar Bahu in Jammu.“I will not react (to Omar Abdullah and other parties from Kashmir). It is a personal issue and I have no comments for them. I have also not made any comments anywhere. All (reports) are wrong reportage,” he said.Countering fake messages and photos being sent by some fake Twitter handle accounts created using his name, Choudhary, who is principal secretary of agriculture, horticulture, animal, sheep husbandry and cooperative departments, also officially informed that for the last several years he has not been using any social media platform like Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn etc”.He further informed that this matter has already been brought to the notice of J&K Police cyber cell for taking appropriate action, and twitter.com has also been intimated about this serious matter.After Choudhary, along with 25,000 people, was granted a domicile certificate by the J&K administration, Kashmir centric parties said they have been opposing the law from the very beginning and could see the nefarious design behind it.Choudhary has also served in IT, finance, industries and tourism departments in J&K in his long career.“All our misgivings about the new domicile rules in J&K are coming to the fore. We in JKNC opposed the changes because we could see the nefarious design behind the changes. The people of J&K on both sides of the Pir Panjal mountains will be the sufferers of these domicile rules,” former chief minister Omar Abdullah had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-ias-officer-with-j-k-domicile-counters-fake-posts-attributed-to-him-on-social-media/story-duq8dwUHPjzlZVhWuCJVRK.html
01-07-2020||City||BJP accuses former Cong minister of prejudice in granting HIMUDA projects||BJP leader and Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) director Sanjay Sharma has alleged irregularities in award of works by Himachal Urban Development Authority (HIMUDA) building works during the previous Congress regime.In a press conference held here on Wednesday, Sharma alleged that only two Mohali-based firms — M/S Level 9 and M/S Synergy Thrislington — were given special favours by senior Congress leader Sudhir Sharma, who at the time held the urban development portfolio. Interestingly, Synergy Thrislington is a client of Level 9, he said.He alleged that only these two firms used to bid for building projects by HIMUDA and were awarded works of which they had no experience.“For a HIMUDA building to be constructed using expanded polystyrene system (EPS) , Level 9 was awarded work. However, a third party moved the high court contending that the firm had no experience in building EPS structures,” he said.Sharma alleged that the then state government mislead the high court by stating that the structure was being built with reinforced cement concrete system.The BJP leader also alleged that the works were awarded on much exorbitant rates to the two companies while the market price was much lower.He alleged that the rules were tweaked to grant special favours to the two companies. The government negotiated the rates with the companies after the price quoted by these two firms was higher than the government quotations, while as per the rules, these tenders should have been rejected.“The former minister should explain if he had some interest in the two firms,” he said while demanding a vigilance probe into the matter.Meanwhile, Sudhir Sharma’s supporter and president of district president of youth Indian National Trade Union Congress Shubam Sood said all the allegations against the former were baseless and they were not afraid of any probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-accuses-former-cong-minister-of-prejudice-in-granting-himuda-projects/story-RPSlMOaaXslEdXMSIvnPXJ.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Residents, councillor protest over no water supply, dug up roads in Ludhiana’s Hargobind Nagar||With construction of roads and installation of water supply lines pending for around a year, residents of Hargobind Nagar (ward number 30) staged a protest against the Ludhiana municipal corporation on Wednesday. Protesters gathered outside the office of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councilor Jaspal Singh Giaspurah, who also joined the protest and said roads have been dug up in the area for a long time and two children suffered injuries after falling into the pits. Residents rued they haven’t been getting water supply for months now and are forced to fill buckets from houses where submersible pumps have been installed. The sewer lines are also choked and sewer water has accumulated in different parts of the area, the protesters said.Following the protest, Giaspurah had a heated argument with superintending engineer Ravinder Garg at the spot over unnecessary excuses being made by the MC staff for the delay. “The MC has to install 300 feet water lines in the area and the project has been hanging fire since last year. The road portion has been dug up and two children also suffered injuries after falling into the pit. When asked to construct the main road in the area, the contractor refused to start the project saying that the MC is not releasing payments. The MC has even failed to take up repair work of the road and rubble has been dumped to level the road portion. The project to clean the sewer also is also pending for over one and a half years,” Giaspurah said. A resident, Rajeev Kumar, said, “The area is in poor shape as there is no water supply, roads have been dug up and sewer lines are choked. But, the civic body is not paying heed to the problem. Even water tankers are not being supplied to the area due to which residents have been forced to take to the road.” Giapurah said that he would also take up the matter with local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra as the works have not commenced even after he had taken up the matter in the general house meeting of MC. Despite attempts to reach SE Ravinder Garg, he was not available for comments. Cong councillor locks up MC employees over no water supply in Dhakka colonyProtesting against no water supply in Dhakka colony for around a month, Parvinder Lapran, Congress councillor from ward number 48, and residents of the area locked up MC employees in the sub-zone office situated in Model Town area for over two hours on Wednesday evening.The protest was lifted after getting written assurance from the SE Ravinder Garg that the work to resume the water supply would commence from Thursday. “The water supply got disrupted around a month ago after the tubewell installed in the area developed a snag. The MC authorities and mayor Balkar Sandhu have just given assurances till now. The water is being supplied through water tanks and residents have to fight for their turn. Apart from harassment to the public, it is a shame for the MC that residents have to stage protests for water supply that too amid a pandemic,” Lapran said. Despite attempts to reach SE Ravinder Garg, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-councillor-protest-over-no-water-supply-dug-up-roads-in-ludhiana-s-hargobind-nagar/story-mJnm5yaG0T4U7CPuSpw0hN.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Unlock 1: Cases surged in Panchkula and Mohali, but dropped in Chandigarh||While Chandigarh witnessed 34% drop in Covid-19 cases during the first phase of Unlock in June as compared to the lockdown period in May, infections surged by nearly 11 times in the neighbouring Panchkula district during the same period. Mohali, too, has nearly fourfold spike.As May began, Chandigarh had 74 cases, which increased to 294 on May 31 and 440 on June 30. In Mohali, the tally stood at 73, 114 and 271, respectively, and in Panchkula, the count of cases was 18, 26 and 112, respectively. With the easing of interstate travel restrictions in June, “there was an influx of people from Covid-19 hotspots such as Delhi and Mumbai, which led to the spread of infection,” said Dr Jasjit Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula. “The situation has stabilised (in recent days) as the movement from outside has decreased to an extent. To meet the challenge, we have increased testing and screening,” she said.Chandigarh, which reported the highest number of cases in May mainly due to the spread of infection in the congested Bapu Dham Colony, saw a dip in numbers in June as no new hotspots emerged, even as sporadic cases kept surfacing from erstwhile unaffected areas.“Besides the fact that cases were reported from around 10 sectors for the first time in June, the real concern was Mauli Jagran, where 14 family members and their two contacts were found positive. However, post screening and testing, it was established that there is no infection spread such as the one seen in Bapu Dham,” a senior UT health official said, on the condition of anonymity. Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said screening and focused testing has led to better management despite an influx of people from outside Chandigarh during Unlock 1, adding that most cases are due to the interstate movement.In Mohali, too, nearly all cases reported in June are either of people with travel history or their contacts.“While roughly 90% people who contracted the virus in June have travel history, the remaining 8-9% are their contacts,” said Dr Manjeet Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unlock-1-cases-surged-in-panchkula-and-mohali-but-dropped-in-chandigarh/story-PjOjZ74vBR8WKuSdDiJowK.html
01-07-2020||City||False rape case: Three held for extorting ₹4 lakh from Ambala doctor||Three people, including a woman, were arrested on Wednesday for extorting Rs 4 lakh from a doctor by threatening to file a false rape case against him.The accused are Sudesh, who is in her 40s, resident of Kaji Majra, Ambala; Ram Prakash, 35, of Shanti Nagar, Ambala; and Mahindra Pal, also in his 40s, of Jabbo Majra village, Sangrur, Punjab.The complainant, Dr Gurmel Singh, 63, a resident of Saunda village, had told the police that on June 23, Sudesh called him to her house. There, the two men appeared in police uniforms, claiming they will implicate him a false rape case if he didn’t pay them Rs 10 lakh.“The complainant paid them Rs 4 lakh, but decided to approach the police,” said Ram Kumar, in-charge, Ambala City station.The trio was booked under Sections 388 (extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life, etc), 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation), 170 (personating a public servant) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code. They were sent to two-day police remand by a local court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/false-rape-case-three-held-for-extorting-4-lakh-from-ambala-doctor/story-9b9jTezhHWVdP8PIvkrCvO.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Lower courts’ functioning to remain restricted till further orders||The high court has directed continued restricted functioning of the trial courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.A communication from the high court administration said that courts can allow filing of all types of cases, as ordered on June 10. However, a decision regarding which categories are to be allowed will be taken by the district and sessions judge concerned, taking into account the prevailing Covid-19 situation in that area. The arrangement will continue till further orders.Since lockdown started in March, courts in both the states and Chandigarh are working in restricted manner and taking up cases mostly through video conferencing.Meanwhile, the high court said that cases which had been listed after March 24, through mentioning and had been adjourned for July, will be taken up on the dates fixed earlier. This comes in wake of HC ordering listing of cases fixed in July, between August and October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lower-courts-functioning-to-remain-restricted-till-further-orders/story-V3VhwFzXzhE2xTCTrJcGCM.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt staffer held for demanding ₹15,000 bribe||The UT vigilance department on Wednesday arrested a Punjab health department employee for demanding Rs 15,000 as bribe to issue a no-objection certificate (NOC).The accused, Surinderjit Singh Shah, is a senior assistant in the health department at the Punjab Mini-Secretariat, Sector 9. On being arrested, he claimed that he accepted the bribe at the behest of a secretary, whose role is being investigated.Shah was arrested on the complaint of a medical officer from Faridkot civil hospital. The complainant, whose name has been withheld by the department, was selected as a sponsored candidate for the MD/MS course at PGIMER, Chandigarh.For the admission process, an NOC was signed and forwarded by the director, health services, to the Punjab Mini-Secretariat. The complainant recently visited the office to seek the status of the NOC, when Shah demanded Rs 15,000 to issue the document.On this, the officer filed a complaint at the vigilance police station. A trap was laid behind the building of the mini-secretariat where Shah was arrested red-handed while accepting the bribe. The bribe amount was recovered from him.Shah has been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-staffer-held-for-demanding-15-000-bribe/story-V9YNqPzubC13Q5RIokN7PN.html
01-07-2020||City||SAD asks state govt to pay students’ 6-month fee||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), on Wednesday, asked the Punjab government to pay private school managements the tuition and admission fee of all children whose parents’ financial status has been adversely affected by the Covid-19 lockdown for a six-month period from April to September this year.In a statement, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said it is condemnable that the Congress government and state education minister Vijay Inder Singla have surrendered before the private school managements and even submitted in the Punjab and Haryana high court that private schools had the right to fix fee.“If the state has lost the case in the high court it is a direct result of collusion with private school managements. The state did not contest the case properly and failed to inform the court that the school managements could take moratoriums on loans taken by them and does not have to victimise the parents for the same.”Holding Singla directly responsible for the failure, he said it is apparent that Singla came under pressure of private school managements. “This is the reason why the Punjab government has failed to win any relief for parents while high courts of Uttarakhand, Delhi and Kerala have given relief to parents,” he said.“In such a situation, a direct compensation is needed to save the future of affected students. Government should give tuition and admission fee on behalf of these children for six months including the three-month period of lockdown and another three months during which schools are likely to remain shut,” he added.He said that if no assurance is forthcoming on this account, SAD will launch an agitation in support of parents from YPS, Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-asks-state-govt-to-pay-students-6-month-fee/story-zmxraRQ6G3YNdUZAlMFhiK.html
01-07-2020||City||Social distancing norms flouted as scores attend event at Ludhiana market committee’s office||Giving social distancing the go-by, over 100 persons, including several senior Congress leaders, participated in an event organised at the market committee’s office in Ludhiana on Wednesday.Congress’ Gill MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, party’s Sahnewal halka in-charge Satwinder Bitti, Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC) chairman KK Bawa, Punjab Medium Industries Development Board chairman Amarjeet Singh Tikka were in attendance at the event, organised as committee’s new vice-chairman, Swaran Singh Grewal (Khwajke), took charge.Tent was installed on the office premises, where food was also being served, even as several attendees moved about without face masks.Grewal claimed, “We took permission from the deputy commissioner’s office for a gathering of only 50 persons. We ensured that all government guidelines were followed.”On the other hand, market committee’s secretary, Vinod Kumar said, “The event was organised by the vice-chairman. The committee had no involvement in it.”Police claimed they had no information about the event.“We neither received a permission application nor any other information about the event,” said Gopal Krishan, SHO, Salem Tabri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-distancing-norms-flouted-as-scores-attend-ludhiana-market-committee-s-event/story-ZJPsL6xhUoH7qSp91jxJLK.html
01-07-2020||City||Behind Bihar’s Covid success rate is less testing State’s testing per million is 1767, lowest in the country and one-third of national average||PATNABihar’s Covid positivity rate, death rate and total cases per million population is lower than most states in the country. And, the state’s recovery rate is also better than the most.How does Bihar measure up to this achievement when its doctor-population ratio is the lowest in the country, with one allopathic doctor for a population of 28,391 (source: National Health Profile, 2018); and having just one hospital bed per 8,645 people.The answer to this puzzle lies in the Bihar’s low testing rate (1,767 per million population), which is the lowest among eastern India states such as Uttar Pradesh (2,841), Jharkhand (3,566), West Bengal (4,645), Odisha (5,449). Bihar’s testing rate per million is even less than that of Madhya Pradesh (4,019) and Chhatisgarh (4,995). Infact, Bihar’s testing per million is lowest in the country and is less than one-third of the national average of 6,622 tests per million.Delhi (29,750), Jammu & Kashmir (28,039), Kerala (23,967), Andhra Pradesh (16,981) and Tamil Nadu (15,393) are much better-off so far as testing is concerned, shows the data compiled by Hindustan Times through daily health bulletins of the state governments.The Bihar government has claimed to have ramped its testing capacity from about 2,352 tests per day on June 1 to about 8,500 on Friday last. Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday set a target of testing 15,000 samples per day.Bihar’s total testing capacity includes Covid tests done on real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Truenat and cartridge based nucleic acid amplification (CB-NAAT). Bihar has nine labs for conducting RT-PCR tests, including three in the private sector, and has mobile units to conduct Truenat test in all the districts. “We are increasing our testing capacity and the increase in cases is because we are testing more. We have already expanded our testing facility to cover all the 38 districts. We are also relentlessly striving to increase our testing capacity so that there are no missing cases,” said Bihar chief secretary Deepak Kumar. On Monday, Bihar recorded 389 cases — the highest reported in a day since it reported the first three cases of the fast-spreading contagion on March 22. On Friday, Bihar recorded 88 new cases taking the total infections to 10,076, from 3,692 cases on May 31. According to Bihar government data, around 70% of the total reported Covid cases during May and June were linked to in-migration of around 2.1 million migrants who returned to the state during lockdown. Despite high daily growth of Covid cases, Bihar health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said there was no reason any alarm as infection rate (positive cases of the total tested) was still very low. In fact, Bihar’s infection or case positivity rate has declined from 7.47% on May 24 (when there was high in-migration and the state was testing about 2,000 samples every day) to 3.20% in the week ending June 28 (when in-migration is almost nil though testing has touched 8,000 perday) and is less than the national average of about 8%.As on June 28, Bihar’s positivity rate was lower than Delhi (18.38%), Maharashtra (22.01%), Gujarat (9.75%) and Haryana (9.35%) and Uttar Pradesh (3.75%). The reason for this is again less number of tests than in these states, the data from HT Covid data dashboard shows. On the same day, however, the eastern state’s positivity rate was higher than that of Madhya Pradesh (2.73%), Andhra Pradesh (2.61%), Jammu & Kashmir (2.56), Punjab (2.45%), Himachal Pradesh (2.41%), Rajasthan (2.35%), Assam (2.27%), Chhattisgarh (2.03%) and Mizoram (0.53%). Except Rajasthan, all of states have low testing rates.“To me, the Bihar situation is a mixed bag as testing is low and therefore, the infection rate. We will have to see what happens when the states increases per day testing to 15,000,” said Dr K K Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association. Health experts in Bihar, however, link the decline in Bihar’s infection rate to multiple factors — the lessening of in-migrant after June 1 being one of them.“Bihar imported the epidemic largely through inter-state travel, whereas states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal did it through international travel too,” said Dr Tanmay Mahapatra, an epidemiologist working in Bihar with previous experience of research in US on infectious diseases.“The influx of migrants has reduced, which must have reduced the positivity rate. Bihar’s infection growth rate is slow because its epidemic surge was late (first Covid case in Bihar was reported on March 22 vis-à-vis the first case in India on January 30), and the state got time to prepare itself,” he said.“The trend in the epidemic curve in Bihar is on expected lines and is following the same trend as other states, being slow in the earlier phase, and now rising. So, Bihar can ill-afford to breathe easy about the pandemic response,” added Dr Mahapatra.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has also been dwelling on increased testing, but believes that it cannot be the only reason for increase in the number of Covid cases.“Bihar needs to test the vulnerable section, including doctors, pregnant women and the senior citizens. Its infection rate is also not the lowest in India. Increased testing cannot be the sole reason for spike in cases,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of the Indian Medical Association, Bihar.A silver lining for Bihar were its low case mortality rate of 0.72% as compared to the national average of 2.97% as also its 77.52% case recovery rate, against a national average of 59.43%.(With inputs from HTC, New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/behind-bihar-s-covid-success-rate-is-less-testing-state-s-testing-per-million-is-1767-lowest-in-the-country-and-one-third-of-national-average/story-Qahg1rLqTwFMX6d1fDwrRL.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Pandemic slows down placements||HIRING AMID FIRING Amid uncertainty in the academic calendar of higher educational institutions and downsizing of industry in the region due to the Covid-19 pandemic, campus placements have taken a hit. HT reporters from J&K, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh find job offers are on hold due to the slowdown and Covid-19 curbs, leaving youngsters anxious. The pharmaceutical industry offers a silver lining as it wants candidates to join at the earliest, while the reliable and buoyant information technology (IT) sector is in wait and watch mode. Offer letters have not been cancelled but joining has been deferred . The outlook is, however, bleak for those in the hospitality and tourism sectors. Virtual job fairs and upgrading soft skills are trending in a crisis that offers new opportunities Joining letters in hand, GNDU students keep fingers crossed The Covid-19 pandemic may have delayed their joining but no company has gone back on its job offer to students of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, despite reports of layoffs due to the economic slowdown.At least 729 students of the 2019-20 batch were offered jobs by 58 companies in July last year. Most of them were hired by information technology (IT) companies, including Capgemini and Tata Consultancy Services.“The process takes a year. Those offered jobs last year will be joining anytime. They have got their joining letters. A pharmaceutical company of Punjab has asked the 10 students it recruited to join as early as possible,” says university placement in-charge Amit Chopra.“Students hired by leading IT companies in Gurugram, Bangalore and Hyderabad are waiting due to the coronavirus-induced travel restrictions. IT companies are planning online joining,” he said.With the placement season for students of the 2020-21 batch set to begin, Chopra said the hospitality and service sectors have been hit but IT will cover up. “There will be more jobs in IT. Due to the pandemic, everything is being managed online. Some IT companies have already approached us,” he said. -Anil SharmaOnline hiring, virtual job fairs in Ludhiana Due to social distancing, companies are hiring students from campuses after video interviews and online assessments but the process has been slow.At Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana, for instance, the placement cell was able to arrange jobs for only 25 final year students in three months, while 280 students were placed in companies such as Airbus and Samsung before March.The lifting of the Covid-19 lockdown has buoyed hopes in the IT sector. Placement officer GS Sodhi says companies are interested in hiring students of computer science engineering.Prabhudeep Singh, a final year student selected by SafeAeon, a California-based computer security company, says, “I was worried as many companies have laid off employees due to the recession. Thanks to the college placement cell and companies holding online interviews in May, I was selected and joined on June 1.”More than 200 students of the Industrial Training Institutes have been recruited in the virtual job fair being held along with the district bureau of employment enterprises in the past fortnight.Government ITI, Gill Road, principal Baljinder Singh, says, “The virtual job fair is on and interviews will be held after July 15. The jobs in demand are those of welder, fitter and machinist.”Balwant Singh, 22, a former student of ITI, Gill Road, says, “After passing out, I started working with a private firm as a welder but was laid off during the lockdown. Last month, I got in touch with my class in-charge who told me about the virtual job fair through which I’ve been hired by Hero Ecotech Limited at a monthly salary of Rs 17,200.” -Deepa Sharma SoodBathinda students await jobs in changing times Campus placement at the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Technical University in Bathinda failed to take place this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.University placement cell in-charge Harjot Singh Sidhu says exams for the final semester are still to be scheduled, so companies have not approached the institute.“Last year, more than 120 major companies held campus interviews and seven students were hired by an online learning enterprise. Though raw, the promising students got an annual package of Rs 10 lakh each,” he said.All students from textile engineering and management schools of the last batch got placed in 2019. “However, cononavirus is leading to changes that depend on the market demand. New avenues are opening up,” Sidhu said. Vishal JoshiOnline tests, interviews on at LPU, Phagwara, PTU The process of conducting online placements for the 2021 batch of Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, is underway despite the Covid pandemic.“We have conducted online placements for companies, including multinationals,” says Aman Mittal, who heads the division of international affairs at LPU.Though most students graduating in 2020 were placed in the last semester by February this year, the placement team is working to ensure opportunities for the 2021 batch.The IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (PTU), Kapurthala, conducted its placement drive in May and two companies are in the process of hiring students.Deputy director, corporate relations, Navdeepak Sandhu said that the companies have held online tests and the final recruitment process will start soon. An IT consulting and services company interviewed 400 students. -Jatinder MahalLaw firms take online option for hiring; Patiala university gears up The pandemic has not only delayed the academic session but also affected the placement processes at Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) and Punjabi University, Patiala.RGNUL registrar Naresh Kumar Vats said law firms and corporates are approaching the university to conduct placements online. “Interviews are being held online. Since this is a new process, it will take a few days to be streamlined,” he said.Punjabi University placement cell director Manjit Singh says the process generally starts in September after students get admission in the final year of engineering and management courses. “The admission process was delayed due to Covid. We will invite companies for placement once the situation improves in September,” he said.Last year, 366 engineering students got jobs in different companies. “Thirty-eight high-profile companies visited the campus. Of them, only one company recently informed the university that it would defer appointment by three months,” he said. -Navrajdeep SinghUIET, UBS students safe so far but PEC, CU face the heat The economic slowdown has not yet impacted job offers for students of Panjab University but it has affected the prospects of students from Punjab Engineering College.Officials say so far no offer has been revoked by any company for students of University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) and University Business School (UBS). According to the placement data, 103 of the 129 students who applied have been placed from UBS this year. The highest annual package for a UBS student this time is ₹55 lakh. Manoj Bobhariya, the student placement coordinator at UBS, said, “No company has revoked any job offer to our students.” Among the companies that recruited students from UBS this year are American Express, Avery Dennison, Bacardi, Edelweiss Tokio, HSBC, Infosys, Tolaram, Volvo Eicher and HDFC.At PU’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), around 300 students were placed this year. Sarbjeet Singh, placement officer at UIET, said, “This year, however, we could not conduct the placement drives for students who were not selected.”But the story is different at Punjab Engineering College (PEC) and Chandigarh University. Job offers of six PEC students were revoked by United Airlines, while two companies withdrew offers of five students at Chandigarh University during the lockdown.Himani Sood, director, placements, at Chandigarh University, Mohali, said, “After the job offers of five students were revoked, we managed to get them placed in other companies. We conducted virtual drives.”At Chitkara University, no job offers of students have been revoked but internship programmes have been affected.More than 150 students were placed this year at Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College in Sector 32, Chandigarh. “We are back on track. Online interviews are being conducted and companies are ready to take students,” said college placement officer Kapil Dev. Dar OvaisKurukshetra University upgrades soft skills of students in uncertain times With campus placements becoming a challenge during the Covid-19 pandemic, Kurukshetra University has begun an online soft skill development course for its students.KU’s placement cell facilitates jobs to about 500 students every year, but this time only 50% of the students managed to get placement before the lockdown. The hospitality, management, tourism and the service sectors are affected the most. Job offers are for information technology (IT) students as work from home and digital marketing are trending.“Only 30 students have been placed in the past three months of the lockdown and most of the jobs are related to the IT sector. Axis Bank and Policy Bazaar used to hire around 100 students every year, but this time they have not come forward yet,” placement cell in-charge Mohinder Singh says. “Usually, 90% of students in our professional courses would get placed, but this year there is uncertainty,” he adds.But the placement cell is helping out students by holding an online soft skill development course. Nearly 1,000 students have undergone the training so far and upgraded their skills.A final year student of BTech, printing and technologies, says, “All my seniors used to get placed but this year, there were no campus placements. Due to the lockdown, companies are not hiring.”Bhavna Goyal, an MSc (chemistry) passout, who was among 11 students hired by IOL Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Limited, Barnala, in February, however, said that she was waiting for the joining on July 5. “The company has completed all formalities and I look forward to joining my first job along with four of my friends soon,” she said. - Neeraj MohanPending exams, slowdown have HP students worried The Covid-19 pandemic has not only hit campus placements but also disrupted the academic schedule of students in Himachal Pradesh.Suniel Kumar, the placement cell in-charge at the University Institute of Information Technology, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, says, “Normally, the placement process starts in August when students are in the seventh semester. Most of those offered jobs last year have not been able to join work yet due to the pandemic restrictions.”The eighth semester exams are also pending so students are forced to wait.“The companies which visit our campus after March were not able to come this year,” he said.However, Dr Nitin Gupta, the training and placement officer at Shoolini University, Solan, said the institution starts its placement drives early so students had got job offers before the pandemic started. “Recruiters continued to engage with us online during the lockdown so it was business as usual with minimal interruptions,” he said.Amit Namta, the placement officer at AP Goyal University, Shimla, admitted that only preliminary interviews are being conducted. “The university was closed due to the lockdown so the placement process was delayed.”Puneet Kumar, 20, a final semester student of electrical engineering at Government Polytechnic College, Kullu, however, said, students are worried as companies, both government and private, are delaying job offers.Mohan Singh, the father of a final year student of hotel management in Shimla, is equally concerned. “My son was to complete his graduation this year and we were hoping that he would get placed but with colleges closed due to the pandemic, we can only hope for the best.” - Navneet RathoreCovid delays exams, job offers for students at Jammu UniversityThe Covid-19 pandemic is a testing time for Jammu University students who are yet to take their final exams and uncertain about job offers in hand.Vinay Chauhan, the placement officer of the university, says the placement process started in October last year and 70 students got job offers. “They were to join after their exams, which are getting delayed because of the pandemic. In the present scenario, insurance and IT sectors offer better prospects but the prime concern is to clear the exams.”Piyushka Pargal, 23, a fourth semester student of MBA from Jammu University, said, “I was placed with ICICI Bank before Covid but didn’t get any offer letter. Our exams have been postponed so we are neither unemployed nor students anymore.”Meanwhile, the placement cell has initiated a web lecture series, roping in experts from the US, to upgrade skills of MBA and MCA students. Sahil Koul, another MBA student, said: “We are upgrading our skills for new challenges. Covid will bring new opportunities.”However, BK Bhatia, the placement official of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University at Kakryal in Reasi district, said, “Our campus placement is almost complete. We started early last year. Infosys has taken 28 students, Wipro 24, TCS 34 and 13 students have been picked up by another MNC.”He said some companies such as Bosch India conducted online exams and interviews. As many as 191 students from MBA, engineering and other streams of SMVDU have been placed.- Ravi Krishan KhajuriaOnline job offers unlock hope in Kashmir The Covid pandemic put the brakes on campus placement drives in higher educational institutions of Kashmir but the unlock phase has come with hope for students upgrading their soft skills.“Big brands in tourism, automobiles and banking sectors used to come to our university but during the lockdown, the corporates did not show interest,” said Dr Zia-ul-Haq, placement officer of Central University of Kashmir. “The question is of stability. Many organisations are laying people off. Campus placements are futuristic and businesses can only recruit when they see a bright outlook. Manufacturing is down, supply chains are disturbed, and transportation is minimum and the future uncertain,” he said.At National Institute of Technology (NIT), Srinagar, two students were placed online during the lockdown. “We had one placement during the lockdown and another student was placed in an oil company in the first week of June,” said Dr Obbu Chandra Sekhar, head of the training and placement department at National Institute of Technology, Srinagar.He said that June had shown promise after the announcement of the unlock. “Things are better. A research company did online recruitment of five students recently. Five to six more companies are in the pipeline,” he said.All recruitments are happening online. “Most of these companies are research oriented, software and public sector undertakings,” he said.At Islamic University of Science and Technology (IUST), Awantipora, an e-commerce organisation is to hold an online placement drive for recruiting customer service associates.“We managed to get a few students placed during the lockdown in an online educational company and one student in Apple,” said Dr S. Iqbal Querishi, in-charge career counselling and placement officer of IUST.“There is a change in recruitment. Work from home is the new concept but our 2G internet speeds are hampering the online recruitment. There is a change in student mindset to target companies looking for work from home,” he said.The students are also scaling up things to improve their skill sets, particularly in information technology.“The post lockdown period will be more technology-oriented. Some common sectors of work from home will be online tuitions, filing tax returns, content writing and related aspects. We have been attempting to organise online workshops for students,” said Central University of Kashmir’s Zia-ul-Haq. “Nobody knows where all this will end and we can’t just wait. The initiative has to be taken,” he said. - Ashiq Hussain||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pandemic-slows-down-job-placements-across-j-k-haryana-punjab-chandigarh-himachal/story-Rbm8QYiR2Mh22UXVZbP1uK.html
01-07-2020||City||4 arrested for abetting SBS Nagar youth’s suicide; sarpanch, husband absconding||JALANDHAR Four people, including a panch, were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the death of 22-year-old Varinder Singh of Nangal Shanga village of SBS Nagar district who had died by suicide on Monday. Varinder had alleged harassment by villages at the behest of village sarpanch and her husband before taking the extreme step.The accused have been identified as Mandeep, Gopi, Rekha and Harpreet Singh, all residents of Nangal Shanga. Sarpanch Sita Devi and her husband Parkash Raj are absconding since their names were added to the FIR registered at Rahon police station under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 295-A (intended to outrage reli­gious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code. Victim’s father Nirmaljit Singh gave another statement to the police on Tuesday evening stating that his son committed suicide after being harassed by the villagers at the behest of Sita Devi and Parkash Raj. Earlier, he had also named SBS Nagar MLA Angad Singh Saini of the Congress. The body of the youth was cremated at his native village on Wednesday after the postmortem. Meanwhile, the opposition parties including Shiromani Akali Dal, Bharatiya Janata party, Aam Aadmi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party have demanded registration of an FIR against Congress MLA Saini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-arrested-for-abetting-sbs-nagar-youth-s-suicide-sarpanch-husband-absconding/story-Rsi50zqfG5fYJwN6WqtT1I.html
01-07-2020||City||Punjab man booked for ₹2.5cr GST fraud in Ambala||A Punjab man has been booked for an alleged ₹2.49-crore goods and services tax (GST) fraud in Ambala. According to the complaint made by excise and taxation officer Dhanpati Bhardwaj, the suspect, identified as Sandip Kumar, had registered a fake cloth firm by the name of Gurudev Impex in Ambala last year. Bills for sales worth ₹13.85 crore had been issued by the firm from April to December 2019 without depositing any GST, it was alleged. On making inquiries, it was found that no firm existed at the given address at Cloth Market on Railway Road in Ambala City, said Bhardwaj. “The bills and e-bills have been issued to merchants, who have availed input tax credit of ₹2.49 crore, but the suspect has not deposited any tax,” the official told police.A case of fraud and forgery has been registered against Kumar, who according to online records is a resident of Mandi Gobindgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-man-booked-for-2-5cr-gst-fraud-in-ambala/story-5Wz4wIf8zRgsM3Xn8IQIcL.html
01-07-2020||City||Malerkotla residents protest seeking relaxation in containment zone||The residents of Sirhindi Gate, one of three containment zones in Malerkotla, held a protest and sought relaxations at containment zones, on Wednesday.On June 18, the district administration had declared three areas of Malerkotla as containment zones and deployed 15 teams to conduct door-to-door survey in town. Araiyan Wala Mohalla, Sirhindi Gate and Uchi Masjid areas were covered under containment zone 1; Grewal Chowk, Uttam factory and defence colony in zone 2 and Bhumsi Mohalla and other areas in zone 3.The protesters said that some parts of Bhumsi Mohalla were opened but the habitants of Sirhindi Gate are facing a number of problems due to the containment zone.“We are trying to convince protesters that the area will be opened as per directions of the health department,” said Malerkotla police station city-2 SHO Deepinderpal Singh.LOCKDOWN EXTENDEDAfter a two-day lockdown in Malerkotla, Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir extended the lockdown by two days.“We got a huge response during the lockdown and cases of Covid-19 are decreasing in town. Now we will impose a two-day lockdown. However, days will be finalized after discussion,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malerkotla-residents-protest-seeking-relaxation-in-containment-zone/story-PATFA3ilcoG9oRJ09DN7xK.html
01-07-2020||City||Three held for painter’s murder at Mohali’s Badhmajra village||Police have arrested three men for the murder of a 32-year-old painter at Badhmajra village near Balongi on the night of June 27.Police have recovered a knife, a brick and a Bajaj Pulsar motorcycle used in the crime by the accused, who they said had confessed to the crime. Their five accomplices are at large.The victim, Sanjay Yadav, was attacked with a knife and brick, by the men after his wife, Urmila, had objected to them urinating near their house.“Investigation revealed that a total of eight men attacked Yadav. While six have been identified, two suspects remain unknown,” said Harmandeep Singh Hans, superintendent of police (investigation), Mohali.Inspector Amardeep Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Balongi police station said those arrested were Manoj Kumar of Balongi, Pradeep Kumar, alias Kalu, of Phase 1, Mohali, and Raj Kumar of Madanpura village.They were nabbed from near the Dara Studio Chowk in Phase 6 following a raid. The other suspects, identified as Balwant, Rohtash, alias Bhaya, and Chaandu, along with the two unidentified men, will be arrested soon, he added.While the others assaulted Yadav and hit him with a brick, it was Chaandu who attacked him with a knife, before they all fled on three motorcycles, the SHO said. Balwant, Bhaya and Chaandu are facing several other cases at various police stations in Chandigarh.A fresh case under Sections 302, 450, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the attackers at the Balongi police station following the murder.The three accused were produced before a Kharar court, from where they were sent to five-day police remand.BoxPolice clueless over gardener’s murderMeanwhile, police are still looking for clues into the murder of a 30-year-old gardener near the YPS Chowk on Monday night. “Our teams are investigating the case from various angles,” said Inspector Rajnish Choudhary, SHO, Phase 8 police station.Raja Ram was found bludgeoned to death. Police probe had revealed that he was attacked multiple times with the handle of a handpump on the face and head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-painter-murder-s-at-mohali-s-badhmajra-village/story-pDsKdMZHnjZMv029TyGbSK.html
01-07-2020||City||Auto gang steals Ludhiana man’s ₹49,000, throws him out of moving vehicle||A three-wheeler gang snatched Rs 49,000 from an employee of a spare parts’ shop and threw him out of the moving auto near the Clock Tower on Wednesday. Ramandeep Singh, 23, of New Ashok Nagar, told the police that he had hailed the auto to reach Bank of Baroda near Clock Tower to deposit cash in the bank. A passenger was already riding the vehicle.As they reached near the Clock Tower, the driver and passenger suddenly snatched his cash and threw him out of the moving vehicle before fleeing.The victim said the accused were addressing each other as Sanju and Jhangi. While Sanju was driving the vehicle, Jhangi was the passenger.“The victim was able to jot down the vehicle’s registration number. We will nab the accused soon,” said ASI Baljit Singh, who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Division Number 1 police station.On June 27, police had arrested a member of an auto gang that had stolen a Hoshiarpur-based trader’s Rs 2 lakh. The victim in this case was also thrown out of a moving auto on June 25, in a similar modus operandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auto-gang-steals-ludhiana-man-s-49-000-throws-him-out-of-moving-vehicle/story-ZJrcyji07qys7HmafSMGsJ.html
01-07-2020||City||RTI query: J&K Bank refuses to furnish merit list of 1,450 BA, PO posts||The Jammu and Kashmir Bank Limited has refused to furnish the merit list for 1,450 posts of banking associates (1,200) and probationary officers (250) to an RTI activist.While responding to an RTI application moved by eminent social activist Sukesh C Khajuria wherein he had sought a copy of the merit list/result sheet of all the candidates who had appeared in the written test for the post of banking associates and probationary officers conducted by the bank under the aegis of IBPS, the selection process for which was cancelled in February, 2020, by the J&K government, the public information officer has disclosed that J&K Bank does not have the information asked by the applicant.In its reply, the bank stated that the merit list/result sheet of all the candidates is held by the IBPS.It was further disclosed in the RTI reply that the recruitment process for the posts of banking associates and probationary officers was scrapped by the J&K administration.It is to be noted that the selection process for the said posts has been renotified by J&K Bank for fresh recruitment for 1,500 positions.However, the said notification has been challenged by various aspirants before the J&K high court wherein the court has modified its earlier interim directions and permitted the bank to continue with the process of selection, however, has restrained it from issuing the final selection list without the HC’s permission.On February 27, following the detection of “legal infirmities” in the recruitment of 250 probationary officers and 1,200 banking associates , Lieutenant Governor GC Murmu had scrapped the entire recruitment process and ordered a “fresh, new and fair norm-based transparent recruitment process to be completed within three months.”However, all the applicants found eligible for recruitment in the last process, which was cancelled, shall be considered eligible for the fresh recruitment process, he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rti-query-j-k-bank-refuses-to-furnish-merit-list-of-1-450-ba-po-posts/story-djlJNbGhSMGK14eM2CU5eM.html
01-07-2020||Lucknow||UP’s Covid-19 tally crosses 24,000-mark; death toll mounts to 718||Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday reported 21 more fatalities due to Covid-19 and 564 fresh cases, officials said.The death toll in the state now is 718 with the coronavirus tally reaching 24,056.Additional Chief Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said 16,629 of the total infected have been discharged after getting cured. The rate of recovery is around 69 per cent, he said.The state now has 6,709 active Covid-19 cases, Prasad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-24-000-mark-death-toll-mounts-to-718/story-wg4GlRx3uz14IfLtGuOuGN.html
01-07-2020||City||Unannounced outages leave Mohali residents sleepless in peak summer||Amid state government’s claims of seamless power supply, residents across Mohali are reeling under unscheduled power cuts for the past one week.Complaints of outages without any prior information have been pouring in from various sectors, phases, Balongi, Nayagaon, Kansal and Dhakoli, Zirakpur, with cuts of up to two hours leaving Sectors 76 to 80 the worst-affected.According to the Punjab State Power Corporation (PSPCL), surplus power is available for the district, so there are no scheduled outages. The downtime, however, was being caused by the power grids tripping due to overload and occasional cable failure in storms. On the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, an entire block of Sector 80 faced a blackout for one hour, leaving residents sweating.PS Virdi, member, Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission said the power body had failed to upgrade the infrastructure ahead of time and now residents were at the receiving end in the hot and humid weather. “Sometimes, the department takes several hours to rectify faults. Consumers deserve better services, especially during peak summer,” he said.Amit Khanna, resident of Sector 79, said even inverters failed during long power cuts. “This is especially troublesome now when students are attending online classes,” he said.Residents also complained of poor response on complaints made to PSPCL. The corporation, in July last year, had outsourced the customer care to a UK-based firm, Teleperformance. Ravinder Singh Saini, superintending engineer, PSPCL, claimed there were no unscheduled power cuts in the town, as the supply was more than the demand. “Even when there is an overload or fault in cables, we sort it out immediately,” he said.A senior PSPCL official said, “Mohali’s daily average demand is 420 MW (megawatt) per day, while the supply is 560 MW. Mohali has two main grids – one in Industrial Area, Phase 7, which generates more than 360 MW, whereas the demand is 300 MW, while the other gird in Sector 80 generates 200 MW against the demand of 120 MW.”The district has nearly 2 lakh power consumers in different categories, including 1.7 lakh domestic consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unannounced-outages-leave-mohali-residents-sleepless-in-peak-summer/story-JVJiIjOVvTSwbYIXTqEHtI.html
01-07-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 testing campaign will help reduce deaths, but UP might see rise in cases: CM Yogi Adityanath||The number of Covid-19 cases might increase in Uttar Pradesh after a campaign to test people starts from Thursday, but it will certainly help in reducing deaths, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday. He also stressed on checking the spread of vector-borne diseases like malaria and dengue in the state. “From Thursday, a special campaign for medical screening for Covid-19 will be started in six districts of the Meerut division which are Meerut, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur and Baghpat,” the chief minister said.In the rest 17 divisions, the campaign will be run between July 5 and July 15, he said. When every persons of the state is screened, “the figure of those affected by the coronavirus will increase but it will certainly succeed in reducing death figures,” Adityanath said. The chief minister made the announcement during an event here to launch the Dastak campaign for control of vector-borne diseases.This campaign should be like that conducted for encephalitis eradication, Adityanath said. “In 2016 and 2017, the state witnessed more than 600 deaths due to encephalitis. But in 2018-19 their figure decreased and in 2019, it (death figure) came down to 126,” he said. “Reducing encephalitis, which has killed thousands of children in east Uttar Pradesh in the past 40 years, by 60 per cent and death caused by it by 90 per cent is an achievement. We have to make similar efforts for diseases like dengue, malaria, diarrhoea, kalazaar etc. For this a campaign is being started today in all 75 districts,” Adityanath said.Thirty-eight districts in the state are affected by encephalitis. Urban areas face the threat of dengue and several places face the threat of malaria and chikungunya. To check their spread, inter-departmental coordination is being ensured, he said.“We, the 24 crore people of the state, will fight the coronavirus and also deal with vector-borne diseases effectively,” the chief minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-testing-campaign-will-help-reduce-deaths-but-up-might-see-rise-in-cases-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-4ifWPFWL4mIF2BCescus0N.html
01-07-2020||City||Buses to ply with 100% occupancy in Himachal: CM||The Himachal Pradesh government has allowed buses to ply with 100% occupancy but with proper social distancing norms and no standing passengers, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Wednesday.He said the safety protocol should be followed by the drivers, conductors and passengers.The CM was addressing mediapersons after a review meeting of transport department here.He said that though the fuel prices have gone up in past few days and private bus operators were seeking to increase the fare but government will not consider the demand as of now. “Relaxations given to transporters during the lockdown will continue,” he added.Earlier, Thakur said the transport department should work for automation of various services to ensure effective and time-bound services to people besides decreasing the footfall in the office.He said in order to provide people centric services, e-Parivahan Vyvastha will be launched on pilot basis in the state. The CM said under this initiative, people will be provided various services such as renewal of permits, automation of driving licenses and registration certificates related activities and prepaid taxi management.“The department also envisages taking various initiatives to enhance the safety of women and girl children by equipping all public transport with location tracking devices,” he added.A transport nagar will be established in Hamirpur. The centre will have various facilities such as driving test track, driving training centres, traffic park and vehicle maintenance park etc.The CM said possibility should also be explored for encouraging inland water transport in the state. He said that feasibility report in respect of three reservoirs Govind Sagar, Kol Dam and Chamera have been conducted.Also, 250 new buses will be added into the fleet of HRTC which include 100 electric buses, he said. Presently, 50 electric buses are plying in Shimla town and 25 electric buses in Manali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buses-to-ply-with-100-occupancy-in-himachal-cm/story-Uiivn6Ox5v22uujgyR2G1K.html
01-07-2020||City||Withdraw cases against Baba Ramdev: Shanta Kumar to AYUSH minister||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former chief minister Shanta Kumar on Wednesday wrote a letter to AYUSH minister Shripad Naik expressing dissent over the action against Baba Ramdev over Covid-19 cure claim.In the letter, Shanta said it is wrong to criminalise the yoga guru for not completing the formalities and using incorrect words while publicising Coronil kit.“Lakhs of people have been cured of Covid-19 just because of strong immunity. Patanjali had prepared a medicine to boost the economy,” the veteran leader said.He said it was Baba Ramdev who spread yoga across the world. It was due to his and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts that the United Nations declared June 21 as International Yoga Day.“Implicating Baba Ramdev is an insult not only to him but to crores of Indians,” he added. Kumar has urged the AYUSH minister to withdraw all cases registered against Baba Ramdev.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/withdraw-cases-against-baba-ramdev-shanta-kumar-to-ayush-minister/story-SXRL6TnY9HbUOlJypRwRjJ.html
01-07-2020||City||Join movement for restoration of statehood to J&K: Panthers to political parties||The Jammu and Kashmir National Panthers Party on Wednesday gave a clarion call to political outfits at the district and block-level to come together and launch a movement for restoration of statehood to J&K.On August 5 last year, the special status guaranteed to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 was scrapped by the Centre and the erstwhile state was bifurcated into two UTs.“Prof Bhim Singh, chief patron of the Panthers Party has contacted several senior leaders of other state and national political parties. He has also invited them to join and stand together in defence of the civil and political rights of the permanent residents of Jammu and Kashmir,” a party spokesman said.“He also talked to Farooq Abdullah and conveyed the message of solidarity with the leadership of different political parties and social activists in J&K,” he added.“The people of Jammu and Kashmir have two urgent issues. First is the immediate need to restore statehood of J&K which was founded by Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1846. The second issue is to preserve constitutional guarantee providing permanent residents’ status to every citizen of India who was born in the UT,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/join-movement-for-restoration-of-statehood-to-j-k-panthers-to-political-parties/story-wUeOAcSzLIsVKk9oEl95wJ.html
01-07-2020||City||Christians in J&K demand equal share in govt schemes||Jammu and Kashmir Christian Minority Welfare Association on Wednesday alleged neglect in various spheres of life and demanded equal share in government schemes.In an emergency meeting held here, association chairman Nassir Masih alleged that the UT administration has been sidelining the community from various government schemes.Masih claimed that the list of beneficiaries under self employment loan scheme recently issued by the SC, ST and OBC Corporation has totally ignored the community. He also alleged that even the basic rights were denied to Christians in J&K and they were ill-treated.President of the association Michael Wazir said Christians make up less than 3% of the population in J&K. “We have a feeling of being systematically sidelined from getting the benefits of government quotas meant for minority communities. The UT administration is expected to promote the interests of the weaker sections,” he said.He appealed lieutenant governor Girish Chandra Murmu to give due consideration to genuine issues of the Christian community and issue necessary directions to the authorities concerned||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/christians-in-j-k-demand-equal-share-in-govt-schemes/story-uNVNbjWpAAhktiyubD3hBK.html
01-07-2020||City||Himachal governor honours medical fraternity on National Doctors’ Day||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Wednesday honoured doctors at Raj Bhawan here on the occasion of National Doctors’ Day and expressed his gratitude towards the medicla fraternity for their invaluable contribution in saving lives during the pandemic by putting their own at risk.The governor said the significance of this day has increased this year as the day was celebrated when every doctor was giving their 100% to fight the coronavirus pandemic.“The day is a tribute to all medical and healthcare professionals who attended patients and did their bit for the society irrespective of all odds. He said the hard work and dedication of the doctors since the start of the pandemic has been praiseworthy.Dattatreya said National Doctor’s Day is celebrated to honour the legendary physician and the second chief minister of West Bengal Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy. Dr Roy was honoured with the country’s highest civilian award, Bharat Ratna, on February 4, 1961. “I pay my respect to Dr Roy on this day, ” the Governor said.The state government is providing a medical insurance cover of ₹50 lakh for frontline warriors dealing with coronavirus pandemic in government hospitals and labs.The governor honoured Dr Rajnish Pathania, principal, Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla; Dr Ashu Kumar Gupta, principal, HP Government Dental College and Hospital, Shimla; Dr Janak Raj, senior medical superintendent, IGMC Shimla; Dr Ambika Chauhan, medical superintendent, Kamla Nehru Hospital, Shimla; Dr Kushia Pathania, professor, department of obstetrics and gynaecology, Kamla Nehru Hospital, Shimla, among many others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-governor-honours-medical-fraternity-on-national-doctors-day/story-BnIahWNKtnI9J5YVsRMT9L.html
01-07-2020||City||EC asks Bihar to begin reshuffle of officials, cops||PATNAAhead of the Assembly polls, the Election Commission (EC) has directed the Bihar government to reshuffle the administrative set-up by transferring election related officials who have completed three years in a particular district or will be completing a three-year term on or before October 31.The directive relates to district election officers/returning officers/assistant returning officers, police officers at the level of IG/ DIGs/ SSPs/SPs and SDPOs and police inspectors/sub-inspectors. In the administrative side, ADMs , SDMs, deputy collectors and BDOs are covered.In a letter to Bihar chief secretary on Tuesday, the EC has said the no official engaged in election work would be posted in their home district. It has also underlined that officials against whom the poll panel has recommended disciplinary action in the past or those who have been charged for any lapse in election related work in the past should be kept away from work in conduct of the polls.Besides, the officers scheduled to retire in next six months have also been asked to be kept away from election duty.In light of the letter, sources said, the state government has already initiated the process of identifying such officials.Amir Subhani, additional chief secretary, general administration department, said, “We have already initiated the process and more transfers will be done in the coming days.” In the last few days, the government has carried out reshuffling in the education, revenue and transport departments by shifting out district education officers, district transport officers, deputy collector land reforms and district programme officers in various districts. The transfers have been done as a part of the ongoing preparedness of election as also part of routine transfers carried in June every year.Meanwhile, the poll panel has started training programme for the election staff. Bihar’s chief electoral officer H R Srinivasa has already held a few round of meetings with district magistrates who are also district election officers (DEOs) and issued directives regarding requisition of electronic voting machines, physical verification of booths and electoral rolls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ec-asks-bihar-to-begin-reshuffle-of-officials-cops/story-8KUHnxwRuPjqqS8DCysQnL.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Pensioners’ life certificate, documents to be submitted from September 1 in Himachal||A government spokesperson on Wednesday said pensioners should submitting their life certificates and other documents for the year 2020-21 from September 1. He said pensioners will have to download a life certificate form available on http:himkosh.hp.nic.in and submit the form at any treasury of the district after getting it signed from a gazette officer.Similar certificate are also to be submitted by All India Services (AIS) pensioners, who are drawing their pension through the Central Pension Accounting Office, he said, adding that pensioners may also attach a copy of their Aadhaar card to link Aadhaar number with e-pension. Life certificates already submitted for the year 2019-20 will be valid till August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pensioners-life-certificate-documents-to-be-submitted-from-september-1-in-himachal/story-Q2tBCfquAsPFaVsB2I5ODL.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Agricultural University counters criticism of DSR technique, shares farmers’ success stories||After videos of farmers ploughing paddy crop transplanted through the direct seeding of rice (DSR) method started doing the rounds on social media, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) experts and the agriculture department countered the videos with success stories of farmers who had used the new technique.The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) decided to counter the misconception after receiving feedback on why farmers decided to plough their fields.A PAU expert said the farmers who ploughed their fields were repenting after seeing the crops of farmers who stuck to the DSR technique.Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) senior agronomist Dr Makhan Singh Bhullar, during his weekly Facebook live, shared his mobile number and urged farmers to contact him before ploughing their fields or send a picture of their fields over Whatsapp if they were facing any issue pertaining to cropping of seeds.GENERATION GAP, PEER PRESSURE AT PLAY Bhullar said, “In most cases where fields were ploughed, belief in convention won over innovation. There was a conflict between the younger and older generation. For many decades, farmers have been sowing paddy using the traditional method. They were averse to new techniques. In many cases, fathers pressed their son to plough the field after 20 days and sowed the paddy nursery using the traditional puddling method,” said Dr Bhullar.The second reason was the availability of migrant labour. “There has been a sudden thrust of migrant agricultural labour in Punjab. Many farmers found sticking to the DSR technique a risky proposition and opted for a conventional method of farming,” said Bhullar.Chief agricultural officer Baldev Singh Naurath has posted several success stories of farmers who stuck to the new DSR technique.He noted that there was a lot of peer pressure among farmers, which led farmers to plough their fields.“Farmers want to play safe. In some villages, farmers collectively decided to opt for a conventional method. In order to stop such incidents, we decided to share success stories of farmers who stuck to their convictions and opted for the DSR technique,” Naurath said.RUMOURS ABOUND Harpreet Singh, of Kabarwala village in Muktsar district, who has successfully sown paddy over 21 acres through the DSR technique blamed the seed seller for spreading misconceptions.“A rumour was spread among farmers in Malwa region that crop sown through DSR technology was being attacked by fungus. This triggered panic among farmers. My father told to me to opt for the old puddling technique and my fellow farmers told me not to take a risk, but I stuck to my guns and now my field is green and farmers who ploughed their fields are repenting,” said Harpreet.The university had sanctioned 4,000 DSR machines and 800 paddy transplanter machines to farmers at a subsidy ranging from 40%- 50%. Farmers started sowing rice with the machines after May 20 in Punjab and against a target of 5 lakh hectares farmers sowed paddy over 7 lakh hectares of the state, which is 25%of the total area under paddy cultivation in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-agricultural-university-counters-criticism-of-dsr-technique-shares-farmers-success-stories/story-X62zPoQgdrTdO9Svrf3lFJ.html
01-07-2020||Lucknow||Height of cruelty: Mayawati on Covid-19 victims’ bodies being dumped in Karnataka||After a video purportedly showed health workers tossing bodies of Covid-19 victims in a large pit in Karnataka, BSP chief Mayawati on Wednesday said the incident is the “height of cruelty and insult to humanity”. She demanded that the guilty be punished.“The tragedy that the bodies of Covid-19 victims being thrown into trenches in Ballari, Karnataka is height of cruelty and an insult to humanity. Though incidents related to inhuman cruelty with corona patients are rampant but guilty of Ballari must be punished by the state government,” Mayawati said in a tweet.After the video surfaced online, Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu on Tuesday said the workers concerned have been suspended. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expressed shock over the incident. “The behaviour of the health workers with the dead bodies of the Covid-19 victims is inhuman and painful. I appeal to the health workers to be kind to the Covid victims and perform the last rites of the deceased with honour. There is no religion bigger than humanity,” he had said in a series of tweets. In a separate tweet, Mayawati asked the Centre to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana till the end of the Covid-19 pandemic.“In order to check ignominy of starvation on account of long unprecedented hardship & unemployment due to coronavirus and the subsequent nationwide lockdown, the PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna must continue not till November but till the end of the pandemic, this is the demand of BSP,” Mayawati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/height-of-cruelty-mayawati-on-covid-19-victims-bodies-being-dumped-in-karnataka/story-GLqj5kRINzVZD9ettaD4WL.html
01-07-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune civic body to conduct rapid antigen tests||The Pune civic body in Maharashtra has decided to conduct rapid antigen detection tests for diagnosis of Covid-19 after a couple of days, a top official said on Wednesday.He said the move will decrease burden on the National Institute of Virology (NIV) and other laboratories.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has received one lakh rapid antigen testing kits, he said.As of June 30, Pune has seen 17,000 Covid-19 cases and 643 fatalities.The introduction of the rapid antigen detection test might see a rise in the daily number of cases in Pune.“We had placed an order of antigen rapid testing kits and received one lakh such kits. We will start conducting this test in the next couple of days after providing hands-on training to our staff posted in swab collection centres in the city,” said PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad.He said the accuracy rate of the rapid antigen test is 90 per cent which gives out results within 30 minutes.The antigen-based test uses nasal swab samples and enables quicker diagnosis.“The test is cost-effective one and there is no need for laboratory examination of the samples,” Gaikwad said.As the tests cover a larger population and throw quick results, it enables authorities to modify the testing and logistical strategies.It is a test on swabbed nasal samples that detects antigens (foreign substances that induce an immune response in the body) that are found on or within the SARS-CoV-2 virus.Gaikwad further said that the positive results will be included in the daily count of cases.“Since the antigen test gives out fast results, the number of swab samples sent to laboratories will decrease and the burden on the National Institute of Virology (NIV) and other labs will be minimised,” he added.Gaikwad said the use of the rapid antigen detection test will also cut down the lodging and food expenses of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-pune-civic-body-to-conduct-rapid-antigen-tests/story-KHD1xnnJudZwh9OdsEdcHL.html
01-07-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh cabinet expansion to take place on Thursday: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet expansion will take place on Thursday, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said.Chouhan flew to New Delhi on Sunday to hold consultations with the central BJP leadership over the much- talked about cabinet expansion.Talking to reporters on the sidelines of a programme here on Wednesday, Chouhan said, “The governor will take oath today. The cabinet members will take oath tomorrow.” Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel has been given the additional charge of Madhya Pradesh in view of incumbent Lalji Tandon’s hospitalisation.Asked about the delay in cabinet expansion, Chouhan said, “Only amrit (elixir) comes out of manthan (churning), vish (poison) is consumed by (Lord) Shiva.” Around 20 to 25 new members, including some former Congress MLAs who had joined the BJP in March, are likely to be inducted into the cabinet, sources in the BJP earlier said.Chouhan took oath as chief minister for a record fourth term on March 23 this year, after Kamal Nath resigned from the top post following rebellion by nearly two dozen MLAs of the Congress.Most of the rebels were considered close to former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress and joined the BJP more than three months ago.The initial ‘mini’ expansion of the Chouhan cabinet took place on April 21 with the induction of five ministers, including two former Congress MLAs.When asked about Chouhan’s announcement of cabinet expansion on Thursday, Kamal Nath told reporters, “This is for the first time in the history of the country when the cabinet expansion is taking place after such a long time. Only time will tell what was the reason for this delay and what will be its results.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-expansion-to-take-place-on-thursday-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-x5v3HrnfDS0p4flf5tb3oL.html
01-07-2020||Bangalore||50 goats and sheep quarantined after shepherd contracts Covid-19||About 50 goats and sheep have been kept in isolation at a village in Tumakuru district after a shepherd tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Tuesday.The villagers panicked when they noticed that some goats and sheep at Godekere village in Gollarahatti taluk were having respiratory problems, an officer in the animal husbandry department of the district said.Speaking on the condition of anonymity, the officer told PTI: “A few of the animals whom the shepherd had reared developed respiratory problems....Now that there is corona scare everywhere, people are afraid that the animals too have contracted the disease.” The villagers then sought the help of Karnataka Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy, who is the Tumkuru district in charge minister, and the Deputy Commissioner of the district K Rakesh Kumar to get the matter investigated.The minister directed the animal husbandry department to probe the matter following which department officials rushed to the village and collected samples. Veterinary experts suspect that the animals are suffering from Peste des petits ruminants (PPR), also known as goat plague, and mycoplasma infection. The officer said the samples collected from the animals have been sent to the Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals and veterinary laboratory in Bhopal. According to him,prevalence of Covid-19 has not been recorded in goats and sheep. The animals have been quarantined because PPR and mycoplasma too are communicable diseases and can spread to other animals, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/50-goats-and-sheep-quarantined-after-shepherd-contracts-covid-19/story-0Se3IqMsp2JUo5zpdX5UnM.html
01-07-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee remembers former Bengal CM Bidhan Chandra Roy on National Doctors’ Day||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday remembered one of her predecessors, Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, on his birth and death anniversary which is observed as the National Doctors’ Day in the country.She congratulated all the doctors, health workers, their family members and the administration for their services for the well-being of the people.“Remembering former Chief Minister of West Bengal, Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy on his birth and death anniversary. The day is celebrated as National #DoctorsDay in his honour,” Banerjee tweeted.The West Bengal government has announced a state holiday on the occasion in the honour of doctors and other medical personnel engaged in the fight against Covid-19.“On #DoctorsDay I congratulate all doctors, health warriors, the administration and their families. As a token of appreciation, GoWB has declared a State Holiday today in honour of the frontline Covid warriors,” she said in another tweet.The National Doctors’ Day is celebrated in India on July 1 as a mark of respect to the doctors around the country for their service throughout the year.It is celebrated in the honour of former West Bengal chief minister Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, who was a prominent medical practitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-remembers-former-bengal-cm-bidhan-chandra-roy-on-national-doctors-day/story-hI0xcqqKQk7DlxviFa4BDL.html
01-07-2020||Jaipur||4 killed, 6 injured in two separate accidents in Rajasthan’s Bikaner, Jaisalmer district||Four people were killed and six others injured in two separate accidents in Rajasthan’s Bikaner and Jaisalmer districts, police said on Wednesday.A jeep collided with a truck on Wednesday in Bikaner’s Nokha police station area, killing two people and leaving three grievously injured, they said. Those in the jeep were returning after attending a marriage ceremony. Mahendra Kumar and Ram Swaroop were killed in the accident. Their bodies have been handed over to their family members after postmortem, police said.The injured persons are being treated at the PBM Hospital, they said.In the Nachna police station area of Jaisalmer, a jeep collided with a motorcycle on Tuesday night, killing two youths and leaving three others injured. Police said that five persons were riding on the motorcycle when it was hit by the jeep. It is suspected that the driver lost control of the vehicle, they said. Swaroop Singh (26) and Kishan Lal (28) were killed. Those injured were rushed to a hospital in Pokaran. The bodies were handed over to family members after postmortem was conducted on Wednesday. A case has been registered against the jeep’s driver, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/4-killed-6-injured-in-two-separate-accidents-in-rajasthan-s-bikaner-jaisalmer-district/story-5IaRnfralvTtPsIV9H7lHO.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt to challenge high court order allowing private schools to collect tuition fee||Chandigarh: Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday said that the state government will challenge the single judge’s order allowing private schools to collect tuition fee before a division bench of the high court.“We will file the LPA (letter patent appeal) in a day or two,” he said at a press conference.The decision to file the appeal was taken at a meeting in which Singla, chief secretary Vini Mahajan, advocate general Atul Nanda and school education secretary Krishan Kumar were present.On Tuesday, the Punjab and Haryana high court bench of justice Nirmaljit Kaur said that irrespective of whether schools offered online classes during the lockdown period or not, they are entitled to collect tuition fee. The judge also permitted them to collect admission fee.The schools have, however, been restrained from increasing the fee for the 2020-21 session.On May 14, the court had allowed private schools in Punjab to charge 70% fee from students for the academic year as an interim measure. The court had also allowed schools to charge admission fee in two installments in six months and further directed that teachers in these schools would have to be paid 70% of their salaries.It had acted on a petition from the Independent Schools’ Association, Chandigarh, with member schools in Punjab, after the association had contested the government move to allow schools to charge only tuition fee during the lockdown and not building, transportation and meal charges. The schools had argued that if not allowed to collect or increase the fee, how would they pay teachers?The decision to allow 70% fee collection had led to parents holding protests. Subsequently, the state government and organisations of parents had become party to the dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-to-challenge-high-court-order-allowing-private-schools-to-collect-tuition-fee/story-btk7QPecTml8aLMBU809RJ.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Akal Takht, SGPC urge Centre to reopen Kartarpur corridor||Two days after Pakistan reopened its portion of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor, the Akal Takht and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Wednesday urged the government to reopen the Indian side of the corridor. The acting jathedar of the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, Giani Harpreet Singh, said, “On June 8, the government of India had opened all religious places. Our government should also open Kartarpur corridor for the Sikh sangat.”“I welcome the opening of the corridor by the Pakistan government. I also request to the government of India to try to open the corridor as soon as possible while following the guidelines of the health department,” said Gobind Singh Longowal, president of the SGPC.The jathedar and gurdwara body chief were taking to media persons after participating in a religious function organised at the Akal Takht secretariat to commemorate the foundation day of the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had said that he was in favour of opening the corridor, but added that the Centre will not be ready to reopen the corridor in such a short time.The jathedar also advised the Sikh youth to think twice while posting material on social media platforms.WORD TO THE WISE “Those who are destroying the determination and principles of the Akal Takht should be given a befitting reply. On social media, an atmosphere is emerging, which is encouraging genocide and destruction of our principles and organisations. We must be saved from it. I appeal youngsters to not get provoked and only share posts on social media after thinking twice so that no untoward incident takes place,” said the jathedar. His appeal comes after reports of ‘Khalistani operatives’ being arrested by the Punjab Police for ‘using social medial platforms’ to come in contact with their handlers in Pakistan came out. On Tuesday, the jathedar had asked the SGPC to pursue the cases of Khalistani operatives arrested by Punjab Police recently.“It has come to our notice that the Punjab Police arrested a few youngsters in the name of Khalistan. If any innocent person has been arrested or anyone has been put behind bars on false charges, it is condemnable, and the SGPC should pursue the matter and get the cases probed,” he had said. Earlier this month, he had claimed that every Sikh wanted Khalistan.JATHEDAR SEEKS PROBE INTO 22-YEAR-OLD’S SUICIDEA 22-year-old had committed suicide at Nangal Shanga village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar on Monday. He alleged assault and harassment by some villagers at the behest of Congress MLA Angad Singh Saini, the village sarpanch and her nambardar husband.“A Sikh youth was humiliated and his kakars (five symbols of Sikh faith) were desecrated, after which, the young man committed suicide. This is condemnable. It is our appeal to the Punjab government, especially the CM, that all the accused, be it an MLA or MP, should be sent behind bars. A case under Section 302 (murder) and 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli¬gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli¬gious beliefs) should also be registered against the accused,” the jathedar said. He also asked the SGPC to form a committee and investigate the incident thoroughly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/akal-takht-sgpc-urge-center-to-reopen-kartarpur-corridor/story-ryPoRAWFzWBvVf2Z81xE7H.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Canadian govt seals borders; stranded Punjabi NRIs, students appeal govt to start special flights||In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Canadian government has decided to keep its borders sealed till at least the end of July and has extended its ban on travellers. As such students and NRIs, who were hoping to return to India, will remain stranded in Canada for longer. Conversely, all those who had come to India in January and February taking leave from work or their educational institutions are also stuck in India. Joga Singh of Tut Kalan village, Jalandhar, says, “My wife and I were scheduled to fly to Canada on July 27 to attend the marriage of our only son, Mandeep Singh, on August 14. Earlier, we were unable to get a ticket because of the lockdown and now there are no options left. We will have to postpone the marriage.” An NRI, Amanpreet Kaur, said she had returned to her village in the Doaba region in February to attend a family function and was scheduled to return on March 29 but she was still stuck in Punjab. “I desperately want to return home to my children and grandchildren. I appeal both governments to ensure safe travel soon,” she said. Joban Sandhu, a Mohali resident, who was planning to shift to Canada in March said, “We have already cancelled our plan to go to Canada. We are now planning to travel in September or October if the situation allows us.”Recently, a 89-year-old Canadian citizen had committed suicide in Jalandhar because he was not able to get a ticket to travel home.STUDENTS IN A FIX Immigration experts say over one lakh students from Punjab and Chandigarh opt for popular education destinations such as the US, UK, Canada and Australia each year.Director of an international education consultancy, Jatin Wadhwa, said, “There are thousands of students from Chandigarh and Punjab who are waiting to fly to Canada. We are hopeful that from August the situation will improve otherwise their plans may get affected.”Simranjeet Kaur of Phagwara says, “I know almost 50 students from the region who had recently travelled to India to meet their families. However, they were stuck here due to the lockdown. Now, this new order has added to their woes and they will have to wait another month to return. Hopefully, the government will not extend the ban.” She said the Canadian government should start special flights for students as they did for stranded citizens last month.Chandigarh-based Rohan Verma, 21, who had applied to a Canadian college to pursue a course in 3D animation, is waiting for his visa to be processed. He says, “With every extension our hopes get diminished. I have already paid the college’s fee. Hopefully, travel restrictions will be removed by September or I will have to wait till December.” EVACUATION FLIGHTS COST A PRETTY PENNY Rohit Kapoor, a resident of Chandigarh’s Sector 46, said, “My daughter had returned from Canada in March and now she is stuck here. The charges of the special evacuation flights are very high. My wife is in Canada and she has not been able to return till now.”Anuj Kalra, a Chandigarh-based immigration expert, says, “There are only limited exemptions for travelling to Canada right now. We are receiving many queries these days.”A Canada Border Services Agency spokesperson had made the announcement.He said the agency had “implemented travel restrictions across all ports of entry in all modes of transportation - land, sea, air and rail. All travel of an optional or discretionary nature, including tourism and recreation, is covered by these measures.”The ban instituted in March had been announced by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and he had recently indicated it would remain in place. He had said during a media briefing that the federal government was “going to be very, very careful about when and how we start reopening international borders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/canadian-govt-seals-borders-stranded-nri-s-students-appeal-govt-to-start-special-flights/story-7iFdTggPKZ5lmsYpo7PiWJ.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Section 144 imposed in Mumbai till July 15 amid spike in Covid-19 cases||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday imposed prohibitory orders in the city under Section 144 of the CrPC in the wake of the spread of the coronavirus disease.The order prohibits presence or movement of one or more persons in public places or gathering of any sort anywhere, including religious places subject to certain conditions.The order has been signed by Pranaya Ashok, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations) and will remain in force till July 15.Mumbai recorded 893 new cases on Tuesday, which took the total number of cases in the city to over 77,000. It’s after five days that the city recorded less than 1,000 cases. It also reported 95 fatalities, including 57 deaths of the previous weeks, taking the toll to 4,556.As new cases continued to increase in satellite cities around Mumbai, local authorities in Thane and Mira-Bhayander announced lockdown in the two cities. Thane municipal commissioner Vipin Sharma announced lockdown in Thane city from 7am on July 2 to July 12, restricting movement of people, except for essential work. Thane city has seen 2,533 cases in the past eight days alone.The Mira-Bhayander municipal corporation, too, announced a complete lockdown till July 10 after cases spiked in the past few days.Meanwhile, the Lalbaugcha Raja Ganesh Mandal, which installs Mumbai’s most famous Ganpati idol, on Wednesday announced cancellation of the Ganesh Chaturthi celebration this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.It will organise blood and plasma donation camps and provide financial assistance to the families of policemen who died of Covid-19, Lalbaugcha Raja Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mandal’s secretary Sudhir Salvi told reporters.The 10-day festival begins on ‘Ganesh Chaturthi’, which falls on August 22 this year.The number of recovered Covid-19 patients in Mumbai increased to 44,170 with 625 patients being discharged from hospitals in the city on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/section-144-imposed-in-mumbai-till-july-15-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-7y1HKcn3nSuCoH2HCRyYiL.html
01-07-2020||Jaipur||78 new Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, state tally reaches 18,092||A total of 78 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Rajasthan as of 10:30 am on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 18,092, informed the State Health Department. Besides, 12 recoveries have also been reported. According to the health department, the total figure includes 3,447 active cases and 413 deaths.With a spike of 18,522 new cases in 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 count on Tuesday reached 5,66,840, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/78-new-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-state-tally-reaches-18-092/story-3jOIR70aUB7pGc7s4SBiSJ.html
01-07-2020||Pune||Maharashtra CM performs ‘mahapooja’ at Lord Vitthal temple||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday performed the ‘mahapooja’ of Lord Vitthal and Goddess Rukmini at the temple town of Pandharpur in Solapur district on the occasion of ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’.As per the convention, the chief minister performed the pooja with his wife Rashmi Thackeray at the temple of Lord Vitthal at 2.30 am, and prayed to God to make Maharashtra and the country free of coronavirus and to grant peace and prosperity to farmers in the state.His son and state minister Aaditya Thackeray was also present at the religious ceremony.‘Warkari’ (devotee of Lord Vitthal) couple Vitthal Badhe and Anusuya Badhe got the opportunity to perform the rituals alongside the chief minister.In normal times, lakhs of warkaris from Maharashtra and other states used to throng the temple in Pandharpur on ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’.However, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government cancelled this year’s annual wari pilgrimage, which is characterised by people walking from far with palanquins to Pandharpur.Curfew is in force in Pandharpur since Tuesday to prevent any gathering of people in the temple town, located around 350 km from Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-cm-performs-mahapooja-at-lord-vitthal-temple/story-C7jxU0KM5XHi7AMB5J22YP.html
01-07-2020||Patna||With five fresh casualties, Bihar’s Covid-19 death toll mounts to 68||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Bihar rose to 68 with five more fatalities in the last 24 hours, while the state’s tally inched towards the 10,000-mark with 370 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, the health department said here. According to the daily bulletin issued by the department on coronavirus, the number of confirmed cases in the state has reached 9,988.Two deaths were reported from Rohtas district while Patna, East Champaran and Gaya have accounted for one casualty each. Details like comorbidities of the deceased or their time of deaths were not known.Patna district now accounts for the maximum number of six casualties, and also tops the state in terms of the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases. A total of 713 people have tested positive in the district so far.The district has witnessed a steep hike in its tally in the last 10 days during which close to 100 people have tested positive in Paliganj sub-division alone.District Magistrate Kumar Ravi has ordered an inquiry to ascertain whether there was violation of norms at a marriage ceremony that was held on June 15 in Deehpali village and which appears to have triggered the biggest infection chain in the state so far.According to a release issued by the district administration, the sub-divisional officer of Paliganj has been asked to investigate as to whether measures like wearing of masks and social distancing were observed and the cap of 50 attendees was followed.“If any violation comes to the fore, stern legal action will be taken against those responsible for the arrangements,” said the release.The groom, who was suffering from fever at the time of the wedding, died two days after the marriage. It was not known whether he was infected since his family members cremated the body without waiting for authorities to collect the samples.Nonetheless, the administration tested samples of 259 people in the vicinity subsequently and 95 tested positive for Covid-19, said the release adding that eight containment zones have been set up in the affected areas.Covid-19 cases have been reported from all 38 districts in the state and only two Jamui and Sheohar have respective tallies lower than 100. Besides Patna, other districts which have reported a high number of cases are Bhagalpur 494, Madhubani 456, Begusarai 421 and Siwan 412.State Health Secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said that a high number of fresh cases notwithstanding, Bihar’s recovery rate of 77 per cent is significantly higher than the national average of 59 per cent.He also said the state has succeeded in increasing its testing capacity and 8,231 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of samples tested till date was 2.20 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/with-five-fresh-casualties-bihar-s-covid-19-death-toll-mounts-to-68/story-4WlwJtQorFpgzkgPqNvXnM.html
01-07-2020||Dehradun||Unlock 2: Uttarakhand govt taking steps to boost state’s economy, says CM Rawat||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said on Wednesday the government is taking several steps to lift the state’s economy as India entered into day one of Unlock 2.“A lot of amenities have been provided to people in the state under Unlock 2. We have also started Chardham Yatra and allowed tourists to stay in hotels provided they have documents to produce showing they are COVID-19 negative for the last 48 hours,” the chief minister said in a statement.Rawat said everything in Uttarakhand is being assessed due to the coronavirus pandemic. Along with socio-economic problems, mental illness is also on the rise and has to be tackled with caution, the chief minister added.Uttarakhand has recorded nearly 3,000 infections and 41 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Out of the 2,881 cases, 609 are active cases and 2,231 people have been cured or discharged so far.The Centre on Monday issued guidelines for the second of the three-phased unlock plan in order to lift restrictions across the country which were imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. Some of the guidelines under the second phase include relaxation in night curfew timings, increase in the frequency of domestic air travel and trains. However, metro services, educational institutions, and gatherings in large numbers would remain banned.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/unlock-2-uttarakhand-govt-taking-steps-to-boost-state-s-economy-says-cm-rawat/story-I82vqWNJOvwwkD0jNvoYUM.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Do not start tourist activities till October: Himachal hoteliers||In wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Himachal hoteliers have urged the state government to not start touristic activities in the state till October despite the state government issuing standard operating procedures (SOPs) regarding the same last month.All Himachal Association of Hospitality and Tourism spokesperson Ashwani Bamba said, “The Covid-19 pandemic has hit the tourism and hospitality sector. Hotels have been closed for the three months and no revenue has been earned. While we are concerned about the survival of our industry, loss of revenue, our staff and families, we cannot put the health and lives of our society at risk.” “At present, there is no vaccine available to cure the coronavirus. The people are afraid and will not prefer to venture out of their homes and stay in hotels,” he said.In a letter to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and the tourism secretary, Himachal’s hoteliers have said that tourist activities should not be permitted for the next few months as Covid-19 cases are increasing at an alarming rate in India and the world at large. As per expert opinion, the Covid-19 pandemic will be at its peak in July and August.In summer, tourists from Punjab, Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu flock to the state but these states are gravely infected and are in the red zone. Inviting tourists to visit Himachal will put our public at risk, the letter said. Railways will not be operating till August 12 and airlines have also suspended their operations till July 15.‘MOST PATIENTS ASYMPTOMATIC’ The letter says that as most of patients are asymptomatic, even if all precautions are taken and social distancing is maintained we will be putting the lives and health of our hotel staff at risk. Bamba said hoteliers were not expecting many tourists to visit Himachal in July and August and as such it will be financially inviable to open the hotels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/do-not-start-tourist-activities-till-october-himachal-hoteliers/story-n2aqoiJ13dCe8MleN8bDLP.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||In J&K, sports teachers are paid just one-sixth of a peon’s salary||When Rouf Ahmed, 31, a national-level canoeist, got posted at the Government High School in Hazibal last year, it was for the first time in 60 years that the school in a remote area of Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir got a sports instructor.Until then, students of the school were deprived of any sporting guidance. The students’ gain, however, did not translate into an equally rewarding experience for Ahmed, at least monetarily.Paid a meagre ₹3,000 a month, the 31-year-old, who had been recruited by the J&K youth services and sports department, spends ₹100 a day on commute as the school is 28km from his home and he has to take a shared cab to reach there. This leaves him with just ₹400 by the end of the month, and that too, because the school is closed on Sunday.PASSION, HOPE KEEP THEM GOINGAhmed says that the starting salary of peons, chowkidars and groundsmen in the UT’s sports department is ₹18,000 a month, six times higher than what he earns.“But it’s the passion for sports and a hope that we will get the full-scale pay someday that keeps us going,” says Ahmed, who had represented J&K in the kayaking and canoeing nationals in 2013 and 2014.Like Ahmed, there are sportspersons who have won medals at the national and international levels and are providing their services for the meagre amount.Among them is Riyaz Ahmad Dar, 37, who has a doctorate in physical education.SPORTS DEPT APPOINTED 2,764 YOUNGSTERSHe was one of the 2,764 youngsters who were appointed by the J&K sports department on the vacant posts under the Rehbar-e-Khel scheme in January 2019 with a minimum qualification of bachelors in physical education.“A person, to make up the deficiency of the physical education staff at the middle and high school level, will be designated as Rehbar-e-Khel,” reads the notification of 2017 for the appointment.Dr Saleem Ur Rehman, the director general of the J&K youth services and sports department, says the government is aware and reviewing their case.“We agree that sports instructors appointed under the Rehab-E-Khel scheme are underpaid. ₹3,000 is nothing. The department has already made a representation regarding their low salaries and the government is reviewing their case.”WOMEN PLAYERS CHIP IN, TOO“Paying ₹100 a day to a national-level player is nothing less than a joke,” says Sayima Rashid, 28, who has represented the J&K women’s cricket team at the national level 13 times and is the junior selector for the state women’s team (U-19 and U-23). She is posted at Government Senior School, Srinagar.Abida Akhtar, 28, an international medallist in wushu, who is posted at a remote village in Bandipora district, says, “Our job starts at 10am and goes on till 4pm, like all other teachers. We are producing good results and have introduced sports in schools which students were deprived of earlier,” said Akhtar, who holds a postgraduate degree.LONG PROBATION, SHORT ON INCENTIVEThe probation period for sports instructors under the Rehbar-e-Khel scheme is seven years, while in other UTs and states, it is one or two years.For the first two years of the probation, the instructors get a fixed monthly salary of ₹3,000, followed by ₹4,000 for the next five years. They are regularised and paid a full scale salary of ₹40,000 only if a post falls vacant.Before 2017, physical training instructors in the state were appointed at a starting salary of ₹40,000. In Haryana and Punjab, the starting salary is ₹35,000, while in most parts of the country. the salary in government schools is over ₹30,000.“In J&K, there is limited scope of jobs for youngsters pursuing sports as a career. So, they are dependent on government jobs,” says Manzoor Ahmad Bhat, a national-level martial arts player with an MPhil in physical education.Bhat is posted at the Government High School in Nillow village of Kulgam.“Initially, we were told that the authorities will review guidelines of the Rehbar-e-Khel scheme. We were appointed when there was President’s rule, but now J&K is a Union Territory, so we are hoping the Centre will look into our case sympathetically,” says national-level martial arts player Shaukat Khan, who is the president of the All J&K Rehbar-e-Khel Teachers Forum. Khan is posted at the Government Middle School at Kanifpora in Baramulla district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-j-k-sports-teachers-are-paid-just-one-sixth-of-a-peon-s-salary/story-diiVIfEpiVNipd3Gk5Su1N.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal wants curbs on interstate travel to continue, seeks permission from Centre||The Centre’s guidelines for Unlock 2.0 allow for more activities in non-containment zones and inter-state movement. However, the Himachal government has sought permission to impose curbs on inter-state travel.Until a response is received, arrangements as per guidelines for Unlock 1.0 issued on May 31 and amended on June 14 and 18 will remain in force.In the directions issued to all the deputy commissioners and police superintendents of the districts, principal secretary (revenue and disaster management) Onkar Chand Sharma said the ministry of home affairs in an order dated June 29 has issued orders to extend lockdown in containment zones and shared guidelines for opening more activities in non-containment zones.“Under these guidelines, the government of India has allowed free interstate movement of persons without the need of permission or e-permit. This is likely to result in large scale movement of persons to and out of the state thereby jeopardising measures taken by the state government to contain the spread of Covid-19,” the order reads.“The administrative and health system of the state may not be able to respond to the challenges, which may emerge post Unlock 2 as the number of Covid-19 cases are likely to increase,” he said. The state government has taken up the matter with the Center, asking it to allow the state to impose certain restrictions and regulate interstate movement.Till the receipt of a clarification or reply from the Centre, the instructions of state executive committee will remain in force.The quarantine system will also continue to operate as per existing norms till further orders.Night curfew will continue with relaxation increased by two hours from 9 pm to 5 am. Earlier, the timings of night curfew were 8 pm to 6 am.SCHOOL, COLLEGE HOLIDAYS EXTENDED TILL JULY 12Meanwhile, the state government has extended holidays in schools and colleges till July 12.The online classes of school students will start on July 13 but the institutions will remain closed till July 31 as per the guidelines issued by ministry of home affairs.The state government has issued guidelines to call teachers back on duty from July 13.Education minister Suresh Bhardwaj said the government has also decided against promoting final semester students of undergraduate course. The schedule for sixth semester exams will be issued soon.All educational institutions in the state have been closed since March 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-wants-curbs-on-interstate-travel-to-continue-seeks-permission-from-centre/story-p721tHp7Ufj5Ntd5ywc42L.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Chasing the virus’: How Mumbai’s Dharavi beat back a pandemic||When coronavirus claimed its first victim in India’s largest slum in April, many feared the disease would turn its narrow, congested streets into a graveyard, with social distancing or contact tracing all but impossible.But three months on, Mumbai’s Dharavi offers a rare glimmer of hope with new infections shrinking, thanks to an aggressive strategy that focused on “chasing the virus, instead of waiting for disaster”, according to city official Kiran Dighavkar.The sprawling slum has long been a byword for the financial capital’s bitter income disparities -- with Dharavi’s estimated one million people scraping a living as factory workers or maids and chauffeurs to Mumbai’s well-heeled residents.With a dozen people typically sleeping in a single room, and hundreds using the same public toilet, authorities realised early that standard practices would be of little use.“Social distancing was never a possibility, home isolation was never an option, and contact tracing was a huge problem with so many people using the same toilet,” Dighavkar told AFP.An initial plan to conduct door-to-door screenings was abandoned after Mumbai’s searing heat and humidity left medical workers feeling suffocated under layers of protective equipment as they combed the area’s cramped alleys for cases.But, with infections rising fast and fewer than 50,000 people checked for symptoms, officials needed to move quickly and get creative.What they came up with was coined “Mission Dharavi”.Each day, medical workers set up a “fever camp” in a different part of the slum, so residents could be screened for symptoms and tested for coronavirus if needed. Schools, wedding halls and sports complexes were repurposed as quarantine facilities that offered free meals, vitamins and “laughter yoga” sessions.Strict containment measures were deployed in virus hotspots that were home to 125,000 people, including the use of drones to monitor their movements and alert police, while a huge army of volunteers swung into action, distributing rations so they didn’t go hungry.Bollywood stars and business tycoons paid for medical equipment as construction workers built a 200-bed field hospital at breakneck speed in a park inside Dharavi.By late June, more than half the slum’s population had been screened for symptoms and around 12,000 tested for coronavirus.So far Dharavi has reported just 82 deaths -- a fraction of Mumbai’s more than 4,500 fatalities.- ‘Brink of victory’ -“We are on the brink of victory, I feel very proud,” said Abhay Taware, a doctor who saw around 100 patients daily in his tiny clinic at the height of the crisis.The 44-year-old father-of-two also had to fight his own battle against coronavirus when he contracted the disease in April, but told AFP he had “no doubts” about returning to work.“I thought I could show my patients that a positive diagnosis does not mean the end,” he said.Although doctors like Taware worked to reassure worried residents, the stigma persists.After an isolating 25-day spell in hospital and a fortnight in quarantine, Sushil -- not his real name -- said he now feared discrimination if people found out about his diagnosis.The 24-year-old also struck a note of caution, warning of a potential resurgence in infections.“People need to take as many precautions as possible. The numbers might have come down but they can swiftly rise again”, he told AFP. - ‘No escape next time’ -With Mumbai and Delhi struggling to accommodate coronavirus patients as India’s cases surge past half a million officials are also wary of celebrating too soon.“It’s a war. Everything is dynamic,” said Dighavkar.“Right now, we feel like we are on top of the situation,” he said. “The challenge will be when factories reopen,” he added, referring to the billion-dollar leather and recycling industries run out of Dharavi’s cramped tenements.And some in the slum fear their community might not be as lucky next time.On a blazing morning, as car salesman Vinod Kamble lined up to have his temperature taken, he recalled his terror when the virus landed in Mumbai.“I felt like Dharavi would be destroyed, and nothing would be left,” he told AFP, describing the near impossibility of avoiding infection in the slum.“We need better infrastructure,” the 32-year-old said.“Otherwise the next time a disease like this emerges, I don’t think Dharavi will be able to escape.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/chasing-the-virus-how-mumbai-s-dharavi-beat-back-a-pandemic/story-fhx7Xr1yNNg3YA3CPrkfGM.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at six-storey building in Mumbai’s Powai, no casualties reported||A level two fire was reported in a commercial building named Delphi in Powai area of Mumbai on Wednesday morning. Around four fire engines, one foam tender and four jumbo tank were rushed to the spot. Currently, three small fire engines and five fire motor pumps are in operation, Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said.The fire was reported at 6.16 am and was doused by 8.15 am, MFB saidNo injuries were reported due to the incident.According to the MFB, the operation was challenging as smoke was logged on upper floors of the six storey commercial building.Prabhat Rahangdale, chief fire officer MFB said, “The fire is at its initial stage of being under control. Our timely intervention averted a major incident. Fire is confined in the 3,000 sq ft office area on 5th floor involving electric wiring, electric installation, electric cables, office false ceiling, split AC unit compressor and parapet of 5th floor due to which entire 5th and 6th floor is logged with smoke.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-six-storey-building-in-mumbai-s-powai-no-casualties-reported/story-l47rL1gKULlZsfBJ9dMTPN.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Lalbaugcha Raja Ganeshotsav celebrations cancelled in wake of Covid-19 pandemic||For the first time in the history of Lalbaughcha Raja, Lord Ganpati’s idol will not be established due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mumbai’s Lalbaughcha Raja Ganeshotsav Mandal has decided not to hold Ganeshotsav this time in wake of the coronavirus pandemic and would instead set up a blood donation camp, informed Mandal officials. “Mumbai’s Lalbaughcha Raja Ganeshotsav Mandal has decided that they will not celebrate Ganeshotsav this time in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. They will not establish Lord Ganapati’s idol and will do social work for those 11 days of festivities,” the officials said.“A blood donation camp, plasma donation camp will be set up at the same place. Also, they will honour the families of martyrs who have sacrificed their lives at the LoC or LAC borders. This is the first time in the history of Lalbaughcha Raja that Ganpati Idol will not be established,” the officials added.Each year, Ganeshotsav is celebrated in a lavish manner in Mumbai, where lakhs of devotees visit the mandals to seek blessing from Lord Ganesh.Ganeshotsav also called Ganesh Chaturthi, is a festival that starts on the fourth day of Hindu luni-solar calendar month Bhadrapada, will start on August 22 this year.However, the celebrations this time are likely to be subdued as Maharashtra is one of the worst virus-affected states by Covid-19. The state has reported 1,74,761 coronavirus cases so far, as per the state Health Department on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lalbaugcha-raja-ganeshotsav-celebrations-cancelled-in-wake-of-covid-19-pandemic/story-NWysBGbp2YcFBx7IBLoILL.html
01-07-2020||Gurugram||Aarogya Setu, masks must as malls to reopen in Gurugram, Faridabad today||The Haryana government has released a set of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) as malls in Gurugram and Faridabad districts are all set to reopen on Wednesday after three months amid the coronavirus pandemic.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has assigned 80 of its enforcement wing officials across its four zones to keep a lookout for possible violations.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Municipalities have been directed to “monitor compliance by undertaking regular visits” to malls and to ensure that proper sanitisation of the premises is being carried out. Officials have also been given the power to issue challans of Rs 500 to visitors for failing to wear masks. They are also supposed to hand out five masks to violators.Here’s what you need to know:* Malls can open between 9am and 8pm, but cinema halls, gaming arcades and play areas for children will continue to remain closed. * Visitors and all mall workers need to strictly follow social distancing norms and wear at all times. * Visitors also need to install the Aarogya Setu app. Visitors above the age of 65 and below the age of 10 will not be permitted to visit shopping malls.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage * Mall authorities will have to ensure that every visitor is scanned for temperature via thermal scanners as well as to ensure that hand-sanitizers are placed at all entry points.* The mall authorities have also been directed to prevent large gatherings or congregations and to ensure that all mall employees who are at high risk, such as senior citizens, pregnant women, and those who have underlying medical conditions, are “preferably” not placed in any front-line work requiring direct interaction with the public.* Temperature setting of all air-conditioners should be between 24-30 degrees Celsius.* Use of escalators can be permitted if visitors travel on alternate steps. * Valet parking can be operational provided the staff is wearing masks, and gloves, and steering wheels, door handles, car keys are properly disinfected.* If someone tests positive, the person must be taken to a “room or area” where they can remain isolated, they must be provided with a mask and the owners must immediately inform the closest hospital or clinic, or else “call the state or district helpline”.* The premises must be immediately disinfected if a person tests positive.* Shopkeepers and vendors must ensure “staggering of visitors...to ensure no more than 50% seating capacity at any particular time”. * The 50% seating capacity rule is also applicable for food courts where staff and waiters also have to wear masks and hand gloves. Seating arrangements must be made while ensuring social distancing, and “contactless mode of ordering and digital modes of payment” encouraged.* If any violation of the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry is noticed, challans shall be issued against each violation, which will be punishable under the provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005 as well as under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/aarogya-setu-masks-must-as-malls-to-reopen-in-gurugram-faridabad-today/story-JyZsVp0QzoyJi3toDC2EhN.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Youth ends life alleging harassment at behest of Congress MLA, others||A 22-year-old youth on Monday committed suicide at at Nangal Shanga village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, alleging assault and harassment by some villagers at the behest of Congress MLA Angad Singh Saini, the village sarpanch and her nambardar husband. Before taking the extreme step, the youth made a video wherein he claimed that he was attacked by local residents Parkash Raj, Gursewak, Paramjit with the support of MLA Saini, sarpanch Neena Devi and her husband Sucha Ram. His father, who filed a police complaint, said Parkash Raj also took away his son’s turban when he along with others carried out an attack at their house on June 11. An FIR was registered in this regard. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Alka Meena formed a special investigation team headed by SP (detective) Wazir Singh Khaira to probe the case. She also shunted out the Rahon station house officer (SHO) and the Shekhan Mazara police post in-charge over alleged mishandling of the case.It is learnt that the victim’s family had taken panchayat land on lease for the last couple of years but Parkash Raj made a higher bid this time for the land, leading to a tussle started between two parties, it is learnt. Even cross FIRs were registered recently. MLA Saini said there was a dispute between two parties and he had intervened to stop illegal encroachment of panchayat land. “I told them that the land should go to the higher bidder. I have nothing to do with it (youth’s suicide),” he claimed. The victim’s family refused to cremate the body till a case was registered against all the accused. The body was kept at a mortuary of a Banga hospital. SAD, BSP protest, want legislator bookedYouth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Bunty Romana and general secretary Sarabjot Singh along with Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) general secretary Nachhtar Pal and others held a protest and threatened stir against the police if they fail to register a case against MLA Saini. Romana said they have given the police a day’s ultimatum for this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/youth-ends-life-alleging-harassment-at-behest-of-congress-mla-others/story-76DUEJ24c8NaNK4jVwdKFO.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Slashed India, Pak embassy staff return home via Wagah||The slashed staff members of the Indian and Pakistan high commissions returned home through the Attari-Wagah border in Amritsar district on Tuesday.As many as 143 Pakistanis, including diplomats and their family members, who had been working at the Pakistan embassy in New Delhi, were repatriated. Similarly, 38 Indians, including a first secretary, two second secretaries, returned from Pakistan. Before the repatriation, their customs and immigration clearances were done at the integrated check post (ICP) Attari. A senior official of the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) posted at the ICP said, “Social distancing norms were strictly followed during the return of Indians and Pakistanis to their countries. Thermal screening of all the passengers was also done before allowing their movements from India to Pakistan and vice-a-versa.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/slashed-india-pak-embassy-staff-return-home-via-wagah/story-fo9kllg0ja1iZaIiafGqtN.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Bus fare in Punjab gets dearer by 6 paisa/km||After increase in diesel prices, the bus fare gets dearer by six paisa per kilometre from Wednesday, states a notification issued by the state transport department.With this hike, the travelling cost in an ordinary bus will be Rs 1.22 per kilometre against the previous Rs 1.16 per kilometre. The fare of HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning) buses is Rs 1.46 per kilometre against previous Rs 1.39 per kilometre, which is 20% more than the ordinary buses.Those travelling in an integral coach will have to pay Rs 2.19 per kilometre as compared to Rs 2.08 of earlier, while the charges of a super-integral coach will be Rs 2.44 per kilometre, which is double the fare of an ordinary bus.In the notification, principal secretary (state transport department) K Siva Prasad said: “The new bus fares will come into force from July 1.”Meanwhile, Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) chairman KK Sharma said that the increase in bus fare will give some respite from the increasing prices of diesel, which is putting an extra burden on the corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bus-fare-in-punjab-gets-dearer-by-6-paisa-km/story-ppd3cu4lLSNHllvkq0BHTO.html
01-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: In the dream world of Chacha Chaiwale||He can easily pass off as a Barista serving the poetic world of ghazals and nazms. Seated beside his coffee machine, the gracious-seeming man in long beard is wearing a small skull cap, a loose-flowing salwar suit, and looks like a figure from a world peopled with poets like Ghalib and Zauq.Some places are so marked with distinct character, their ambiance so transportive that they immediate plunge the visitor into a setting totally different from the rest of the surroundings.Chacha Chaiwale’s, or tea man uncle’s, establishment in Old Delhi is one of these dreamlands.Tucked into the narrow Haveli Bakhtawar lane, the stall is only a few steps away from the historic Jama Masjid, and its vibes are as confident as that of the red sandstone 17th-century monument.Facing the hole-in-the-wall Rafiouddin Qureshi Meat Shop, the chai destination consists of a raised metal slab, planked across the pavement, on which Chacha Chaiwale sits. His real name is Haji Waziruddin. “I acquired the title of Haji after performing hajj in 1992,” he says in a most polite tone. That was also the year when he started this tea stall. Earlier, this same spot hosted his family-run ice-selling trade. “That line was started by my father before 1947,” says the gentleman.The fact that the origins of this pavement landmark go back to such a long-ago time infuses it with venerable dignity. Even an ignorant person, accidentally passing through the cramped alley, can easily sense the stall’s rootedness to the area — as if it had sprung from the very soil of the street. Just like two of the street’s other equally distinguished landmarks—the aforementioned meat shop (born 40 years ago) and Hilal Hotel (35 years ago).Haji Waziruddin’s personality also plays a role in making the mood of his establishment so unforgettable. His face glows in utmost calmness. He speaks in flawless Urdu—it is hard to hear such diction in Old Delhi these days (Chacha is equally adept in Old Delhi’s present-day colourful street lingo). You also have to look at his hands. The fingers are decked with shining rings—“each concerns a mannat (prayer) that has been fulfilled.” And this morning his long beard is tied by a band, as if it were a pony tail.Being a pious man, Haji Waziruddin is often seen holding his tasbih, the chain of prayer beads. Though right now it is hanging off a hook on the coffee machine. “I serve (butter) coffee in the winter... there’s no demand for it these days... so I make only chai.”The stall’s side wall is also an important character in the silent theatricality of the place. It unfolds to the viewer like a work of art. The wall is cluttered with all sorts of knick-knacks gathered by Chacha Chaiwale over the years: shop licence, prayer calendar, a clock, a teeny-weeny fan, a set of rusting keys, a metal stand to stack white thermacol glasses... even the wall colour is something to sing about. It must have been painted blue in some other era, but now it has a shade you might not find in any sophisticated painting catalogue.Additionally, a long metal bench is laid out beside the stall, presumably for customers to sit on. One could spend hours on it, gazing at the alley life of passersby — that include timid goats and brazen rats.One day, whenever possible, do drop by Chacha Chaiwale’s. The stall opens daily at 5am. “It closes at 1 am but these days I shut off at 9pm due to the pandemic.”And yes, the chai is tasty. But in a place crammed with so many exquisite details, the quality of the chai frankly doesn’t matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-in-the-dream-world-of-chacha-chaiwale/story-fy2GBZ2etn50qKDdMJiKqN.html
01-07-2020||Bangalore||Dumping of bodies of Covid-19 victims in a pit sparks outrage||A video, purportedly showing health workers inappropriately burying bodies of Covid-19 victims in a large pit in Ballari district of Karnataka, surfaced on social, triggering an outrage among residents of the state.A top official of Ballari district, which is also home to state health minister B Sriramulu, said they are inquiring into the incident.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the video, the workers, wearing personal protective equipment, are seen bringing bodies wrapped in black sheets from a vehicle parked nearby and dropping them, one after another, into a large pit, dug up with the help of an earthmover.A man who posted the video, first on YouTube, claimed the incident took place in Ballari. The video went viral on social media, drawing widespread condemnation over the manner in which the dead were handled and people demanding stringent action against those responsible for the incident.“In all, eight bodies were dumped in this fashion in a single pit,” an eyewitness claimed.Ballari’s deputy commissioner, SS Nakul, said he has taken notice of the viral video. “We have ordered an inquiry,” he told reporters in Ballari on Tuesday.The district reported 12 Covid-19 deaths on Monday. Nakul said five more people succumbed to the coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the total fatalities in the district to 29 until now.In a similar incident, the body of a 44-year old Covid-19 victim was thrown into a pit in Puducherry earlier this month, triggering public outrage, following which a few health workers were suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/dumping-of-bodies-of-covid-19-victims-in-a-pit-sparks-outrage/story-bIuEhHKqKTpRMwlvAlFKAJ.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to get ₹793 crore for pollution control but no clarity on utilisation yet: MPCB||Six cities in Maharashtra with a one million-plus population will receive ₹793 crore for controlling air pollution in 2020-21, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) said. However, according to pollution control body there is no clarity on where and how the funds need to be utilised.Of the ₹793 crore, Mumbai will receive the largest chunk of the allocation – ₹488 crore – among 46 other cities in the country which have more than one million population, followed by Pune (₹134 crore), Nagpur (₹66 crore), Nashik (₹41 crore), while Aurangabad and Vasai-Virar will get ₹32 crore each.During a meeting scheduled on June 12 with the Union environment ministry, the pollution control boards of various states were informed about the disbursement of funds, said VM Motghare, joint director (air quality), MPCB.Also read| Clean air plan for Mumbai: Study raises concerns over accountability“The minutes of the meeting were shared with us on Friday, and we can formally announce that Maharashtra will get ₹793 crore as per the 15th Finance Commission report. However at the moment, there is no clarity on whether the disbursed funds will be linked to the Centre’s Smart Cities and Swachh Bharat Missions. Also, we need more clarity on the utilisation of funds and submission of expenditure statements,” said Motghare.On February 1, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget speech announced ₹4,400 crore for clean air in cities with a population more than one million. The fund was to be made available to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) to 46 cities in India. Soon after, the finance ministry published a document highlighting individual funds to be disbursed to these cities, with separate fund allocations for Swachh Bharat Mission and air pollution mitigation.In March, the Parliamentary Standing Committee in Science and Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change observed that allocating ₹4,400 crore for air pollution control was more than the entire budget allocation for the entire Union environment ministry (₹3,100 crore) for 2020-21. Responding queries raised by the committee, the environment ministry on March 6 submitted, “The budgetary allocation of ₹4,400 crore through MoHUA, is intended to be a performance-related grant, which would be released to only the million-plus cities, based on the improvements in average annual concentrations of both PM [particulate matter] 10 and PM2.5 (equal weightage of 50%). Such grants would, however, be released only based on the improvements (as calculated in January 2021). Cities shall use the same for taking up activities and measures that would help to bring down the pollution levels further.”Meanwhile, of the ₹460 crore allocated for air pollution control by the finance ministry in 2019-20, Maharashtra was to receive ₹41 crore for 17 non-attainment cities (identified then) under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). This included ₹10 crore funds for two years for four million-plus cities (Mumbai, Pune, Navi Mumbai and Nagpur) and ₹10 lakh each for cities with a population of less than 5 lakh and ₹20 lakh each for those with a population of five to 10 lakh, among other non-attainment cities. Non-attainment cities are those with PM concentration consistently below the national ambient standards.“So far, we received ₹25 crore from the Centre, of which ₹6 crore each has been disbursed to civic bodies of Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune and Navi Mumbai, while the remaining ₹1 crore has been given to the remaining cities. We are yet to receive ₹16 crore from the 2019-20 budget,” said Motghare, adding that city-wise air action plan progress reports were being compiled by MPCB.Clarifying on the matter, SN Tripathi, apex committee member of National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) and professor of Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur, said that the environment ministry and MoHUA are looking into the disbursal. “Two central ministries are working on this together. MoHUA will be disbursing the fund because it is focused on urban development for city level pollution abatement plans, but it will be done after evaluation by the Union environment ministry because this pertains to air pollution reduction. The environment ministry will be assessing the air pollution mitigation measures being implemented by each city based on their action plans, and their performance will be communicated to MoHUA, which will be disbursing the funds to individual cities on a quarterly basis. This is expected to happen from January 2021 onwards. The exact methodology of how this will be done is currently being worked out by the two ministries,” said Tripathi.Meanwhile, a senior official from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), who attended the NCAP meeting on June 12, said, “At the moment, all the cities have been asked to focus on their clean air action plans with the existing funds available to them. We are assisting the ministry in submitting the quarterly reports of the progress in these cities which will be further assessed by them, and the funds will be provided to urban local bodies, municipal corporations and other state departments engaged in improving air quality in these non-attainment cities.”“To ensure that blue skies become permanent, cities should be certain of their short, medium and long-term air pollution reduction goals. State and municipal budgets also need to reflect planned expenditure on air pollution mitigation,” said Tanushree Ganguly, programme associate, Council on Energy, Environment and Water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-get-793-crore-for-pollution-control-but-no-clarity-on-utilisation-yet-mpcb/story-DM03FcW23lZ27VSNExu32K.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Clean air plan for Mumbai: Study raises concerns over accountability||A latest study by think tank Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) and air pollution research group Urban Emissions has revealed that the mitigation actions entrusted on multiple state agencies to improve the city’s air quality could fragment accountability.The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board’s (MPCB’s) clean air action plan for Mumbai lists 58 measures across 16 different agencies. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has been accounted for 41% of the activities, while 22% accountability lies with the transport department and the state’s pollution control regulatory body is in-charge of only 20% mitigation actions. The remaining responsibilities have been delineated to the district administrations and urban local bodies.“Mumbai’s action plan contains information on sources and lists financial requirements for implementations. However, the plan fails to highlight any measures to ensure regional coordination, even though independent estimates suggest that close to a third of the city’s air pollution originates outside city limits,” said Kurinji Selvaraj, research analyst, CEEW.However, MPCB chairman Sudhir Srivastava said this was not the case.“Accountability will not be an issue as action plan monitoring committees have been formed for every non-attainment city, which is headed by the municipal commissioner and municipal council head. Committee members include representatives from state agencies. Monthly meetings will help take stock of actions by different stakeholders.”The Centre’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) seeks to reduce particulate matter (PM) concentration by 20-30% by 2024. It identified 18 of 122 non-attainment cities from Maharashtra, the highest across India. Non-attainment cities are those with PM concentration consistently below the national ambient standards. The CEEW-Urban Emissions analysis approved action plans by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for elements responsibility delineation and cost-effectiveness of action plans, among other measures for each city.The analysis charted out the key components missing from the state’s air action plans, such as none of the 17 approved plans have a legal mandate for implementation, 65% plans had not outlined financial requirements for actions proposed, 70% plans do not include crucial information on air pollution sources and there is no regional coordination mechanism.Researchers identified key efforts that could help refine action plans and improve accountability.“Scaling up air pollution monitors, outlining specific tasks for each action point among agencies, fixing sector-wise emission reduction targets and developing a protocol for reporting progress could help meet the rising democratic demand for clean air in Maharashtra,” said Sarath Guttikunda, founder, Urban Emissions.Srivastava said agencies needed to separately chip in (with resources and funds) for their respective duties assigned as per the plan.“Dust suppression measures, treatment of construction and demolition waste, open burning of solid waste are all the responsibilities of civic bodies. Traffic management and pollution under control (PUC) checks are looked after by the transport department. Reduction in industrial pollution is MPCB’s outlook. Thus, well-defined targets for each agency will enhance accountability,” he said.CPCB has published the plans of all non-attainment cities in the state except Thane, the study said.“The action plan for Thane is ready, and will be sent to the CPCB for approval soon,” said VM Motghare, joint director (air quality), MPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/clean-air-plan-for-mumbai-study-raises-concerns-over-accountability/story-xhD1wEBy95rGFWgj2xhZYO.html
01-07-2020||City||KDMC health workers protest, demand salary hike||Health workers working with the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) protested outside the civic body on Tuesday afternoon demanding a salary hike. They claimed that they have been working on low salaries from the past few years. However, the All India Labourers Employees Union later postponed the protest on the request of the civic body.Konark Desai, chairman, All India Labourers Employees Union, Maharashtra, said, “In such difficult times, health workers are supporting citizens relentlessly. They need to be supported with proper pay at least. Around 275 health workers associated with the corporation have been demanding a rise in their salary since the past few years but the corporation has been ignoring it.”The corporation assured the employees that soon they will get the desired hike. “We shall resolve the issue within the next few days,” said an officer from the KDMC. Following the assurance, the health workers said they will wait for 20 more days. “After 20 days, if there is no response from the civic body, we shall continue our protest and stop our work. We have been working on shifts endlessly, especially after the Covid-19 outbreak. We are only asking for what we deserve,” said a nurse from Dombivli, who participated in the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-health-workers-protest-demand-salary-hike/story-HkzrCkaMXXW4PUjgHWawhP.html
01-07-2020||City||63 booked since June 19 for visiting Malshej Ghat near Thane during lockdown||A total of 63 picnickers who visited the waterfalls in Malshej Ghat along the Thane-Ahmednagar Road have been booked for flouting the lockdown norms since June 19. The spot is a popular attraction owing to its waterfalls and scenic mountains.“Till now 63 people have been booked since June 19 under sections 144 and 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for disobedience and unlawful assembly,” said senior inspector Suhas Kharmate from Tokawade police station.The Thane district collector on June 19 had issued a circular, prohibiting entry to all monsoon picnic spots, including waterfalls, trekking points and dams, across the district. The collector had imposed section 144 as well as section 34 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, prohibiting citizens from going anywhere along the 1-km perimeter of waterfalls, trekking spots, rivers, lakes, dams and picnic spots in Thane district. The collector stated that it is impossible to maintain social distancing at such places points and visiting them will increase the spread of Covid-19.Places near Malshej Ghat, such as Pimpalgaon Joga Dam, Harishchandragad, Ajoba Hill Fort and Naneghat, all are closed and even locals are not allowed to visit these spots.Kharmate said, “After the government declared the lockdown, villagers from areas near the ghat have been abiding by the lockdown norms and none of them ventured out unless there has been an emergency. However, many others from across the city failed to abide by the lockdown norms and visited the spot for picnic. We have seen people visitors regularly here since Cyclone Nisarga made a landfall this month.”He claimed that visitors come in private vehicles and there are around seven-eight passengers in one car, violating all social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/63-booked-since-june-19-for-visiting-malshej-ghat-near-thane-during-lockdown/story-5Dsaij1FwkTxnYtfgoGXVL.html
01-07-2020||City||Traders in Mumbai oppose rule that bans travel beyond 2km||Opposing the Mumbai Police’s order that prohibits citizens from travelling beyond the 2-km-radius, Viren Shah, president of Federation of Retail Traders’ Welfare Association, on Tuesday claimed that the decision will benefit e-commerce giants and hit retail business further by 50%. “The unlocking began in June and shops were allowed to remain open on odd/even formula with limited capacity. But what is the point of opening shops and then asking commuters to stay home and not to venture out?” Shah said.He claimed that authorities assured traders that a decision will soon be taken on the restrictions. If a decision is not taken, the traders will decide their further course of action, said Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traders-in-mumbai-oppose-rule-that-bans-travel-beyond-2km/story-9FuptrI4wlW0XCpPAXpBkM.html
01-07-2020||City||Will buy food packets via e-tendering, says Mumbai civic corporation||After facing the criticism of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the corporation over the procurement of 1.95 lakh food packets via e-quotation, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said it will procure them for distribution among the poor only through e-tenders. Food packets are being provided to many citizens by the civic body in the city, owing to the lockdown in the city. BJP group leader Prabhakar Shinde on Tuesday said, “On the pretext of coronavirus, there is corruption prevailing in the BMC. On Monday, without calling for tenders, a contract of ₹63 crore to provide food to the needy was invited via an e-quotation. My question is how will this benefit if there is no competitive bidding done?” he said. Replying to Shinde’s allegation, the BMC said that the contract for the distribution of food packets to the needy every morning and evening has been cancelled through e-quotation and now it will be called through e-tenders and open tenders through website. “The process of registering the participation in the e-tender process for the distribution of around 1 lakh 95 thousand food parcels every day will start from July 3 and the process is expected to be completed by July 15,” said the BMC said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-buy-food-packets-via-e-tendering-says-mumbai-civic-corporation/story-tLzsBuZpIaWl7wUVMwp0rL.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: NIOS cancels Class 12 exams for students with special needs||The National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) on Tuesday announced that students with special needs who have registered for the Senior Secondary Examination (Class 12 equivalent) under the board will be exempted from giving the tests, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. The exams are scheduled to be held between July 17 and August 13.“Senior secondary special need NIOS learners registered for the March 2020 public examinations shall now be examined by the way of project work/ question-answer based assessment instead of appearing for the examination,” stated a circular released by the board on Tuesday. As per the circular, students would have to submit assignments for at least two modules of 40 marks each, which is a mandatory theory component for the examinations. The board has however, not given any clarity on the status of exams of students with special needs writing their secondary (Class 10) board exams which are held during the same time. The board will give details on the evaluation scheme at a later date. The announcement came after several parents and schools requested the board to either postpone or cancel the board exams. With the ongoing pandemic, parents were finding it difficult to find writers for such students and had said that travelling to exam centres would be too risky for the students. Geetha Sequeira, an assistant teacher at Childreach, a school that exclusively caters to children with special needs said that the circular lacks clarity and will add to the students’ stress. “To begin with, there is no mention of Class 10 students, leaving them in the lurch. Even for Class 12 students, submitting projects and assignments at a time like this is going to be stressful. Many students are planning to write some papers in the October exams and are busy preparing for that. This will be an additional burden for them,” she added. “We are not happy with the decision. At a time when several boards have cancelled exams, NIOS should not put such pressure on our kids. Many are slow learners or have learning difficulties. They cannot prepare the projects and study for the October exam at the same time,” said a parent from Andheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nios-cancels-class-12-exams-for-students-with-special-needs/story-1xE2qod44LaBAk3GzaP15K.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks report from Maharashtra government on purported police brutality during lockdown||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the state government to submit a report disclosing the status of the investigation into police brutality in enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown in the city. The report is expected to shed light on the death of two persons, who allegedly died following excessive use of force by police personnel.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice NJ Jamadar was responding to a petition by advocate Firdause Irani, based on his complaint that he, his wife, and two sons were beaten by local police personnel and civic officials outside his residence at Goregaon (West).The bench has asked assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan that the report should also reveal the status of the investigation into Irani’s complaint.In his petition, Irani, a lawyer and human rights activist said that on the evening of April 16, when he returned to his residence along with his wife, a masked man in plain clothes, charged at them with a lathi. A verbal altercation ensued after he abused the lawyer and his wife.The petition added that other police personnel and civic staff reached the spot, by which point Irani’s two sons also arrived and pointed out that their parents had not committed any violation. Irani claimed that the police officers then started raining lathi blows on him and his family.He said that during the past two months, several Mumbai residents have been targeted with impunity by errant police personnel, and no action has been taken. He pointed out a report by a human rights organisation claiming that 15 persons died across the country due to police excesses during the lockdown, of which two cases were from Mumbai.One of them, according to the report, was Raju Velu Devendra, whose family alleges that on March 30, when they were going to their relative’s residence, a police team chased them and caught the deceased. The policemen reportedly informed the relatives that they were taking Devendra to Juhu police station. In the morning, police informed the family that Devendra was found lying at Nehru Nagar Chowk and when he was taken to a hospital, he was declared dead on arrival.Police, however, maintain that the 22-year-old was badly beaten by locals when he was caught attempting to commit a robbery. A case has been registered against eight persons in this regard.In the second case mentioned in the human rights report, on April 18, when Sagir Jamal Khan, a labourer, returned home, he informed his roommate that while he was pushing a handcart to deliver a refrigerator in Null Bazaar, police caught him and beat him on his head, hands and back. Later, while having dinner, Khan collapsed and was declared dead on arrival when he was taken to a hospital.However, a police officer claimed that Khan’s medical reports revealed that he died due to enlargement of the heart, and there was no external or internal injury on his body.HC has now posted the petition for further hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-seeks-report-from-maharashtra-government-on-purported-police-brutality-during-lockdown/story-cS0bsznuLQR4xqHngNXkyM.html
01-07-2020||City||Railways to start 700 new trains from today in Mumbai||MumbaiAround 700 new local train services will be introduced on Wednesday to facilitate the travel of those working in essential services. Currently, Central and Western Railway operate around 200 trains each for those in essential services. Employees of the central government, nationalised banks, defence sector, income tax department, postal services, customs, Mumbai Port Trust(MPT), judiciary and the Raj Bhavan are also now permitted to travel by locals.After the services resumed, only employees of the state government, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST), civic school teachers and hospital staff were permitted to travel by local trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/railways-to-start-700-new-trains-from-today-in-mumbai/story-FjxgJCFnITxxio3RjhxDmM.html
01-07-2020||City||Aamir Khan’s 7 staff members test positive for Covid-19; actor negative||Actor Aamir Khan, in a statement on Twitter on Tuesday, revealed that some of his staff members had tested positive for Covid-19. He also added they were “immediately quarantined”, and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials were prompt and efficient in taking them to a medical facility.The actor mentioned his family members have tested negative, but his mother, Zeenat Hussain, is yet to take the test, and asked fans to pray for her. The tweet read: “This is to inform you that some of my staff have tested positive. I would like to thank the BMC for taking such good care of them, and for fumigating and sterilising the entire society. The rest of us have all been tested and found negative. Right now I am taking my mother to get her tested. She is the last person in the loop. Please pray that she is negative.”It further said: “And a big thank you to Kokilaben Hospital, and doctors, nurses and staff there. They were very caring and professional with the testing process. God bless and stay safe. Love. Aamir.”Vinayak Vispute, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s H-West ward under which the actor’s residence in Bandra West falls, said, “Seven staff members of Aamir Khan tested positive on Monday, and we have isolated all of them. Khan has tested negative, and so far none from his family has tested positive. Mr Khan has cooperated well with BMC in giving all help and details about the case.”(Inputs from Mehul R Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aamir-khan-s-7-staff-members-test-positive-for-covid-19-actor-negative/story-FqOWmqgtK0wCxshwvFFAOM.html
01-07-2020||City||60-year-old Thane man faces 24-hour ordeal after testing positive to get bed||Thane: Twenty-four hours after a the family of a 60-year-old Mumbra patient struggled to get him admitted to a Covid facility in Thane, the man was finally given a bed at Kopar Khairane in Navi Mumbai on Tuesday afternoon. The patient developed fever on Friday, following which he was admitted to a private hospital in Mumbra. When he started developing difficulties in breathing, the hospital conducted a swab test and on Monday afternoon, his report came positive for the virus. As the hospital he was admitted to was not a Covid facility, the family looked to shift him. However, they were unable to find him a bed in any of the facilities within Thane city. Later, a private hospital in Thane agreed to admit him, but demanded a deposit of ₹75,000, despite the fact that the family applied under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, meant for poor patients.“While most of the facilities did not have vacant beds, a private hospital, where beds were available, asked for a deposit of ₹75,000 prior to admission. The patient is retired, while his other two sons works as an autorickshaw driver and welder. The family lost their source of livelihood during the lockdown and could not afford paying such a hefty amount. Under the scheme, they should not have been charged such a huge amount,” said a friend of the patient.The family then consulted Dr Alfarooq Raut, a general physician from Mumbra, over the issue. “After the family contacted me, we reached out to the civic corporation through social media but only responded by saying that they will look into it. Although the patient does not have any comorbidity, he is a senior citizen who developed breathing difficulties and thus he should have provided with timely treatment. As the man was kept at a non-Covid hospital for long owing to lack of beds in Covid facilities, the health of other patients was also compromised,” said Dr Raut.The family then kept inquiring about availability of beds at Covid facilities across Thane, Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, following which the man was admitted to the Kopar Khairane hospital.The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) claimed it will inquire into the incident.“We have alerted hospitals to not charge hefty amounts and have also put up rate cards for the convenience of the locals. We shall inquire into this incident at the earliest,” said a health officer from Thane Municipal Corporation’s health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-thane-man-faces-24-hour-ordeal-after-testing-positive-for-covid-to-get-bed/story-p3WEasKSKmtd5LrP9RzdMO.html
01-07-2020||City||Maharashtra government aims to distribute homeopathy pills to 5 lakh rural citizens||The state rural development department (RDD) directed the district councils to procure and distribute homeopathy pills Arsenicum Album 30 free of cost. The department aims to cover five lakh people in rural areas. RDD minister Hasan Mushrif said the decision was taken in accordance with the Ayush ministry guidelines that state that the medicine helps in boosting immunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-aims-to-distribute-homeopathy-pills-to-5-lakh-rural-citizens/story-5dXPdTTMiPoKXI5fKm8c7K.html
01-07-2020||City||10-day lockdown in Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli from Thursday||The mystery over a complete lockdown in Thane is finally over, with the civic body issuing an official notification stating that the entire city will go under lockdown from Thursday to July 12. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), too, announced a complete lockdown in the twin cities during the same period.Grocery and medical stores, single vegetable stalls and milk vendors are allowed to operate during the 10 day-lockdown. Stepping out for morning walks and exercises are also not permitted. The corporation warned of action against those who violate the norms.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “The city will be under complete lockdown from Thursday 7am till 7am on July 12, as per the orders issued by civic commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma. Only essential services will be allowed during these 10 days, and all non-essential shops will have to remain closed. No movement of private vehicles will be allowed unless it is for emergency purposes. Public transport services will also be suspended. People will have to remain at home, no one will be allowed to leave house without emergency reasons.”The TMC notification stated that if residents who are asked to remain in home quarantine venture out, they will be “forcefully sent to quarantine centres”. “More than five people cannot gather at any essential shop for buying essential goods, or else action will be taken,” the notification said.The decision to impose a complete lockdown in the city was pending since May 27, with the police and municipal corporation creating confusion among the residents owing to the uncertainty over the decision. On Monday, the police tweeted that there will be a complete lockdown, but hours later, after discussions with the civic body, it was decided to not implement the lockdown.Meanwhile in neighbouring Kalyan and Dombivli, a lockdown was announced last week in containment zones. However, with more than 300 cases reported since the past few days, the corporation decided to implement a complete lockdown. Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC, said, “From Thursday, only essential services will be allowed in the city. The officials and ward officers concerned have to ensure that there are provisions for home delivery in all areas. Grocery and vegetable stores will be open only from 9am to 5pm, while dairy shops can operate from 5am till 10am.”What’s permitted and what’s notThe internal roads under TMC and KDMC’s jurisdictions will be closed and the police will patrol all the important points of the city.Big vegetable markets, all non-essential shops, commercial establishments, firms and workshops will remain closed.Morning and evening walks will not be allowed and the corporations asked residents to remain at homes. They can step out only in the case of emergencies.Public transport services such as state-run and private buses, taxis and autoriskshaws will not be permitted to operate.Government offices will be operated with minimum staff.Dairy shops, medical and grocery stores, single stall vegetable shop and clinics will remain open.Banks, ATM kiosks, print and electronic media, telecom, IT, postal, internet and data services will remain functionalTransportation agricultural, pharmaceutical and medical products is permitted.Petrol pumps, LPG gas, oil agencies, their warehouses will be allowed to operate.Frontline workers will be allowed to travel.Home delivery of liquor is permitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-day-lockdown-in-thane-and-kalyan-dombivli-from-thursday/story-XMVebykTrHhQ83xHe8C9EI.html
01-07-2020||City||3 wards in Mumbai with most civic plaints have most containment zones||Three of the five wards that have the highest number of containment zones in Mumbai also had most complaints related to poor civic management such as water shortage, bad state of public toilets, overflowing drains and irregular collection of garbage between January and December 2019, according to NGO Praja’s report released on Tuesday. These wards are L (Kurla), M-East (Govandi) and S (Bhandup). The spokesperson of BMC said they do not want to comment on the report.The NGO claimed this points towards a correlation between civic issues not being resolved (poor maintenance and hygiene in the area) and outbreak of a pandemic. Following the three wards are K-West ward covering Andheri West, Oshiwara and R-South ward covering Kandivli.The report reveals that only 18% of public and community toilets in the five wards were connected to the sewer system, compared to 33% in rest of the wards. Also, one-third of total complaints of overflowing or choked drains and garbage not collected and one-fourth of the total toilet-related complaints were from these five wards. The NGO claims that as of June 24, the five wards had 8,930 complaints in 2019 relating to shortage of water supply, toilets, choked drainage and garbage collection against 22,760 similar complaints in the rest of the city. Nitai Mehta, founder trustee, Praja Foundation in the report, said, “While the entire world is grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, water, sanitation and hygiene (Wash) have gained immense importance in prevention of the disease. It is unfortunate that provision of water supply, proper sanitation and solid waste management (SWM), which are key determinants of health and also the most basic services, are brought to importance only at the time of a crisis. This is not just about the pandemic. A high number of infections and deaths are regularly reported due to water contamination, poor sanitation and mismanaged waste.”Mehta said, “For example, the water quality tests of BMC showed 1% unfit water samples in 2018-2019, but there were 1,03,509 reported cases of diarrhoea, 21 cases of cholera, and 4,280 cases of typhoid in the same period. These services are therefore the most basic requirements for good health and good quality of life.”Further, the number of civic complaints has increased from 92,329 in 2017, 1.16 lakh in 2018 to 1.28 lakh in 2019. The percentage of complaints closed has increased to 96% in 2019, compared to 83% in 2018 and 77% in 2017. Roads, drainage, water supply and solid waste management continue to remain the top four complaints, it states.Yogesh Desai, a civic activist from Andheri, said, “There might be an improvement in closing the number of complaints, but we also need to know how many complainants were satisfied with it.”The report claims that the BMC launched a 24x7 water supply project in 2014, but the average time for which water supply was received in 2018 was only 5.9 hours. Of the 273 zones, 180 zones (66%) received only upto 4 hours. In terms of public toilets the report states, “Only 1 in 4 public toilets were for women in 2018. There is currently 1 public toilet seat per 696 males and 1,769 females, while the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) prescribes 1 toilet for 100-400 males and 100-200 females, respectively. Results of BMC’s toilet survey in 2015 show only 28% of toilets were connected to the piped sewerage system, 78% had no proper information of water connection available, and 58% of the toilet blocks surveyed had no electricity.”In this context, the report further adds, “BMC claims 100 % door-to-door collection of waste as on 2018-19. However, of the total 17,116 solid waste management complaints in 2019, 36% were related to garbage not being collected. While BMC citizens’ charter prescribes 1 day to solve issues of garbage collection of garbage, it took 17 days on an average to solve complaints of garbage lifting, 20 days for unattended collection points and 22 days for garbage vehicles not arrived.”The report further states that in 2018-19, only 28% of the capital budget of the water and sewerage department was spent, while the solid waste management department spent only 23% of its capital budget. In 2019, attendance of corporators in ward committee meetings was 73% compared to 79% in 2018. A total of 952 questions were raised in 2019, compared to 1,046 in 2018, states the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-wards-in-mumbai-with-most-civic-plaints-have-most-containment-zones/story-xS7OvNYob4gTyry5Q0ajCL.html
01-07-2020||Delhi||80-year-old woman found dead in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar||An 80-year-old woman was found dead at her south Delhi house in Malviya Nagar area on Sunday. Police said the woman’s 55-year-old son was admitted to a hospital a week ago, leaving her alone. Officials said the woman was a patient of acute diabetes. Her second son lived separately and has been bedridden for the past two-three months, police said. Senior officers said the woman is suspected to have died of natural causes. Autopsy details are awaited.According to the police, they were alerted about a foul smell coming from the house on Sunday. “A team reached the house on the second floor of a building and found that the door was locked from inside. Our officers broke open the door and found the body of the woman lying on a sofa. She was identified as an 80-year-old woman who lived with her son,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/80-year-old-woman-found-dead-in-south-delhi-s-malviya-nagar/story-9lEAHhTEb86XXDbIBoBhkJ.html
01-07-2020||Pune||Street lights to be installed in ghat section of Pune-Mumbai expressway||In a bid to reduce the number of accidents on the Pune-Mumbai expressway and upgrade its safety arrangements, the Maharashtra Highway Police (MHP) department along with the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) will install ‘street lights’ in the ghat section.The expressway witnessed 306 accidents in 2019 (including fatal, serious and minor injuries) along with 138 mishaps which did not result in injuries. Till May this year, the expressway had recorded 46 accidents (including fatal, serious and minor injuries) along with 12 mishaps which did not result in injuries. The reduced number of mishaps has also been attributed to the decreased vehicle movement on the expressway due to the lockdown in March, April and May, according to officials.This will be the first time when street lights will be installed on the expressway for better visibility at night, according to officials. The decision comes after MSRDC recently conducted survey wherein officials recorded that lower visibility increased the risk of road mishaps there. Vijay Patil, superintendent of police, Maharashtra Highway Police, said, “Monsoon brings heavy rains to the ghat section on the expressway and hence, we conducted a pre-monsoon survey with the help of MSRDC. Street lights will be installed along the entire ghat section of the expressway for better visibility in the region. The estimated cost of the project is ~ 7.5 crore. Street lights are being installed on the expressway for the first time. In the ghat section, tunnel work will continue simultaneously, but it will take another two years to complete and we want to reduce the number of accidents in the coming two years.” According to the state highway police and MSRDC, if things go according to plan, the actual work of installing the street lights is likely to start in the next couple of months.While the entire ghat section is 18km long, lights will be installed on the 10km stretch between Khandala and Khopoli. The Pune-Mumbai expressway, officially named as the Yashwantrao Chavan Expressway, has been operational since 2002. It is the country’s first six-lane concrete high-speed highway with a total of 94.5km joining Pune and Mumbai. Maximum fatal accidents have been reported on the expressway in 2016, in which 151 people died. “In our study of accident patterns in the ghat section, it was revealed that most of the accidents happen when vehicles ram into the motorist in front of them. One of the reasons behind this could be that the driver had not been able to judge the exact distance between the vehicles and hence, street lights can provide good visibility to them,” he added.In 2019, there were 22 fatal accidents in the ghat section of the expressway, starting from km 45 to km 36 which is a slope in the ghats, according to Patil. To prevent further accidents, MSRDC has on a trial basis installed blinkers, reflectors and rumbler strips on a one kilometre patch in the ghat section. This, according to officials, offered positive results as there had been no accidents in the same patch in the past six months.Vipul Alekar, a businessman and regular commuter between Pune and Mumbai, said, “I frequently travel to Mumbai from Pune for my business meetings and in the ghat section it is really risky to drive, specially at night. In the rainy season, we cannot see the vehicles in front of us and if street lights are installed, there will be more visibility.”Tanmay Pendse, an activist working for the safety of commuters using the expressway, said, “It is a very positive decision for the safety of travellers using the e-way. But it should have been done earlier and is a decision too late, according to me. There is always a visibility issue during the monsoon which leads to accidents, now after installing the lights, it will help drivers see clearly and judge the distance between vehicles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/street-lights-to-be-installed-in-ghat-section-of-pune-mumbai-expressway/story-6zB5QygCjvc7vrPW3XQaEO.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Congress minister hits back at Sharad Pawar over comments about 1962 war||Congress leader and energy minister in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, Nitin Raut, has reignited the political controversy around Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s statement reminding the Congress of the 1962 war with China while advising against politicising issues concerning national security.On Saturday, Pawar had said, “We can’t forget what had happened in 1962 when China occupied 45,000 square kilometres of India’s territory. While making these allegations, one should also look at what had happened in the past. This is an issue of national interest and once should not bring in politics here.”Pawar’s comments came in response to a question about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s charge that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had surrendered Indian territory to the Chinese aggression. The Congress party, led by its former president, has been taking jibes at the Centre since the June 15 violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.Raut hit back at Pawar, saying the latter should have “rectified the mistakes [done in 1962] when he was defence minister”. “Our leader Rahul Gandhiji has been speaking in the interest of the nation and asking the questions that are in the minds of people. Pawarsaheb was a Congress leader when he was defence minister of the country. As a political leader, he has been nurtured in Congress. NCP is part of the UPA-led by Congress and should not deviate from the stand taken by the alliance. He should support the stand taken by Rahul Gandhi,” Raut said. Raut said Pawar should have advised Modi to speak on the issue. “The situation in 1962 was different. After Krishna Menon resigned as defence minister, Yashwantrao Chavan took over as the defence minister. Pawar should also speak about the 1971 war against Pakistan and the victory under the leadership of Indira Gandhi and YB Chavan, who Pawarsaheb looks up to as a mentor,” said Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-minister-hits-back-at-sharad-pawar-over-comments-about-1962-war/story-smgKKx6a2v7AX10duXZygM.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Menstrual cycle, stigma: Women doctors face other challenges in Covid fight||Working for six hours straight donning personal protective equipment (PPE) inside a Covid-19 ward is tough, especially for women doctors during their monthly menstrual cycle. The social discrimination that they face makes it worse, said most doctors HT spoke to ahead of the World Doctor’s Day (July 1).Dr Reshma Shinde, a resident doctor in pathology department at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel, said even as they are being honoured as Covid warriors, she is experiencing stigma that is attached to the highly contagious infection. In an open letter, Shinde wrote, “Though my house was blessed with praises for my work, marriage proposals had stopped knocking my house doors. It took me no time to realise, that, it was due to the stigma associated with the word ‘COVID’. I started feeling very low as I could only see my dreams of marriage getting shattered (sic).”Shinde told HT, “That’s the mentality of the society. We are being stigmatised for saving lives of patients.”Another 28-year-old resident doctor who is on duty at SevenHills hospital also had a similar experience. “The groom’s family approached my father through a matrimonial website in February. We started chatting and everything was going fine until April, when I was put on Covid-19 duty,” she said. “He started to pressure me to stop going to the hospital, which I couldn’t as it is my responsibility. In May, they cancelled the marriage proposal.”“During periods, we lose additional water and blood, which makes us weak and dehydrated. In safety suits for six hours, we can’t even afford to go to the bathroom to change sanitary napkins. Then come the cramps that burn us out,” said Dr Shinde.Dr Sudeshna Salvi from the Grant Medical College, which is also known as JJ Hospital, said how once she had forgotten her date of menstrual cycle and started bleeding in her PPE suit. “I had no option as I was on my duty and I couldn’t open my PPE which could have been too risky. I spent six hours standing as I couldn’t sit,” she said.Dr Gautam Bhansali, in-charge of private Covid-19 hospitals in Mumbai, said women doctors have been working braving all odds. “If any woman doctor wants to postpone the duty dates around their menstrual cycle, we do it immediately. It takes a toll on the woman to work for hours wearing PPE during that time of the month. But hats off to them, for they always work with full devotion and enthusiasm,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/menstrual-cycle-stigma-women-doctors-face-other-challenges-in-covid-fight/story-X7aSGikCurIfxqGyEpYz5L.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Discrimination irks private doctors||Dr Zabir Hussain, 51, a general physician from Chembur, who also worked with government ambulance service (108) for Covid-19 patients at night, died on May 23. The sole breadwinner is survived by his wife and three teenaged children. While the family so far managed the household with Hussain’s salary of ₹27,000 for May, they now plan to return to their hometown in Uttar Pradesh.“My father had to feed four mouths, which left him with no savings. My mother can’t work as she is illiterate. We have therefore decided to go back to our hometown,” said Adil, his 17-year-old son. Like Hussain, 17 other private physicians have succumbed to Covid-19 infection in Maharashtra since the outbreak in March, according to data available with the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Additionally, 180 doctors have been diagnosed with Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19, and more than 1,500 physicians have been quarantined all across the state.Members of IMA said their records do not reflect the real picture owing to poor collection of data, and the actual numbers are likely to be higher than what exists on paper.As gatekeepers in screening Covid-19 patients, the state, under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, had directed private physicians to keep their clinics open. Doctors said, in addition to not providing them with personal protective equipment (PPE) despite being highly susceptible to the infection, the state government has not included private practitioners under Covid-19 insurance cover of ₹50 lakh. On the eve of National Doctors’ Day, the Maharashtra chapter of IMA in an open letter stated that their decision to observe - and not celebrate - July 1 as ‘Atma-Samman Divas’ as protest against what they describe as discrimination meted out towards private doctors.Doctors said the credit for patients’ recovery goes to the medical fraternity, especially doctors, who work round-the-clock, despite various occupational hazards. Till Monday, 1,69,883 people tested positive for Covid-19, of which 88,960 patients have recovered. .“The government declared insurance of ₹50 lakh for every healthcare worker. Later on the policemen were included...but the private doctors’ plea of the similar insurance was ignored. Even the doctors were ready to pay the premium amount for this insurance, at the same rate by which the government will pay the premium of these healthcare workers,” reads the open letter sent by IMA on June 30. The association has also demanded to honour the deceased doctors posthumously on Independence Day. Most families of physicians who died of Covid-19 infection that HT spoke to criticised the state for ignoring their plight. The kin of Dr Mithkesh Rampal Singh said they are not covered under Covid-19 insurance although the general physician contracted the infection on duty and died on June 8. “While treating an asymptomatic patient in a hospital, he got exposed to the virus. In this backdrop, he should get insurance,” said Dr Vimal Singh, brother of the deceased doctor. “My brother was living with his wife in a rented flat. The insurance money could have secured his wife’s life to some extent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/discrimination-irks-private-doctors/story-deYznc7RKc4urCHNwgmpiJ.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||State’s annual fish catch in 2019 was the lowest in 45 years: CMFRI||The state witnessed its lowest annual fish catch in 45 years in 2019 at 2.01 lakh tons, with a rapid decline in all major fish species being caught, the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) said.The environmental factors such as extreme weather events (heavy rain), five tropical cyclones, weather depressions in the Arabian Sea, and juvenile overfishing are said to be the reasons for 36% drop in a number of fishing days in 2019.“Due to extended rainfall beyond monsoon and extreme weather events including cyclones, total fishing hours along the Maharashtra coast reduced drastically, especially between August and December as compared to rest of the year,” said Anulekshmi Chellappan, scientist-in-charge, CMFRI Mumbai. “Owing to low fish catch many fishers did not venture into the sea at all, due to non-profitable operations. Combined with this, over-exploitation of fish stocks due to high juvenile by-catch, which continued unabated similar to previous years, further worsened fish landing numbers,” said Chellapan.The institute released its report on the Annual Marine Fish Landings in India for 2019 on Tuesday that identified a 32% decline from 2018 (2.95 lakh tons) for Maharashtra. In 2017 it was 3.81 lakh tons and 2.92 lakh tons in 2016. However, prior to 2019, the historical trend indicated a similar situation in 1974 when fish catch dropped to 1.8 lakh tons.Experts said CMFRI may be accurate. “The number of 2019 Arabian Sea cyclones were unusually high equalling a 117-year-old record. Rising sea surface temperatures may affect fish forcing them to migrate to cooler waters. However, in the process, changing habitats may not be favourable for growth or reproduction leading to mortality,” said Dr Roxy Mathew Koll, senior scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune. “A climate change link is there, but we need to monitor this carefully.”Maharashtra was identified as one of the leading states for post-harvest fish losses by CMFRI with a considerable reduction in fish quality (including those sold in the markets). “Whatever brought from the sea is a national resource and it cannot be allowed to be simply wasted. Its national food waste,” said Chellappan.Among major fish species, a 97% reduction was recorded for halibuts (fat fish), 84% decline for mullets, 82% reduction for sardines, 84% for perches, 81% for snappers, 34% drop for Indian mackerel, 45% decline for croakers, and an 86% drop for octopus, squid catch and 70% reduction for lobsters. Bombay duck was the third most landed species in 2019, though there was a slight decline (0.8%) compared to 2018, after non-penaeid and penaeid prawns that accounted for 30% of the total catch. Maharashtra contributed 5.6% of the country’s fish resources to the nation. The state ranked seventh among 10 coastal states and union territories while Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Kerala led the top rankings. Mumbai was the major contributor of fish catch for the state accounting for 40%. Of the tally of fishing boats in the state, 87.4% are mechanised, 12.4% motorised, and 0.2% non-motorised.The state fisheries department said they were concerned about the findings. “Climate change impacts are affecting the fisheries sector, and this will increase in the coming days. However, we have taken all steps to curb overfishing by issuing advisories to avoid catching juveniles and reducing harmful fishing practices as much as possible. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and associated lockdowns, the marine fish landings for 2020 are expected to be much worse,” said Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner (fisheries).CMFRI, however, estimated higher value of fish landings in 2019. Figures stood at ₹6,402 crore at landing centres, which accounted for 10.5% of the country’s overall tally (₹60,881 crore) against 2018’s estimate of ₹5,771 crore. At retail centres, the estimate was ₹9.835 crore in 2019 (accounting for 10.6% of overall India’s estimate at ₹92,356 crore). In 2017, the estimate at retail centres was ₹8,510 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-s-annual-fish-catch-in-2019-was-the-lowest-in-45-years-cmfri/story-0o7eD8epNJNm1NJeFlwF3K.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Less than 10% industries in Maharashtra operational after government opened up sector||Less than 10% of 7.34 lakh industrial units have resumed operations in Maharashtra after the state government opened up the sector from lockdown restrictions on April 20. The government had set a target of resumption of 60% of the industrial units, weeks after they were allowed to be operational. Industry stakeholders said that economic slowdown, disruption in the supply chain, and lesser demand are the reasons for this low response. After Maharashtra opened up the industrial sector, 63,891 of total 7.34 lakh industrial units that were functioning before the lockdown was announced in March, have resumed operations. Of them, 62, 490 (of 7.31 lakh) are micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and 1,401 (of 2,625) are large scale industries. 15.57 lakh employees have reported back to work, though many units are running at only 40-50% of their total capacity.As per data released by the industries department, of the 2.04 lakh industries operational before lockdown in Konkan division, 30,843 units have restarted production. In Pune, 13,458 of 3,55,255 units, 14,148 of 56,358 units in Nashik, and 5,442 of 1,06,952 units in Aurangabad have been operational till Monday. “It is true that we did not get the expected response, naturally because we are going through very challenging times. We have stricter restrictions in 19 municipal corporations that are in red zones. Entry of employees to these zones or from them is restricted. Industries are facing a phasing problem of the supply of raw material or some of the components that are supplied from restricted areas. We were expecting more relaxations in the near future, but the surge in cases in some parts may see their deferment,” said industries minister Subhash Desai.An official from the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) said that though the percentage of industries becoming operational is less in the organised sector, it is more than 50% in the unorganised sector among small and micro industries. Aurangabad-based industrialist Ram Bhogale said, “The units have been running at 40-50%of the workforce and much lesser production than their capacity. But we have been able to recover at least half of the recurring cost, though profit is out of the question in such a situation. The industries are facing many challenges; one of them is a disruption in raw material supply. Some industrial areas that are in the vicinity of containment zones are not allowed to open, but many industries in areas like Walunj are operational.”Industrialists say that the reverse migration of migrants has so far not affected industries as they are not running at full capacity. They also pointed out that the economic slowdown has resulted in low demand for their products.“Industries are also finding it difficult to comply with the government conditions like making arrangements for transportation and stay for employees. We also fear that with the rising number of cases, the situation in the industrial sector may take some more time to normalise,” said Santosh Mandlecha, president, Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/less-than-10-industries-in-maharashtra-operational-after-government-opened-up-sector/story-mlrDOEgjxovgUpvu9GSvDM.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||MMRC sets-up disaster control room for monsoon||The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) has set-up a Disaster Control Room to resolve monsoon related grievances along the 33.5-km long Colaba-Bandra-Seepz Metro-3 corridor. MMRC has deployed 428 pumps and 15 emergency vehicles along the sites. The control room numbers are - +919136805065 and +917506706477.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrc-sets-up-disaster-control-room-for-monsoon/story-sG80iEOxeAWBh4eB8b9ucL.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||HC refuses permission for procession to Lord Vitthal temple on Ashadhi Ekadashi||The Bombay high court (HC) has refused to grant any reliefs to the Warkari Seva Sangh which had petitioned the HC to permit 100 members to participate in a 6-km procession carrying the Sant Dyaneshwar palkhi bearing the padukas (footprints) of the saint, from the outskirts of Pandharpur in Solapur to the temple of Lord Vitthal.The court held that in light of the pandemic and Covid-19 situation, the decision of the local administration and the mandir committee to cancel the annual procession on the festival of Ashadhi Ekadashi (July 1) and permit only 20 persons to accompany the palkhi on a state transport bus till the temple was sufficient.The division bench of justice PB Varale and SP Tavade, while hearing the petition filed by Warkari Seva Sangh, Pune, through its president Kishore Kamathe and others, was informed by advocate Mihir Govilkar that the paduka bearing palkhi procession tradition had been unbroken since it began, irrespective of wars, famines, floods or droughts. Govilkar submitted that the sangh had written to the Pune divisional commissioner seeking permission for the procession on May 28, however, as the application was not responded to, the sangh had approached the HC.The petition stated that the devotees were willing to maintain physical distance and follow other guidelines, including providing the list of devotees who would accompany the palkhi along with their Covid-19 test results.In light of these submissions, the plea sought directions to the authorities to allow 100 devotees of the sangh to undertake the procession and also allow devotees to take a holy dip in the Chandrabhaga river on July 1 morning, to perform Nagar Pradakshina and other rituals for Ashadhi Ekadashi.After hearing the submissions and perusing the details of the authorities concerned, regarding preparations for the festival, the bench held that the decision of the mandir committee and local authorities would suffice, and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-permission-for-procession-to-lord-vitthal-temple-on-ashadi-ekadashi/story-CVGYySXf681CQ1SuYtpeEN.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||‘50% of eateries will not be able to resume; need government relief’||More than 50% of the city’s hotels and restaurants may be forced to close if they don’t get immediate relief from the government, according to the Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) and Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR).Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president of HRAWI, described the industry as “unsustainable” because of shrinking demand combined with costs ranging from licensing fees to staff salaries and rent. “Our assessment is that 50% of the restaurants will be unable to open their establishments,” he said. HRAWI has demanded relief in terms of reduction in both property tax as well as electricity bills.President of AHAR, Shivanand Shetty, agreed with Kohli’s assessment. “The current take-away business is hardly giving us any income. More than 80% of our staff are migrants and we cannot open if they don’t come back,” said Shetty.On Monday, the state government announced that hoteliers pay 50% of the annual liquor licensing, which was raised from ₹6.93 lakh to to ₹7.96 lakh this year, by September-end and the remainder by the end of the year. “The government has always been lenient and hence, we decided to give more time to hoteliers,” said excise commissioner Kantilal Umap.However, Shetty said the hike in licensing fees posed difficulties for establishments. “Our hoteliers are paying rents and salaries to staff during the lockdown. They cannot survive with additional expenses,” said Shetty, pointing out that the earnings of eateries would reduce once they open, because of distancing requirements.Satish Nayak, who owns A Rama Nayak’s Udupi Srikrishna Boarding, said implementing distancing norms will cut down his earnings sharply. “We can serve 79 patrons at a time. With distancing norms, we will not be able to serve more than 25 at a time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/50-of-eateries-will-not-be-able-to-resume-need-government-relief/story-eDmOHfChstZuI6iR8lLSNJ.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh education department mulls fee waiver for students of Classes 9 and 10 of govt schools||The Chandigarh education department plans to waive off fees for around 25,000 students of Classes 9 and 10 of government schools who have been affected due to economic slowdown amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The decision was taken to curtail dropout rates post-lockdown.Of the 114 government schools, there are over 70 government high schools and senior secondary schools in Chandigarh. As per estimates, the overall cost of the waiver would come to around ₹4 to ₹5 crore.As per sources, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will take the final call on the proposal. The developments were confirmed by UT director of school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, who said the file awaits approval from the competent authority.No fee waiver for Classes 11 and 12However, it is to be noted that only fees of Classes 9 and 10 are being considered for waiver, whereas students of Class 11 and 12 will have to pay fees. Only students up till Class 8 do not have to pay fees as mandated under the Right to Education Act, 2009, which makes it the responsibility of the state to provide compulsory and free education for students till the age of 16.Alka Mehta, district education officer, said, “We have noticed a high dropout rate after students have go from Class 8 to 9, as they have to pay fees. However, that is not the case in Class 11 where many students of private school also take admission in government schools.”Students are charged fees under various heads, also called funds. A senior official of UT education department said they are considering whether they should waive off fees completely or of certain funds. Even partial waive off will cost the department between ₹2 to ₹3 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-mulls-fee-waiver-for-students-of-classes-9-and-10-of-govt-schools/story-x325c4Wb5h2C7bcgsvq68O.html
01-07-2020||Delhi||Things were tough in early June, now there is stability, says Manish Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds temporary charge of the state health ministry, spoke to HT about where Delhi stands in the Covid-19 fight, working with the Centre on formulating strategies, ramping up testing, the positivity rate, community transmission, home isolation, and the state’s finances, among other issues. Edited excerpts:Click here for full Covid-19 coverageRight now, we are in a comfortable situation. If you ask me about the peak, the time between June 8 and June 15, or rather the first two weeks of June, were a bit hard. We have seen stability after that.Earlier, when we were testing 5,000-6,000 people, about 2,000 were testing positive. Now, we are doing anywhere between 17,000 and 22,000 tests, and 3,000 are testing positive. This means there is stability in the number of cases.If we look at the number of beds, the peak need was 6,200 beds. Now, it is close to 5,800-5,900—this shows that there is stability in the number of beds needed. Deaths are also under control; not a huge spike.Considering the character of this virus and what we are seeing across the globe, it will be wrong if I conclude that we will no longer see those jerks or spikes again. This phase, which I am calling a stable one, might be temporary phase, which is why surveillance and surveys, which are currently happening in the city, are very important.What I said back then was the ground reality of the time. Now, whether the decision to share the projection of Covid cases with the public was right or wrong is very subjective. My viewpoint is that by throwing the numbers out in the open, a sense of urgency came in all of us, including the Centre. It is because of that alert that all stakeholders, including the central government, our government, NGOs and municipal corporations, came together. I feel sharing data with the public always proves to be beneficial.These projections were made based on a formula given by the government of India (GoI), which has created a portal for this, and that is what we’re following. The projection of the total number of cases at present is not very different from the projection of 1 lakh cases by June-end that we had made back then. But other numbers are very different now. For example, we had then projected that active cases would be around 60,000 by now, but at present, we have only around 26,000 active cases.No, today also we are doing all arrangements based on the same assessment made in the beginning of June. Our target was to prepare 15,000 beds. We have that today. We also have more than enough beds in quarantine centres. There are more than 8,500 quarantine beds ready, and only over 1,700 of them are currently occupied.We were expecting that over 15,000 beds would be required, but now only around 5,900 beds are being utilised. In between, bed occupancy had peaked at 6,200 but things have improved since then.At present, there are some signs of stability with the recovery rate improving and the positivity rate declining. This stability gives us hope, but we cannot be under the illusion that no more preparation is required.The good thing is that Delhi’s recovery rate is very promising. Today’s recovery rate is 63.3%. This has helped us build confidence among the people in the chief minister’s five weapons to fight Corona. Testing is being scaled up, and based on that, symptomatic cases are being isolated. More beds than what is required are being set up. The fourth is plasma therapy, which has shown positive results in Delhi. And the last one is survey and screening.I agree that ventilators are the need of the hour, which is why I just took a meeting to review this matter, and we are working to augment it further. The central government has also helped us in this, but we are also procuring machines on our own. Every major Delhi government hospital has also been asked to chalk out a plan on how their capacity can be increased further.I stand by what the chief minister said yesterday – credit sara unka, zaroorat saari humari (credit all theirs, need all ours).One good thing is that with the Centre’s help, we have got some staff now in our dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. We have got staff from ITBP who are manning the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and hospital. At present, they have given staff for 1,000 beds, but I hope they will provide more personnel for all the 10,000 beds when they are utilised. Besides, we have got some oxygen cylinders, ventilators and rail coaches from the Centre.But this pandemic is so unprecedented that if any government or stakeholder claims that the situation was stabilised solely because of them, it would be too much. The good thing today is that all three – the Central government, the Delhi government and civil society – are working together in good coordination with each other. This is not the time to do post-mortems on who failed or passed.Difference of opinion is always there, and it is natural. There were some decisions taken by them (Central government and the Lieutenant-Governor), which we opposed in our discussions with them. We even kept our view in the public forum, sought views, and they withdrew those decisions. But, these things keep happening. It is a part of the process.Right now, in our hospitals, we are bypassing all government processes to appoint medical staff on an immediate basis. All our medical directors have been authorised or empowered to create posts and fill them. We have decentralised the system, which has helped a lot. The municipal corporations are doing their bit in conducting surveys.Yes, MHA has not given us any standard operating procedure (SOP) on how this is to be done. This was recommended by the Centre’s expert committee headed by Dr VK Paul of Niti Aayog. Once we get the SOP, then we will discuss it with them.We have issued a tender to rope in a private firm so that the follow-up process of home isolation patients is outsourced like before. In the meantime, we are trying to cope with whatever resources we have. We have put our staff from mohalla clinics and teams of district surveillance officers on the job as of now. But this is not sufficient.We are again going to outsource the tele-counselling task to a private firm. Which company gets the job will be known once the tender process is over. It will be finalised in a day or two.They (Centre) have asked for the data; we provided it. Now, pulse oximeters and oxygen concentrators are also available; this has made home isolation a great solution. So far, more than 52,000 people have recovered.In the beginning of June, there were some issues – there were times when it took two-three hours for the admission of patients; now it takes a maximum of 10 minutes.The Centre said in the past that deaths happening in first one to three days of hospital admission implied that home isolation protocols were not being followed strictly.If a person is eligible for home isolation as per ICMR protocols – we have not set up our own protocols – it is much better if they stay at home rather than going to the Covid centres. If someone needs hospitalisation, there is zero compromise on our end and from our medical teams. After reaching the hospitals, yes, there were some issues at the beginning. Now, the app is working really well and all the problems have been rectified.I feel that a lot of things will become clear after the sero surveillance study is done.Earlier, 20% of the cases were reported from containment areas, 40% from clusters, and almost 40% were isolated cases. Now the clusters have also been included in the containment zones. That’s why the increase in the number of zones.Actually, when you confirm community transmission, then rather than contact tracing, you focus on facilitating medical care. We are already doing that. But, yes, the resource and manpower that is focused on containment and tracing will no longer be a worry if you accept community transmission.However, we need to understand that Delhi is not a small city. In the same city, there could be a colony where community transmission could be ongoing but another colony in the same city might be very less affected. You cannot have the same yardstick for both. In a city like Delhi, you will still have to have multiple strategies.Every day, we are doing up to 20,000 tests. The main benefit is that we have been able to scale up testing. There is a limit to RT-PCR testing. That is why we are purchasing 5 lakh more tests so that we can increase it more.This is the benefit of rapid testing -- you can do it at a large scale. You cannot scale up RT-PCR to that level.We are moving towards 40,000 tests a day. And, the day we do that, it is possible that 4,000 people will test positive, I am prepared for that.No. Our collection for the first quarter of last year was ₹7,275 crore. This year it is approximately ₹2,500 crore only. So, our collection has been just one-third compared to last year. And, this is only GST and VAT. Excise, registry, and car sales have also stopped – that data has not been included in this. Total revenue in these categories must be only about 10% of the usual revenue.Since there is so much cooperation going on, and the Union home minister is also doing such handholding, I hope he will help us in this regard as well. I had written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman for ₹5,000 crore, but we are yet to hear from her. If we get this money – and I hope the Centre will give it – along with the GST compensation, then we can manage easily.Let us see. It is very difficult for me to say what the situation will be in July or August. The Government of India also said yesterday that schools will remain closed. We had assessed this a few days ago and announced our decision. It will take time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/things-were-tough-in-early-june-now-there-is-stability-says-manish-sisodia/story-3Gm0v8B0hhrfu0HpCvKyMM.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||IIT Alumni Council to eliminate Chinese systems, softwares||A day after the Indian government banned 59 mobile applications of Chinese origin, one of the largest global alumni bodies of the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) has announced the elimination of Chinese systems and software in all its initiatives.IIT Alumni Council said that it was working with various technical institutes of excellence and research institutions to develop indigenous and cost-effective solutions to replace Chinese systems and software. IIT Alumni Council comprises alumni, students and faculty across all the 23 IITs and partnering technical institutes.“In support of the Indian government’s ban on Chinese apps, IIT Alumni Council is announcing an immediate ban on Chinese systems and software for all its initiatives including MegaLab. We are also sure that we shall not only achieve the goal of self-sufficiency for all our initiatives but would also export our software and testing systems to other parts of the world,” said Ravi Sharma, president and chief volunteer, IIT Alumni Council. MegaLab is the latest initiative of the council, which involves building a lab in Mumbai that will have the capacity to conduct 10 million tests for Covid-19 a month.Another initiative, with IIT Roorkee, aims to recycle plastic disposables used in the realtime polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) process (used to diagnose Covid-19. The council is also working on alternatives for viral sample tubes, sample plates and pipette tips.However, Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of IIT-Bombay (IIT-B), clarified IIT-B is not officially associated with the council. “We are not aware of any of their activities or decisions. Hence we cannot comment on their decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-alumni-council-to-eliminate-chinese-systems-softwares/story-wSBIKbQYhVMFfsE4ePHkPO.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Source unknown in 4,041 Covid cases in Mumbai’s slums?||A total of 4,041 Covid-19 cases in Mumbai’s slums are not high-risk contacts of earlier patients , and hence their source of infection is not yet identified, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) ‘Chase the Virus’ mission data for June 3 to June 29 on its website revealed. However, BMC officials have denied the possibility of community transmission (in which people get infected, even if they are not in contact with an infected person) saying the source in the 4,041 cases is unidentified due to different reasons. They attributed the spread to intermingling within population of containment zones in slums, saying the source is linked to earlier positive cases through layers of contacts.Ashwini Bhide, additional municipal commissioner in BMC, said, “This means, there are some cases which are not from among high-risk contacts which are identified and shifted to Covid Care Centres (CCC1). The ratio is 1:13, on an average. But in slums, there are low-risk contacts too, who are not necessarily shifted outside [from their homes to quarantine centres]. There is some intermingling within population of containment zones for essential supplies. So we cannot say that the source of transmission for new cases is not known. Somewhere, it is linked to the earlier positive cases in layers of contacts.”BMC’s ‘Chase the Virus’ mission was launched by municipal commissioner IS Chahal on May 26. Among other targets, ward officers were given the task of tracing or ‘chasing’ maximum contacts of Covid-19 patients, moving them to institutional quarantine facilities, and breaking their contact with the community around them. From the earlier target of ‘chasing’ 10 high-risk contacts for every one Covid-19 patient, Chahal increased it to 15-high risk contacts. Currently, on an average, BMC has traced up to 13 high-risk contacts per positive patient across the city.Many slum pockets with high number of Covid-19 cases such as Dharavi, Govandi, Mankhurd and Kurla noticed a trend that most subsequent cases were among persons already moved to quarantine facilities by BMC as high-risk contacts of positive patients.In G-North ward, which includes Dharavi along with Dadar and Mahim, BMC has sent 2,631 high-risk contacts to institutional quarantine facilities between June 3 and June 29. The ratio is 1:15. In G-North ward, there are 178 cases who are not high-risk contacts of earlier positive cases.Similarly, in M-East ward that includes Govandi and Mankhurd, BMC has sent 2,150 high-risk contacts to institutional quarantine facilities between June 3 and June 29, and there are 130 cases who are not high-risk contacts of earlier positive cases. The ratio is 1:16.In H-East ward in Bandra East, where the ratio is 1:19, 465 high-risk contacts have been sent to institutional quarantine facilities between June 3 and June 29. There are 25 patients who are not high-risk contacts of patients.The highest instance of Covid-19 patients - 400 - who are not high-risk contacts of earlier cases is in S ward in Bhandup, where the ratio if 1:14. BMC has sent 6,586 high-risk contacts to institutional quarantine facilities.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of the civic health department, said, “In some cases, BMC is unable to trace the source of infection in any particular patient because maybe the patient is in a hospital, and may or may not be reached by civic staff to record his contact history.”When asked if the trend shows signs of community transmission, Kakani said, “No. So far, there is an index case for every Covid-19 positive patient in Mumbai. In some cases, there are delays in identifying the connection between this index case and new Covid-19 patient. For example, if a patient is in a hospital and is not able to speak with BMC staff, we may not know who all he has come in contact with.”Community transmission is supposed to be formally announced by the government and it has not yet been announced.On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 893 new cases and 93 new deaths. However, 57 of these 93 deaths occurred earlier. The number of cases now stands at 77,658 and deaths stand at 4556. Mumbai’s fatality rate now stands at 5.8% and recovery rate at 56.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/source-unknown-in-4-041-covid-cases-in-mumbai-s-slums/story-v3yofDPg2grPBHe5CjHGGN.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two electrocuted in Kaithal village||A farmer and a labourer were electrocuted after coming in contact with a live wire in their fields in Kurar village of Kaithal, police said on Tuesday. The victims are Balinder Kumar, 34, and Sanjay Kumar, 25. As per the police, the duo had gone to irrigate their fields where the incident happened on Tuesday morning. Ranbir Singh, a relative of Balinder, said they were taken to a local hospital, where doctors pronounced them dead upon arrival. Investigating officer Raghubir Singh said they have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrRC. The victims’ bodies were handed over to their families after autopsy, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-electrocuted-in-kaithal-village/story-15cY4Z5YNZ4PJVcv6wjhwK.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Cops step up vigil after terror threat calls to Taj hotels||The Mumbai Police beefed up security outside Hotel Taj Mahal Palace and Towers in Colaba and Hotel Taj Lands End in Bandra after a caller who identified himself as a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operative from Pakistan made two phone calls to the hotels and issued threats on Monday night. The iconic hotel in Colaba was the major target of Pakistani terrorists during the 26/11 attacks. The calls were made on the day the Pakistan Stock Exchange in Karachi was attacked by four terrorists, killing four security personnel.A senior police officer, requesting anonymity, confirmed the threat calls and additional deployment at both hotels. Apart from quick-reaction teams (QRTs), counter-terrorism units have also been stationed as per requirements and protocol, said officers. Police officers said the first call was made around 12.30 am to Hotel Taj Mahal Palace and Towers in Colaba which was attended by a hotel staffer. The caller said he will blow up the hotel in a fashion similar to when LeT operatives had laid siege to the hotel on November 26, 2008 for 60 hours.Later, the caller called up Hotel Taj Lands End in Bandra and issued a similar threat. Both calls were made from a number now being investigated by a team of cyber police officials, said Mumbai Police officers. While both hotels have shut down its operations currently due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown that has been imposed, all measures are being taken to prevent any untoward situation, said a senior police officer, requesting anonymity. After the phone calls, Mumbai police has increased patrolling across the city and has stepped up its vigil across all vital installations in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cops-step-up-vigil-after-terror-threat-calls-to-taj-hotels/story-VGosB8eLDYjxR3scPnx9xN.html
01-07-2020||Gurugram||30-year-old cab driver kills self; employers booked||A 30-year-old cab driver, who worked at a city-based tour and travel firm, died on Monday after trying to kill himself a day before, said the police. The police have booked three of his employers on charges of abetment after the victim’s brother alleged that they had been harassing the victim.According to the police, the incident was reported on Saturday when the victim, a Narnaul resident, was rushed to Civil Hospital for treatment. After being administered first-aid, he had returned to his house. The police said on Sunday night, his condition worsened and he was taken to a hospital in Mahendragarh, where he succumbed to his injuries.The police said the victim’s brother filed a police complaint on Monday at Sector 29 police station.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “In the complaint, the victim’s brother said that on June 23, his brother had been in an accident while returning from Uttar Pradesh. In the accident, the cab had suffered extensive damage and his employers had been putting pressure on him to get the car repaired immediately. The complainant alleged that his employers had been harassing his brother and he was under duress, due to which he took the extreme step.”The police said they have initiated a probe and have summoned the three suspects to record their statements. “No one has been arrested so far and we are verifying the allegations,” said Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police.A case was registered against the suspects under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Sector 29 police station, said the police.Gurugram does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/30-year-old-cab-driver-kills-self-employers-booked/story-5fQ1m1bdwrVpf7wFKm2eTK.html
01-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram reports 87 fresh Covid cases, 68 more found positive during antigen testing||The district reported 155 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total tally of reported cases to 5,415. However, health department officials clarified that 68 positive cases reported through antigen testing were not included in the day’s bulletin, which only reported 87 new cases on Tuesday.“The 68 cases that tested positive via antigen tests will be reflected in tomorrow’s (Wednesday’s) bulletin,” Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said. Based on Tuesday’s bulletin data, Gurugram’s daily test positivity rate (TPR) was 9.3%, down slightly from 10% on Monday. There was also one new death in the district on Monday. Gurugram’s total mortality stands at 91, of which 56 patients died because of the presence of co-morbidities. Nearly 1.6% of the total reported Covid-19 cases in the district have resulted in a loss of life.Gurugram, on Tuesday, also recorded 79 new recoveries (down from 135 the previous day), taking the district’s cumulative recovery rate to 74.1%, slightly better than Monday’s 73.8%. The number of active cases in the district now stands at 1,289—just one more than Monday’s tally of 1,288. Of these, 828 patients are currently in home isolation, while 58 patients have been hospitalised. The remaining 402 patients are under observation at various Covid-19 care facilities across the district.Gurugram, on Tuesday,also collected 1,704 new samples for testing, significantly more than the 931 samples collected on Monday. “This was mainly because we have scaled up antigen testing from today. With a combination of RT-PCR tests and antigen tests, we aim to collect close to 2,000 samples per day soon,” Dr Jai Prakash, DSO, Gurugram, said.Of the 1,704 new samples collected on Tuesday, 991 were for antigen tests. The remaining were for RT-PCR tests, of which 65% (474 samples) were taken by private labs while 35% (239 samples) were taken by the health department. Gurugram’s backlog of samples—for which results are awaited—rose to 378 (up from 215 on Monday). On June 11, this backlog almost comprised 450 samples. However, the total number of tests conducted was down to 931, as opposed to 957 on Monday. “From Wednesday, we will be back to testing over 1,000 samples per day,” Dr Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-reports-87-fresh-cases-68-more-found-positive-during-antigen-testing/story-f4tW2WkYLA4qCMHTUmGkXJ.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||A first after becoming CM: Thackeray in Pandharpur for Ashadhi Ekadashi prayers||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray will attend early morning prayers at the Lord Vitthal temple in Pandharpur on Ashadhi Ekadashi on Wednesday.This will be the first time Thackeray will be offering prayers at Pandharpur temple as CM of the state.It is a long-standing tradition in Maharashtra for the CM and his spouse to attend the morning prayers at the Lord Vitthal temple in Pandharpur on the occasion of Ashadhi Ekadashi.Despite Shiv Sena being part of previous governments, the Thackeray family has never been part of this tradition as no member had contested any elections till recently. Last year, Aaditya Thackeray, the CM’s son was the first member of the family to contest and win the state Assembly elections. This year, Thackeray too got elected as a member of the Legislative Council, to retain his post as chief minister.On Tuesday afternoon, Thackeray left to Pandharpur. He will attend special prayers at 2.20am along with his wife Rashmi and son Aaditya, who is also the environment minister.Traditionally, lakhs of ‘warkaris’ (pilgrims) – devotees of Lord Vitthal – undertake the ‘wari’ (pilgrimage) on foot from across the state and reach Pandharpur on Ashadhi Ekadashi, which falls on July 1 this year.However, given the coronavirus outbreak, local authorities have decided to keep the celebrations low-key this year. They decided that this year, the wari, with the padukas (footprints) of Saint Dnyaneshwar, Saint Tukaram, and seven others will be taken to Pandharpur by bus with a limited number of people, not on foot as it is traditionally done. The district collector has also decided to close the temple to devotees between July 1 and 15, to avoid crowding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/a-first-after-becoming-cm-thackeray-in-pandharpur-for-ashadhi-ekadashi-prayers/story-edz8q7b3ie9dWjLnPKwGML.html
01-07-2020||Pune||National Doctor’s Day: Doctors reflect on tough Covid fight on||July 1 is observed as National Doctor’s Day in India and this year, the day is even more special given the ‘frontline warrior’ tag that all medical staff have bravely pinned to their the never-ending struggle against the Covid-19 pandemic.Doctors attending to Covid-19 patients take a moment to allow what National Doctor’s Day means to them because a moment is all these warriors can afford.Dr Dnyaneshwar Upase, who works at the district hospital in Aundh has not seen his seven-month-old daughter for two months.He said, “We have been working without any weekly offs or breaks for two months. While initially it was meant to be six hours, the numbers of cases are rising, so the number of working hours has now gone up to 12 hours. I wear the same PPE kit for the entire day. I have not been home for two months now. I have a seven-month-old daughter and I would not like to risk her health. I live in a separate room away from my family. I am in touch with them only on the phone.”Upase further added that PPE kits do provide safety from infection, but once the kit is on, for the next six hours, the person wearing the kit cannot consume any food, water or even a bathroom break.“We suffer dehydration due to severe sweating; loss of appetite as we skip lunch; and in the long run it could lead to a deficiency of vitamins. If this continues, doctors might even quit their profession and choose a completely different career,” Dr Upase said.Dr Nitim Kadam, who was recruited under the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK), a national programme for early identification and early intervention for children, is posted with the PMC ambulance in Bhavani peth.“I have not had a proper conversation with my family for months now. Initially, we had no weekly offs and the cases were also low, but then, as the number of cases rose it became extremely exhaustive and we decided to take weekly offs in turns,” Dr Kadam said.“Before wearing the PPE kits I drink one litre of water and then, from 10am to 4pm, I am wearing that same kit without a lunch break or bathroom break. This could possibly lead to kidney stones in future. Although we do get a break for lunch, I choose not to take any risk. After finishing this I have to also go for my night shifts every alternate day in a private hospital, where multiple doctors quit in one go after a patient tested positive for Covid-19. Due to the physical and mental exhaustion, I have lost almost four kilos in a month,” Dr Kadam said.Dr Parikshit Prayag, a consultant with Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, which reported the first death in Pune related to Covid-19, said, “PPE kits are not the most comfortable outfits. We sweat a lot which causes dehydration. Also, the personal interaction with patients is lost completely. The patient does not recognise who the doctor is. I have personally not taken a day off since March because we have to be present and available as the numbers of cases are rising. We have complete support from the administration, but yes, we have to be ready for any emergency, especially those working in ICU, emergency response or medicine.”What you can do to help doctorsWear masks in all public placesMaintain social distancing normsFollow respiratory hygiene and cough etiquettesReport any Covid-19 symptoms immediately to the civic doctorsQuarantine yourself for at least 14 days after any long-distance travel||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctors-reflect-on-tough-covid-fight-on-national-doctor-s-day/story-SrhQ3LUKqhRKTJWiEsoJdP.html
01-07-2020||Pune||Allow or not to allow outsiders... housing societies face dilemma||In the wake of an incident where a secretary of a co-operative housing society was booked on Sunday after an outsider was denied entry, the Pune district co-operative federation – an umbrella body of housing societies condemned the police action in a special meeting held on Tuesday.During the meeting on Tuesday which was held to discuss various issues related to entry for outsiders and the criminal case, the federation called the action taken by the deputy registrar of co-operative housing societies in lodging an FIR uncalled for. An FIR was lodged against the Rohan Nilay co-operative housing society in Aundh for violating the directives of the district collector by framing their own rules.However, the federation has appealed to all societies to follow guidelines issued by the co-operative department regarding the entries subject to verification and checks in larger public interests.The police action evoked sharp reaction among societies, office bearers, residents, especially, senior citizens who feel domestic help, drivers and others should be allowed amid public experts asking caution and measures to be taken while allowing outsiders.Pune district co-operative federation chairman Suhas Patwardhan said “Instead of establishing lines of communication with society, the government is directly lodging an FIR against the society which is wrong, the manner in which the state government directed the deputy registrar’s office to lodge an FIR against the society secretary. The society office bearers had allowed the tenants inside but were verifying details as they had come from a containment area. The secretary booked has always been at the forefront in helping people and it is wrong that he has been booked. The FIR must be withdrawn with immediate effect.”The police booked secretary of society from Aundh on the charge of insisting for a medical certificate from a pregnant woman and her family. The society eventually did not allow them entry. “There is a serious communication gap from the government department. The federation and also societies should have been taken into consideration before lodging the case. This is condemnable and the FIR will deter societies from discharging their duties which are completely in the public interest. As many as 450 persons participated in the meeting. We have asked all the office bearers to adhere to the guidelines issued by the co-operative department and they must not be violated at all. In fact, nobody is violating the rules and regulations listed by the government,” said Patwardhan.The Pune district co-operative federation will issue a written communique to all the ministerial departments concerned seeking a rollback of the FIR and demanding greater protection of society rights.Santosh Krishna - Ivy Estate, director-WHSA said “In most cases, lack of counselling of society staff results in confusion and results in setting random standards. The society rules should be in accordance with the cooperative housing dept. and the collector office issued orders. Besides this, these guidelines should also be pasted in the society notice boards, security gate and cabins for more clarity. To ensure that the guidelines issued by the housing society department is strictly followed, the society should ensure they do the briefing on the latest guidelines to their facility management and the security staff as they need to understand the rules clearly as they operate on the ground round the clock.”Kiran Moghe, leader of the Pune district ghar kamgar sanghatna, a domestic workers body union said, “Domestic maids cannot be stigmatised by the society. There is no proof that they spread infections and it can be contrary that those who are infected are transferring the infection to the maids. The maids have equal human rights and their selective branding must be avoided by the society and instead, steps must be taken to encourage and motivate them towards their socio-economic empowerment.”Moghe further added that housing societies were behaving as per their whims and fancies by subjecting the domestic helpers to harassment and unnecessary suspicion due to inherent biases.Moghe’s organisation has further demanded enactment of protective legislation that will guarantee basic minimum working hours for domestic workers including minimum wages, weekly holidays, paid leaves, bonuses and social security benefits including insurance and pensions.It has also demanded anti-discrimination measures, protection from indignity and providing legal and financial support during a crisis.Sarika Gaikwad, a housemaid from Wanawadi said “We have already lost our livelihood due to Covid-19 crisis. Over and above, the housing societies and their members have a biased mindset that maids spread Covid-19 infection as they come from slums. This mentality has to change. The societies take assistance and help from the maids for their personal benefits and easily dump them in the corner during the crisis as we are poor. However, the workers’ organisations have stood behind us which is why we are fighting effectively against this discrimination. However, not all members of society have the same bias as there are strong supporters for us too.”Dr Abhijit More, co-convenor, Jan Arogya Abhiyan said there is a lot of fear psychosis in the society regarding Covid-19 infection and nobody should succumb to overreaction and fear. “However, it is mandatory that social distancing is maintained, masks worn and hands cleaned with sanitizers. There is absolutely no need to overreact, panic and resort to measures which will lead to a complete ban on entry and exit of the society. Absolute ban of free movement is not required if we carry out regular sanitation drive in the society where staircase, elevators and other places must be cleaned. Proper awareness in the housing society regarding Covid-19 is the need for us and we must work towards that. Mask literacy has to be cultivated and ingrained amongst society. People who have come from outside must stay in fourteen days quarantine and society must assist them in the process. We should learn to live with Covid-19 and instead of banning entry and exits follow laws with due diligence. Precautionary measures must be taken for preventing the disease. Panic and overreaction must be avoided as it leads to harassment of the people.Societies reporting fresh cases after govt permits movementA 65-year-old retired government doctor from Padmawati area died due to the Covid-19 infection, triggering fear among other residents of the housing society on whether they should have allowed outsiders.The society that the 65-year old was a resident of had recently allowed entry to outsiders including those coming for domestic work.Residents from society said they are reviewing the decision whether to allow outsiders after some of the members tested positive.According to the Pune municipal Corporation (PMC) officials, as many as 20 residential societies have reported fresh faces in the past one week. “We have not reviewed the situation today and by Wednesday, when we release our containment areas list, these societies will figure in it,” said PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad.The PMC, as per fresh policy, has decided to review the containment zone map.Gaikwad said, since the infection is spreading to areas which were Covid-free so far, the PMC has decided to keep asymptomatic patients at home.“Once we confirm that a particular person is positive from these societies, where people can afford to stay home in isolation, we speak with them on web camera and ask them to stay home,” said Gaikwad. BOXCooperative department of Maharashtra government guidelines for societiesSocieties have to keep temperature gunsPulse Oximeters to be kept at entry and exit gatesEntry-exit gates must have sanitizersResidents should maintain a safe distanceWhat is Allowed:Domestic helpTenantsBrokers PlumbersElectriciansNewspaper delivery||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/housing-societies-dilemma-to-allow-outsiders-or-not/story-yFoXmhAsDle40NbDnmOvqO.html
01-07-2020||Pune||Over 10k discharged after being declared cured of Covid-19||On Tuesday, 522 people were discharged from various hospitals taking the toll of people cured of Covid-19 in the city to over 10,000.The total count of those discharged reached 10,451 as of Tuesday, however, the city also reported 25 deaths in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jurisdiction taking the death toll to 643. Five deaths were reported of those residing outside the PMC limits at city hospitals.The city also reported 486 new cases in the city taking the count of progressive positives to 17,228. Out of the 6,134 active cases in the city, 350 are in a critical condition, 59 on the ventilator and 291 in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).The Sassoon General Hospital reported eight deaths including a 70-year old who was a resident of Parvati, a 69-year old from Yerawada, a 52-year old from Guruwar peth, a 67-year old from Kharadi, a 60-year old from Shivajinagar, a 48-year old from Mangalwar peth, a 46-year from Shukrawar peth and a 59-year old from Hadapsar. The Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital reported three deaths including that of a 74-year old from Karve road, a 76-year old from Erandwane and a 74-year old from Kushalkar chowk.A 74-year old from Shivajinagar was declared dead at Jehangir hospital and a 57-year old from Ambilodha was declared dead at the Naidu hospital. Three deaths were reported from the Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital including that of a 64-year old from Bibvewadi, a 73-year old from Sukhsagaranagar and a 54-year old from Kondhwa.An 83-year old from Global Hospital who was a resident of Erandawane and a 57-year old from Phursungi were declared dead at the Sahyadri hospital. A 75-year old from Nana peth was declared dead at the Ruby hall clinic.A 58-year old from Wadgaonsheri was declared dead at the Sahyadri hospital, a 63-year old from Ganesh mala was declared dead at the Noble hospital. A 50-year old from Kondhwa and a 75-year old from Rasta peth were declared dead at the Kashibai Navale hospital.One death was reported from the DY Patil hospital of a 55-year old from Bopodi. A 69-year old from Shramik vasahat was declared dead at the AICTS hospital.Five deaths were reported from outside PMC limits including that of a 74-year old male and a 71-year old female at the Sassoon hospital. A 61-year old male was reported dead at the Jehangir hospital, both from the Khadki cantonment. A 55-year old from Haveli taluka reportedly died at the Naidu hospital and a 71-year old from Solapur reportedly died at the Ruby hall clinic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/over-10k-discharged-after-being-declared-cured/story-6PF0YExm06EVBeLmZC3f9L.html
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Capital ‘super spreaders’ a major challenge for Haryana||Delhi is the topmost city across the country responsible for the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in neighbouring Haryana, particularly in the national capital region (NCR) districts of the state. Back and forth movement of a large section of population between Haryana’s NCR districts and the national capital for professional and personal reasons is the cause behind the spread of disease, officials said. State-wise travel history data and source of infection statistics show that 431 individuals who tested positive for coronavirus in Haryana had contracted the disease in Delhi. In comparison, 89 people found infected in the state had sourced the contagion from Maharashtra, 51 from Uttar Pradesh and 15 from Gujarat. The transmission of virus from the national capital had also forced the state government to restrict the interstate movement between Haryana and Delhi. Health department officials said the information about the antecedents and travel history of the Delhi patients was established after questioning them. “The primary and secondary contacts of the infected individuals in Haryana were traced, tested and quarantined. It is a big number in terms of contagion spreaders who infected multiple persons in the state. Then it becomes a chain of infection,” said a health official. Officials said there were several contagion spreaders having the national capital links, which could not be identified due to various reasons. “Many Delhi residents who have extended families or relatives in Haryana got themselves tested in the state. They couldn’t be counted as Delhi residents because they furnished local addresses. Then there were Delhi-based patients who got tested at private labs in Haryana and furnished incorrect addresses,” said an official monitoring the NCR situation. In fact, many Delhi private labs which had tested samples of such floating populations failed to communicate the results to the state authorities. Health officials said that a number of vegetable traders, commission agents and workforce detected positive in Jhajjar and Sonepat had also carried the virus from Delhi.Positivity rate higher in NCR districtsWhile Haryana’s ten districts have a sample positivity rate of less than 2%, a desirable value as per the parameters of the Union ministry of health, the three NCR districts of Faridabad, Gurugram and Sonepat accounting for more than 68% of the active cases have more than 6% positivity rate, a critical value as per the health ministry parameters. Faridabad has a positivity rate of 15.6%, followed by Gurugram (13.4%) and Sonepat (6.6%). Bhiwani with a sample positivity rate of 5.9% and Rewari at 5.8% are on the verge of breaching the 6% mark.Contact-tracing algorithmThe state health officials have put into effect an elaborate contact-tracing algorithm for the infected individuals. Once an individual is suspected of carrying the infection, the process starts with testing the suspect, tracking his travel history and movement, identifying his high and low-risk contacts, testing and putting them under quarantine and further investigating the primary and secondary contacts of these high and low-risk contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capital-super-spreaders-a-major-challenge-for-haryana/story-1bBS4RVNePlsiShoqwumCI.html
01-07-2020||Noida||GB Nagar administration to collect 4,000 samples per day for Covid-19 test in special drive||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has set a target to collect 4,000 samples per day to test for Covid-19 during a special drive beginning in Meerut division from Thursday.Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the samples will be tested via different methods. “We have set a target of testing 1,000 samples through the lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method, and 3,000 via the rapid antigen method. Teams of trained health workers are being constituted for different localities. We will focus on taking samples from residents living in high-risk containment areas,” he said.The district magistrate further said that till date, over 20,000 samples have been collected by different labs in the district. “We have so far tested samples from over 18,500 persons through RT-PCR, while over 1,500 samples have been tested through rapid antigen test kits. This special drive, beginning Thursday, will not only help identify more positive cases but will also aid their speedy recovery. Gautam Budh Nagar district’s sampling rate is around 10,000 per million, which is around five times the national sampling rate of less than 2,000 per million,” he said.Suhas also said that taking cognisance of the rising cases in the district, the leaves of all the government employees have been cancelled until further notice. “According to the government order, they have been asked not to leave their headquarters without my permission, except for an emergency,” he said.The district magistrate further said that the annual Mudiya Poono fair, scheduled to begin from July 1 this year has been cancelled due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “We will restrict the movement of people from the district to Govardhan in Mathura district. The state government has issued an order in this regard” he said.Meanwhile, the Gautam Budh Nagar district, on Tuesday, reported 97 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking the overall Covid-19 count in the district to 2,301 cases. The district chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that as many as 76 Covid-19 patients were cured and discharged from different hospitals by Tuesday, taking the overall number of cured patients to 1,506 in the district so far. “So far, 22 patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 776 active cases,” he said.According to the daily Covid-19 bulletin released on Tuesday by the state headquarters in Lucknow, in the last 24 hours, as many as 25 Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh have lost their lives and their death audit report is awaited.According to the bulletin, the overall tally of the Covid-19 positive cases in the state has gone up to 23,500 with 672 new cases in the last 24 hours. “While 672 patients have lost their lives due to the infection in the state so far, 16,085 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the state till date,” the bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-administration-to-collect-4-000-samples-per-day-for-covid-19-test-in-special-drive/story-hX6JQQSltNQ9MbzvvtOpNL.html
01-07-2020||Mumbai||Three teenagers back in custody after escaping Dongri Children’s Home||The three teenagers who had escaped from the Dongri Children’s Home on Tuesday, returned during the night hours. All three were runaway kids and were in custody of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), since over six months. The teenaged kids, after finding all trains, buses, and transportation mediums non-operarional and shops shut due to the lockdown, returned to the children’s home in the night. During their brief period outside, they visited Gateway of India, in Colaba, officials said.The Dongri police had launched a hunt for the three. The teenagers were of age 14, 16 and 17, and originally hailed from Darchula district in Nepal, Supaul in Bihar and Dawla in West Bengal, respectively.On Tuesday afternoon, during their kitchen gardening training, they excused themselves to attend nature’s call. They managed to dodge guard’s attention and escaped from the main gate, said an official from Dongri Children’s Home.“The three have tendency of escaping. They have escaped from their homes at least five times in the past. They were brought to the children home as missing kids. Their families knew that their kids are in safe custody in Mumbai,” said Rahul Kanthikar, superintendent of Dongri Children’s Home.The kids at the children’s home are anxious due to the pandemic. Two kids and a nurse had tested positive for Covid-19 in April. “We are worried about the kids as probably they are not completely aware about the conditions outside. The lockdown is in effect and even if they attempt to escape the city, they won’t be able to do so, as trains and other public transport mediums are not operational,” said another official.Teenagers’ escape was captured in the CCTV cameras installed near the Children’s Home. The three were in the uniform and were wearing mask.Hindustan Times in its June 22 edition had published a report explaining how around 75 rescued children are ‘stranded’ in Dongri Children Home since last three months, and cannot be re-united with their families as authorities of other states refused to take them, citing spread of novel coronavirus as the reason. These kids are rescued by the police from various factories, small scale units, where they were being exploited as child labours. Some of them are rescued from child trafficking rackets, some are street kids and missing kids, while some are runaway kids.Usually the CWC re-unite the rescued kids with their families in maximum one month’s time, but due to the lockdown, not a single kid was reunited in the past three months.The longer stay of kids at the children home has left adverse impact on children’s psyche. They are facing problems such as anxiety, sleeplessness, loss of appetite, feeling low, mood swings, drop in daily activities, etc, said officials. Women and Child Development commissioner Hrishikesh Yashod had too admitted that the kids are anxious, panic and are in stress because of the lockdown. The commissioner had said that there is reluctant approach of the administration of other states. Unavailability of police escort party is also an issue. However, efforts are being taken to re-unite the kids with their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-teenagers-escape-from-dongri-children-s-home/story-qPVOCINZRcjn0i9xpH4lqI.html
01-07-2020||Delhi||Migrants who stayed back helping shape Delhi’s biggest Covid-19 facility||Attempting to catch a quick nap amid a hectic schedule, Ishtiyak Ali is perched atop a large seven-ton air-conditioner, about 25 feet above the ground, at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur, which is being prepared to serve as a 10,000-bed temporary Covid-19 hospital.His break will not last long. Hired by a private firm to set up air-conditioners at this facility, 26-year-old Ali will be back to work in less than 30 minutes.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“I have been working my regular shift from 8am to 6pm as well as overtime until 1am. It will help complete the work quicker and I’ll receive some extra overtime pay,” Ali, a native of Mau district in Uttar Pradesh, says.Unlike many migrants who left for their hometowns during the lockdown, Ali and scores like him chose to stay back in the city. They see the work at the facility as an opportunity to earn after a prolonged period of unemployment as well as a chance to contribute to the country during a pandemic.MORE THAN 900 WORKERSBM Mishra, district magistrate of the south district, said about over 900 workers from different departments and organisations have been working in shifts since June 14 to prepare the facility wherein 2,000 beds have already been readied to take in Covid-19 patients.“These include about 250 people fixing air-conditioners, 100 making the beds, 200 handling the electricity works, 100 from MTNL and another 125 from SDMC and NDMC,” Mishra said, while overseeing the work on a hot and humid Monday afternoon.Several of these departments have outsourced the work to small firms who have hired either daily wage labourers or skilled workers. Apart from these, there are about 700 ‘sewadars’ (volunteers) from the satsang.But these workers were difficult to find. Sandeep Panwar, whose firm is one among several installing 18,000 tons of air-conditioners here, says that the unavailability of labourers has forced him to task his employees to find them.“Most of the workers you see around are new labourers. My employees are visiting labour chowks across the city to scout for them,” Panwar said.And when these workers see the nature of the job, some of them leave, Panwar said. “It is a tough task to load the heavy ACs on the iron frames. Not everyone is willing to do this task in this heat.”EXTRA PAY IN TOUGH TIMESVikas Kumar, a 40-year-old labourer who took up this job, acknowledged that it is a laborious task, but he needed the money. “I was unemployed for a lengthy period during the lockdown. Now if I am getting paid ₹500 for a regular shift, I’ll take up any work for my family,” Kumar said immediately after loading an AC.An overtime allowance of ₹200-₹300 is also what has kept Kumar and his colleagues working hard over here.Nandini Maharaj, the assistant collector of the south district, says that work on the ground began on June 14, the same day that she and the other officers began conceptualising the task.“We have been working here till 2am and so have many labourers. It wouldn’t have been possible to finish such a task if not for the contribution of these workers. We have ensured that they have a decent place to stay and timely meals,” Maharaj said.On Monday afternoon, some workers went about fixing cardboard beds, others loaded large and heavy air-conditioners on iron pole frames while some others flattened the mud floors even as a few took quick breaks.Nearby, a group of 50 workers used cardboard sheets to set up beds. Over the last seven days, they readied 5,000 beds, Rajesh Ranjan, the project head of Sleepwell, a private firm that has donated 10,000 bedding sets to this facility, said.‘CONTRIBUTING IN A PANDEMIC’Rajan Bargujar, one of the workers here, said he and most of his colleagues had been unemployed for three months. “We have being given minimum wage and promised a bonus, but it is the sense of working for the country that will keep us working here despite the threat of infection,” Bargujar said.Vijay Kumar Yadav, an electrician who is visually challenged in one eye, chose not to go back to his village in Bihar hoping he would find work when the lockdown was lifted. He said that after being disappointed in the initial days when lockdown restrictions were lifted, he found work at this facility that is paying him a little more than what he earned earlier.“I made about ₹600 a day earlier. For this work, I am getting paid ₹900. It is as if someone has lent me a helping hand,” Yadav, who is done fixing charging points under each of the 2,000 ready beds, said.But more than the money, Yadav says he has been enjoying the satisfaction of “serving the country”.“I have worked for over two decades, but work has never this voluminous and hectic. It feels like work is going on at a war footing and I am fighting a battle for my country,” says 42-year-old Yadav.Yadav knows that soon patients infected with Covid-19 will begin occupying the 2,000 ready beds, but he and his colleagues say they aren’t concerned, even though they must continue readying other sections at the same facility. “I am in no hurry to leave from here. What would happen if doctors began leaving this place if I got infected and hospitalised,” says Yadav’s colleague Sanjay Tiwari.But the fear of having to work near patients is also what is keeping some workers toiling harder than usual.One among them is Mohammad Ahmed, a labourer hired to level the mud floor—which will eventually be covered with vinyl sheets.“My colleagues and I are working harder to finish the work in the next couple of days. It won’t be safe once patients start coming in,” Ahmed, who belongs to Saharsa in Bihar, but didn’t find an opportunity to return to his village, says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/extra-pay-and-sense-of-service-make-workers-toil-hard-at-10-000-bed-facility-at-chhatarpur/story-q5uUWBrPzM9fI5zvgNBgXI.html
01-07-2020||Delhi||Medical waste piles up as MCDs short of hands||As more and more Covid-19 patients are being put in home isolation, daily collection of biomedical waste from their houses is proving to be a big challenge for the already short-staffed municipalities.In many neighbourhoods where Covid-19 positive patients are in home isolation, daily biomedical waste is not happening, residents say. In other areas, waste is being collected every three to four days.Delhi has at present 17,148 people in home isolation, out of the total 27,847 active cases.The city on Tuesday recorded 2,199 cases, taking the total to 87,360. Sixty-two deaths were reported on Tuesday, taking the total count to 2,742. Surya Pratap Singh, a resident of north Delhi’s Rohini who tested positive eight days ago, and is in home isolation till July 1, said waste is being picked up from his house every alternate day.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“First, I tested positive, then my wife and mother was infected. All of us are in home isolation. The daily waste generation is so much that it needs to be collected every day. There have been days when we keep the waste bag outside our house for collection in the given time but it just stays there. We have to put it back inside because neighbours start complaining,” Singh said.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) guidelines for the management of Covid-19 biomedical waste says refuse from patients’ houses must be collected daily, in colour-coded and sealed bags, to prevent any spread of infection. Household biomedical waste has to be put in yellow bags.Municipalities said that with an “exponential” increase in the number of home isolation cases and with limited staff and resources, it is becoming difficult for sanitation workers to cover all the houses of infected people in their areas. Jai Prakash, North Delhi mayor, admitted the municipalities were not being able to collect garbage every day. He, however, assured that the north corporation plans to rope in more people in the coming weeks to collect and handle biomedical waste from houses. Workers are likely to be outsourced, though no plan has been finalised yet.“The generation of biomedical has increased exponentially. For instance, if we were collecting biomedical waste from 40 households earlier, now we have to collect waste from 400 houses. We are trying to get more people on the workforce for collecting waste from positive houses. Meanwhile, if we receive any complaint of garbage not being picked up on our control room helpline, we immediately send our team for collection,” Jai Prakash said.The MCD’s control room helplines are 155304/18002008701/1800118700/1266.A senior official of the East Delhi municipal corporation (EDMC) explained that because of the shortage of sanitation workers, the civic agency has dedicated only a part of its team to focus on home isolation waste. For instance, if an area has a team of 20 sanitation workers, only 10 are dedicated to biomedical waste collection, while others focus on the rest of the city. This is putting more stress on these people.The three municipalities--north, south and east-- engage around 71,345 sanitation workers. The north corporation has 31,332 workers with a shortfall of nearly 10-12%, EDMC has 15,023 but needs 15-20% more staff, while there are 25,000 sanitation workers with SDMC, a shortage of nearly 5% employees.“We cannot risk putting our entire workforce for the management of biomedical waste; we will need a backup team, especially because infections are rising at such a high rate. With limited staff, it becomes difficult to cover all houses every day,” the official said on the condition of anonymity.Neel Kanth, general secretary of DDA Flats in Dwarka sector-14, said three houses in their colony are marked for home isolation but municipal workers only stand at the gate and do not collect waste from each of these houses.“Ours is a gated colony and taking advantage of that, the collectors stand outside instead of going door to door. The colony’s private waste collector wears safety gear, picks up the bags and hands it over to the workers,” Kanth said.A resident of east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar phase-I, pocket-2, who did not wish to be identified, said his father tested positive on June 24 but sanitation workers collected waste from their house only twice. He said keeping bags of biomedical waste inside the house with other healthy members was a matter of great risk. The health agencies have been very cooperative but handing over of waste is definitely an issue. We had raised this issue with the health official who calls every day to enquire about my father’s condition and they said the issue will be raised with the departments concerned,” he said. In some localities, RWAs are taking it upon themselves to coordinate with sanitation teams and ensure garbage is collected every day. A residents’ group in Shiv Vihar said they coordinate with municipal agencies and Delhi government dispensaries to ensure waste is collected daily and all home isolation rules are followed. “Since the same team is assigned for this locality, we coordinate with them every morning and make sure bags with biomedical waste from the marked houses are kept outside so that none of the parties is inconvenienced,” said Prashant Tiwari, member of the Shiv Vihar residents’ group. Swati Sambyal, a Delhi-based solid waste management expert, said the problem of waste management has become more severe with the pandemic and will only get worse as cases increase. “The cities practising a dentralised system of waste management are doing fairly well with garbage management after Covid. But Delhi was struggling with concepts of segregation and waste management even before the pandemic and the disease put more stress on the system and on the sanitation workers,” Sambyal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/short-staffed-municipalities-struggle-to-collect-biomedical-waste-from-home-isolation/story-HjSKUV7NHssZC7PH5k9AHO.html
01-07-2020||Delhi||National Doctors’ Day: Delhi doctors say they are ready to face any situation||From fearing a novel disease to learning how to work in full-body suits, doctors have kept working throughout the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last four months. “In the last few months, we have become confident that no matter how difficult the situation, doctors will be ready to fight any war,” Dr Sunil Dhuchania, the president of the resident doctors’ association at Lady Hardinge Medical College, said.On the occasion of National Doctors’ Day on July 1, the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) will felicitate all those who were infected in the line of duty on Wednesday. National Doctors’ Day is celebrated on the birth anniversary of the legendary physician Dr BC Roy.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Now that many of our colleagues are recovering from the infection, the fear has definitely reduced. We know that if we take adequate precautions we can protect ourselves and even if we do get it, the infection is not all that bad—most people get mild symptoms,” Dr Duchania said.It is, however, working while wearing personal protective equipment —coveralls, head cover, mask, gloves, goggles or face shield and shoe covers—that is troublesome. “There is no air circulation in the suits. There is so much sweating, people get dehydrated. We cannot drink too much water because we cannot go to the washroom. This is the most difficult part of working in Covid-19 areas,” he said.Dr Amarinder Singh Malhi, the assistant professor of cardiac radiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said, “Imagine wearing a personal protection equipment (PPE) suit for six to eight hours at a stretch in this hot and humid climate, without being able to eat and drink, or even use the washroom because it is a sterilised environment. This is what some of our colleagues have been doing routinely for months now.”“And with the number of cases rising, it is becoming more exhausting. We have seen some people faint due to dehydration,” he added. The challenge is no less for the doctors working in non-Covid areas. They are routinely exposed to the infection as well.“Because we are a non-Covid hospital, we just put on a mask and see our patients in the OPDs and emergency wards. However, many of them are infected and even if we screen them, we cannot detect all the cases. Doctors in the so-called ‘low-risk’ areas are also routinely exposed to the infection. We are not even tested routinely, so we work in the blind, hoping that we have either had the infection or we do not get it,” Dr Maruti Sinha, a gynaecologist at North corporation-run Kasturba Gandhi Hospital and the secretary of the MCD Doctors’ Association, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/if-doctors-can-face-covid-they-can-face-anything/story-v2yBXv3ExKXUBarjhs8SeI.html
01-07-2020||Noida||Woman raped by occultist in Greater Noida, case lodged||A 20-year-old married woman who was allegedly raped by an occult practitioner in Greater Noida on Monday morning on the pretext of ridding her of ‘negative energy’.The suspect, identified as Pappan, was later booked by Rabupura police on a complaint by the woman’s husband.The husband of the woman has told police that the incident took place after the couple decided to visit the occult practitioner to seek solutions for some of their problems.“We had gotten married in February, but things seemed off from the starting. She often turned very aggressive and some unexplained things started happening at home. It seemed like she was under the influence of some spirit. So we got in touch with an occult practitioner to help her out,” said the husband.He also said that the suspect had visited the family at their home four days ago, taken Rs 5,000 from them and had asked them to bring the woman to his village, a few kilometers away.“When we went there on Monday around 11am, he took us to a field nearby and asked us to taste some ash, which was probably laced with a sedative. Both me and my wife lost consciousness after that. When I woke up, my wife recounted her ordeal to me after which we confronted the man. He in turn threatened to kill us. We then reported the matter to the police,” said the husband.Based on the man’s complaint, a case was registered at the Rabupura police station against the suspect under sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code.Police officials said that a search for nabbing the suspect is underway.“The incident happened yesterday and we have filed an FIR. A medical examination has been ordered for the woman. The couple allege that there were fed some sedative mixed in ash. A probe in the matter is going on,” said Vineet Kumar, station house officer, Rabupura police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-raped-by-occultist-in-greater-noida-case-lodged/story-oUUahWfSZDp1jfm73zJMEN.html
01-07-2020||Pune||No relatives, no friends, no contacts traced... 72 hours in... no last rites for 46-year-old Covid victim in Pune||The body of a 46-year-old Covid-19 victim has lain in the mortuary of Sassoon Hospital since June 28, the day the man passed away at the hospital itself.“We received a letter from the police. PMC officials were informed and the procedure was completed this evening (Tuesday). The body was handed over to PMC officials at 7pm and they will undertake the cremation process,” said Dr Swapna Jadhav, resident medical officer, Sassoon General Hospital.However, in violation of state guidelines and due to the fact that the neither the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) nor the police were able to trace any next of kin, it has taken 72 hours for a Covid-positive victim to be cremated. On April 30, the Maharashtra government issued guidelines to hospitals to regulate the final rites of Covid-infected deceased. As per the guidelines, in effect from May 2, the body of a Covid-19 victim should be moved from the hospital within 30 minutes, with final rites concluded within 12 hours.“We have a very smooth procedure in place for disposal of bodies. The body is first handed over to the family, but they are not allowed to conduct last rites. Once information about a body is provided to us, the disposal team gets into action. Now, with this body, I’m not aware where the hold-up was. We have disposed of 500 Covid-19 bodies till now without a glitch in the system,” said Dr Kalpana Baliwant, assistant medical officer, PMC. Dr Baliwant heads the department that disposes the bodies of Covid-19 victims as per religious preferences.The man died of acute respiratory failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome, according to PMC data. He also had a heart disease along with being Covid-19 positive. He was undergoing treatment since June 9.“The registered address is Shukrawar peth. An unidentified man brought him to hospital had gave a phone number and a forwarding address. However, the phone has been off and there was nobody at that address,” said police inspector (crime) Uttam Chakre of Khadak police station.The Khadak police then wrote a letter to the hospital to inform them about the situation.Dr Naresh Zanjad, head of the forensic department at Sassoon hospital, said, “This is the first time such a thing has happened - that we are unable to track the relatives of the deceased. As soon as the person was declared dead we tried to contact the relatives, but the only number we had was not reachable. We have now informed the PMC who will dispose of the body as per ICMR protocols.”Officials of another police station also tried to track down the relatives on Monday.“The Sassoon officials had provided the address. We checked it on Monday and found it to be in the jurisdiction of Khadak police station. Therefore, the information was passed on to them,” said senior police inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of Faraskhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-relatives-no-friends-no-contacts-traced-72-hours-in-no-last-rites-for-46-year-old-covid-victim/story-7I4JrVuE84jO1KutCrs39I.html
01-07-2020||Pune||Virtual externee tracking system helps Pune police track violator; case registered||A man externed from Pune has been booked for breach of the geo-barrier set up through the Externee Track (ExTra) mobile application launched by the Pune police.The man has been identified as Shankar alias Babu Kailash Pandhekar (22), a resident of Ota Upper area of Bibwewadi, according to a statement issued by assistant commissioner of police Shivaji Pawar of Pune police crime branch.“A system alert for geo-fence breach was sent to the Bibwewadi police station and preventive cell. Upon verification, a case under Section 142 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered against the criminal. Due to the use of technology, the violations of externment order can be detected more easily and this reduces the complete reliance on human intelligence only,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), crime, Pune.The police used local sources to confirm his absence from Barshi in Solapur. He was also found to have failed to upload a selfie between June 27 and June 29.Pandhekar was externed from Pune on June 17 under Section 56(1)(a)(b) of Maharashtra Police Act, 1959, by Suhas Bawache, DCP Zone-5. The ExTra application was installed on his phone and he was required to upload a selfie picture, which is geo-tagged on the tracking app, on it twice a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/virtual-externee-tracking-system-helps-pune-police-track-violator-case-registered/story-FyEZl5vO65IwEcOnpU4E8N.html
01-07-2020||Pune||Pune police seize 54 mobile phones worth Rs 5 lakh from 25-year-old in Kondhwa||The Pune police officials of the Kondhwa police station found 54 mobile phones in the possession of a 25-year-old man on Monday night. The cost of the 54 mobile phones, which has been seized by the police, has been estimated to be around Rs 5,47,669, according to officials. The man has been identified as Madhu Edappa Hirekaru (25), a resident of Krishnanagar in Ghorpadi. He was found to be a native of Averi village in Hubli region of Karnataka. “He was found standing with a bag full of mobile phones. The patrolling staff found him and checked his bag. When asked about the phones, he started giving misleading answers. He said the phones were for sale,” said police sub-inspector SP Shinde of Kondhwa police station.The man claimed that the mobiles were meant to be sold in Karnataka. However, he did not have receipts or documents for any of the devices.Each of the seized device is estimated to be worth Rs 10,000-20,000. All of them run on the Andriod operating system, according to the police. Some of the devices are basic feature phones as well.The owners of the mobile phones are being traced using the phones IMEI numbers which were provided to the respective companies of the phones.A court case under Maharashtra Police Act Section 124 was registered against the man.While the police are yet to ascertain whether the phones were stolen or not, the court has granted bail to Hirekaru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-seize-54-mobile-phones-worth-rs-5-lakh-from-25-year-old-in-kondhwa/story-HR7rEtmngWdKYw2Q2bqhcJ.html
01-07-2020||Patna||Wedding in Bihar sets off biggest Covid infection chain; groom dead, over 100 infected||A wedding ceremony in rural Patna a fortnight ago where the groom was running high fever and died two days later his wedding, with his body cremated without being tested for Covid-19, appears to have set off the biggest infection chain in Bihar so far, health department officials said on Tuesday.More than 100 people have tested positive in Paliganj sub-division of Patna district, about 55 km from the state capital, in the last few days, out of over 350 who have been tested upon contact tracing, they said. Fifteen of his relatives who attended the wedding tested positive for the contagion and apparently infected others.The officials, who requested anonymity, said the groom was a software engineer based in Gurugram and had returned home for his marriage in the last week of May. A few days after the ‘tilak’ ceremony, he started showing symptoms of the disease. Also Watch | Covid update: Bihar wedding hotspot; new virus in China; EU bars IndiansOn June 15, the date of wedding, he was running high fever and wanted the ceremony to be deferred, but relented upon the insistence of family members who made him swallow paracetamol tablets and go through the rituals.On June 17, his condition deteriorated significantly and family members made a dash to AIIMS, Patna, but he died on the way.The body was cremated in a huff, without the authorities being informed. But somebody telephoned the district magistrate and narrated the whole episode. All close relatives of the deceased, who attended the ceremony, were tested on June 19. Of them 15 tested positive, the officials said.As a measure to contain the spread of the disease, a special camp was set up at the village where the marriage took place on June 24-26 during which samples of 364 people were collected. Of them, 86 tested positive, the officials added.The sudden explosion of the dreaded coronavirus has triggered panic in the area. Although most who tested positive were asymptomatic, they have been admitted to isolation centres in Bihta and Phulwarisharif.Block Development Officer Chiranjeev Pandey said Meetha Kuan, Khagari Mohalla and parts of Paliganj Bazaar have been sealed for thorough sanitisation.Patna district happens to be the worst-affected in Bihar with 699 confirmed cases till date and five casualties, according to figures provided by the administration. The number of active cases is 372.On Monday, when the state witnessed its biggest single day spike with 394 cases, Patna district accounted for more than 20 per cent of these. About eighty cases were reported from Paliganj alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/wedding-in-bihar-sets-off-biggest-covid-infection-chain-groom-dead-over-100-infected/story-xyF3JxZMXJmRjsjYsTCvXI.html
01-07-2020||Pune||Pune man in judicial custody for stalking 23-year-old, beating up her cousin||A man has been arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Monday for stalking a 23-year-old woman and beating up her cousin in Hinjewadi on Sunday.The arrested man has been identified as Akshay Buchade (24), a resident of Marunji in Hinjewadi. The incident occurred between 9pm and 10pm on Sunday night in Shantainagar area of Hinjewadi.“He has been remanded to 14 days in judicial custody. The complainant has said that he had been stalking her for the past month or so,” said assistant police inspector Kavita Rupnar of the Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case.Buchade was driving a red coloured Maruti Swift car registered in Pimpri-Chinchwad and followed the complainant and her cousin, who were on a two-wheeler.“Her cousin was dropping her home. On their way to the complainant’s house, he followed her in his car. When the cousin was returning after dropping her, he blocked the complainant’s way. Then, the cousin’s brother arrived there in his car and asked him to leave,” said police sub-inspector RR Diwate of Hinjewadi police station who registered the case.Buchade blocked the brother’s car with his own and kicked the vehicle and damaging its surface. When the complainant’s brother tried to stop him, two of Buchade’s friends joined him in beating him up, according to the complainant.The police arrested Buchade on Monday afternoon and presented him in court on Tuesday.A case under Sections 354(d) (stalking), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-in-judicial-custody-for-stalking-23-year-old-beating-up-her-cousin/story-xoaILFjXfHnHXVEm9UHmML.html
01-07-2020||Pune||Contractor misses one-year deadline plus extension to construct FC road footpath||Pedestrians using Fergusson College (FC) road are awaiting the completion of the smart footpath project which has missed its completion deadline by a year. An extension of six months was given to the contractor, however, the work is still in progress. The entire stretch where footpath construction work has been undertaken is 2.5 kilometres in total, starting from Goodluck chowk to Agriculture College. The project includes building of a footpath on the left flank up to five metres, including a cycle track and 3 metres on the right flank. The cost of the project is Rs 25 crore that includes parking lots on both sides. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) claims that during the lockdown, the contractor faced a shortage of raw material, including paver blocks, as the order could not be delivered due to transportation issues.The work on the footpath began two years ago in May 2018 and the project has now moved into its last leg with the installation of paver blocks near Goodluck chowk. However, the pace at which the work is undergoing may push back the completion date even further. According to the PMC officials, pedestrians will be able to utilise the newly-constructed Smart footpath in eight to 10 days and the entire stretch of the road will be completed by the end of July.At present, the paver blocks have been installed between Ranade campus and Dnyaneshwar Paduka chowk stretch, while work is in progress at the Goodluck chowk.PMC executive engineer Dinkar Gojare, said, “The pedestrians will be able to walk on the Smart footpath in eight to ten days and the entire FC road will be fixed as well as enhanced by the end of July. We are waiting for the supply of paver blocks as we have not received the order due to Covid-19 lockdown. The work can be fast-forwarded and can be completion once we receive the paver blocks. However, due to less traffic on the road, the project is now near completion. Due to the lockdown, we were short on the resources and labour.”The PMC has tendered the project to Dhoot Constructions and despite repeated attempts; the contractor could not be reached.Many shopkeepers on FC road have complained about the slow pace of work by the contractor that caused an inconvenience before the lockdown and a drop in sales due to restricted access to the commercial shops.A shopkeeper on FC road said that they had encountered a dip in footfall by almost 30 per cent than usual when work was on. “We have encountered a fall in sales as it was difficult for the customers to reach the shop due to the project and almost for two months we suffered losses. We now hope that the footpath will soon be in service and customers start returning after three months of lockdown,” said Dinesh of Tantra on FC road.Shakid Shaikh, manager of Metro shoes, said, “Footfall at our shop wasn’t affected, but customers often complained about parking issues. We were worried about the sales after lockdown, but when we reopened the shop after lockdown, we were pleased to see that the work was almost done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/contractor-misses-1-yr-deadline-plus-extension-to-construct-fc-road-footpath/story-Lpkmc8nqs6uQqGLFTj44rN.html
01-07-2020||Pune||Street lights to be installed in ghat sections of Pune-Mumbai Expressway to prevent accidents||In a bid to reduce the number of accidents on the Pune-Mumbai expressway and upgrade its safety arrangements, the Maharashtra Highway Police (MHP) department along with the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) will install ‘street lights’ in the ghat section.The expressway witnessed 306 accidents in 2019 (including fatal, serious and minor injuries) along with 138 mishaps which did not result in injuries. Till May this year, the expressway had recorded 46 accidents (including fatal, serious and minor injuries) along with 12 mishaps which did not result in injuries. The reduced number of mishaps has also been attributed to the decreased vehicle movement on the expressway due to the lockdown in March, April and May, according to officials.This will be the first time when street lights will be installed on the expressway for better visibility at night, according to officials. The decision comes after MSRDC recently conducted survey wherein officials recorded that lower visibility increased the risk of road mishaps there. Vijay Patil, superintendent of police, Maharashtra Highway Police, said, “Monsoon brings heavy rains to the ghat section on the expressway and hence, we conducted a pre-monsoon survey with the help of MSRDC. Street lights will be installed along the entire ghat section of the expressway for better visibility in the region. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 7.5 crore. Street lights are being installed on the expressway for the first time. In the ghat section, tunnel work will continue simultaneously, but it will take another two years to complete and we want to reduce the number of accidents in the coming two years.” According to the state highway police and MSRDC, if things go according to plan, the actual work of installing the street lights is likely to start in the next couple of months.While the entire ghat section is 18km long, lights will be installed on the 10km stretch between Khandala and Khopoli. The Pune-Mumbai expressway, officially named as the Yashwantrao Chavan Expressway, has been operational since 2002. It is the country’s first six-lane concrete high-speed highway with a total of 94.5km joining Pune and Mumbai. Maximum fatal accidents have been reported on the expressway in 2016, in which 151 people died. “In our study of accident patterns in the ghat section, it was revealed that most of the accidents happen when vehicles ram into the motorist in front of them. One of the reasons behind this could be that the driver had not been able to judge the exact distance between the vehicles and hence, street lights can provide good visibility to them,” he added.In 2019, there were 22 fatal accidents in the ghat section of the expressway, starting from km 45 to km 36 which is a slope in the ghats, according to Patil. To prevent further accidents, MSRDC has on a trial basis installed blinkers, reflectors and rumbler strips on a one kilometre patch in the ghat section. This, according to officials, offered positive results as there had been no accidents in the same patch in the past six months.Vipul Alekar, a businessman and regular commuter between Pune and Mumbai, said, “I frequently travel to Mumbai from Pune for my business meetings and in the ghat section it is really risky to drive, specially at night. In the rainy season, we cannot see the vehicles in front of us and if street lights are installed, there will be more visibility.”Tanmay Pendse, an activist working for the safety of commuters using the expressway, said, “It is a very positive decision for the safety of travellers using the e-way. But it should have been done earlier and is a decision too late, according to me. There is always a visibility issue during the monsoon which leads to accidents, now after installing the lights, it will help drivers see clearly and judge the distance between vehicles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/street-lights-to-be-installed-in-ghat-sections-of-pune-mumbai-expressway-to-prevent-accidents/story-t4HkKKjFtTinqQC4BgQ9vJ.html
01-07-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka Agriculture Minister urges CM Yediyurappa to seal down Hirekerur Taluk||In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, Karnataka Agriculture Minister BC Patil on Tuesday urged Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to seal down Hirekerur Taluk in the Haveri district.He said that Covid-19 has reached Hirekerur constituency.He urged people to maintain social distancing and wear masks.“Everybody’s life is in their own hands. People should be alert as much as possible. People should take adequate safety measures,” said the minister.The total number of cases in Karnataka stands at 14,295 as on Monday and the death toll is 226. The number of active cases stands at 6,382, said the State Health Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-karnataka-agriculture-minister-urges-cm-yediyurappa-to-seal-down-hirekerur-taluk/story-EM9uA1vKiFsmlRek4nnrhO.html
