03-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 10 more Covid-19 deaths, 390 fresh cases||Rajasthan reported 10 more Covid-19 deaths on Friday, taking their number to 440 as 390 new cases of the infection pushed the tally in the state to 19,052.Three deaths were reported in Dholpur, two in Sirohi and one death each from Bharatpur, Bikaner, Dungarpur and Ajmer. One person from outside the state also died of the disease, officials said.Of the fresh cases, 57 were reported in Jodhpur, 51 in Jaipur, 34 in Bharatpur, 32 each in Pratapgarh and Kota, 28 in Bikaner, 24 in Sirohi, 21 in Ajmer, 20 in Dausa, 17 in Udaipur and 13 in Nagaur, besides cases from other districts, an official report stated.As many as 14,952 patients have been discharged and 3,331 cases are active in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-reports-10-more-covid-19-deaths-390-fresh-cases/story-CjpuYRZA5S2I1pFAsY9bGI.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||2018 AMRITSAR DUSSEHRA TRAIN TRAGEDY: Now, judicial probe indicts two serving, 3 former MC officials||Two serving and three former Amritsar municipal corporation (MC) officials, who were chargesheeted in a departmental inquiry besides being indicted in a magisterial probe in the 2018 Amritsar Dussehra train tragedy, have now been indicted in the judicial inquiry report.The inquiry officer, a retired additional district and sessions judge, submitted the report to the department of local bodies and recommended punitive action against the five.Sixty one persons were killed at the Jaura Phatak railway crossing during a Dussehra function.The officials are estate officer Sushant Bhatia, superintendent Pushpinder Singh besides now retired additional divisional fire officer Kashmir Singh, superintendent Garish Kumar and inspector Kewal Krishan.After finding the replies of the five over the chargsheet against them unsatisfactory in the departmental inquiry, the inquiry was assigned to retired additional district and sessions judge Amarjit Singh Katari.MC commissioner Komal Mittal said, “Now, the senior local bodies department officials have summoned the five to Chandigarh. The government will take a decision on punishing or acquitting these officials only after that.”The department on June 30 wrote to the five giving them 15 days to present their side.“There is ground for punishment on the basis the accusations proved by the inquiry officer against you. If you want to say something in self-defence, send it in written within 15 days, failing which it would be considered you have nothing to say,” reads the department’s letter.The magisterial probe that indicted the five was conducted by the then Jalandhar divisional commissioner B Purushartha. After a prolonged inaction in the case, the probe report was made public by the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO), an NGO, in December last year.In the probe, Purushartha had concluded that Kashmir Singh provided a fire tender and a water tanker without the MC’s permission while Bhatia and Krishan failed to ensure that no function was organised in the area without due approval. Also, the then superintendents of the MC’s advertisement branch Pushpinder and Girish were held responsible as posters and banners of the event were put up without any nod.PHRO investigator Sarbjit Singh Verka said, “It is good that the proceedings are going on against officials of the MC and police. But unfortunately, no proceedings have been initiated against the politicians responsible for the tragedy.”Local Congress leader Sourabh Madaan Mitthoo, who is considered as close to Congress MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, was the main organiser of the Dussehra function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2018-amritsar-dussehra-train-tragedy-now-judicial-probe-indicts-two-serving-3-former-mc-officials/story-QcEnQTiLx1rJTBhuyedRmN.html
03-07-2020||City||Tihar’s high-security inmates want resumption of meetings with families||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Friday sought the response of the Delhi government and Tihar jail authorities on a plea that said inmates of the high-security wards are out of touch with the outside world as meetings, both legal and with family members, have been stopped due to the Covid-19 pandemic.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the authorities on an application seeking an early hearing and posted the matter till July 30.The plea, filed through advocates Aekta Vats and Harpreet Singh Hora, had said the high-security inmates are also not allowed to converse with their fellow inmates, because of which they are in a state of dejection, depression and solitude, which is affecting their mental health and psychological well-being.The present application has been filed in a pending PIL filed by the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee in 2018, highlighting the plight of the such prisoners. It had sought directions seeking quashing of some standing orders issued against the interest of these inmates.On Friday, appearing for the petitioner, advocate Maninder Singh told the court that the situation is appalling because the inmates have been denied access to television, radio, magazines and newspapers. He said the main petition should be decided as the mental health and psychological well-being of these inmates was in peril as the ‘mulaqat’, which was their only connection to the outside world, has been stopped for now. “It is pertinent to mention that most of these prisoners do not qualify for interim bail ..,” the plea read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tihar-s-high-security-inmates-want-resumption-of-meetings-with-families/story-FdlYZGYZDJAvxVxIKMKRrI.html
03-07-2020||City||Four deaths, 153 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Punjab on Friday reported four deaths and 153 fresh Covid-19 cases. With this, the positive cases tally in the state has reached 5,937 and death toll 157. Three patients, including two from Ludhiana, died while, 60 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana.A 62-year-old man of Field Gunj died at DMCH. He was suffering from the diabetes, hypertension and heart-related diseases. A 68-year-old woman of diesel shed area, succumbed to the virus today at Fortis Hospital in Mohali. Besides, a 63-year-old man of Lajpat Nagar in Delhi, who was undergoing treatment at SPS Hospital near Sherpur Chowk since June 24, died due to the virus.Six cases were reported from Sun City, Khanna.50-YEAR-OLD AMRITSAR WOMAN DIES 50-year old woman, resident of the Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar area of Amritsar, died of Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Friday, civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said.Besides, eight more people of Gurdaspur district tested positive for Covid-19. Among them, 7 were tested from Dera Baba Nanak, which has been declared as containment zone. Also, a 20 year old man from Tarn Taran district was also tested positive.Twenty-two people tested positive of the novel coronavirus in Jalandhar district on Friday. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Prasad Bhatia said that 7 persons, including six who returned from Bihar, tested positive for the virus. Five persons tested positive for the virus in Bathinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-deaths-153-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab/story-wAgCDydhwCBhvS6Qf44ycN.html
03-07-2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat: Delhi high court advises city court on disposing of foreigners’ cases||The Delhi High Court has issued a slew of suggestions to a city court for speedy disposal of the cases related to the several foreign nationals connected to the Tabligihi Jamaat congregation. Over 120 Malaysian nationals and 11 Saudi Arabia nationals had moved the court seeking speedy disposal of the cases.Justice Anup J Bhambhani suggested that considering the large number of charge sheets and supplementary charge sheets -- 48 and 11, respectively -- and the number of accused, the Saket Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) should post all charge sheets for a case management hearing on the same day.The court said that the CMM may divide the cases into batches and sub-batches according to the nationality of the accused, and offences alleged, or on some other rational and useful basis. It also said that the CMM may also designate a specific date and time when exclusively these mattes would be taken-up, which could even be a non-working day, so that adequate time and resources could be devoted to facilitate expeditious disposal.According to the plea, the Malaysian nationals, who were arrested by the Delhi Police and charge sheeted, were being in the custody of the High Commission of Malaysia in a hotel in the city. It said the court was yet to take cognizance of the charge sheets. The cognisance of the charge sheet is slated for July 6Justice Bhambhani, in an order passed on Wednesday, said that after cognizance is taken, the CMM may take up on its suggestions on segregating the cases following responses from the accused. It also added that cases where the accused are plead guilty or enter into plea bargains may be disposed of first.The court also said that the Embassy or High Commission concerned may be requested to arrange for the appearance of the accused via video-conferencing. It said that the CMM is also free to devise her methods for the speedy disposal of the cases.Appearing for the petitioners, senior counsel N Hari Haran had contended that while many of the accused would be willing to plead guilty or enter a plea bargain in order to seek early closure of the cases, the process may take a very long time if they are unguided.According to the charge sheets, all the foreign nationals have been booked for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and regulations regarding Epidemic diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure.They have also been charged for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant, negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life and disobedience to quarantine rule of the IPC and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act.The matter would be now heard on July 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tablighi-jamaat-delhi-high-court-advises-city-court-on-disposing-of-foreigners-cases/story-ny74QkVqcqEmcSsaLVmpQO.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four fatalities, 494 new cases in Haryana||Haryana on Friday recorded four Covid-19 deaths and 494 fresh infections, taking the total number of cases in the state to 16,003, officials said.The four patients who died were from Faridabad. Also, 672 more people across 18 districts got cured of the disease. Among these, the highest 390 patients were from Faridabad district.There was a significant decline in the number of active cases from 4,657 to 4,057 as compared to last Friday, primarily due to an escalating recovery trajectory. The total number of cured persons on Friday stood at 11,691, which is more than 73% of 16,003 positive cases.The medical bulletin said there were 59 critically ill patients, including 18 on ventilator support, while 3,998 patients have mild symptoms.Faridabad with 156 fresh cases was the top contributor to the tally on Friday, followed by Gurugram at 130 and Sonepat at 46. The three national capital region districts bordering Delhi accounted for 67% of the new cases reported on Friday.The three troublesome districts, however, also accounted for over 72 % of the 11,691 recoveries across the state and 78 % of the 255 deaths due to the contagion. There was also a significant decline in the number of active cases in Faridabad and Gurugram since last Friday. The number of active cases in Faridabad came down to 923 on July 3 as compared to 1,329 last Friday. Similarly, the number of active cases in Gurugram came down to 1,177 from 1,596 last Friday.Among the other districts, Rewari reported 38 fresh cases followed by Nuh (20), Jhajjar (16), Rohtak (15), Panipat (14), Sirsa (10), Mahendragarh (9), Karnal (8), Palwal (7), Charkhi Dadri (6), Ambala, Kurukshetra and Kaithal (4 each), Hisar and Jind (3 each) and Panchkula (1). Three districts- Bhiwani, Fatehabad and Yamunanagar did not report any fresh case.29 more test positive in Sonepat Twenty nine more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Sonepat. Deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said two people, including a 68-year-old man, who was suffering from cancer and a 39-year-old woman of sector 14 have succumbed to the virus.Ten cases were reported in Bhiwani. Also, 50 more people have recovered from the infection. Eight cases in Karnal Eight people, including three women, have tested positive in Karnal, taking the total number of infected people to 367 in the district. As per the health department, new cases include a 60-year-old woman from sector-14, a 28-year-old woman from Taprana village, 60-year-old woman from Jalala village, 22-year-old man from Badarpur, 32-year-old man from sector-13, a 24-year-old man from Munak, 28-year-old man from NDRI and 22-year-old man from Gharaunda. CMO Dr Ashwini Ahuja said the family members of these patients have been quarantined and their samples will also be collected for testing. 28 more people were also discharged. Four cases in K’shetra Four people, including two women, tested positive in Kurukshetra, taking the number of infected persons to 137 in the district. CMO Sukhbir Singh said the new cases include a 63-year-old woman from Ramsharan Majra village, 31-year-old woman from Thanesar city, a 49-year-old man from sector 3 and 53-year-old man from Thanesar city. He said all new patients have travel history to Punjab and they have been admitted in the isolation ward. The samples of their family members will be taken for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-fatalities-494-new-cases-in-haryana/story-ONVvarU4ifylGqENe7VmaK.html
03-07-2020||City||Hosiery worker held with 205gm heroin in Ludhiana||The special task force (STF) of Ludhiana police arrested a 32-year-old hosiery worker after recovering 205gm heroin from his possession on Friday.The accused has been identified as Mohammad Imran, alias Monu, a resident of New Basant Nagar.Assistant inspector general, STF, Snehdeep Sharma said an STF team arrested Imran near the Noorwala Road following a tip-off. He was passing through the area on a motorcycle when he was stopped on checking, and 205gm heroin was found under the two-wheeler’s seat.The AIG said the accused confessed that he was a drug addict and had been smuggling drugs for the past one year to meet his need of drugs. He procured the heroin from local dealers. Efforts are on to trace his suppliers, he added.A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against the accused at the Basti Jodhewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hosiery-worker-held-with-205gm-heroin-in-ludhiana/story-Ddbaynan5jK1D4qkJePpHP.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Badals using Covid crisis for taking political mileage: Capt||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday lashed out at Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Union minister Harsimrat Badal, accusing them for “misleading the people of the state to promote their petty political agenda in the midst of the Covid crisis”.In a statement, the CM said the concerted manner in which the Badal couple is running a campaign of lies has exposed their double standards.Amarinder also flayed Sukhbir over his allegations of embezzlement in distribution of ration by the Congressmen in Punjab, and said the MLAs were supporting his government’s efforts to ensure that nobody goes hungry. The MLAs are close to the people and well placed to help out those in immediate or urgent need, which is what they have been doing, he added.Amarinder said Sukhbir’s allegations that the foodgrains received by the state government had not been distributed among the people were totally incorrect.“The fact was that the quantity of food grains received by the state government till June was more than the figures given by Sukhbir, with over 90% of it distributed. Under the PMGKAY, the wheat allocated to the state was 212164 MT, of which 199091 MT had been distributed, while of the 10800 MT Dal allocated, 10305 MT had been distributed,” said the statement.In addition, under the ATMANIRBHAR scheme of GoI, wheat(per person) and dal (per family) was provided for 14.14 lac persons, and the state, after grounding the wheat to flour, added dal to make it 1 kg per person and put in 1 kg sugar on its own. In fact, the state government had distributed 17 lakh packets to migrant labourers at the cost of Rs 69 crores from its own funds, with 10 kg atta, 2 kg dal and 2 kg sugar, he added.“This data was sufficient to show that Sukhbir’s claims and allegations on foodgrain distribution were unsubstantiated and baseless, and as usual, the SAD chief was indulging in double standards”, said the chief minister.Taking on Harsimrat Badal on the issue of fuel VAT, the chief minister said if she was so concerned about the impact of the escalating fuel prices on the common man, why did she not pressurise the Union Government, in which she is a cabinet minister, to put a stop on the uncontrolled hike in prices of diesel and petrol for 22 straight day.He said Harsimrat seemed to have had no problem with the central government earning more than Rs 2 lakh core from the fuel price hike ,but when it came to her own state, which was reeling under an unprecedented fiscal crisis and was struggling to cope with the Covid pandemic, she found it anti-people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/badals-using-covid-crisis-for-taking-political-mileage-capt/story-Wjsgbha4tXsAdMVTgkdxsO.html
03-07-2020||Gurugram||Pandemic effect: Warehousing hit in NCR but e-commerce could be bright spot||The Covid-19 pandemic hit the warehousing industry in Delhi-NCR hard with an almost 32 per cent decline in demand this year as compared to the same period in 2019, according to a report released by consultancy firm Knight Frank India.“The demand for warehousing in NCR saw an upward swing in FY2019. However, due to the on-going pandemic, occupiers and developers have become cautious,” said Mudassir Zaidi, executive director (north), Knight Frank India. “Demand from the e-commerce segment is expected to rise, albeit for mid-sized facilities along the national highway- 48 (NH-48) belt to capitalise on essential services demand from Delhi, Gurgaon, Noida, Greater Noida and other peripheral consumption centers.”Warehousing is spread along the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal (KMP) Expressway and Kundli–Ghaziabad–Palwal (KGP) Expressway and NH-48 around 2000 acres is under various stages of development for warehousing, said experts. Ramesh Menon, CEO of Certes Realty, said that around 200 acres in the region has been converted into warehouses but absorption of this space declined as both manufacturing and consumption took the hit. “The slowdown has hit every sector and warehousing also slowed down but it is likely to pick pace by August (with the opening up of the economy),” he said. The Knight Frank report, however, said that NCR remained the foremost warehousing market in the country and recorded the highest volume of leasing at 8.6 million square feet (msf) in first six months of 2020. Over a period of three years NCR recorded a compounded annual growth rate of 45 percent, it added.Chandranath Dey, head of industrial operations and business development at consultancy firm JLL India , said, “Due to shortage of labour it is difficult to increase supply (to warehouses) but there is an upswing in flexible rent transactions and agreements are being signed.”The report also said that NCR has a development potential of 75% more warehousing space in the region. The current space is reported to be 57 million square feet (mn sq ft) with a potential of expansion to 100 mn sq ft over 4,178 acres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pandemic-effect-warehousing-hit-in-ncr-but-e-commerce-could-be-bright-spot/story-Rf5vllwP4gDEEuYqsPr2nJ.html
03-07-2020||Gurugram||Home buyers of delayed realty projects hit by lockdown as courts, H-Rera function at a limited capacity||Homebuyers of several delayed real estate projects in the city have been hit hard by the ongoing nationwide lockdown as several governmental agencies and the courts continue to function at a limited capacity. Around 50 buyers of ILD Greens project in Sector 37C staged a protest outside the office of Haryana-Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) on Friday for a delay in the delivery of their flats. They also demanded that the authority should conduct online hearings in the matter. The project was launched in 2008. However, three towers in the project, comprising 400 flats, are yet to be completed, said the homeowners association. “We want the authority to hold hearings online and take necessary action so that buyers, who are paying both EMIs as well as rent, can get their flats at the earliest,” said Rajan Soni, president, ILD Greens flats buyers’ association.Several homebuyers in the city have been hit hard by a delay in the completion of real estate projects due to the ongoing lockdown. Homebuyers claim that their cases are not being heard due to closure of consumer and judicial courts and because institutions, such as H-Rera and town and country planning departments, which oversee real estate development in the state, are functioning at a limited capacity. Reacting to the complaints of the home buyers, SC Kush, member, H-Rera, Gurugram, said that the authority is regularly holding online hearings for project-related complaints but complaints from buyers will be accepted only after July 15. “We are holding online hearings for all the cases that are already listed with us. The matter of ILD Greens will also be heard soon,” he said. However, he failed to mention any specific date on which the matter may be heard. When asked about the delay in the project, Alimuddin Rafi Ahmed, chairman of the real estate company of the project, said, “The true facts of the case are not being reported. A mitigation plan has been submitted to H-Rera and the residents’ welfare association (RWA) has requested for an audit of the mitigation plan and the company’s finances. We have fully cooperated with our clients so far and have completed two towers of the project, namely towers 6 and 7. We will apply for the occupancy certificate within two weeks after obtaining necessary clearances. As per the mitigation plan, Tower 2 of the project will be completed soon.” Like ILD Greens, buyers of Unitech Anthea project in Sector 70, whose final resolution plan was supposed to be submitted to the Supreme Court by a government-appointed board on March 19, are also dejected as the plan was not submitted on the aforementioned date. “The submission of the final plan has been delayed by almost three months. The hearings in the court have also not taken place. It now appears that the takeover of the real estate company by a government-appointed board did not prove to be beneficial to the buyers,” said Vivek Tyagi, president of All India Association of Unitech Homebuyers.Tyagi says that around 21,000 home buyers of Unitech have been left in the lurch after the company failed to deliver them their flats. Out of the 21,000 home buyers, around 8,000 to 9,000 are from Gurugram, he added.Amitabh Das, vice president, business development, Unitech, said that the final resolution plan of the Anthea project is in final stages. “We will submit the same in the apex court as soon as the court reopens,” he said. The buyers of another prominent project in Manesar are also facing similar issues. Homebuyers claim that despite the court giving directions to the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), nothing much has progressed in the last two years since both the land and the project were handed over to the corporation in March 2018.“Over the past two years, a number of hearings have taken place in the apex court. We had great hopes of a resolution as the court had fixed March 25 as the final date of hearing but due to the lockdown, it was postponed,” said Hari Om Sharma, one of the 250 buyers, whose money is stuck in the project. Buyers said that they have been paying both rent and EMIs — which is putting a tremendous financial burden on them. “Many people have lost their jobs while being stuck with delayed projects. The government needs to help us out,” said Sharma.Another city project in Sector 103, which was supposed to be resurrected, after the Delhi High Court gave directions for its revival in February 2020, has been similarly hit by the lockdown. A total of 517 home buyers, whose money is stuck in the project, say that the lockdown has brought the project to a standstill. “Due to the lockdown, all governmental agencies, such as DTCP, and the courts have stopped functioning. Although work has started at a limited capacity, it is difficult to meet and coordinate with promoters, government officials, lawyers and other stakeholders,” said Priti Nath, spokesperson for the home buyers association of the project.Despite several attempts, developers of the projects in Manesar and Sector 103 could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/home-buyers-of-delayed-realty-projects-hit-by-lockdown-as-courts-h-rera-function-at-a-limited-capacity/story-NHe3XodWJiaHNlwO1zxQ0L.html
03-07-2020||City||35 waterlogging points to have extra vigil during monsoon||Gurugram: More than a month after 79 waterlogging points were identified in the city, officials on Thursday categorised 35 of them “most critical” that will be monitored more closely to prevent flooding during the ongoing monsoon months. Each of the 35 spots carries a high volume of traffic that needs more attention, said officials.The 35 points were selected by officials of the district administration, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), and Gurugram police in a meeting at the PWD rest house in Civil Lines.All the vulnerable points will be monitored using CCTV cameras, the officials said, adding that each spot will have a set of teams assigned for removing accumulated rainwater with the help of motor pumps and super suction machines. The move is aimed at minimising inconvenience to commuters travelling along these stretches, they said.On May 29, officials had identified 79 waterlogging-prone points in the city, and said that they would undertake a two-week assessment of all these points individually to ascertain their drainage condition.“While we will be continuing to monitor all 79 points, 35 of these have been further sub-categorised as the most critical due to them being located on major roads such as Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, Sohna Road, and Golf Course Road that carry a high volume of traffic. We will be monitoring these 35 points even more extensively to ensure remedial actions can be executed immediately if there is heavy rainwater accumulation at any of them,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.Sharma said that all these points will be monitored via CCTV cameras, and teams have been appointed for each of them to initiate desilting or suction operations during waterlogging.The 35 “most critical” points include Hero Honda Chowk, Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch, Signature Tower, Atul Kataria Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, stretch opposite Ambience Mall, and MDI Chowk -- all located on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway.Besides, Subhash Chowk, Vatika Chowk, Bakhtawar Chowk, CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, and T-point next to Good Earth Mall -- all located in close proximity to Sohna Road -- are among the most vulnerable spots.Other key points include Huda City Centre, Iffco Chowk, AIT Chowk and Bristol Chowk on Golf Course Road, a portion of Gurgaon-Faridabad Road located opposite Valley View Society, and crossing near Vyapar Kendra in Sushant Lok 1.Meanwhile, during a press conference on Friday, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said that waterlogging-prone points have been identified across the city where “necessary measures and trial runs have been undertaken”.In trial runs, water from several fire tenders is released at high pressure at a particular point at once, to ensure there is knee-deep water. The time taken for water to seep or recede through stormwater drains is accordingly measured to assess if the drainage is proper, and if not how many motor pumps and suction machines would be needed in the eventuality of waterlogging to disperse all of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-waterlogging-points-to-have-extra-vigil-during-monsoon/story-fSNcSEfSJ7cINsVO5reuVM.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Readers’ take: Chandigarh not geared up for monsoon this year||Prioritise projects in case of tight deadlinesWaterlogging during the monsoon is a real problem, and one expects more problems this year due to the lockdown because of Covid-19 and the resultant labour shortage which led to slow development work such as recarpeting of roads or cleaning of the drainage system. However, it is still not too late and pending work can be prioritised and completed quickly if the authorities have the will. The administration can also arrange for night shelters for the homeless, especially near hospitals, for people to stay away from the rain, and provide free food and clothing to the poor as people get less work during the monsoon. Use of plastic should be curbed and all waste thrown in dustbins to prevent blockage of drains. Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhInfrastructure should be well maintainedEvery year the story is the same. Road gullies are not cleaned before the onset of monsoon. Tenders are floated every year and public money is spent on this account, but nothing changes. Many areas remain waterlogged and roads get potholes. Chandigarh MC has been regularly coming up with excuses that the requisite funds have not been received and work hasn’t continued because of the Covid-19 lockdown. One wonders why all the works are not carried out regularly and left for the last minute? In my opinion the system is corrupt and no one is interested in completing the work on time. Instead of getting such work every year on tender, why is equipment and trained staff not available with the MC to execute the job and to check the damages and maintenance thereof at regular intervals? Sham Sunder Sharma, Chandigarh.Residents have a role to play tooMajority of the city’s drains and alleys still require cleaning, for which MC teams are toiling hard. Also, being educated citizens, it’s our duty to dispose of garbage in designated bins and ensure these are not dumped elsewhere to block and choke drains. Keeping in mind the oncoming monsoon season, MC officials must ponder over the old saying: “The more you sweat in peace, the less you bleed in war.” Avik Seth, ZirakpurDeal with trouble spots on priorityDoubtlessly, MC would not have been able to ensure the timely execution of pre-monsoon projects such as maintenance of roads and drains due to the long lockdown and absence of labour. But at this juncture it would not be advisable to carry out work related to recarpeting of roads when the monsoon is just around the corner. Therefore, at the moment, corporation staff should check areas prone to waterlogging and clear them quickly. The sewerage system should also be cleaned up. Surinder Paul Wadhwa, Mohali.Futile to expect any changesIt’s a fact that the MC has never in the past, nor at present, been capable of finishing any project on time. Every year our roads become nullahs. A number of suggestions will be made in the debate, but what happens after that? Nothing will happen, no suggestion will be taken up by the authorities for action and things will keep moving as they are doing now. We are being governed by a system in which no one is answerable to anyone unless you file an RTI. But how many RTIs can one file to live a life that one really deserves?Gurpreet S Malhotra, Kansal villageSolutions nowhere in sightMonsoon preparedness has been hampered by successive lockdowns so road repair and drainage cleaning work has slowed down. Safai karamchars were busy with sanitisation work, spraying chemicals manually in affected areas. Let’s hope the staff concerned will now catch up with the pending work to clear gully traps and choked underground drainage pipes. Garage lanes in category 1 and 2 of Manimajra Housing Complex, which have an initial design defect, get flooded every year. Despite regular appeals by the resident welfare association to the MC, and assurances by the successive chief engineers, a permanent solution is nowhere in sight.SC Luthra, Chandigarh No time for delaysThe MC should ensure that road gullies are cleaned without delay. Waste material and garbage too should be removed from near the rain water gutters and by the roads. Recarpeting , repair and patchwork on all the roads should be done immediately. All obstructions should be removed from pavements with ease of movement for pedestrians. Streetlights should also be repaired or replaced. Drainage systems near all roundabouts should be cleaned and waste removed from public dustbins. Areas around public places, including the main markets (especially the grain market), should be cleaned regularly.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliDon’t expect miraclesWith revenues drying up and administration and Central government slashing budgets for the coming months, MC officials have no way out and cannot carry out any project in the current financial year. Even when the MC had enough money in hand, there was no relief for its residents from monsoon woes and to expect the same in the epidemic year is asking for a miracle. Any project this year will be written off and people will face the same problems this time too.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhSome areas need workSome areas in the city need work. The MC has to ensure that all damaged roads are repaired and drains are cleaned with no water stagnation anywhere to prevent mosquito breeding.Divanshi Bansal, Chandigarh Prevention of water-borne diseases important The tricity is definitely not ready to face the monsoon. Open drains, uncovered manholes, dug up roads and road gullies full of mud and choked with polythene bags and dry leaves have made residents’ lives hell. The monsoon showers as usual will bring the city to a grinding halt with most of the roundabouts, parking lots and streets flooded with rain water. Swift action needs to be taken to clean road gullies to avoid waterlogging. Infections and rainy season go hand in hand. The issue of water-borne diseases is more about prevention than care. The summer is already here, so first of all clean water should be made available to the residents. Dr Shruti K ChawlaPrune trees, repair damaged drains immediatelyDamaged and leaking drains should be repaired. Potholes should be filled up before the monsoon season as driving gets to be a nightmare and risks of accidents increase. Tiles around the trees should be removed because they weaken the grip of the tree’s roots and often lead to the uprooting of trees during a storm. The trees should be pruned because falling branches too cause injuries to pedestrians. To prevent water-borne diseases defogging drives should be conducted and stagnant water should be cleared. Awareness should be created among the people about not allowing water to stagnate and taking other such measures. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhEffective planning need of the hoursRecarpeting of roads has been deferred till the end of the monsoons. The authorities woke from their slumber only when waterlogging was reported in various parts of the city after a recent deluge. Road gullies, manholes and sewage lines need to be cleaned well before the monsoons, but it took the recent flooding to wake the authorities concerned from their slumber. Effective planning is the need of the hour to face the monsoons. SK Khosla, ChandigarhCover the drainsHope something is done to cover the drains. Fines should be imposed on people who are careless with garbage disposal.Yasmin D Khosla, PanchkulaCheck power linesAccording to data, around 30 people die in India due to electrocution in a single day, but in the rainy season, the risk of electrical shocks are doubled, so power lines and junctions should be checked on priority before the rains. Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhEngineers, MC officials should be held accountable got lapsesTop engineers of Chandigarh administration and of the MC should be answerable for the fact that problems such as waterlogging and choking of drains keep recurring in a modern, well planned city with no concrete action plan made in decades. The storm water drainage system has virtually collapsed as it is unable to contain rainwater. Flooding and caving in of roads, potholes and erosion of road surface are common in the monsoon. These are death traps for commuters and also result in traffic snarls and accidents. Things can improve if the authorities sincerely want to make this city world class and put in real efforts to upgrade its design. Sateesh Dadwal, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/readers-take-chandigarh-not-geared-up-for-monsoon-this-year/story-91hx8JWUXRiUWpO2ooIVDO.html
03-07-2020||City||Gurugram: Classes for college students may be given out via TV, radio||Gurugram: The state higher education department is exploring multiple options, including radio, television, and web-based platforms for disseminating lessons as colleges remain closed in view of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. On Thursday, the department issued an order to colleges stating that it is planning to telecast lectures of all subjects for the academic session of 2020-21 and had appointed nodal officers for the same.Earlier this week, the department had said that plans were underway to transmit lessons via radio for students who didn’t have access to smart devices for digital lessons. Along with radio, the telecast of lessons is aimed at increasing the reach of the remote-learning campaign. Nodal officers appointed by the department have been asked to identify resource persons who will be delivering lessons in different subjects across the state. The selected resource persons have been asked to submit videos of lectures to the department before July 15.Dr Hemant Verma, deputy director, higher education, said that the department was working on various options that could be used to disseminate lectures to students and television broadcast was one among them. “We are working on multiple options that can be used for continuing lessons till colleges remain closed. Besides radio, we are also working on online development and delivery of content. We may also use television channels or Edusat channels for reaching out to students. Plans are being chalked out and once the details are finalised, we will be able to initiate transmission,” said Verma.Pooja Khullar, principal of Dronacharya Government College, said that the department was planning to revive Edusat channels for colleges, and teachers have been asked to create lectures for the same. “Many years back, Edusat channels used to be run across colleges. These channels are now being revived to ensure that lessons can be transmitted to students in the current circumstances. Lessons will be delivered through radio and there is a possibility that these lectures might also be telecast on TV. Schools have used this model and a similar model might be put in place for college students,” said Khullar.Satyamanyu Yadav, the principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that Edusat channels can be revived without much hassle as most colleges are equipped with the needed infrastructure. “Edusat channels used to work some years back but had become defunct due to various reasons. The infrastructure for disseminating these lectures is already available in the college and the equipment that was not functioning is being made operational again. More students will be able to access the lessons with video transmission,” said Yadav.The department has also asked colleges to provide data on students who don’t have access to smartphones. Khullar said the issue of digital divide had recently come up during a meeting where principals had said that many students didn’t have access to smartphones for online lessons. “Colleges have a science fund as part of which students get a grant. During a recent meeting, a representative had suggested that smart phones could be provided to students for online classes. Most students, especially girls, don’t have phones. The department is trying to work on improving accessibility and various options are being explored,” said Khullar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-classes-for-college-students-may-be-given-out-via-tv-radio/story-xlIHqmvLpf4kn2HeYHF3UP.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||BFUHS charging ₹5,000 for changing exam centre, allege dental students||The Dental Students Association of Punjab (DSAP) on Friday alleged that the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) is charging Rs 5,000 for changing the examination centre.In a notice issued on June 25, the BFUHS stated that keeping in view of Covid-19 pandemic situation and the safety of the students, the competent authority has allowed the students to opt the university examination centre near their hometown in Punjab. The students can apply to their parent institution with a copy to university for change of centre, it added.“They issued a notification to lure us that the students may opt for any centre they want and there was no mention about any kind of fees for this. But now, they are forcing students to pay Rs 5,000 for this which is a huge amount,” DSAP said in a statement.Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor, BFUHS said that no fee has been asked to be charged from students, who are opting to change examination centre.Sources, however, said this happened due to random online system and university has taken up the matter with competent authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bfuhs-charging-5-000-for-changing-exam-centre-allege-dental-students/story-ivRru6hum9tajhYOc049mO.html
03-07-2020||Gurugram||53% of Covid-19 patients in city hospitals from outside Gurugram||Over half of the 327 Covid-19 patients in Gurugram’s hospitals are those who are residents outside the district. Out of the 40 hospitals, where more than 1486 beds have been reserved for Covid-19 treatment, there are 173 coronavirus patients from outside the district.Data from hospitals on Thursday showed that 76 were from Delhi, 42 from Uttar Pradesh, 33 from other parts of the country, 21 from other districts of Haryana and one foreign national -- together making 53% of Gurugram’s hospitalisations. The list, officials said, is incomplete as some hospitals were yet to provide information.The district health department on Friday confirmed 130 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count of the persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus in Gurugram to 5,699. Out of these, 1,178 are active cases, while 4,425 people have recovered. The number of fatalities due to Covid-19 stood at 96 with 60 deaths being attributed to co-morbidity issues.Union home minister Amit Shah in a meeting with the chief ministers of Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh on Thursday had advised the states to coordinate their response to the Covid-19 outbreak by focusing on timely hospital access. Earlier, Shah said that the Delhi-NCR has to be considered as one unit for the Covid-19 management. Four major cities – Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurugram – together have over 100,000 cases.In Gurugram, the district administration had directed at least 40 hospitals to reserve 25% of their total bed capacity for patients infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19. The city has 4000 hospital beds, out of which 1486 beds are for Covid-19 patients. Out of the total available beds, 130 beds are allocated in three government hospitals -- All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Jhajjar (50 beds), ESIC Hospital in sector 9 (58) and Polyclinic in sector 31 (22). “There are 679 Intensive Care Units (ICU) beds and 327 ventilators, out of which 192 ICU beds and 92 beds with ventilators are reserved to manage Covid-19 cases in the city,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, on Friday while addressing the media. “Utilisation of beds for Covid-19 is a dynamic process. The district has enough availability of beds, more than to treat patients,” he said.Vivek Kalia, nodal officer for Covid-19 hospital management, said, “Post analysing the data being received from the hospitals, we can surely say that substantial Covid positives are preferring home isolation. Besides, more than 50% of the patients presently hospitalised in Gurugram hospitals are from out of district which clearly reflects faith people have in the city’s medical facilities.” Of the 1178 active cases in the city, 797 patients are in home isolation, 53 in district Covid care centres and 328 in isolation facilities and hospitals.Kalia said, “There should be no suspicion, apprehension and fear among residents about bed availability and district’s preparedness to tackle the Covid-19 situation.”Gurugram is one of the first few cities to treat initial Covid-19 patients, including 14 Italian tourists who were detected to be positive with coronavirus in March and were admitted in Medanta Medicity. Patients from other parts of the city were also admitted in other big hospitals.A senior state official privy to the matter, said, “Patients coming to Gurugram for treatment is not a matter of concern as we have enough beds available for the treatment. In case, there is a surge in the number of critical care patients, the issue will be taken up by officials in the state and central government.”Amit Sharma, founder and CEO of eExpedise Healthcare, Gurugram-based company that is involved in medical tourism, said that in the last decade the city had emerged as an important destination for domestic and International patients. “The city has quality care. Due to high spending capacity, people want that quality treatment. Therefore, many of the private hospitals offer five-star care this means they offer luxury rooms, preferential diet, and personalised care.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/53-of-covid-19-patients-in-city-hospitals-from-outside-gurugram/story-B5sqyJWV5I5kyfVLs87PKM.html
03-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records 130 new cases of Covid-19, ramps up testing||The district health department on Friday confirmed 130 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count of the persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus in Gurugram to 5,699. Out of these, 1,178 are active cases, while 4,425 people have recovered. The number of fatalities due to Covid-19 stood at 96 with 60 deaths being attributed to co-morbidity issues.Out of the active cases, 797 are currently in home isolation, 53 are in district Covid care centres, and 327 have hospitalised. “In the last few days, there has been a slowdown in Covid-19 infection and the recovery rate has improved. At present the recovery rate of the district is 77%. Nearly 91% of the of those who are in home isolation do not have any health issues,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), in a press conference on Friday. Data shows that test positivity rate of the city has also come down to 12.4% which had touched 51% in the first week of June. Officials said that Covid-19 testing has increased substantially in the city, reaching a mark of more than 2,400 daily. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), said, “The plan is to conduct more than 2,000 tests every day. The number of positive cases might increase in the next few days and the positivity rate might vary. Cases will continue to be reported but the positivity rate has to be maintained between 5% to 8%.”On Friday, 2,402 samples were taken which included 552 samples taken by private labs and 1,850 by government labs. This number also includes the antigen testing. According to Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram’s testing rate is higher than other cities of the National Capital Region (NCR) cities. Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner, said that more people should get tested for Covid-19 as testing is the most effective way to contain the spread of the virus. “People who are suspicious of contracting the virus should get themselves tested after getting a prescription from a medical practitioner. They should be home isolated till they get the test results,” said Sangwan.Currently, Gurugram shares 29% burden of the active Covid-19 cases in Haryana. The state has till now reported 16,003 cases, out of which 4,057 are active while 11,691 have recovered. At least 255 deaths have been reported in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-130-new-cases-of-covid-19-ramps-up-testing/story-F1TnMCniyeWIcDF4nUifvI.html
03-07-2020||Gurugram||Second round of serological survey to begin next week||The second round of serological survey to test the prevalence of the coronavirus disease among Gurugram’s residents will be held next week, health department officials said on Friday.The survey is being conducted to detect unreported cases as the person may have been asymptomatic and did not know they had contracted the virus. In the survey, a test called enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (Elisa) will be used to detect antibodies that the body’s immune system produces to combat the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the infection. The first round of 182 such tests were done by June 24 that found 32 persons positive.“We were given 460 ELISA kits, and still have 278 left. Most, if not all, will be used in the next survey exercise that will likely be held from Tuesday. We may also start on the weekend itself if preparations can be made,” said Dr. Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist. He added that the health department has begun compiling a list of individuals from whom blood samples will be sought. The tests will not be conducted at random“There are 20 categories that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines recommend for serological studies, from healthcare workers, frontline workers, people with compromised immunity, and those who have already had the disease before. We will be conducting the tests across the district, with some focus on large outbreak regions,” said Prakash.Experts explained that seropositive diagnoses are not helpful in determining the extent or severity of a patient’s infection, but is a valuable epidemiological tool to determine the prevalence of a disease within a community. An ICMR study conducted in 75 districts across the country, for example, found that less than one percent of the population – 0.73% - in non-containment zones had developed antibodies.However, such data has not yet been extrapolated in Gurugram. “A sample size of 182 people will not really give us a clear picture of prevalence. It is too small. We will take the reports from all 460 kits and analyse them to see how much of the district’s population has developed antibodies. By extrapolating the data, we would be able to say, with reasonable certainty, the total number of people who have been infected with SARS-Cov-2 in Gurugram,” said Prakash.According to Dr. Prabhakaran Dorairaj, vice president of research and policy at the Public Health Foundation of India, however, even 460 is quite small. “Even if the right kinds of subjects are selected, it will not adequately represent the whole of Gurugram’s population. If the goal is to get a correct picture of prevalence, then the department must first classify the district into two areas: old Gurugram and new Gurugram. Within these areas, you have to use socio-economic data at the ward level and census enumeration block level to create a sample representative of the larger demography of the city. That will tell you how prevalent the disease really is in Gurugram,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/second-round-of-serological-survey-to-begin-next-week/story-BpscnUwdkDeym7tXlZfxzI.html
03-07-2020||City||Gurugram: MCG to award RWAs sum for development if residents pay up property dues||Gurugram: If more than 80% residents in a particular locality have paid their property tax dues to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), their respective Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) would be given 5% of the entire sum for setting up sanitation, waste segregation and composting plants.The announcement was made by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh during a presser held at the John Hall in Civil Lines on Friday.Singh though later clarified that the amount to be given would not exceed a maximum of Rs 5 lakh per RWA, and that the incentive would be applicable to only those RWAs which have more than 500 properties in their areas.It is not the first time such an initiative has been announced by the civic agency for residents’ bodies. In May 2017, RWAs of sectors 4, 7 and 14, Shivaji Nagar, Shivpuri, Jal Vayu Vihar and Maruti Vihar received Rs 5 lakh each from the MCG for getting more than 80% of their residents to pay their property taxes.According to MCG officials privy to the matter, the move is beneficial for both the civic body and the RWAs as the latter will encourage residents to clear their property tax dues to get the 5% sum from the MCG.They further said that this move will help increase MCG’s revenue as parting with just 5% of the total sum will be a small fraction of the overall collection.“Our property tax collection this fiscal has been abysmal. We have only generated around Rs 18 crore since April. Hence, we have introduced this incentive to boost our overall collection,” said an MCG official privy to the matter, asking not to be named.The MCG commissioner said that the move “is an incentive to not only encourage RWAs to get their residents to clear their property dues but also to improve aspects of sanitation and waste mechanisms in their respective areas.”Some RWAs have already started preparations for this.“We will be conducting a meeting via video conference on Monday to discuss the necessary formalities needed for procuring the 5% sum from the MCG, as more than 80% of our residents have paid their property dues. In the meeting, we will also be exploring the different ways we can use the sum to improve sanitation, waste segregation and composting units in our locality,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson for DLF Qutub Enclave RWA.During the press conference, the MCG commissioner also said that the Haryana government has given a 30% rebate on property tax to residents which can be availed till July 31.PLANTATION DRIVEThe MCG commissioner also said that the MCG is undertaking a plantation drive from July 27 to August 2 for which RWAs and NGOs have demanded more than 85,000 saplings from the civic body.He said that overall, 245 requests were received from RWA and NGOs, in which they had demanded 85,000 thousand saplings for plantation and last week, while 8,500 saplings were planted in the first drive, held on June 27 and 28, in collaboration with 29 RWAs.The MCG has four nurseries in the city, located at Biodiversity Park, Kadipur village, Sector 15 Part I, and Sector 46, from which RWAs and NGOs are being distributed with saplings of ornamental shrubs, medicinal and native plants and trees by the civic body, free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-mcg-to-award-rwas-sum-for-development-if-residents-pay-up-property-dues/story-FvUJyxvK5NdkOHYGy9CWcO.html
03-07-2020||Delhi||Construction workers should not be denied benefits due to change in address: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court has directed the state government to not collect the present address of construction workers or the Aadhaar details of their family at the time of their registration with the welfare board.A bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said that the Delhi government’s Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare (BOCWW) Board was not justified in seeking these details. The court said that the workers were mostly migrants and, therefore, they may change their address every time they take up new jobs. “The Board should, therefore, not require the applicants to provide their present address and, instead, should be satisfied by requiring the applicants to disclose the name, address and registration number of the establishment where the applicant is working,” the bench said.The court’s order comes while hearing a plea by social worker Sunil Kumar Aledia filed through his advocate Shiven Verma, seeking directions to the Delhi government to provide relief to workers and labourers, including cash transfers, to all who had registered in the last two years. On Thursday, advocate Shyel Trehan, who had also filed an application claiming that the benefits of various schemes for the construction workers was not being implemented, said that the registration forms have been asking for the “Present address” of the workers. She also said that the details sought also include the aadhaar card details of the family members.Appearing for the Delhi government , its additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, told the court that the move was taken in case the Board comes up with some scheme for the benefit of family members of the applicant. He submitted that there are schemes for providing benefits to the children of construction workers for their education, marriage, etc.However, the court said that the details when there is rush as well as urgency for grant of renewal of registrations due to the pandemic, the collection of information about the family members with their Aadhar Cards details should be suspended, at least, in respect of those applicants who are seeking renewal of their lapsed registration.Advocate Trehan told the court that in rural parts of India, dates of birth may not be correctly recorded and known to the applicants and quite often, the dates of birth are randomly filled by the applicants even while obtaining their Adhaar Cards. Hence there can be mismatch in the dates of birth as disclosed in the Adhaar Card, and in the application form.The court said that the officers, in such cases, should call the concerned person and resolve the problems. It asked the Board to make necessary changes in the application form and said that changes should also be brought in the website considering that it has to deal with lakhs of workmen. It said that the Board has sufficient funds and hence there should not be any difficulty in the updating the system.The bench said that the Board should make endeavour to reduce the requirement of uploading documents only to the bare minimum for the purpose of registration/ renewal of registration.“For the purpose of renewal, the Board should not require submission of documents, which the applicants have submitted at the time of initial registration,” the court said. It also asked Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) to look into the aspect of appointing volunteers for helping in the registration process after Secretary DSLSA Kanwaljeet Arora told the court that he can appoint 100 lawyers for the purpose.The matter would be now heard on July 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/construction-workers-should-not-be-denied-benefits-due-to-change-in-address-delhi-high-court/story-dJzt8mMrlH9dqOcf9qDtFK.html
03-07-2020||Delhi||HC declines plea seeking mandatory plasma donation||The Delhi High Court declined to entertain a plea that sought to make obtaining plasma from patients who had recovered from Covid-19, either at home or at a hospital, mandatory. It asked the Delhi government to treat the plea as representation. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said that people could not be coerced to give an undertaking to donate plasma before receiving treatment for Covid-19 and it had to be voluntary.“We cannot force people to donate plasma. Treatment cannot be forceful. What kind of world we are imagining?” Justice Jalan remarked during the hearing.Appearing for the petitioner, his counsel claimed that the Centre and Delhi government were not taking effective steps to ensure sufficient availability of plasma to treat Covid-19 patients. However, the court said that it could not pass such directions and added, “Suffice it to say [the plea] would be treated as representation on the basis of the law and procedure. The respondent shall also look into the suggestion of the petitioner in accordance with the rules and regulations and procedure of the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-declines-plea-seeking-mandatory-plasma-donation/story-vQCvxOhmhAy2mPBECVn66N.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Former PRTC MD to help Pbi varsity tide over financial crisis||A former bureaucrat has been appointed honorary adviser to vice-chancellor Prof BS Ghuman to help Punjabi University, Patiala, to tide over the financial crisis. A retired IAS officer, Manjit Singh Narang, who is credited with changing the fortunes of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation three years ago, will not charge any money and will also not receive any perks and official vehicle for his new assignment. Narang retired in 2019.The university issued orders regarding Narang’s appointment in anticipation that it will be approved by the syndicate. This is for the first time since the university’s inception that an adviser has been appointed to assist V-C in financial matters. “I will help the university find ways to improve its financial condition. I am already in touch with the varsity authorities and will likely join by next week,” said Narang.During his stint as managing director of the PRTC from 2016 to 2019, Narang brought the corporation back on track by not only clearing its liabilities worth Rs 200 crore, but also turning it a money-spinning undertaking from an operational loss of Rs 5.6 crore in 2019.During his tenure in the PRTC, Narang resolved court cases regarding liabilities of pensioners of over Rs 150 crore. Narang first initiated with replacing around 400 old buses with new ones, besides ensuring plying of full fleet of 1,073 buses, besides ensuring that a proper route time table is followed. Besides, an increase in daily receipts and operating on monopoly routes, helped PRTC come out of the red. One of the officials said the department of higher education has roped in the former bureaucrat to look at the university finances. The fund-starved university is not able to meet its monthly committed expenditure, including salaries and pensions.“The department has already briefed Narang about his role which is mainly to advise the university on income generation, besides working upon austerity measures to curtail expenses. Narang has been asked to work in coordination with vice-chancellor and other senior functionaries to revive varsity’s finances,” he said.However, the move has invited criticism from professors and student bodies. “We are not against any individual but condemn the varsity administration for creating such post to cover up its failures in handling the situation,” said Prof Kesar Singh Bhangoo from the department of economics.As per budgetary proposals for this fiscal, the varsity expects an income of ₹380 crore, while the expenditure is pegged at ₹676 crore, leaving a massive ₹296-crore deficit. The university also has an overdraft of ₹140 crore, which is expected to touch ₹150 crore by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-prtc-md-to-help-pbi-varsity-tide-over-financial-crisis/story-UOgbP2MOdM6xN94JcCGTQL.html
03-07-2020||City||Two dead, 60 new Covid-19 cases take Ludhiana tally to 960||A 68-year-old woman and a 62-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19, while 60 more patients, including five inmates of central jail, tested positive for the virus on Friday, taking the district tally to 960.The deceased male patient, Ashok Kumar, a resident of Field Gunj, was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on June 27, following complaints of shortness of breath and fever.He was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. His condition continued to deteriorate ever since he was admitted to the hospital and he died on Friday.The woman, identified as Gurmeet Kaur, a resident of Diesel Shed area, died at Fortis Hospital in Mohali. The district has so far confirmed 24 deaths due to the virus.Of the total 960 cases in the district, 433 have recovered and completed the post-discharge quarantine period, leaving 503 active cases. District epidemiologist Ramesh Kumar said currently 249 patients were in hospital, while 254 patients were in home quarantine.“As per fresh central guidelines, only a patient, who has completed the mandatory 17-day quarantine is considered discharged,” he added.63-year-old Delhi man diesA 63-year-old man from Lajpat Nagar, Delhi, also succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday. The patient, identified as Manmohan Sokhi, was undergoing treatment at SPS Hospital near Sherpur Chowk since June 24.As many as 25 patients from other districts and states have died due to the virus in Ludhiana.Five inmates test positiveFive inmates lodged at the Ludhiana Central Jail, aged, 58, 38, 27, 23 and 21, were confirmed positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Three healthcare workers at a private hospital, including two females, aged 26 and 43, and a 49-year-old man, were also found positive.Three women, aged 56, 30 and 18, were found positive in Urban Estate, Dugri. They are all contacts of a positive patient. Two cases each were confirmed in Basti Jodhewal; Islam Ganj; Jaswant Nagar; Ram Nagar, Dholewal; and Vikas Nagar, Pakhowal Road.Besides, one case each was reported from New Shimlapuri; Phagla village; Badi Haibowal; GTB Nagar and Sundar Nagar in Mundian Kalan; Dholewal; Giaspura; Shimlapuri; Passi Nagar, Pakhowal Road; Jamalpur; Anand Nagar, Haibowal Kalan; near police station Daba Road; Inder Nagar Jain Colony, Daba Road; Laxman Nagar; New Partap Nagar; Railway Colony and Manjit Nagar.Gurpal Nagar, Daba Road; GK Estate, Bhamian Road; Millerganj; Dhokan Mohalla; Tibba Road; Panj Peer Road; Gurdev Nagar; Bihari Colony; Sirthala village and Model Gram also confirmed one case each.As many as seven cases surfaced in Khanna, six in Sun City and one in Goslan tehsil.Besides, a 53-year-old Punjab home guard (PHG) jawan, hailing from Sangrur and posted in Ludhiana, also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-dead-60-new-covid-19-cases-take-ludhiana-tally-to-960/story-RITNsob10NooIea1PSbdLL.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||HOUSE-TO-HOUSE SURVEILLANCE: Punjab starts testing all Covid-19 symptomatic patients for tuberculosis||The Punjab government on Friday decided to conduct medical tests for tuberculosis (TB), a serious bacterial disease that affects the lungs, along with the Covid-19 tests of all symptomatic patients in the state.The health officials say since people get similar symptoms for Covid-19 and TB and as both the diseases are fatal, Covid-19 symptomatic people in the state will now also be tested for TB. Also, the patients who will first get tested for TB, will have to get Covid-19 tests done. “In June, the Punjab health department had launched a door-to-door campaign to medically screen all residents in the state for Covid-19 as part of a community surveillance project. Under this house-to-house surveillance project, the Covid-19 symptomatic patents are being tested for the disease and the state government is maintaining a record of co-morbidities of every person, above the age of 30. In an effort to detect the tuberculosis patients in the state at an early stage, the medical teams will now conduct tuberculosis tests for every Covid-19 symptomatic patients,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.As per data from the health department, Punjab had recorded 58,000 tuberculosis cases in 2019 on an average. Also, over 2,000 people in the state die of tuberculosis every year.“Since people diagnosed with tuberculosis suffer from cough and fever, and Covid-19 infection also shows similar symptoms, there is a high chance that Covid-19 patients also suffer from TB, or vice versa. Under the surveillance project, the health department has already screened over 39 lakh population in the state, till now, and has maintained their record. Many symptomatic people were tested for Covid-19 and among them, some were tested positive,” said Dr Bhaskar.“The medical teams in all districts have been directed to conduct tuberculosis tests along with Covid-19. The tuberculosis tests and treatment is also free of cost from the government hospitals. The 39 lakh population will not be tested again but if anyone will show symptoms, they will be tested for both diseases. We aim to complete the surveillance project till July 15”, Dr Bhaskar added.LUDHIANA WORST HIT WITH TB “Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, many of tuberculosis patients remained undiagnosed and this is a worrisome situation as the disease has serious outcomes and can increase transmission in the community. As per records, 182 people after every one lakh population in Amritsar are TB patients. Ludhiana, with 190 persons per lakh population, is the worst-affected district in the state,” said Dr Naresh Chawla, nodal officer for TB in Amritsar, adding that on average, district records 425 TB cases, every month.Till now, 9 lakh people of Amritsar have been screened through the state’s surveillance project. Of them, 3,638 people tested for Covid-19, out of which 117 were tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/house-to-house-surveillance-punjab-starts-testing-all-covid-19-symptomatic-patients-for-tuberculosis/story-yhkgP1vFQcT9drOm9rPVcP.html
03-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad has highest active Covid-19 cases in UP, GB Nagar next||Ghaziabad Amid rising number of Covid-19 cases, Ghaziabad on Friday emerged as the district with the maximum number of active cases at 1,045 across Uttar Pradesh. The neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar stood second with 1,005 active cases among the 75 district of the state, according to the Covid-19 report released by the state government on Friday.According to the figures, Ghaziabad recorded 140 Covid-19 cases during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases to 1,937 in the district. The total cases include 59 deaths with addition of two more deaths on Friday, while 833 patients have been discharged so far. According to the official data, the state has presence of 7,451 active cases with Ghaziabad’s share at 14.02%. Meanwhile, health officials said that they will take up review of cases in order to expedite discharge of patients. “The number of active cases is on the rise and we will take up review of all the patients who need to be discharged as per the new discharge guidelines. To cope up with rising cases, we have already started 300 L1 beds at SRM University, Modinagar and will soon start with another 250-bed L1 facility at IMS college, Dasna. Generally, a patient in L1 facility takes 8-10 days to get discharged,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad.For the first time on June 30, Ghaziabad took over from GB Nagar for being the district with highest number of active Covid-19 cases. Since then, the number of active cases are on the rise and the district is soon likely to surpass the figure of 2,000 Covid-19 cases, the officials said.Meanwhile, GB Nagar on Friday reported another death of a Covid-19 patient, taking the overall death toll to 23 in the district.GB Nagar CMO Dr Deepak Ohri said that with 96 new cases in the past 24 hours, the overall count of positive cases was 2,569 in the district. He, however, did not provide details of the person who died on Friday.Ohri also said that as many as 15 patients were discharged from different hospitals by Thursday, taking the overall number of cured Coronavirus patients to 1,541 in the district so far. “So far, 23 Covid-19 patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 1,005 active cases,” he said.At present, UP has no norms for home isolation of Covid-19 positive cases. As per the new discharge guidelines issued by the state officials on June 19, if a patient shows no symptoms, he/she can be discharged without undergoing any test on the tenth day from their date of admission. But, such patients will have to remain in home quarantine for seven days after discharge from hospital.As per the earlier guidelines, asymptomatic patients were getting discharged only after their first report was found negative. Prior to this, a positive patient needed to have two successive negative reports in order to get discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-has-highest-active-covid-19-cases-in-up-gb-nagar-next/story-jdt1h1tYlBgzNwi4lKon6M.html
03-07-2020||City||Delhi govt launches e-portal for its students||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Friday launched an online portal, LEAD (Learning through E-Resources Made Accessible for Delhi), with over 10,000 instructional material and course content available on it for classes 1 to 12.While launching the portal, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said, “In the last five years, the education team of Delhi worked towards reforming the education system of Delhi by taking steps to provide best quality education to each child. By introducing Happiness Curriculum, Mission Buniyaad and Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum, we tried to connect education with the life of children. I’m proud we are taking steps in the right direction.”Both government and private schools are physically shut since March in view of the pandemic. The classes, however, have continued virtually through different mediums such as video-conferencing, audio and video lessons.LEAD will make textbooks, study material and course content as per the syllabus of CBSE, NCERT and Delhi government’s curriculum accessible to students. Support study material produced by Delhi government teachers will also be available on this portal. Through this portal, developed by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), the Delhi government will upload its curriculum on the ministry of Human Resource Development’s (HRD) online platform, Diksha. “It is a way for us to connect and share our programmes and experiences with the entire country. The online portal will enable us to learn from the teaching-learning experiments and experiences of other states. It is going to be a mutual sharing and enlightening experience for us all,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-launches-e-portal-for-its-students/story-5Vq79SYPgRDhugvZlXHq1N.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Pilot project for Covid rapid antigen testing from next week in Punjab||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday gave the go-ahead for launching a pilot project for Covid-19 rapid antigen testing from the coming week.On the successful completion of the pilot rapid antigen project, which will cover a minimum of 1,000 tests, such testing would be done on the migrants coming back to the state in the wake of reopening of industries and for work in paddy fields.The state government will procure rapid antigen testing kits to scale up its Covid testing capacity, which is even now higher than the Government of India mandate of 140 tests per million per day in regions with positivity factor of less than 10%.With positivity rate of just 2%, Punjab is already conducting 242 tests per million per day.PEOPLE COMING FROM OTHER STATES TO REGISTER ON COVA APP Notwithstanding the Government of India’s revised guidelines replacing home quarantine for domestic travellers with self-monitoring, the CM ruled out any such move in Punjab in view of the large number of people coming to the state every day from Delhi/NCR, where cases were currently spiralling.The CM also made it clear that no vehicle should be allowed to enter Punjab without a stringent monitoring mechanism in place. He was reviewing the Covid situation and preparedness in the state with senior government and health officials through video conference.Chief secretary Vini Mahajan assured the CM that strict monitoring would be ensured of all entrants, with private players being roped in to ensure implementation of home quarantine with phone-based monitoring and regular visits.Further, all entrants to the state would be required to mandatorily register themselves either on the COVA app or the government web portal, and the registration certificate, with bar code, should be carried on the vehicle windscreen. Those without the certificate print-out on their car screens would be stopped and made to register on the spot, at the border, before proceeding, she said, adding that with requirement of passes done away with in Unlock 2.0 by the Government of India, e-registration would help in monitoring and tracking of incoming domestic travellers.The chief secretary further said that with the Government of India gradually withdrawing from supply of PPE kits and medicines etc to states, and Punjab receiving only Rs 72 crore so far this year, the CM may need to intervene in seeking additional funds and continuation of supplies from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pilot-project-for-covid-rapid-antigen-testing-from-next-week-in-punjab/story-gwcUqpvvArReilyHRUdn3J.html
03-07-2020||City||9pm deadline, ban on serving liquor eating into sales of Ludhiana restaurants||Ten days after the state government allowed restaurants to resume dine-in services, while most in Ludhiana continue to keep their doors closed due to low footfall, those open say the response is far from satisfactory.Though the district administration recently extended the business hours to 9pm, restaurateurs say the timings are still not conducive for the dinner service, when most customers normally turn up, while others stay away during the day due to the searing heat.As per the standard operating procedure (SOP) to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Punjab department of home affairs had allowed dine-in facility at restaurants with only 50% occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less, from June 24, provided they comply with social distancing and other guidelines prescribed by the Union health ministry. Earlier, restaurants could only offer takeaway or home delivery.But, business owners say they are not even getting 20% of the normal footfall.Vishal Malhotra, proprietor of Bistro Flamme Bois, Pakhowal Road, said, “Low response is majorly due to unsuitable timings. Majority of our patrons are businessmen and industrialists. If they close their shops or factories at 8pm, how can they arrive at restaurants with family before 9pm?”Owner of Basant Restaurants, Bhupinder Basant said, “We have opened only the unit at Feroze Gandhi market in anticipation of poor response. We are also dealing with shortage of workers. Residents are still cautious of fear of infection, and are therefore, still preferring home delivery or takeaway.”Government’s prohibition on opening bars is also putting a dent in restaurants’ business. “Confusion still prevails in the market on whether liquor can be served or not, due to which we have not resumed the service,” said Sachin Goyal, owner of Penthouse on Ferozepur Road.Deputy excise and taxation commissioner Pawan Garg said, “Liquor can be served at restaurants situated in hotels, but not at individual restaurants.President of the Ludhiana Hotel and Restaurants Association, Amarvir Singh said, “Most of the lounges in the city are closed as bars are not allowed to open. Many restaurant owners have followed suit to avoid losses, while others have limited their services to home delivery.”A new dining experience Visiting restaurants with the safety protocols in place is proving to be a new experience for dine-in customers.“Though the usual hustle bustle is missing, the peaceful ambience is welcome. It’s refreshing to step out with family for a culinary experience after months of home isolation. But, one should take precautions,” said Sandeep Singh, a customer at The Table by Basant in Feroze Gandhi market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9pm-deadline-ban-on-serving-liquor-eating-into-sales-of-ludhiana-restaurants/story-94U9hDwobbw3osjW23ilYJ.html
03-07-2020||Noida||Met predicts light rain today||Mercury levels are likely to drop by two to three degrees by Saturday evening, bringing much-needed respite from the heat, along with moderate rain in the Noida region, the weather department predicted on Friday.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Noida, Ghaziabad and other parts of western Uttar Pradesh, which so far have largely been deprived of rain despite early arrival of monsoon, will see ‘light’ rain towards Saturday evening and ‘moderate’ or ‘good’ rainfall towards Sunday.“Light rain is expected towards Saturday evening in Noida and adjoining regions, while Sunday and Monday can experience moderate or good rain. Rainfall is likely to continue for a few more days after that. This will bring respite by bringing the mercury down. We expect a drop in mercury by at least two degrees by Saturday, while on Sunday the maximum temperatures will drop further by at least five degrees,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.On Friday, the maximum temperature for Noida stood at 41.6 degrees Celsius, five notches above the season’s average, against 39.7 degrees a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 30.4 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season’s average against 29 degrees a day earlier. Saturday is likely to see maximum temperature of 39 degrees Celsius.According to the weather department, while the first week of monsoon has turned out to be a ‘weak-phase’ for the region, rainfall would oscillate between light and moderate till July 15 and pick up intensity only after that.“The monsoon, for this region, had been going through a weak phase. It depends on a lot of weather conditions, including the trough line or pressure line which is currently over southern Rajasthan and slowly moving towards north. So, by Saturday evening we expect it to arrive in this region, and most of the parts of western Uttar Pradesh and Delhi-NCR. For a few days, the region will see rain, however proper rainfall of moderate to heavy category will only come to the region after July 15 and last till August 30,” said Srivastava.Rainfall recorded below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate, and above 64.5mm is heavy.The IMD had announced the early arrival of monsoon, with officials stating that its first time in the past four years that due to the favourable weather conditions winds, etc, the monsoon arrived earlier than usual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/met-predicts-light-rain-today/story-j7SiwCSMr0NHknxCArfnjL.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s GST collection improves, registers 69% jump over May||In what signals a pick-up in economic activity after two months of national lockdown, the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in Punjab posted an increase of 69% in June 2020 over the previous month.The state government has reported the collection of Rs 869.66 crore in June as against Rs 515 crore in May. The June figure is 8.36% lower than the GST revenue in the same month of 2019 when the state’s collection, including both state goods and services tax (SGST) and integrated goods and services tax (IGST), stood at Rs 949 crore, according to the data available with the taxation department.This gap was a lot wider in May when the GST collection was 48.4% short of last year’s Rs 998 crore. In April, the state’s goods and services tax had dived by 85.63%, going to Rs 156 crore from Rs 1,086 crore in the corresponding month last year.The upswing in collections came as the state government started partially easing the coronavirus-induced lockdown in phases in May to open the markets and industry. The tax collection numbers are being widely seen as the first sign of a revival of economic activity even though the business sentiment in several sectors, including hospitality, travel, and tourism continues to be abysmal.An indirect tax expert, however, said that any conclusion on the extent of economic recovery based on the goods and services tax collections of the past three months would be a hasty one as more data needs to be analysed. He said the collection figure of a month does not reflect the revenue of that month alone as the central government had extended the deadline for filing returns with interest given the Covid-19 situation.“A detailed analysis of collections for February to June after all the returns are filed can give a more accurate picture. However, the sense of despondency that had set in at one stage is not there now. There is cautious optimism for the future,” he added.Amid the present crisis, the improved collections will be a financial relief for the cash-strapped state government that has had to rely heavily on market borrowings to meet its spending needs, particularly fixed liabilities such as salaries, pensions, and debt servicing.In the first three months the current financial year, about Rs 4,200 crore, including Rs 1,600 crore in June were raised from the market through the auction of government securities. The release of GST compensation of Rs 2,866 crore for the months of December 2019 and January and February 2020 in the first week of June also helped.The Punjab government had imposed curfew – one of the first states to take the drastic action – on March 23 to check the spread of Covid-19. The state’s announcement was followed by a 21-day national lockdown the day, paralysing most of the economic activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-gst-collection-improves-registers-69-jump-over-may/story-M45GKJYllG87TLScRWYBuK.html
03-07-2020||Noida||Bringing relief to allottees, Noida reduces interest rate on property dues||Following a state government’s directive, the Noida authority on Friday said it will start levying a lower interest rate of 8.5% on dues on properties that include residential plots, industrial plots, institutional plots and others except for group housing land. Earlier the interest rate was 9.5 % and even higher for some properties which were allotted by the Noida authority. The state government had issued an order on June 9 directing the Noida authority to lower the interest rate on dues against property allotments. The revised interest rate, which the authority expects will help in recovering dues, will be applicable on payments from July 1.“We will start charging interest rates of 8.50 % beginning July 1 as per the current marginal cost of funds based lending rate (MCLR) of State Bank of India (SBI). This rate will applicable till December end, 2020 as the MCLR will remain same for this year and is up for revision next year,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer, Noida authority. The MCLR fixed by SBI is 7.3 % and the authority has imposed 1 % additional charge as administrative expenses on it and the interest rate has been fixed at the round figure of 8.5%, said the order issued by the authority.“It is quite a big relief to allottees old and new, who have outstanding dues to pay. Earlier the interest rate was not as per the existing MCLR,” said Surendra Nahta, president of Micro Small Medium Enterprise Association (Noida).“The step is taken to encourage the allottees to pay dues so that we can recover our revenue. We hope allottees will take benefit of this order,” said Maheshwari. The authority, however, is yet to order a lower interest rate on payments against group housing land. On June 10, the Supreme Court had ordered the Noida and Greater Noida authorities to charge only 8% interest on due payments against group housing land. The interest rates on group housing rates would often go up to 15-23% after the authorities levied more interest on late payments. Developers had moved the apex court demanding lower interest rates claiming that high rate of interest would render their realty projects non-profitable. Noida authority officials said they are still examining the court order and are yet to take a call on revising interest levied on payments against group housing land.The authority allots land for residential, institutional (school, college or other educational projects or MNCs), industrial projects and among others on instalment basis. After accepting 30% of the land cost, it allots the land and also gives possession of the same to the successful allottee. The allottee can pay the remaining 70% in instalments within three years time at an interest of 8.5% (earlier 9.5%). If an allottee defaults on the instalments, then a 3% compound interest is added to base simple interest, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bringing-relief-to-allottees-noida-reduces-interest-rate-on-property-dues/story-aPpSWt7waLtcJKrkuEzf2L.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Admn submits report to Centre on Faridkot farmer burning cane crop||The Faridkot administration has submitted a report to the Centre on an incident wherein a farmer from Sadiq village in the district burnt his standing sugarcane crop on 2 acres of land. Jagtar Singh, who was unable to find buyers for his crop due to the lockdown, had set his crop on fire on June 30. In the absence of any sugar mill in the area, he used to sell cane to juice sellers. But he had no buyers left as they too were out of business for the past over three months.After the incident, the Union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare had sought a report from the district administration.“The government of India asked to submit a report over the incident. The report was prepared with assistance of agriculture department and it was submitted to the union ministry on Thursday. As paddy season was on the peak, the farmer wanted to clear his field to sow paddy. He was not able to sell the standing crop,” said deputy commissioner Vimal Kumar Setia. AGRICULTURE DEPT TO HELP THE FARMERChief agriculture officer Harnek Singh Rode said it was a very unfortunate incident that a farmer burned his sugarcane crop as he failed to find buyer for the crop. “The district agriculture department has decided to assist the farmer to sow paddy crop in his fields. The department will provide saplings of paddy crop, pesticides and weedicides to him free of cost. A team has visited the village and assured him all kind of assistance,” he said.“As there are many other farmers in this area who grow sugarcane, we have proposed that cooperative societies should be asked to set up small jaggery manufacturing units all over the district. There is high demand of jaggery in the state so it will provide farmers a platform to sell their produce,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admn-submits-report-to-centre-on-faridkot-farmer-burning-cane-crop/story-0MlmX5wL9fp0XlzV4w1BfM.html
03-07-2020||Noida||GB Nagar to scale up antigen tests to make up for slow RT-PCR||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration on Friday announced it would scale up rapid antigen testing taking into account the limitations of the slower RT-PCR testing.The Uttar Pradesh government had tasked the district to target 1,000 on-site antigen testing and 3,000 lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test every day during the 10-day special drive to test every household in the district.“But, the laboratories testing samples through RT-PCR in the district are not able to incorporate such a huge influx of RT-PCR samples every day due to its limited capacities, we have decided to increase the testing through rapid antigen kits to its optimum level. Also, the reports of rapid antigen kits come within some hours,” said GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY .At present, the district can process 2,000 RT-PCR tests in a day, he added. “That is why, we have decided to increase the rapid antigen test to meet the stipulated target of sampling 4,000 persons a day. Out of 1695 samples collected through rapid antigen kits on Friday, 52 samples tested positive. Our teams have also collected 1,519 samples through RT-PCR tests and their results will come in a few days. Apart from this,two samples have also been taken through TrueNat machines, of which no one was tested positive,” the DM said. Around 1333 teams were deployed for the exercise.TrueNat test is usually used to detect tuberculosis and the Indian Council of Medical Research had recommended this also for widening the range of options for testing Covid-19 patients. The DM said with the help of 1,500 surveillance teams and 40 sample collection teams formed for the special drive, the district will reach its target of collecting 4,000 samples a day soon. “Surveillance team comprises three civil volunteers and at least one ASHA or other auxiliary health worker, conducts door-to-door surveys to collect information on people with symptoms of the coronavirus disease,” he said. About the 40 sampling collection teams – each of them comprising at least one doctor, one health worker and some support staff, Suhas said that they have been properly trained. “They have been asked to maintain the cold chain as the kits get spoiled in a temperature above 30 degree Celsius. They are taking samples carefully as the mercury has risen up these days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-to-scale-up-antigen-tests-to-make-up-for-slow-rt-pcr/story-zlDGGq5rsDgwlgTzlO9gFJ.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Now, more cases coming up in Punjab’s urban pockets||With the opening up of commercial and other activities, more Covid-19 cases are being reported in the urban pockets of Punjab as compared to the rural areas, reveals the latest data of the health department.While the state’s cities and towns had only 20% of the total cases till April, the figure went up to 32% by June-end.State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “Till April, the rural areas were home to around 80% of the total cases. But with the commercial activities resuming and the state and the central governments issuing guidelines to increase timings of movement, the urban segments have witnessed more cases in May and June.”Till mid-May, more cases were recorded in rural areas as majority of the patients at the time were Sikh pilgrims from Maharashtra’s Nanded who returned to their villages.“As wheat harvesting was also on, the migrant workers who had come from other states also contributed to the infection tally in rural areas till April. That is why 20% of the patients were from urban areas with majority of them having come from overseas,” said the nodal officer.He said the biggest reason behind the surge in cases in urban segments is the violation of social-distancing norms in crowed places.MAJORITY OF CONTAINMENT ZONES IN TOWNS, CITIESThe health department has classified various zones in the state according to the reported number of cases. Whereas a locality with 2-4 cases is categorised as a cluster, the areas with 5-14 cases are declared as micro-containment zone. On the other hand, the areas with more than 15 cases are declared containment zone.At present, the state’s all four large outbreaks are in the urban pockets of Sangrur, Amritsar and Ludhiana. Of Punjab’s 34 containment zones, 20 are in towns and cities with most of the cases there having surfaced in June, shows the data.“Almost all these areas in urban or semi-urban areas are crowded as they have high-population density. As people living in these areas venture out to earn livelihood, the risk of getting infected is more,” a department health official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-now-more-cases-coming-up-in-punjab-s-urban-pockets/story-2JveCU47SzuEWgPnBri3SI.html
03-07-2020||City||30-year-old kills uncle, his nine-year-old cousin in Sahibabad, arrested||A 30-year-old man allegedly killed his 38-year-old uncle and his nine-year-old cousin Friday morning in the Shaheed Nagar locality, Sahibabad, police said. The suspect, who lived in the same neighbourhood, has been arrested by the police.The police said that victim and his daughter were alone in the house when the suspect, identified as Shafir (single name) entered it around 3am. He inflicted multiple stabbing wounds on the man, Abdullah, first and then strangled the minor after she woke up hearing her father’s cries so that he could not be identified later, they added.“The suspect is the nephew of the victim and was reportedly involved with the latter’s wife. A couple of months ago, the victim came to know about their relationship and objected to it. He also denied entry to the suspect in his house. All this infuriated the suspect and he murdered the man and his daughter,” said Keshav Kumar, circle officer Sahibabad.Abdullah ran a grocery shop on the ground floor of his rented house. His wife had gone to her parent’s house in Hapur with their three other children some three or four days ago.“Seeing an opportunity, the suspect planned the murder. After the double murder was discovered, police took help of electronic surveillance and also scanned the footage of nearby CCTV cameras to nab the suspect. We came to know that the suspect maintained regular touch with the victim’s wife over the phone. After he was called for questioning, he broke down and narrated the entire murder plot,” Kumar added.The body of the two victims was discovered by their neighbours who came to check on him after Abdullah did not open the sho Friday morning. The police said that so far involvement of any other person in the double murder has not come to the fore and they are probing the incident further. A case for murder has been registered at the Sahibabad police station.“Both the bodies were sent for autopsy and the suspect is being questioned for the whereabouts of the murder weapon which will soon be recovered,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-kills-uncle-and-his-nine-year-old-daughter-in-sahibabad-arrested/story-XDDLWoyHMdRmjUEhTQymaL.html
03-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Health dept asked to create more ventilator beds, bring down death rate||Ghaziabad: To bring down the rising number of deaths due to Covid-19, the divisional commissioner has asked the Ghaziabad health department to create at least 40 beds with ventilators in the district.During a Covid-19 review meeting held on Friday in Ghaziabad, Anita C Meshram, the divisional commissioner, also asked the health officials to ensure testing of all those who have influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) in containment zones across the district.At present, the district has a total of 28 beds with ventilators for Covid-19 patients, the officials said.“The commissioner most importantly has directed to create 40 to 50 ventilator beds so that serious patients get timely treatment. For this, our officials are in talks with several private hospitals. It is proposed that the state government may acquire about 20% of their ventilator beds. For the acquired beds, prescribed payment will be made,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.The health department has given its nod for paid Covid-19 treatment to at least five private hospitals in Ghaziabad where there is availability of ventilator beds. “Currently, in the government set-up, we have eight ventilators at our L2 hospital at Sanjay Nagar, while 20 more are available at our L3 hospital. Earlier, there have been several deaths when patients were getting referred to Meerut. The district administration and the health department have also been asked to work in close coordination so that patients are referred to appropriate hospitals -- L1, L2 or L3 -- as per their health conditions,” CMO said.Apart from rising number of Covid-19 cases, which have seen a considerable spike in June, the death rate in Ghaziabad has also emerged as a main cause of concern for the district administration. According to the official data, Ghaziabad had a total of 59 Covid related deaths to its tally till July 3 and stood third after Agra and Meerut in terms of fatalities. At present, Ghaziabad has a share of 7.75% of total deaths in the state.Also, while Ghaziabad had witnessed 305 Covid-19 cases till May 31, the tally went up to 1,632 between June 1 and July 3 in the district. On directions of the Uttar Pradesh government, a massive surveillance drive has been initiated in the six districts of Meerut division where thousands of teams are conducting door-to-door survey in order to find out people with symptoms of ILI and SARI, besides those having co-morbid conditions.The health officials also said that they have made operational a 300-bed L1 category hospital at SRM University campus, Modinagar.“The facility has been made operational with 300 L1 beds at present, and we are trying to get more beds in order to deal with rising cases. We are expecting that more cases will emerge after the surveillance drive has started on July 2 and we need to get more Covid beds for admission of patients. At present, we have to admit L1 patients to our L2 and L3 hospitals due to non-availability of L1 beds,” CMO added.On the first day of the surveillance drive, 2,029 teams surveyed 135,460 houses in order to find out ILI and SARI cases. The other teams also took up 775 rapid antigen tests and 34 patients were found positive, the officials said. The health department has also got in touch with various residents’ welfare associations and other social groups in order to ramp up antigen testing. Last month the district received 8,000 antigen kits, while another set of 11,000 test kits were received on July 1. Under the surveillance drive, the Ghaziabad district has received a target of conducting 1,000 RT-PCR samples and 3,000 tests with the help of antigen kits. On July 2, the health teams collected 990 samples for RT-PCR test, the officials said.Meanwhile, state officials said that they had conducted random sampling of 5,508 persons in 75 districts of UP recently, in which vendors and those employed at dhabas were covered.“Of 75 districts, 50 positive cases were found in 19 districts. The random sampling is being done for different vulnerable groups and this is also creating awareness among them about how to deal with Covid-19,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-health-dept-asked-to-create-more-ventilator-beds-bring-down-death-rate/story-74RkSd5JmW2TFokpAaADJO.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||HC restrains MMRDA from felling 23 trees in Thane, till 115 saplings planted||The Bombay high court has restrained the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) from felling 23 trees for the Airoli to Katai Naka freeway unless it plants 115 saplings as per the report of the Tree Authority, Thane. MMRDA informed the court that it had complied with the compulsory compensatory plantation of trees and hence should be permitted to fell the trees. However, the court said that as the TA had recommended plantation of 115 additional saplings and identified the spot for the same, MMRDA would be able to carry out the felling only after planting the 115 saplings.A bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice N J Jamadar while hearing an interim application filed by the MMRDA in public interest litigation filed by tree activist Rohit Joshi was informed by advocate Saket Mone along with advocate Subit Chakrabarty appearing for MMRDA that on June 12, 2020, the HC had permitted MMRDA to transplant 69 trees and fell 23 trees for the freeway.The bench had directed the MMRDA to do the transplantation under the supervision of the Tree Authority, Thane. The site supervision was undertaken by all stakeholders including the petitioner and on June 26, 2020, the TA submitted a report to the HC expressing satisfaction on the proposed site for transplantation and compensatory plantation. It also submitted that the MMRDA has to plant 115 saplings for the 23 trees they proposed to fell apart from the 69 trees that were to be transplanted.On Friday, when MMRDA submitted that it had completed the compensatory plantation and should be permitted to fell 23 trees, the bench referred to the TA report and directed that even if MMRDA had already planted saplings they would have to plant additional 115 saplings in the identified site and only then would they be permitted to fell the 23 trees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-restrains-mmrda-from-felling-23-trees-in-thane-till-115-saplings-planted/story-2XcpU7KAJ7c6LWi8n8WvJP.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||Another tiger dies at Nagpur rescue centre||An 10-year-old tigress, rescued from Brahmapuri forest division in Chandrapur and taken to Gorewada rescue centre in Nagpur, died at the rescue centre on Friday. This takes the tally of tiger deaths in the state to 10, with six deaths reported over the past month. On June 21, the tigress was rescued by forest officials after she had entered a house in Bamani village, Nagbhid range. The animal was shifted to Gorewada Rescue Centre on June 22. “The tigress was over 10 years old and unwell. She was brought in critical condition showing severe debilitation, anaemia, emaciation, dehydration with heavy tick infestation and blunt and broken canines,” said Nandkishor Kale, divisional manager, Gorewada Project, Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/another-tiger-dies-at-nagpur-rescue-centre/story-Of2ro09mbNJwvZ8yJ68HZK.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon to pick up in Chandigarh, heavy rain with gusty winds to follow||After a patch of dry and sunny days, monsoon is likely to pick up once again, with India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting rain in Chandigarh from Saturday night.The onset of monsoon was declared on June 24 this year, earlier than normal. However, the system weakened in a few days.“In view of approaching monsoon system and eastward moving western disturbances and moisture incursions from the Arabian Sea adjoining Gujarat coast, rain is likely to improve for the next three days in the city,” said an IMD official. “After starting late on Saturday, the rain intensity will increase on Sunday with up to 60mm of rain. Chances of heavy rain over 60mm are present on Monday and Tuesday. Thunderstorms with gusty winds over 45 kilometre/hour will also be likely.”Meanwhile, maximum temperature went up from 37.6°C on Thursday to 39.1°C on Friday. Minimum temperature went up from 29.1°C to 30.6°C. In the next three days, mercury is also set to fall, with maximum temperature likely to remain between 35 and 37 degrees and minimum between 26 and 28 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/monsoon-to-pick-up-in-chandigarh-heavy-rain-with-gusty-winds-to-follow/story-vercHuZOXs1oSnP9YoPpxI.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||ASI, constable face probe after theft accused escapes||An assistant sub inspector (ASI) and constable with Chandigarh police faced a departmental inquiry on Friday for dereliction of duty after a theft accused escaped from their custody even though he was arrested later. Investigating officer and ASI Yashpal and constable Yogesh were at the Sector 22 police post at 8.30 pm questioning Sanjay Kumar from Doda in Jammu and Kashmir, arrested for theft in the sector, when he asked for a toilet break . As Yogesh was escorting him Kumar pushed him, scaled the wall behind the post and fled.The police arrested him later at the Zirakpur barrier a few hours later.Sanjay was arrested on Wednesday in connection the theft and remanded to three day police custody on Thursday.BTech student Parbhat Kiran and his friend Parnav, both sharing lodgings in Sector 22, had been on a visit to Yamunanagaon from June 21. When they returned on July 1 they found three laptops, an iWatch, iPhone and Toshiba hard disk missing from their room. They suspected Sanjay, who had moved in with them on June 19, to be involved.He was arrested on July 1 for theft.After Sanjay’s rearrest from the Zirakpur barrier another case under section 224 IPC was registered at the Sector 17 police station here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asi-constable-face-probe-after-theft-accused-escapes/story-jofWJ8gbRCaAYq7geT9imO.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Now, no prescription needed for Covid testing at private labs in Chandigarh||Now, in order to get yourself tested for coronavirus disease in Chandigarh, there is no need to have a prescription from a qualified physician.“Anyone can get tested for Covid-19 in a private laboratory without a prescription from a doctor for the purpose,” said UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida on Friday.Earlier, for conducting the test, the lab required a prescription besides other documents, including photo identity card.The UT administration on June 22 put a cap of ₹2,000 on Covid-19 tests at private labs in the city.At present, only SRL Diagnostics is authorised to conduct the tests. It used to charge ₹4,500 before the prices were regulated. The prescribed cost includes the cost involved in pick up, packing and transportation of samples, documentation and reporting, according to an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-no-prescription-needed-for-covid-testing-at-private-labs-in-chandigarh/story-P2h7gjjqWLd6DX1z9kUTdN.html
03-07-2020||City||Police crack major robberies in Amritsar, arrest four||The rural police achieved a major breakthrough wherein a gang involved in multiple crimes, including two major robberies and multiple car snatchings, was apprehended. Four persons have been arrested with recoveries of multiple items.Amritsar SSP (rural) Vikramjit Duggal said the accused were involved in multiple car snatchings, a bank dacoity at Indus Ind Bank, Sohian Kalan village on May 19, and a robbery at Coco-Cola dump near Attari bus stand on June 29.The accused apprehended include Rubaljeet Singh alias Rubal of Mirankot Kalan, Shamsher Singh alias Shera of Mirankot Khurd, Manmohit Singh alias Manraj Singh of Muradpur in Gurdaspur, and Sukhjinder Singh alias Sukha of Nizampur in Kapurthala.Items recovered include two cars, a .12 bore rifle with 10 cartridges, a .32 bore countrymade pistol with four cartridges, a pair of gold earrings, a gold ring, four mobile phones and two dongles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-crack-major-robberies-in-amritsar-arrest-four/story-VVdagZ0tasZPjGPL4WjmgI.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Racial abuse: HC judge asks if anyone has seen God, his skin colour||Stressing that more efforts are required to eliminate racial abuse, the Punjab and Haryana high court’s justice RN Raina asked if anyone has ever seen God or knows his skin colour.The remarks were made during the hearing of a matter in which he rebuked the Punjab Police for using the term ‘Negro’ while referring to an African-origin person in police documents and sought steps from the DGP to end racial abuse.“Let us stamp out any thought process on unfair discrimination based on caste, creed, skin colour, nationality and race, on the equator or off it, on a whim of suspicion in an anticipated criminal investigation,” he said, stressing that cops be counselled on regular basis through sensitisation workshops. He said it might make a difference in cops dealing with Africans in India without them making personal comments or insults.Following the rebuke, police told court that cops found using racial words in official records will face disciplinary action and efforts will be made to sensitise regarding not using offensive language while preparing documents.It was informed that a circular has been issued sensitising the officers in field.The court said that if a witness or an accused uses derogatory racial term, he should also be taken to task. “It is the attitude of the police that requires reformation and if the process of change comes about, ushered by the police instructions to lower level, only then can we truly achieve meaningful and proactive ‘colour blindness against social and biological prejudice’,” the judge said.“Crime or suspicion of commission of crime is to be dealt with in accordance with law and there is nothing personal about it for any policeman, as the offence is against the state and the laws should be enforced in a reasonable manner and by the procedure established by the law,” the judge added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/racial-abuse-hc-judge-asks-if-anyone-has-seen-god-his-skin-colour/story-n4qOq1tgix9EqGWF9WbzdJ.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman gets son arrested for thrashing grandson||A 35-year-old resident of Sector 26 was arrested for allegedly thrashing his 10-year-old son. The complaint was made by his 56-year-old mother. She alleged that he used to beat up child over petty things every day. The woman told the police that her son had turned abusive towards the child after his second marriage. The first wife had passed away some years ago. The woman said she tried to stop her son several times, but could not succeed and the child was left with bruises every day. On her complaint, a case has been registered against the accused, who works as a driver,, under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code and the Juvenile Justice Act 2005. He has been sent into judicial custody. The medical examination of the child revealed that he had injury marks on his back and arm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-woman-gets-son-arrested-for-thrashing-grandson/story-F6BghYXslLArabDdBVNraM.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three thefts, snatching bid reported from Chandigarh||Three thefts and a snatching bid were reported from different parts of Chandigarh on Friday.Farakhat Khan, a resident of Mauli Complex, reported Rs 1.5 lakh and gold jewellery stolen from him house. A case has been registered under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Mauli Jagran police station. No arrests have been made yet and police are scanning CCTV footage for clues.Dimpy, a resident of Sector 15, who works with a private company, said a bag was stolen from her car that was kept in the parking of Sector 25 gaushala. The victim said the bag contained her laptop, Rs 2,000 and other important documents. A case has been registered under Section 379 (theft) of IPC.Grees Sharma, a resident of Sarangpur, who works as a contractor, reported electrical copper wires stolen from a construction site in Sarangpur. A case has been registered under IPC. Two unidentified men have been booked for a snatching bid in Dadumajra. Dharmender, a resident of Jhampur in Mohali, who works as daily labourer, said two men tried to snatch cash from him when he was cycling back home. He raised an alarm and the accused fled. A case has been registered under IPC at Maloya police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-thefts-snatching-bid-reported-from-chandigarh/story-btB040E33K2HbGFxcOhssL.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Private hospitals in Panchkula told to review safety measures||After four health workers, including three doctors, from Alchemist Hospital, Panchkula, were tested positive for Covid-19, the district health authorities have asked other private hospitals to review the precautionary measures in place.“We have verbally communicated to Ojas Hospital and Paras Hospital, which are authorised to treat Covid-19 patients, to review the situation as per the latest guidelines,” said nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal.Meanwhile, Alchemist Hospital on Friday claimed that they have sent a reply to the communication received from the district administration about shortcomings found in its working after an inspection on June 29.“We were not served a show-cause notice, but were sent a document that had certain observations made by the committee. We are already working on the rectifications suggested,” said hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Paramjit Singh Mann, adding that the reception area will be shifted to a tent outside the main building and the entrance to the premises will remain one.After cases of infection among healthcare workers surfaced at the hospital, the assessment committee of Panchkula health department visited the hospital and submitted its report, which carried five observations and sought “rectification on urgent basis”.It included poor crowd management , mixing of general and suspected cases at the entrance to the emergency, inadequate infection control practices, poor public awareness and making medical ICU operational before receiving reports of high risk contacts.With each observation, the committee also suggested “action that is required to be done”. “It has suggested that all elective surgeries to be done with alternate timings for the next one month. All superspecialty and life-style clinics should be staggered, OPDs should run with alternate timings, proper disinfection of work station to be done in between the procedures,” mentions the report, adding, “The flu corner needs to be shifted out of emergency area at a separate place well demarcated from general patients and highlighted by signage at strategic places at the entry area of the hospital.”Apart from this, hand hygiene stations and waste bins should be available at all strategic locations across the hospital, the committee suggested.While directing the hospital to submit the action-taken report within 48 hours, the health department had also sought a list of high-risk direct contacts of Covid patients. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said a meeting was also conducted with the hospital management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-private-hospitals-in-panchkula-told-to-review-safety-measures/story-T20PVLzwkRxjVKrmgGjUqJ.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University students told to vacate hostels||As many as 150 students of Panjab University who were living in hostels on campus have been left in lurch after they were told to vacate the premises by university administration on Friday.Students expressed their resentment over the varsity’s move and protested outside vice-chancellor Raj Kumar’s office for over six hours. The protesting students also tried to enter the office but were not allowed by the security guards.Mukesh, who lives in boys’ hostel number five, said, “I live in Prayagraj and there is no direct transport to go back. I am a research scholar and there is no internet facility in my village. It is not feasible for me to vacate the hostel in this situation.”In a circular issued by dean students’ welfare (DSW), hostel residents who belong to Haryana, Punjab, UP and other states of the region were advised to vacate the hostels immediately.“Many students live far away and are at risk of getting infected while travelling. Some students cannot afford to hire private vehicles to go back,” said Gurdeep Singh, a resident of boys’ hostel number three.Various students’ organisations also extended their support to hostellers. Rahul Kumar, vice-president of Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) said, “This decision should be reviewed and a meeting should be held with student representation for a conclusive decision.”PU DSW SK Tomar said, “Hostellers were waiting for exams but amid uncertainty, PU is being closed till July 31. Teachers and students are not coming to campus and Covid-19 cases are on the rise. Students, especially those who belong to nearby states, were requested to leave the hostel. For others, which also includes foreign students, they are not forced to leave. This step is being taken keeping in mind the safety of hostellers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-told-to-vacate-hostels/story-tEeHQOhWPrvrPjyB0nXLPK.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Road fatalities: Office transit hours most risky in Chandigarh||Most fatal accidents in Chandigarh took place between 6am and 9am and 6pm and 9pm, the time slots when people go to or return from work, while almost half of those killed comprise of people in the age group of 16 to 40, making them the most vulnerable. This has been revealed in the report compiled by the Chandigarh traffic police for 2019. According to it, there were 104 fatalities in 100 accidents in 2019, a slight increase from 98 deaths in 97 road mishaps in 2018. This year, so far, there have been 17 road fatalities, as compared to 35 till July 1 last year, said deputy inspector general of police (DIG, traffic) Shashank Anand on Friday.The time slot of 6pm-9pm account for 21 of the total 100 fatal accidents while 16 happened between 6am-9am. “These are the office transit hours, which is why maximum number of vehicles are on the road, leading to the highest number of fatal accidents,” said deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic administration) Kewal Krishan, adding that keeping this fact in mind, more number of traffic cops are deployed during these hours.Umesh Sharma, professor in the civil engineering department at Punjab Engineering College (PEC) who specialises in traffic and transportation system management, said: “It needs to be seen why are most fatal accidents happening when roads are the busiest, because the trend is usually the opposite. Most people are in a hurry when they’re getting late, which might be causing these accidents.” Sharma said traffic needs to be segregated further and two-wheelers should avoid using the same lane as cars, as this puts them at risk.With 51 of the total 103 victims, where the age was known, being 16 to 40 years old, DSP, road safety, Jaswinder Singh said: “We are organising frequent awareness sessions for the youth at the Children’s Traffic Park in Sector 23. We have recently been working with delivery boys and educating them to wear helmets for their own safety.”Jagdish Singh Sarpal, a traffic marshal, said: “Youngsters from villages on the city’s periphery usually don’t follow traffic rules, putting themselves and others in danger. Special nakas need to be set up at the entrances of these villages so that the offenders can be booked and made aware about the importance of following rules.”Bikers most vulnerable, motorists accused in most casesAccording to the report, two-wheeler riders were the most vulnerable, accounting for 46 (44%) of the 104 people killed, though down from 46% in 2018. Even as the administration is trying to rejuvenate pedestrian paths and cycle tracks under the smart city plan, those on foot or bicycles remain vulnerable, comprising of 34% and 10% victims, respectively, just 1% drop from 2018 figures in both cases.“The junctions where pedestrian paths meet the main road are not properly designed. Ideally, underpasses must be made for the safety of cyclists and the pedestrians,” said VK Bhardwaj, former chief engineer of the municipal corporation. He also raised concern over footpaths being used for parking vehicles, leaving no space for the pedestrians to walk.Meanwhile, cars caused the most number of accidents — 41 of 87 cases where the accused vehicle was identified. This was followed by two-wheelers and trucks, in 15 cases each. Road safety activist Harpreet Singh said: “Most car drivers behave as if the whole road belongs to them, due to which such fatal accidents take place. Mostly, two-wheeler riders have to suffer.”Also, it has come to light that vehicles from Punjab caused the most number of accidents while local population remained most vulnerable. Out of 70 cases in which the vehicle registration number was known, 27 were from Punjab while 22 were from Chandigarh. In the 53 cases where the victim was on a vehicle, 32 were registered in Chandigarh, 14 in Punjab and six in Haryana.“The emphasis this year will be on bringing the number of fatal accidents down,” said DIG Shashank Anand. “Ever since we have installed six speed radars with display boards in December 2019, there has been no fatal accident at these vulnerable points,” he said, while adding the number has been low this year due to the lockdown as well.ROAD FATALITIES REPORT FOR 2019There have been 17 road fatalities this year as compared to 35 till July 1 last year Year Fatal mishaps Deaths2019 100 1042018 97 982017 103 1072016 144 1512015 124 1292014 124 131BOX 2AWhat was accused drivingCar 41Two-wheeler 15Truck 15Unknown 12Bus 8Auto 3Canter 3Tractor 1Crane 1BOX 2BWhat was victim driving Two-wheeler 46On foot 36Cycle 10Auto 7Car 3Truck 1Rehri 1BOX 3When mishaps took place6am-9am 169am-12pm 1512pm-3pm 83pm-6pm 136pm-9pm 219pm-12am 1212am-3am 123am-6pm 3BOX 4What was age of victim0-15 616-40 5141-60 30Above 60 16||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/road-fatalities-office-transit-hours-most-risky-in-chandigarh/story-llxG4iN0KuvHP84DIi7wJL.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 2019 saw the highest number of traffic challans in 4 years||The traffic police in Chandigarh issued as many 2, 69,855 challans in 2019, making it the highest number of penalties since 2015. This comes despite the amendments in the Motor Vehicle Act, brought into effect in September, which increased the fine amount and punishments for many traffic violations.Most of the challans were issued for driving without helmet, one of the offences against which stricter punishments were brought in. Besides an increase in the fine amount from Rs 300 to Rs 1,000, the penalty against riding a two-wheeler without helmet now also involves suspension of the driver’s license for three months.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic administration) Kewal Krishan said, “All children above the age of four have to wear helmets now, and only turbaned Sikh men and women have been exempted.” The number of challans for this is also the highest since 2014 as per data.DRUNKEN DRIVING CASES COME DOWNMeanwhile, the number of challans for drunken driving have come down significantly from 6,489 in 2018 to 4,596 in 2019. Speaking about this, officiating chief traffic marshall, Suresh Sharma said, “A fall in the number is surprising as the number of nakas has actually gone up. With the fine amount now increased to Rs 10,000, people behave more responsibly now and get a designated driver or a taxi to take them home than risk getting challaned.” Even in 2018, the number had slightly decreased as compared to 2017. Sharma added that the hiked penalties of other traffic offences were beginning to lose their effect now which is why the number of total traffic challans had increased in 2019 as compared to previous years.Calling the result encouraging, Member National Road Safety Council, Government of India, Kamal Soi said, “Higher numbers indicate that the traffic police are keeping up enforcement. I would urge them to be more scientific with their challaning, and focus on offences that lead to fatal accidents—such as speeding and drunken driving, but their recent campaign of issuing e-challans for speeding is also likely to bring down road fatalities. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-2019-saw-the-highest-number-of-traffic-challans-in-4-years/story-TT6ER7xZFkkZUnKw96t85J.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Six-month fee waived off for Classes 9 and 10 of govt schools in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh education department has decided to waive off fees for government school students of Classes 9 and 10 for the first six months of 2020-21 academic session (April to September).The decision was taken to help students and their families who have been affected by the economic slowdown amid the Covid-19 outbreak. As many as 25,000 students will benefit from the waiver.UT director of school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, said, “The decision was taken jointly by the Chandigarh education department and UT administration. Since most of our students are from middle class and lower middle class families, the fee waiver will help them continue their education.”Of the 114 government schools, 70 are high schools and senior secondary schools. As per estimates, the overall cost of the waiver will come to Rs 1.7 crore.The decision also aims towards curtailing dropout rates post-lockdown. Only students up to Class 8 do not have to pay fees as mandated under the Right to Education Act, 2009, which makes it the responsibility of the state to provide compulsory and free education for students till the age of 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-month-fee-waived-off-for-classes-9-and-10-of-govt-schools-in-chandigarh/story-J4lbl89dvrBCDWooWSHkHO.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||GMADA throws spanner in Mohali MC’s plan to implement Street Vendors’ Act||Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has put a spanner in the plans of the municipal corporation to implement the Street Vendors’ (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act 2014, which has already been delayed by five years. As per GMADA, some of the sites proposed by the MC are not lawful as per land use. On the other hand, the civic body has failed to stop illegal vendors from operating in the main markets of the city. The worst-hit areas are Phases 7, 3B1, 3B2, 9, 10, and 11.The Act aims to register and rehabilitate street vendors and save them from exploitation at the hands of enforcement officers. It also calls for proper rationing of urban streets and spaces.In the three years since the process of vendor identification began, sites are yet to be approved by the town vending committee. The only development made in the last five months is that the civic body has issued identity cards to 200 of the 993 vendors under the Act.Mandip Mendiratta, senior town planner, GMADA, said, “The MC had proposed several sites, which are in parking or land-use wise not lawful for us, so, we cannot permit them.”In January this year, MC decided that to first implement the Act in Phase 7 as pilot, where as many as 139 vendors are registered. MC commissioner had even asked the agency that conducted the survey to mark the space in the parking areas, but the plan had fallen flat as market welfare association and area councillor of Phase 7 rejected the civic body’s plan.However, municipal commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We wanted to start the pilot project in phase 7, but market welfare associations are opposing it. Now, we will be approaching GMADA to finalise the sites and land in Mohali belonging to them only.”The agency that conducted the vendors’ identification survey had earmarked around 15 sites in Phases 10, 11, 7, 3B1 and 3B2, but GMADA refused, citing that these were prime locations.IDENTIFICATION PROCESS STARTED IN 2015As many as 993 vendors were identified in an MC survey that was initiated in 2015. The civic body had hired a private company to carry out the survey. Initially, the firm had identified at least 2,295 vendors, but the MC House found anomalies in the survey and ordered a fresh one. In 2017, the civic body had identified 993 moving and stationary vendors.Phase 3B2 market welfare association president Jatinder Pal Singh said, “We have requested the authorities concerned on multiple instances to take action against illegal vendors, but nothing has been done so far. The parking lots are left with no space as vendors have encroached upon the area.”The issue of encroachments is debated on in every House meeting, but in vain, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmada-throws-spanner-in-mohali-mc-s-plan-to-implement-street-vendors-act/story-Hh00rkcf100O1iKH98dncM.html
03-07-2020||City||3-members panel to probe ‘misuse of funds’ at Sangrur college||After the Akal Degree College for Women, Sangrur, gave public notice for not accepting admissions in BA-1 for the academic session of 2020-21, the secretary higher education has formed a three-member committee on Friday to probe into the alleged misuse of funds by the college management.DIP (colleges) Indu Malthora said the committee was formed on directions of CM Captain Amarinder Singh. “The college is being run on grants issued by government since 1970. But now they have denied admission in BA and are planning to start profitable courses,” said Malthora.“The committee will investigate financial and administrative offences,” the DPI added. The committee members are SP Patiala City, deputy director ELFA, and principal Government Mohindra College, Patiala.Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the AAP will not allow the college management to deny admission to poor girls.College management committee chairperson Karanvir Singh Sibia said that the college was suffering from losses and could not afford more economic burden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-members-panel-to-probe-misuse-of-funds-at-sangrur-college/story-XuzngVMI8TQlbbmShn8zHP.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dental exams: HC asks BFUHS to apprise us about arrangements||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday asked the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, to apprise it of arrangements made to hold examinations of graduate and postgraduate dental courses from July 7.The order was passed during resumed hearing of a plea challenging the varsity’s move to hold examination in the dental colleges amid Covid-19 outbreak. Response from the varsity has been sought by Monday.The petition has been filed by the Dental Surgeons Association of India demanding that exams should not be held. They are alleging that the university and the colleges are disassociating themselves from their any responsibility by asking for an undertaking from students specifying that they will inform the college authorities in case they are not feeling well and the college will not be held responsible for any disease suffered by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dental-exams-hc-asks-bfuhs-to-apprise-us-about-arrangements/story-3AGinSxd8y4X5SGGGC0XUM.html
03-07-2020||City||76 of 188 all-India quota PG seats vacant in 3 medical colleges reverted to Punjab quota||The Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) has declared 76 of total 188 postgraduate (PG) medical courses seats under all-India quota in three government medical colleges of Punjab as vacant.After two rounds of admissions counselling, the MCC has reverted these 76 seats back to the state. After merging these vacant seats with those of the state quota, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, will start the second round of online counselling next week.While 28 of these vacant all-India seats are in Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, 25 and 23 seats have been declared vacant at GMC, Patiala and Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, respectively. The seats fell vacant due to non-joining by allotted candidates after conclusion of second round of all-India counselling.Apart from this, two PGDSM seats at Netaji Subash National Institute of Sports, Patiala, were also declared vacant and reverted to state. Of total 381 PG seats in three government colleges in state, MCC conducts counselling for 188 seats under all-India quota and the remaining 193 state quota seats are filled by the BFUHS.Besides these 76 reverted seats, the second round of counselling will be conducted for 310 medical and 84 dental PG course state-quota seats lying vacant in seven medical and 12 dental colleges in state, respectively.Of 447 MD (doctor of medicine) and MS (master of surgery) seats in three government and four private colleges, 284 were declared vacant. Also, 26 of 36 PG diploma seats were declared vacant in seven medical colleges. 84 of 135 MDS seats are vacant in 12 dental colleges after the first round.However, the medical varsity has extended the date of submitting willingness to participate in second round of counselling along with deposition of security amount to July 5.Provisional merit list for second counselling will displayed on July 8, candidates will be asked to submit choice of specialty and college between July 9 to 12, and allotment list of seats for second counselling will be displayed on July 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/76-of-188-all-india-quota-pg-seats-vacant-in-3-medical-colleges-reverted-to-punjab-quota/story-ZXPtx7afqw2rDY7NuZcPQP.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four fresh Covid-19 cases surface in Chandigarh, total climbs to 454||Two senior citizens from Sectors 15 and 21 are among four people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Friday, taking the city’s tally of confirmed cases to 454.An equal number of cases surfaced in the neighbouring Mohali district in Punjab, while one case was reported from Panchkula district in Haryana. While Mohali has reported 284 cases so far, 120 cases have surfaced in Panchkula.In Chandigarh, a 67-year-old woman from Sector 15 and a 63-year-old man from Sector 21 have contracted the infection. While the woman has four family contacts and a domestic help, the elderly man has five family contacts besides a domestic help and driver who also reside in the same house.The UT health department has not disclosed the source of infection in both cases.Two women, aged 22 and 20, have also tested positive at Khudda Lahora. They are family members of a patient.Meanwhile, four patients were discharged after being cured and sent home for seven-day self isolation.“Coinciding with the news of Chandigarh recording the highest recovery rate in the country, the PGIMER sent more hope to patients fighting the Covid-19 battle, as it discharged a 52-year-old resident from Sector 24,” said the hospital, in a statement about one of the cases. The city has 55 active cases, as 393 persons have been discharged while six have succumbed to the infection. Those found infected in Mohali include two men, aged 52 and 54, from Majat village, who had recently returned from Uttar Pradesh. The third patient is a 50-year-old man from Dera Bassi, who was suffering from influenza like illness. A 43-year-old woman from Sector 104 has also tested positive.Meanwhile, nine patients have been discharged, taking the count of recoveries to 212 and active cases to 68. Four people have died so far.A day after Panchkula reported its first Covid-19 death, a 39-year-old man from Ashiyana, Phase 1, Abheypur, has tested positive. While 92 people have been cured and discharged so far, there are 27 active cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-fresh-covid-19-cases-surface-in-chandigarh-total-climbs-to-454/story-HK1vuCboegyu018zyjD8gJ.html
03-07-2020||City||Unfair means in exam: Students facing cases asked to submit details online||In view of Covid-19 pandemic, candidates against whom Unfair Means Cases (UMC) were registered during the examination of senior secondary (academic/open school) conducted by Haryana School Education Board in March will have to submit an online UMC Performa by July 8 as it is not possible to call such candidates for personal hearing at board headquarters.An official spokesperson said the UMC Performa of regular candidates against whom such cases were registered has been sent to the heads of their respective schools. The heads of all the concerned schools should inform the UMC candidates of their school and ensure that they fill the performa and e-mail it to asumc@bseh.org.in or send it to the board’s WhatsApp number: 88168-40349 by July 8, 2020, he added.He said the UMC Performa and list of candidates are also made available on the board’s website www.bseh.org.in and the candidates can e-mail or WhatsApp after confirming their names from the list of candidates.He said that information regarding the same has also been given to the candidates of self-study / open schools through SMS on the numbers provided by them at the time of submission of their application form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unfair-means-in-exam-students-facing-cases-asked-to-submit-details-online/story-IoSEXkgZZLiSY9iseuoYNN.html
03-07-2020||City||Abhay Chautala meets party workers in Ambala, Yamunanagar||Senior INLD leader and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Chautala on Friday met party workers in Ambala and Yamunanagar. Addressing party workers in Ambala, Chautala said, “The government was adamant in opening liquor vends during the lockdown. We opposed the decision and told them that people will come out of their homes and create nuisance if liquor vends are opened. However, both the chief minister and home minister Anil Vij are “bachelor nomads” (chhade malang) and did not pay heed since they don’t have small kids at home. The state government has developed drug and liquor mafia and shields those who are involved in kidnapping and extortion.”On his brother Ajay calling his meeting with Ashok Tanwar as “zero meeting zero”, Abhay said, “Ajay should know how he became hero from zero. He should remove his Chautala surname and his misunderstandings will be cleared.”Ambala district president Shishpal Jandheri claimed that nearly 150 political leaders from the BJP, JJP, Congress and others parties joined the INLD on Friday. In Yamunanagar, Chautala claimed that the present BJP-JJP government will collapse after the Baroda by election. On removal of PTI teachers in the state, he said the state government should have gone to the court for a review after the Supreme Court’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abhay-chautala-meets-party-workers-in-ambala-yamunanagar/story-mnKARcQkgqhTPbsk2bSVRP.html
03-07-2020||City||From Non-SCS to IAS: Haryana govt’s move to shortlist candidates on basis of written test challenged before CAT||The Manohar Lal Khattar government’s June 9 order that Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) will conduct written test and shortlist non-state civil service (Non-SCS) officers to fill five Indian Administrative Service (IAS) posts has run into a legal hurdle.On Friday, the Chandigarh bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) issued notices to the Centre, Haryana government, Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and HPSC to submit a reply before July 14 when the case will come up for hearing.“The prayer of the applicant for interim relief will be considered on the next date of hearing,” the CAT bench stated in its order after senior advocate, Rajesh Garg, pleaded to set aside and quash the June 9 notification. The CAT heard the case via videoconference due to Covid-19 pandemic.THE CONTENTIONSAt the root of the arguments of senior counsel was June 9 notification that he said “indirectly” conferred upon the HPSC the power to conduct parallel examinations even as in any case the state does not have this power.“The impugned order is contrary to Article 246 of the Constitution of India as the state government cannot usurp upon the powers of the central government to make rules related to the IAS,” the senior counsel argued.Surender Singh Dahiya, 52, who is a additional director, agriculture department, has moved the CAT.The petition points out that an extensive syllabus has been prescribed, providing a handle to the state government to oust candidates of “outstanding ability and merit” in spite of having the best service record.“It is trite law that what is not permissible to be done directly, cannot be allowed to be done indirectly,” reads the petition.The petitioners’ senior counsel further stated that the state government ‘s order is also against regulation 5 and 6 of the IAS (Appointment by Selection) Regulations, 1977, which categorically states that the suitability of a person for appointment to service is to be determined by scrutiny of service record, personal interview and confidential record of the officer concerned to adjudge the outstanding ability and merit of a candidate.The condition incorporated by the state government vide June 9 notification to the extent of conducting written examination is arbitrary and is liable to be quashed and set aside, senior counsel of the petitioner said.THE CONTROVERSYThe June 9 order of the state government allows HPSC to recommend candidates (non-SCS officers) not exceeding five times the number of vacancies after conducting the written examination.This is for the first time that non-SCS officers in Haryana will have to take a written examination to get appointed to an IAS post. Until now, the non-SCS officers in Haryana were appointed to such posts on the basis of their service record.The HPSC will prepare a merit list based on the marks obtained in the written examination and recommend names to the state government for onward submission to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC).The three-hour written examination will have 100 multiple-choice questions with five options. The examination will have negative marking and for every wrong answer, 25% marks assigned to the question will be deducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-non-scs-to-ias-haryana-govt-s-move-to-shortlist-candidates-on-basis-of-written-test-challenged-before-cat/story-Y27DtUipj4XDRNvXnGdjXK.html
03-07-2020||City||Two more held for extorting ₹4 lakh from Ambala doctor||A woman was arrested and a minor girl was sent to an observation home for extorting Rs 4 lakh from a doctor in Ambala by threatening to file a false rape case against him, police said. The accused Rajni has been sent to judicial custody. Three more accused, including a woman, were arrested for their involvement in the case on Wednesday. In his complaint, Dr Gurmel Singh had said that a woman called him to her house where two men appeared in police uniforms, claiming they will implicate him a false rape case if he did not pay them Rs 10 lakh. Dr Singh paid them Rs 4 lakh and later approached the police. Ambala city police station in-charge Ram Kumar said, “We have recovered more than Rs 3 lakh from the three accused, who are currently in judicial custody after spending two days in police remand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-held-for-extorting-4-lakh-from-ambala-doctor/story-AMItj4qOaN87qJFcp8XJGL.html
03-07-2020||City||Murder of 2 cops: Two women arrested in Sonepat||Police on Friday arrested two women for their involvement in the killing of two policemen in Sonepat’s Butana village on June 29.The accused Sushila and Asha of Butana village were produced before a local court in Gohana, which has sent them in two-day police remand.Gohana assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Udai Singh Meena said the women, who had accompanied the four criminals, including a dead assailant Amit Kumar, were arrested for their involvement in the killing of two policemen near Butana checkpost.“Sushila was Amit’s friend and he along with three aides had come to meet her at Butana village on Monday night. Sushila’s friend Asha had also accompanied. The policemen were shot dead after they barred them from consuming liquor and saw one of the women in an objectionable position with Amit,” the ASP said. A manhunt has been launched to nab two absconding criminals, Vikas Kumar and Neeraj of Jind,” he added.A senior official privy to the development said they arrested the accused women after checking the call details of Amit Kumar.“Amit Kumar had been calling Sushila for the last six months. He along with Neeraj had been visiting Butana village to meet Sushila and Asha, who later befriended Neeraj. During remand, the arrested accused Sandeep Kumar had told us that Amit and Neeraj had asked him and Vikas Kumar to accompany them in a marriage function. Later, they told Sandeep that they are going to meet their female friends,” the official said. During initial questioning ,the women claimed that they had come to meet Amit and Neeraj after giving some sleeping pills to their family members,” the official added.Earlier, the police had said that Amit was accused in at least six cases, including two attempts to murder in Jind in 2014 and 2015. Similarly, Sandeep was also booked in a case of murder bid in Jind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murder-of-2-cops-two-women-arrested-in-sonepat/story-s4BqQx231if7kzfZhUSEvK.html
03-07-2020||City||Women thrash ASI in Kangra village, accuse cop of hushing up murder case||Women of Luciad village in Dada Siba area of Kangra on Friday morning thrashed the police post incharge Charanji Lal, of their area. The women were agitated as they suspected that the police was trying to hush up a murder case in their village to save the accused.Surjeet Kumar, a 35-year-old resident of the village, was found dead in his house under mysterious circumstances on Thursday.His family members suspected that he was murdered by his wife.However, the police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and sent the body for postmortem examination. The body was handed over to the family on Friday morning.The police received information that the villagers and family members carrying along the body of the deceased youth were heading towards Dada Siba to gherao the police post. They demanded that his wife should be arrested on murder charge.Meanwhile, a video of the victim’s son also went viral on social media alleging that his mother and a man killed his father. ASI in-charge of local police post rushed to the spot to pacify the protestors. A heated exchange of arguments took place after which the women thrashed the police post incharge and also tore his uniform. The cop escaped from the clutches of the villagers and informed the SHO Dehra.SP, Kangra, Vimukt Ranjan said the ASP was rushed to the spot and the situation has been brought under control. He said that a case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered for killing of youth. A case under Sections 353, 332 and 382 of the IPC has been registered against the villagers on the complaint of ASI Charanji Lal.A case under Sections 341 (punishment for wrongful restrain), 141 (unlawful assembly), 269 and 270 (negligent and Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC against villagers for who were part of the protest.A case under Section 188 of the CrPC has also been registered against the villagers for violating Section 144 of the CrPC imposed in the district.The ASI has been transferred from the police post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/women-thrash-asi-in-kangra-village-accuse-cop-of-hushing-up-murder-case/story-gQYUJk41eXqx4XWVHKK0SP.html
03-07-2020||City||8 months on, 3 arrested in Mohali blind murder case||The Punjab Bureau of Investigation (PBI), Mohali, claimed to have cracked the blind murder case of a labourer with the arrest of three suspects.The labourer, Shyam Singh, a resident of Amb Sahib Colony, Mohali, was found in an unconscious state in Sector 65, in October last year. Police had shifted him to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where he succumbed during treatment.The accused have been identified as Gaj Ram, a resident of Rampur in Uttar Pradesh, Satvir alias Satta, and Mahavir Singh, of Muradabad in Uttar Pradesh. As per the police, the trio have confessed to their crime. They said they had been gambling with the victim on the occasion of Diwali. The victim had won Rs 60,000 in the game, which they wanted to grab for themselves. So they attacked Shyam with sharp stones before fleeing with the cash and his mobile. They were presented in the court on Friday. NO HEADWAY IN GARDNER MURDER CASEFour days on, Mohali police are yet to identify the miscreants involved in the murder of a 30-year-old gardener, Raja Ram. The victim was found dead near a liquor vend in the open space near YPS chowk here on Tuesday morning. He was allegedly murdered with the help of a hand pump handle, which was repeatedly hit on his head and face.Deputy superintendent of police Deep Kamal, said, “We have rounded up some suspects in this connection but the real criminals are still out of our reach. We are looking at few clues and hope to crack the case in a few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-months-on-3-arrested-in-mohali-blind-murder-case/story-FUWcHboNFnfu1FBf7zrPxJ.html
03-07-2020||Delhi||Kawar Yatra cancelled: Local DJs bear the brunt in Shravan month||The month of Shravan is all about worshipping lord Shiva. But what’s also a constant in this holy period is the sight of Kawars or Kawadiyas. This year, however, there wouldn’t be any sort of blaring music and raring boys dancing on the roads as the pandemic has led to Kawar Yatra being called off, like most other events. And with the lakhs of devotees, who would otherwise have been preparing to walk barefoot at this time of the year, what will also take a hit are the local DJs who usually set up their consoles inside the trucks or at roadside tents to make way for deafening music! “Hum Mahakawar group ke liye bhejte the har saal... sound system, one vehicle to carry it, and one boy to operate. All this for eight days for ₹50,000. But this year, pehle shaadiyon ki booking nahi hui because wedding guest list got reduced to just 50 people or lesser, and then came the cancellation of Kawar Yatra. I’m worried that this uneventful time will continue till the end of the year,” says Karan Kumar from Gurugram-based Karan Sound System.At a time that would have otherwise been the peak business season for Krishna DJ from Gurugram, he is sitting idle at home. “We used to provide DJs to around six to seven Kawar groups, and each one of them has paid us a good amount in the past. Last year, the maximum we earned from one group was ₹90,000,” says Krishna. Like others, he too, has been forced to shut shop due to the pandemic, and knew that the Kawar Yatra will get cancelled this year. But, Krishna is unable to fathom the loss that he has thus suffered, and adds, “The best part of proving our system to a Kawar group was that we didn’t fear that they would haggle the price.”  One of the songs created during previous years’ Shravan monthAnd when it comes to the songs that played on these music systems, it won’t be wrong to say that from Bollywood to Bhojpuri, there was a presence of most music industries in a specially curated list dedicated to Shiva. The local DJs share that they planned their playlist months before Shravan, to stand out among the rest. “I always selected a very popular playlist for Kawariyas, but this time everything seems off. Not only the yatra got banned but no one seems interested in even listening to music or new songs created to appease Mahadev. No new chartbuster has come out till now varna to gaano ki line lag jati thi,” says Delhi-based Mahesh Paswan, who has provided DJ on rent to Kawariyas, for several years now.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kawar-yatra-cancelled-local-djs-bear-the-brunt-in-shravan-month/story-lLF8vVQYRJepAtCOUeEtBK.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||3 Indian companies show interest for monorail rakes: MMRDA||After cancelling the bidding process for acquiring monorail rakes, where the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) received bids from two Chinese companies, the authority on Friday said that it is in talks with three Indian companies for manufacturing the rakes.The authority is hoping for Make-in-India coaches for monorail following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for ‘Aatmanirbharta’ or ‘self-reliance’. A senior official from MMRDA said, “We are in talks with Indian manufacturers like Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML), Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) and Titagarh. The latter has also been positive on manufacturing the rolling stock which is quite a breakthrough.”Bengaluru-based BEML is already manufacturing metro rakes for Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E).Earlier in June, MMRDA confirmed that the authority received two responses for the tender on manufacturing 10 rakes, both from Chinese companies, CRRC corporation Ltd and BYD Co Ltd. A senior official from MMRDA also said that the Chinese firms were continuously asking for revisions in terms and conditions. MMRDA is looking at acquiring 10 additional rakes for 19.5 km corridor since early 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-indian-companies-show-interest-for-monorail-rakes-mmrda/story-qd696sqL1GEMNOCfSgFZUN.html
03-07-2020||City||Youth Congress worker ends life in Ludhiana, woman among four booked for abetment||Four persons, including a woman, were booked for abetment to suicide after a 29-year-old trader, who was also a Youth Congress worker, ended his life by consuming poison in New Tagore Nagar on Friday. The deceased left behind a suicide note stating that he had availed of a loan from the accused and returned the principal amount, but the accused were harassing him for more money.Taking note of the suicide note and statement of his father, police have booked Rajni of Kitchlu Nagar, and Ricky Bedi, Sonu Malhotra and Mintoo, all residents of Haibowal Kalan.According to the deceased’s father, his son owned a marble store and took a business loan of Rs 2.35 lakh from Rajni and Rs 75,000 from Ricky Bedi in 2018.Though his son had paid off the loan, Rajni had been harassing him to return Rs 15 lakh and Bedi was demanding Rs 5 lakh. On Thursday, he consumed some poisonous substance. After his family discovered him, he was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, where he died during treatment.Assistant sub-inspector Malkit Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had booked the accused under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The Haibowal police have launched a manhunt to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-congress-worker-ends-life-in-ludhiana-woman-among-four-booked-for-abetment/story-zZjZaYtmlyLBtaIhRMPpbK.html
03-07-2020||Delhi||Fuel price hike: Denizens switch to cycling, plan to buy electric cars||The recent increase in petroleum and diesel prices has left denizens aggrieved. With public transport like the Delhi Metro being non-operational, and car pools being limited to two people per car, city folks are ruing about the current situation. Radhika Mehta, a professional residing in Vasant Kunj says, “My company has made cuts in our salary owing to the current economic situation. In such circumstances, it’s becoming very difficult for me to pay for hiked fuel prices. The metro is not plying, and I don’t want to spend exorbitant money on taxi fares. It’s a hole in the pocket to commute safely every day in my own vehicle. I think investing in biofuel powered cars and hybrid cars is the only permanent solution to counter such unpredictable rises in fuel rates!”  #PetrolPriceHike #DieselPricenowadays ppl looking at petrol* price: Rs 80.13 pic.twitter.com/sHreztmfjZDenizens who have to travel as part of their jobs are also left in a tricky situation and are struggling to make ends meet. Rajat Kumar, a pizza delivery boy and resident of Arjun Nagar, rues, “Our reimbursements are fixed. The boss cannot increase our salary components if there’s a hike in petrol price, and at this point we can’t even ask the company to increase our salary when everyone knows that there’s hardly any business. We are already feeling the pinch due to less work, and at times like these a constant rise in petroleum prices has come as such a blow that I have started cycling to work now! I leave my motorbike parked at my office premises. What else is the option for low-income groups like us?” The increase in rates of other products has also added to the overall economic distress of denizens. Sanjay Sinha, an IT professional residing in Malviya Nagar, says, “Unlock 1.0 had come with an increase in prices of almost every product or service. Ordering food from restaurants is more expensive now, as they are demanding higher delivery charges. Salons are charging fee for keeping their premises clean, and even vegetables are getting costlier. And then comes the increase in petrol prices as an added problem. I have no choice left but to put myself at the risk of travelling in buses for now... But how long can I do this? Everyday, I live in the fear of getting Covid-19 since so many people are still not wearing masks on the roads.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fuel-price-hike-denizens-switch-to-cycling-plan-to-buy-electric-cars/story-NuWAHhqIwV3ogqxGRwigZJ.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Bribery case: CBI files chargesheet against passport official, aide in Chandigarh||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday filed a chargesheet against a passport official in Chandigarh who was allegedly caught accepting bribe in March this year.The accused, Rajiv Khetarpal, who was posted as an assistant superintendent at the regional passport office, Chandigarh, had demanded Rs 30,000 from complainant, Jagdeep Singh. Jagdeep said that the official had asked him to pay the bribe or have his file rejected. The CBI had laid a trap and caught Balinder Singh of Nayagaon accepting the bribe on behalf of Khetarpal. The duo was arrested soonafter.The chargesheet was submitted under Section 7 (offence relating to public servant being bribed), 7A (taking undue advantage to influence public servant by corrupt or illegal means or by exercise of personal influence) of Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 120 B(Criminal Conspiracy) of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bribery-case-cbi-files-chargesheet-against-passport-official-aide-in-chandigarh/story-RSYFKFLNgxCVyRe3wnPCwK.html
03-07-2020||City||Cut interest rate on loans provided through PEC and REC: Jai Ram Thakur urges Centre||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday urged the Centre to lower the interest rates on loans being provided to the state through Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) or Power Finance Corporation (PFC).He was addressing a meeting of power ministers of the states through video conference.The chief minister also urged the Union minister of state for power RK Singh to provide a loan worth ₹540 crore to Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board through PFC/REC for clearing its liabilities for March and April.He also sought a grant of ₹350 crore for the state electricity board. CM also expressed gratitude to the Union minister for taking into consideration the liquidity of distribution companies (discoms) and a decision to infuse liquidity worth ₹90,000 crore.He said that discom and HPSEBL have already made pending payments up to March. However, liabilities worth ₹540 crore for March and April were pending, he added.Thakur said that the state government provided relief of ₹47 crore to the industries and hotel units for the lockdown period by deferring the demand charges and waivers. He said that the government also deferred the bill payments to provide relief to consumers.“Power demand due to the lockdown fell by 40% to 45% resulting in a loss of about ₹319 crore to the HPSEBL,” said Thakur.Thakur added that the state government has proposed to install about 1.52 lakh smart electricity meters in Shimla and Dharamshala towns in the coming years.He said that although the Union government has a provision of providing a fixed grant for special category states like Himachal, it should be fixed as per the actual cost so as to put a minimum burden on about 22 lakh consumers.CM said that last year the state government allocated 778 MW project to SJVNL, 499 MW project to NTPC and 520 MW project to NTPC for execution on Chenab Basin.He said that SJVNL and the Himachal government were also planning to set up 1,000 MW solar power mega park in Kaza and this would require a proper and effective mechanism for power evacuation. He said that the state government has already written a letter in this regard to the Union power secretary.Union minister RK Singh assured the Cm that the Centre would sympathetically consider all the genuine demands of the state government. He assured that steps would be taken to evolve a mechanism for power evacuation from the far-flung areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cut-interest-rate-on-loans-provided-through-pec-and-rec-jai-ram-thakur-urges-centre/story-KrpxmRSIvUCp3rEbBjT6nO.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Cycles on rent to be available by September in Chandigarh||City residents will have to wait till September to avail bicycles on rent as the project under the smart city mission has got delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak.While the first phase is expected to be complete only by November-end, residents can start availing the facility from September, when a few docks are expected to be ready.Confirming the development, MC commissioner-cum-chief executive officer of the Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL), KK Yadav said, “In the first phase, 600 cycles will be available at 60 dock stations across the city. The firm will present the architectural designs to the urban planning department by July 15, and thereafter start the work. While the first phase is expected to be completed by December, but, we are expecting some of these docks to be ready by September.”On Thursday, the CSCL officials and the firm entrusted with the project held a meeting to sort out the revised timelines for the project completion.After the project is completed, which is expected by June 2021, as many as 5,000 cycles will be available on hourly rent basis at 617 dock stations in the city.According to the agreement, the firm will execute the project in multiple phases over the course of the next 18 months and it has to make available 2,000 cycles at the 200 dock stations within the next six months.The firm will invest money to set up all requisite infrastructures and in return, it will get advertising rights from UT at dock stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cycles-on-rent-to-be-available-by-september-in-chandigarh/story-X9aUYO4RsUGGID2fhP3BGK.html
03-07-2020||City||Chemist, lab owner held with 25,000 habit-forming tablets in Ludhiana||A chemist and the owner of a medical laboratory were arrested on Thursday for possessing 25,000 tablets of tramadol, a habit-forming drug, without relevant documentation. Tramadol is a Schedule-H pain killer, misused by drugs addicts.The chemist was identified as Satwant Singh, 40, of Hargobindpura, and the laboratory owner as Kuldeep Kumar Sharma, 30.ASI Rajinder Singh said the duo was arrested from Basti Jodhewal Chowk following a tip-off. They were crossing the area on a scooter when stopped for checking. On frisking them, police recovered 25,000 tablets of tramadol from their possession, with no documents to support their purchase.The ASI said they were probing the source from where they procured the tablets, which the chemist may have been selling from his shop.A case under Sections 21, 22, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against the accused at the Daresi police station.14,000 tablets seized, two heldIn a similar case, Shimlapuri police arrested an electrician and a taxi driver after recovering 14,000 tramadol tablets from them. The accused are Rajinder Singh, alias Raj, of Preet Nagar, Shimlapuri, and Jagdish Sharma, 32, of New Shimlapuri.Rajinder is an electrician, while Jagdish is a taxi driver.Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO, Shimlapuri police station, said the accused were arrested from Barota Road following a tip-off. The accused disclosed that they procured the tablets from a supplier, who the police are trying to trace.Another case under the NDPS Act was registered against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chemist-lab-owner-held-with-25-000-habit-forming-tablets-in-ludhiana/story-TnI0WyjOLrbRJ9YmWZVrwO.html
03-07-2020||City||HP govt hints at withdrawal of FIRs against Kaza women for preventing entry of agri minister in Spiti valley||With public and political support pouring in for 199 Kaza women protesters, who were booked en masse for preventing the state agriculture minister’s entry to the Spiti valley last month over coronavirus infection fears, the state government on Friday hinted at withdrawing cases filed against them.“The government will consider withdrawing cases filed against locals in Kaza,” said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, adding that he was looking into the matter.Agriculture minister Ram Lal Markanda also said that he may recommend the government to withdraw the cases against them.The district police have initiated legal action against over 200 residents, of which 199 are women who had participated in the protest at the entry gate of the village on June 9, demanding that the agriculture minister and his entourage be placed under quarantine for entering the valley, as per the Covid rules.A woman in almost every household of Kaza village has been booked by the local police under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 143 (unlawful assembly) and 188 (disobedience of public order) of the Indian Penal Code. A SPONTANEOUS PROTESTOn June 9, Markanda, who was touring his constituency, reached near Kaza, when he was stopped by locals at the village gate.The locals wanted the minster to follow the quarantine norms formulated by the Committee For Preventive Measures and Sustainable Development’ (CPMSD), a joint forum comprising youth and women groups and five monasteries of the valley.In tribal areas, collective decisions may override the government orders as local communities have been given powers of self-governance under various statues. Soon after the Covid-19 outbreak in India, the Spiti CPMSD banned the entry of outsiders in the valley.In April end when the government allowed people to enter the state, the committee enforced strict quarantine on all returnees.On that day, the committee members had gathered at the village gate to discuss some local issues with the administration when Markanda arrived there.“Our protest was spontaneous and driven by a sense of security,” said Sonam Dolma, president of Kaza Mahila Mandal.“We were scared of the virus and wanted Spiti valley and our children to be safe,” she said.Dolma said that the quarantine norms framed by the CPMSD were applicable to all including their family members.She added that the minister had reached Spiti for the second time in less than a fortnight without observing travel restrictions.“No one is immune to the virus. Keeping our safety in view we asked him to return or follow quarantine norms,” she said adding that the police harassment started the very next day.Maintaining that efforts of the locals kept Spiti valley corona free, Dolma said that the government should allow the Spiti residents to follow their own set of rules.“We will also write to the deputy commissioner and the government to withdraw cases filed against us,” she added.MARKANDA DEFENDS SELFMeanwhile, Markanda said that he was visiting Spiti to end a strike by BRO labourers and was to return to Shimla to attend a meeting.“I appreciated the locals’ decision and left immediately. However, later I came to know about some political involvement in the protest. Some people present in the protest raised pro-Congress slogans,” he said.Markanda added that the cases were registered by the police suo moto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-hints-at-withdrawal-of-cases-filed-against-kaza-women-for-preventing-entry-of-agri-minister-in-spiti-valley/story-eJbLprJDJOQFbILhCuAwoO.html
03-07-2020||City||Frontline warriors account for 12% Covid-19 infections in Haryana||Frontline warriors, including doctors, paramedics, police personnel and government officials, account for 12% Covid-19 infections in Haryana, as per the data provided by the state health department. The frontline warriors are more prone to the virus owing to their duties in Covid-19 hospitals, containment zones, quarantine centres and testing labs.Till June 28, 748 (5.41% of total 13,829 patients) health workers, including doctors, nurses and other hospital staff had tested positive for the disease. Also, 779 (5.6%) police, army and government officials are also among the cases in Haryana so far. Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj from the Haryana Health Services said, “The health department officials are working very hard and many of them got infected while on duty. However, there is no need to worry as most infected health workers have recovered and resumed their duty.” He said as of now no health worker in the state has succcumbed to the virus. “Proper guidelines have been issued to ensure the safety of doctors and paramedic staff. More doctors have been recruited to reduce work pressure,” Kamboj said.Despite the increase in number of cases, the morale of doctors in the state remains high. Dr Anjali, ENT specialist at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, said she tested positive for the virus on April 6 after coming in contact with Karnal’s first Covid-19 patient, who died a few hours after his samples were taken.“It was shocking and I was worried about my husband and 2-year-old daughter. My family and colleagues supported me. I recovered and joined duty after 26 days,” she said.Haryana had reported its first Covid-19 death on April 4 after a sub-inspector died at the Maharaja Agrasen Hospital in Delhi. On June1, another police official posted in Gurugram had also succumbed to the infection. However, most policemen have defeated the virus and returned back to duty soon after their quarantine period was over.Lata Rani, assistant sub-inspector in Panipat had tested positive along with her two brothers and parents on April 24. She had to remain off duty for more than a month as she took about 25 days to recover.“Being a public servant, police officials have to deal with several people daily and that is why most infected cops, including me, don’t know their source of infection,” Lata said. As per the information, top-level police officials take regular reports about infected cops and all facilities are provided to them. Karnal range inspector general of police Bharti Arora said directions have been issued to the district police heads to monitor all policemen and provide facilities if any of them test positive for the virus. So far, only two police officials from Karnal range got infected and both have now recovered, the IGP added. Haryana director general of police Manoj Yadava said, “We cannot say that there is rise in coronavirus cases among police officials. The number of infected policemen is very low as compared to other states. The job is risky but all precautionary measures are being taken to ensure that our policemen remain on duty without getting infected. We have issued a detailed protocol and even training was suspended to avoid the spread of virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/frontline-warriors-account-for-12-covid-19-infections-in-haryana/story-yzHZNjccyy4DwQmzlLxp3M.html
03-07-2020||City||Father of four arrested for trying to rape 18-year-old Ludhiana girl||A 32-year-old labourer has been arrested for trying to rape an 18-year-old girl in a field in Mundian.Police said the accused, Yashpal of Mundian Kalan, is married and has four children. He is known to the victim and her family. The victim told the police that on June 29, she was going to a nearby shop when Yashpal met her on the way. He took her to the field near Government School, Mundian, asking for help her in collecting fodder for cattle.When they reached the field, Yashpal tried to rape her. She raised the alarm and passers-by rescued her. After reaching home, she narrated the matter to her mother.The girl approached the police with a complaint on Friday.ASI Harbhajan Singh, incharge at Mundian police post, said soon after receiving the complaint, the police lodged an FIR and arrested the accused.Yashpal has been booked under Sections 376 (rape) and 511 (attempt to commit an offence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/father-of-four-arrested-for-trying-to-rape-18-year-old-ludhiana-girl/story-l8I5KuASqtmbJDRtqKFJgL.html
03-07-2020||Bollywood||Animal lovers up in arms against festival that promotes dog eating, Bollywood celebs support||A picture of dogs with tied mouths and bodies has created uproar on the internet. It’s said that the picture belongs to the animal bazaar in Dimapur, Nagaland where these dogs are sold to be eaten. This sight of animal cruelty has shocked most, right from the Bollywood celebs to animal right activists.  How do you tell this sweet face he’s not good enough to live!! Have a voice! Have a heart! Say NO with me and end the Dog Meat Trade! pic.twitter.com/R7ES0pUGeIIneka Tewari, a 23-year-old Delhi University student who has started an online petition against this act, says, “This is the first time I put up a petition. I was shocked to read the horrific details! I’m a dog lover and so is my family; we have been feeding 400 street dogs everyday at T3 Terminal for the last nine years. We have also rescued and adopted many dogs, and couldn’t bear the fact that the dogs in the viral picture will be killed and eaten. My father had also written to animal rights activist and Member of Parliament, Maneka Gandhi about my petition and she responded to us asking me to send my protest letter to Temjen Roy, chief secretary of Nagaland.”Non profit organisation People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is also in touch with the representatives of The Nagaland Animal Welfare Society, who’ve met the chief secretary urging to stop the killing of dogs for meat. Nidhi Mishra, an animal rights activist from Posh Foundation, Noida, says, “This is so inhuman; the practice of killing and eating dogs has become a tradition in Nagaland. This all happens in an open street market, so what values are they passing on to the youngsters? This is not a celebration, and should be banned right away!”  This is shocking, pls raise your voice, This barbaric act must stop. @Manekagandhibjp @CmoNagaland @DGP_Nagaland @PetaIndia https://t.co/rR77q7BLf9Bollywood celebs have also been tweeting vociferously against the brutality that the dogs are meted with, at this animal market, and expressed their concern over the issue. Filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar has retweeted a post, tagging ministries and activists, and wrote: “This is shocking, pls raise your voice, This barbaric act must stop.” Among others who have taken to social media to express this support, for a ban on such animal cruelty, are actor-filmmaker Pooja Bhatt, actor Sunny Leone, producer Tanujj Garg, and former Indian cricketer Murali Kartik. The original tweet that went viral reads: “These dogs were being taken from West Bengal to Nagaland on the 26th of last month to be SOLD for MEAT. Please please write an EMAIL to csngl@nic.in, asking for this practise to be stopped. If they get 50,000+ emails tonight, they will act against this.” Actor Sunny Leone, replying to Bhatt’s tweet, writes on Twitter: “I am so sad to see this! The killing of these dogs and torture is something I believe should stop. These animals have no voice but we can be their voice to help save them! These animals are suppose to be our friends/loyal companions/family members & not sitting on a plate to EAT! How do you tell this sweet face he’s not good enough to live!! Have a voice! Have a heart! Say NO with me and end the Dog Meat Trade!” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/animal-lovers-up-in-arms-against-festival-that-promotes-dog-eating-bollywood-celebs-support/story-pmk7Vo6QkJSGnEWITX7Y6M.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers glad to have migrant labour back in paddy fields, fret over hike in diesel prices||Paddy farmers in several parts of Haryana heaved a sigh of relief after migrant workers returned to the fields but their worries are far from over because of the increased prices of diesel, pesticides and labour. A farmer, Amit Narwal of Kathura village in Sonepat, was glad to see the group of 27 migrants that arrived from Bihar’s Araria and Purnia areas in a bus specially arranged by local farmers. “This year the input cost for paddy cultivation has increased. The labourers are charging Rs 4,000-Rs 4,300 per acre for paddy sowing against last year’s Rs 2,700-Rs 2,800. After negotiation, the workers settled at Rs 4,000 per acre. We will also be providing them three meals a day and accommodation facility. Many workers are asking us to share the travel expense of Rs 4,000 per person,” he said.Another farmer, Praveen Kumar of Kahlpa village, said though the labour shortage had been resolved, they were burdened because of the increasing prices of diesel. “The government has increased the MSP of paddy to Rs 53 per quintal, claiming that it will provide relief to the farmers, but at the same time it has hiked diesel prices to Rs 11 per litre,” he said.HAPPY HOMECOMING FOR MIGRANT WORKERSMigrant workers said that they were happy to be back in Haryana. 50-year-old migrant worker Sibu Singh of Bihar’s Araria said that he had been coming to Baroda and Gohana areas to work in the paddy fields for the last 13 years.“I paid Rs 4,000 as bus fare to reach a village in Sonepat but I am happy to be back. It was very difficult to make ends meet in Bihar. Now, I am earning Rs 500 per day,” the migrant worker said.Another worker from Bihar, Ram Avtar, said he had hardly earned Rs 8,000 at his native village in Bihar in April and May but he had earned over Rs 4,000 in the last 10 days alone by working in paddy fields.“We have strong relations with the landowners in Haryana. We have been working in the fields for the last 10 years. We used to stay in Haryana for eight to nine months,” Avtar said.Agriculture expert Ramandeep Singh Mann said a rise in diesel prices will cost farmers Rs 400 per acre.“The increased MSP of paddy will benefit farmers. They will earn Rs 1,272 per acre but rise in diesel price (if farmers irrigate fields with pumps) will cost them Rs 860. Moreover, the cost of labour has increased by 40% and that of pesticides by 15%. The rise in paddy’s MSP will not increase farmers’ income this year,” Mann said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-farmers-glad-to-have-migrant-labour-back-in-paddy-fields-fret-over-hike-in-diesel-prices/story-VKdcnBqCVw1agIAwuMecXP.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Paramedical, nursing staff stage protest in Amritsar, demand job regularisation||Paramedical and nursing staff at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) staged a protest against the state government on Friday. The protesters demanded regularisation of jobs, timely payment of salaries and the release of dearness allowance instalments. Around 11.30am, around 100 protestors gathered outside the outpatient department (OPD) of GNDH and raised slogans against the state government. The protest lasted two-hours, during which the protesters suspended all Covid-related duties.Punjab Nursing Association’s Amritsar edition president Narinder Bhuttar said, “Trade unions across the country had called a nationwide protest against the planned dilution of labour laws in several states and the treatment of workers during the Covid-19 outbreak. Joining the protest, members of the Punjab Nursing Association and paramedical staff boycotted their duties and staged a protest at GNDH.” “Since the Covid-19 outbreak, nurses and paramedical staff have been risking their lives to treat patients but the state government is not issuing our salaries on time nor are they regularising the jobs of contractual workers,” he said.A member of the Amritsar Nursing Union, Veena Kumari, said, “The newly recruited nurses and paramedical staff, who are only being paid Rs 10,000 per month, should get their whole salary.”PROVIDE PENSIONS, SAYS NURSING UNION “The government is not providing pensions to medical staff who have been recruited after 2004. Since they are also dealing with Covid-19 patients, the government should formulate new policies to promote and motivate medical staff. The government should provide them pensions so that the staff does not have to worry about money in case they get infected.”Bhuttar said, “The government of India had asked all state governments to change the nomenclature of nursing personnel. In every other state, staff nurses are designated as nursing officers but the Punjab government has not implemented the Centre’s orders, which should be implemented on priority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/paramedical-nursing-staff-stage-protest-in-amritsar-demand-job-regularisation/story-dMePU5TcN589wmHYGYM5NK.html
03-07-2020||Pune||Student unions support campaign against draft EIA 2020 led by Pune-based Anjali Dalmia||At least 60 student unions and 400 students have come in solidarity with the #stopEIA2020 campaign, led by city-based 20-year old environmentalist Anjali Dalmia.The #stopEIA2020 campaign has started against the draft environmental impact assessment (EIA) notification issued by the Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) in March.EIA is the process of examining whether a given project is likely to have impacts on the environment. The draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, which if put into force will replace the EIA Notification of 2006 for all future industrial projects.According to Dalmia the EIA 2020 draft will have drastic ecological impacts and will leave irreversible damage to the ecological resources.“Clearing of large forests for projects like coal mining, pharmaceuticals, dams and other industries, without detailed environmental clearance or assessment studies (as seen in the Vizag gas leak and etalin hydropower project), will severely affect the balance of the earth,” said Dalmia.“Mining is one of the activities that will become more widespread with the new EIA amendment as the validity for environmental clearances have increased for the industry,” she further added.The members of the campaign have also written to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi through an email on June 28 after lack of response from Prakash Javadekar, union minister for environment, forest and climate change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/student-unions-support-campaign-against-draft-eia-2020-led-by-pune-based-anjali-dalmia/story-JOmefxoG0oKxFKpg8YlerJ.html
03-07-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 death toll climbs to 435 in Rajasthan; 123 fresh cases||With five more fatalities, the death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 435 in Rajasthan on Friday, while 123 fresh cases of the infection were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s tally of coronavirus patients to 18,785, according to an official report.Of the latest fatalities due to the disease, two were reported from Dholpur and one each was recorded in Dungarpur, Ajmer and Sirohi, the report said.  Of the fresh cases, Sikar reported 23, Jaipur 21, Kota 20, Dausa 17, Udaipur nine, Bikaner eight, Hanumangarh and Rajsamand six each, Ajmer four, Barmer and Jhunjhunu two each, while Alwar, Nagaur, Bhilwara, Sawai Madhopur and Tonk recorded a case each, the report stated.The state currently has 3,307 active coronavirus cases, while 14,730 people have recovered from the disease, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-19-death-toll-climbs-to-435-in-rajasthan-123-fresh-cases/story-avp0b7K49QI2aKSzPhMtdP.html
03-07-2020||Bollywood||Saroj Khan fans in Delhi-NCR: Will miss masterji’s dance class||Nachle Ve with Saroj Khan, a dance show hosted by the deceased choreographer Saroj Khan had turned people with two left feet into lovely dancers. Today when the news of ace choreographer’s demise – due to cardiac arrest – broke, many who were regular viewers of her dance show, poured their heart out in Khan’s appreciation.  Megha Aggarwal, a Gurugram-based teacher, says, “I was in my class 12 when this dance show had started. And I always thought that all the actors are good dancers and a non-dancer can’t try luck in the film industry. But Saroj ji’s dance show changed my perception. Once I started learning from her, virtually, I realised that anybody can dance! There was so much grace in her moves, and though I learnt a lot from her, that poise is still missing in my performance. I was telling my 9-year-old daughter about the dance show a few days ago, and this news today morning made me feel like I have lost my dance guru.” The connect that everyone felt with Saroj Khan was quite unique. Madhurima Sharma, a homemaker from Delhi, recalls, “Haath seedha rakhenge, ungliya nahi khulengi, ab iski ko dobara karenge... that’s how she used to talk and teach us. Even though we used to learn from her virtually, there was something special about it. The bond that my sister, mother and I shared with her was very strong. I remember that we used to joke about her mannerisms like any other student mocking a teacher in the class. We had even started calling her masterji like the young girls who were part of the show and danced as students in the background. Those were the days... She was truly one of the best choreographers of the Hindi film industry and everyone will miss her charm and strictness, which could be felt even as we watched her on the TV screen.” Some of Khan’s fans say that they will also go back to her dance classes and cherish those moments of learning from her, one more time. “I have decided to learn once again from her, and this time my daughter will also accompany me. She doesn’t know much about the legend that Saroj Khan was and I want her to know that,” says Mamta Goel, a Delhi-based homemaker, adding, “We will together attend classes on YouTube and if all goes well, we can then perform and create a dance video as a tribute to her. I’m also asking my friends’ circle to learn from Khan’s dance classes.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/saroj-khan-fans-in-delhi-ncr-will-miss-masterji-s-dance-class/story-7L44C8dy3xRp3QRyN72lJP.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Up testing in NCR, bring positivity rate below 10%: Centre to Haryana||The central government wants Haryana to increase coronavirus testing to a minimum of 140 samples per million per day particularly in the national capital region (NCR) districts of Faridabad, Gurugram and Sonepat and ensure that Faridabad and Gurugram have a sample positivity rate of less than 10%. The increased testing would include the real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and standard Q Covid-19 antigen detection test.The state was informed in a meeting held by Union home minister Amit Shah with chief ministers of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi on Thursday to review their Covid-19 response in Delhi-NCR region.Faridabad, Gurugram and Sonepat abutting Delhi have a sample positivity rate of over 6%, regarded as a critical value as per the parameters of the Union health ministry. As per last week’s statistics, Faridabad had a sample positivity rate of 15.6 % followed by Gurugram at 13.4 % and Sonepat at 6.6%. The sample positivity rate or confirmation rate is the percentage of patients found infected by coronavirus after being tested.No wonder, the three account for 66 % of the total active and 70% of the cumulative positive cases in the state.As per the statistics shared on Thursday by the Centre’s empowered group set up to devise medical emergency management plan, Faridabad and Gurugram districts were achieving the testing criteria set by the central government, testing 192 and 482 samples per million per day respectively. Sonepat district though was lagging behind at 95 samples per million per day.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said they have already done over 3,000 antigen detection test in Gurugram. “The antigen detection test in Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar started on Thursday,’’ Arora said indicating to the ramped up testing. As per state health department statistics, 10 districts – Panchkula, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Charkhi Dadri, Hisar, Kaithal, Fatehabad, Jind, Yamunanagar and Sirsa— have a sample positivity rate of less than 2 %, a desirable value as per the Union health ministry. Whereas Bhiwani (5.9%) and Rewari (5.8%) are closing in on the 6% critical value mark, there are seven districts – Ambala, Palwal, Panipat, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Mahendragarh and Nuh where sample positivity rate is between more than 2 % but less than 6 %.Keep death rate below 1%The state government was also told to make efforts to keep the fatality rate below 1% in the NCR districts. As per the statistics, Faridabad has a case fatality rate of 2.1%, Gurugram has 1.7 %, Sonepat and Jhajjar each have fatality rate of 1.5%. “The empowered group stressed on assured testing, consultation, ambulance and bed availability to achieve this target. Improving care of mild Covid-19 cases, ensuring that home isolation is effective and safe for others, there are no delays in hospitalisation when required and special focus is put on the elderly and those with comorbidities,’’ said an official who attended the meeting. Shah also sought adoption of a common strategy for the containment of infection in NCR including Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/up-testing-in-ncr-bring-positivity-rate-below-10-centre-to-haryana/story-DIfeniaWniTTlujdNpCCNK.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two ITBP base camps in Himachal’s border district of Kinnaur sealed after 22 jawans test positive for Covid-19||The Reckong Peo and Jangi base camps of the 43rd Battalion of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police have been declared containment zones and sealed after 22 jawans from the two bases tested positive for Covid-19.Five jawans tested positive for coronavirus infection on Wednesday at Reckong Peo, while 17 more jawans tested positive at the Jangi camp on Thursday.The jawans had moved from Jammu to Kinnaur in June and were undergoing the mandatory quarantine before being sent to the forward posts along the Indo-China border.Kinnaur chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sonam Negi said that he jawans caught the infection in the Jammu region. One team arrived from Rajouri and the other from Handwara.“Reckong Peo and Jangi base camps are now containment zones and jawans staying there will not be allowed to move out,” he said.“Since all jawans are in quarantine, there is no chance of community spread,” he added.A total of 28 ITBP jawans have been tested positive in Himachal in two days. Apart from Kinnaur, six jawans were tested positive at Jeori near Rampur Bushahar town in Shimla district. The six jawans returned from leave and were quarantined at Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam (SJVN) campus.Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 count mounted to 1,033 with 19 more residents of seven districts tested positive.Six cases were reported in Una, 4 in Kinnaur, three in Hamirpur, two each in Chamba and Kangra and one each in Mandi and Solan.Chamba chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Rajesh Guleri said that a 47-year-old man from the Salooni subdivision was found positive. He has a travel history to Noida and was under home quarantine.The second patient is a 50-year-old man from Masrund village of Churah area. The patient has travel history to Delhi and was staying in a paid quarantine facility.To date, the Chamba district has a total of 54 cases of which eight are active.Hamirpur patients include two children aged 2 and 10. They are the primary contacts of their Covid-19 positive parents. In Kinnaur an ASHA worker is among 4 positive.In Mandi, a 26-year-old woman, who returned from Delhi has been tested positive.Kangra is the worst-hit district in Himachal with 282 cases followed by Hamirpur with 256 cases. Una district recorded 119 cases, Solan 111, Chamba 54, Shimla and Bilaspur 47 each, Sirmaur 40, Mandi 34, Kinnaur 34, Kullu 5 and four in Lahaul-Spiti district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-itbp-base-camps-in-himachal-s-border-district-of-kinnaur-sealed-after-22-jawans-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-Z9s8i71PBhrQ7zkmVKCI0K.html
03-07-2020||Dehradun||Unlock 2.0: Uttarakhand exempts VIPs from quarantine, no restriction on tourists with negative Covid-19 report||The Uttarakhand government has further relaxed norms under Unlock 2.0 for people entering from other states, especially for very important persons (VIPs) from the central and state government, judiciary and legislative members who have been exempted from quarantine.The state government released the guidelines for Unlock 2.0 for inter-state movement for official and other purposes on Thursday.“Ministers of Government of India, ministers of state government, chief justice and other judges of Supreme Court and High Courts, other judicial officers of district and subordinate judiciary of the state, advocate general, chief standing counsel and other government advocates in the High Court of Uttarakhand, member of parliament and member of the legislative assembly of the Uttarakhand, all officer of the government of India, state government, PSUs, Central or state government organisations, along with their support staff shall be exempted from being quarantined,” the guidelines said.It said these individuals will ensure compliance of all norms of safety and social distancing as per guidelines of the central government.Inbound passengers from other states will not need permission for such movement though but will have to register themselves on http://smartcitydehradun.uk.gov.in.The registration documents shall be verified at border check posts. Passengers entering the state from non-high load Covid-19 infected cities shall be home quarantined for 14 days. Passengers from high load Covid-19 infected cities, irrespective of the mode of travel, will have to undergo a period of seven-days of institutional quarantine and home quarantine each. They will have the option of choosing a government (non-payment basis) quarantine centre or paid quarantine facility.Pregnant ladies, seriously-ill people, senior citizens above the age of 65 years or those accompanied by children below 10 years of age shall be exempted from institutional quarantine and permitted to stay in home quarantine for 14 days.Giving further relaxations to people the government said all inbound asymptomatic persons travelling for a short visit of up to seven days in the state for “exceptional and compelling reasons such as a death in the family, serious illness, visiting parents, or any other reason of personal distress, as assessed by the district nodal officer in coordination with health authorities shall be exempted from being quarantined, but will be allowed to move outside their homes…”Such passengers will have to mention the address during the registration process and district administration will verify the movement of such persons.The guidelines further mention that the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force and para-military forces “shall make their own arrangement” for institutional quarantine for officers, personnel and family members visiting for high load Covid-19 infected cities.All asymptomatic passengers travelling by flight and transiting through high-load Covid-19 cities where the origin is not from such a city will have to undergo 14-days of home quarantine. Asymptomatic persons travelling to the state for maximum three-days will be exempted from being quarantined. No permission is required for inter-district movement, but registration on the web portal is mandatory, according to the fresh guidelines.For tourism purposes, all asymptomatic persons travelling from other countries will have to undergo a period of seven-days of institutional quarantine along with seven-days of home quarantine. In the case of “exceptional and compelling circumstances”, home quarantine may be permitted for 14-days to asymptomatic persons.All hotels, bed and breakfast, homestay and hospitality services shall be allowed to open in the state except for those in containment zones. Hotel management should ensure that bookings for people from other states are made for a minimum of seven days.However, there would be no restrictions regarding the minimum period of stay for persons who undergo RT-PCR test from a lab authorised by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) with a negative report, 72-hours before arriving at the concerned hotel or hospitality service.Action will be taken against violators under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC), Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. Those who do not undergo the test will have to give a self-declaration that they will not visit any public places.Hotels outside containment zones will also be allowed to serve liquor only as room service and not in the bars.Suryakant Dhasmana, vice-president of Congress’ Uttarakhand unit, said Covid-19 disease does not differentiate based on status, caste, creed, religion of people. “Prime ministers and health ministers of major countries also got infected by Covid-19, and here there are exemptions for VIPs. On one hand, our Prime Minister says that the VIP culture has been done within the country, and on the other, we have such rules…” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/unlock-2-0-uttarakhand-exempts-vips-from-quarantine-no-restriction-on-tourists-with-negative-covid-19-report/story-BdY1ljGA759UEo7YvFMT6H.html
03-07-2020||Lucknow||Vikas Dubey: Man behind Kanpur firing wanted for 60 cases of murder, robbery||Eight policemen, including a deputy superintendent of police, were killed during an operation to nab gangster Vikas Dubey late on Thursday in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur district.The police team was out to look for him after a villager, Rahul Tiwari, lodged a case of attempt to murder against Vikas Dubey recently. They had conducted raids on the basis of Tiwari’s first information report (FIR) in Bikru village. Apart from this, there are 60 cases, including that of murder, robberies and kidnappings, against Vikas Dubey.Also Read: 8 police personnel killed in firing by criminals during raid in UP’s KanpurVikas Dubey was the prime accused in the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Santosh Shukla, who had been given the rank of a minister of state, inside the Shivli police station in 2001. Two policemen were also killed in the attack.WATCH: Eight UP cops out to nab dreaded criminal killed in firing in Kanpur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kanpur-firing-vikas-dubey-a-feared-criminal-with-60-cases-of-murder-robbery-and-other-crimes/story-plwaGuwxAIgG39zJwbErQJ.html
03-07-2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath pays tribute to 8 cops shot dead by criminals in Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday paid his tributes to the eight police personnel who were shot dead by criminals during a search operation in Kanpur district.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Devendra Mishra, three sub-inspectors and four constables were killed in the firing in Kanpur district’s Bikru village under Chaubepur police station.“Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath ji has paid homage to the eight police personnel who sacrificed their lives while performing their duties in Kanpur Nagar district,” a statement from the chief minister’s office said.WATCH: Eight UP cops out to nab dreaded criminal killed in firing in Kanpur “While paying homage to the martyrdom of police personnel, the chief minister expressed his deepest condolences to their bereaved families. The chief minister has instructed the director general of police to take the strictest action against the culprits who have perpetrated this tragedy and provide an immediate report from the spot,” it added.The eight police personnel were killed when they went to the area to search for a criminal, Vikas Dubey, over a complaint by a villager, the statement said.The additional director general of police (law and order) is on the way to the village and Kanpur’s superintendent of police (SSP) and inspector general (IG), Kanpur, are already in Bikru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cm-yogi-adityanath-pays-tribute-to-8-policemen-shot-dead-by-criminals-in-kanpur-calls-for-strict-action/story-xbxSeBcJpePulugjPXKN4L.html
03-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt forms panel to help revive economy||The Delhi government has formed a 12-member expert committee to explore economic reform measures to help businesses in the city recover from the impact of Covid-19, the government said in a statement on Thursday.As per an order, signed by Ravi Dhawan, special CEO of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the committee will analyse the measures to be taken by various agencies, departments and businesses, and explore moves that improve the ease of doing business and shorten the process of economic recovery from the impact of the pandemic.The committee will be headed by Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson of the Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC), an advisory body to the Delhi government. The committee will also be comprised of commissioners of the labour department and industries department, South Delhi Municipal Corporation, special secretary of the environment department, and representatives of various industries including trade, manufacturing, automobile, finance and hospitality among others, said the statement.Shah said, “The pandemic has caused a devastating economic impact — nationally and in Delhi… Through this committee, we look forward to collaborating with key industry representatives and identifying additional measures that government agencies can take to shorten the process of economic recovery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-forms-panel-to-help-revive-economy/story-HIqkjW1GGr6NHTbT3FE7aO.html
03-07-2020||City||Yamunanagar, Ambala districts brace for monsoon||The district administrations of Yamunanagar and Ambala are readying themselves to tackle waterlogging in low-lying areas ahead of the monsoon onset.Several villages near the Yamuna river in Yamunanagar are prone to floods and a helpline number (01732-237801) has been issued, which will be available 24 hours for residents. A flood control room has also been established for the district.Deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said that people can get information related to waterlogging in the agricultural area, waterlogging in the populated area of the village, erosion in the river, canal etc.“Any other information related to the electricity department, health, medicines and ambulances, in case of flooding in any part of the district can be given on this number,” he added.“To prevent erosion of agricultural land, embankments are being made on the banks of Somnadi, Pattharla River and Chikan. Other than this, the civic bodies are carrying out the cleaning works of drains,” he added.Meanwhile, in Ambala, DC Ashok Kumar Sharma, while holding a meeting of the irrigation department, civic bodies, NHAI and other officials concerned, gave instructions related to cleaning of drains. Along with this, the DC has asked to make necessary arrangements in the event of waterlogging or flood.Executive officer of MC (Sadar Zone) Vinod Nehra informed the DC that most of the drains have been cleaned in Ambala Cantonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamunanagar-ambala-districts-brace-for-monsoon/story-LOKrx77nTl0AqY6IU3D8ZI.html
03-07-2020||City||No bidder for Ludhiana Improvement Trust complex; dept earns ₹4.83 crore by auctioning 19 other properties||The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) complex situated on the Rani Jhansi road has turned out to be a white elephant with no bidders turning up at the e-auction.The LIT had organised an e-auction of 51 of its properties including the complex, school site at Maharishi Balmiki Nagar, residential plots and booths on Thursday. Out of these, 19 properties including booths and residential plots were auctioned for ₹4.83 crore.No bidder turned up for 15 of the total sites including the complex and the school site. Lying vacant for almost 15 years, the complex has been put for an auction several times, but no bidder comes forward. The LIT had also reduced the reserve price of the complex from ₹197 crore to around ₹157 crore this time. The officials said that the reserve price will be reduced further during the next e-auction.Chairman LIT Raman Balasubramaniam said, “The bids were received for 36 properties but 17 were rejected due to low bid amount or some technical issues. The LIT has earned a revenue of ₹4.83 crore by auctioning 19 properties. The successful bidders will have to submit a 10% bid amount along with 6% cess by July 7, otherwise their earnest money will be forfeited.”LIT TO REVIVE THE ATAL APARTMENT SCHEMESubramaniam said the department is also working to revive the Atal Apartment Scheme in Karnail Singh Nagar where flats will be constructed for residents falling under different income groups.The government had earlier squashed the project, but they are looking into the possibilities and a meeting has been scheduled with the officials of the local bodies department next week, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-bidder-for-ludhiana-improvement-trust-complex-dept-earns-4-83-crore-by-auctioning-19-other-properties/story-NJPX726WjJXDswe3CeCsnO.html
03-07-2020||City||NIOS postpones Class 10, 12 exams until further notice||The National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) postponed its secondary (Class 10) and senior secondary (Class 12) examinations owing to the ongoing Covid-19 situation.In a notice issued on its official website on Thursday evening, NIOS said that the exams, which were scheduled to be held between July 17 and August 13, stand postponed until further orders. Details on the revised schedule will be declared by NIOS at a later date. On June 30, the board had announced the cancellation of Class 12 exams for children with special needs this year. These students would have to submit assignments for at least two modules of 40 marks each, which is a mandatory theory component for the examinations. Parents said that the circular released on Thursday only added to the confusion and anxiety among students. “The board needs to come up with a comprehensive set of guidelines for all students with clarity on what the marking scheme and exams are going to be like instead of coming up with separate circulars which have no details,” said a parent from Andheri. Several parents of special needs students have requested the cancellation of examinations and assessments citing additional burden on such students many of whom are set to appear for a few of their papers in the October session of the examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nios-postpones-class-10-12-exams-until-further-notice/story-72oskrPAeNZGhVDOH1qeIP.html
03-07-2020||City||30 booked for obstructing Covid-19 medical team near Mumbai||A mob of around 30 people were booked by the Uttan coastal police for allegedly obstructing a medical team of the Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) who had visited the Navi Khadi village to shift three members of a Covid positive family to a Covid Care hospital on Tuesday. “The mob tried to prevent the team from taking the three patients and alleged that the lab which tested them had provided fake reports,” assistant police inspector Satish Nikam of Uttan police station said.The accused were not wearing face masks and did not practice social distancing norms either, said Nikam. Cases against the locals were filed under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Act and the Maharashtra Covid-19 Rules. No arrests have been made yet. In Uttan, around 30 people had been tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-booked-for-obstructing-covid-19-medical-team-near-mumbai/story-PEgJFtH5ZYHMqYJSPkwy0J.html
03-07-2020||City||Don’t cut trees during lockdown, activist tells Mumbai civic corporation||A Mumbai-based environmentalist wrote to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) urging the civic body to stop the cutting of trees till the Covid-19 outbreak is over, as citizens cannot lodge their objections owing to travel restrictions.Activist Kunal Birwadkar said there are restrictions on travelling beyond 2km, and no citizen can visit the site concerned to raise suggestions or objections over tree cutting. Thus, the BMC should not issue notices for cutting of trees during this period, and stop plans to axe trees till the outbreak is over.“Common citizens are locked inside their homes and are under the continuous threat of the Covid-19 outbreak. In such a situation, the BMC has issued multiple tree-cutting notices from June, for which citizens are called, to submit their objections (if any). However, due to the state-wide lockdown, citizens are incapacitated to move out of their homes and visit the site to inspect the trees,” Birwadkar said in his letter to the BMC.As per rules, the civic body has to seek suggestions and objections from citizens before permitting tree cutting for any project. “Citizens are not allowed in BMC ward offices to inspect the proposal documents. Due to the lockdown many citizens are even unaware of the tree cutting notices,” the letter further added. Since June 6, the civic body started issuing public notices for cutting trees in the city, around three months after it put up the last public notice on the issue, on March 18.Birwadkar said, “There is no scope to conduct visits to the site as there are restrictions of travelling beyond 2-km stretch, and under such a scenario, the BMC should not propose tree cutting or issue public notices for it. No trees should be cut during this period. If the BMC does so, I will be forced to move court.”However, civic officials said that there cannot be restrictions put on cutting of trees or on trimming owing to monsoon. “Many trees are proposed for developmental works, and in many cases it is necessary to cut trees or their branches, considering they may fall off anytime during monsoon. Hence, such a restriction cannot be made,” a BMC official said. Jitendra Pardeshi, chief of BMC’s garden department, was not available for comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-cut-trees-during-lockdown-activist-tells-mumbai-civic-corporation/story-fqj9SlZ1A83icQ9pBUm2pM.html
03-07-2020||City||Exams for medical, dental courses in Maharashtra to be held next month||Examinations for students pursuing medical and dental courses in the state will take place in August, a new circular released by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) late on Thursday stated. “After looking at the state of Covid-19 cases in the state, the authority decided to postpone examinations further in order to ensure that exams be held at a time when students’ health is not in jeopardy,” stated the circular by MUHS. As per the MUHS circular, exams will take place between August 3 and 28 this year. The decision will affect around 24,000 medical and dental students in the state.The decision comes a week after the university decided to postpone medical exams indefinitely, owing to the rising cases of Covid-19 in the state. Originally, exams were scheduled to take place this month. However, from the past few weeks, the state recorded over 5,000 new cases each day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/exams-for-medical-dental-courses-in-maharashta-to-be-held-next-month/story-BPZLylGtKhFPHD2s6Q0RJN.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn lifts ban from three categories of plastic||Even as the Chandigarh administration had banned 18 categories of single-use plastic in September 2019, it has now passed a notification classifying three of these categories as “extended producer responsibility”. These plastics include refill pouch with 500ml capacity, straws attached with tetrapacks and multilayered packaging used for foods/snacks packing. UT director of environment, Debendra Dalai, said, “The decision was taken after receiving representations from industries saying that there were no other viable alternatives available.” Now, the producers themselves will be responsible for ensuring they are disposed of properly. However, Dalai said that the move is only temporary and if they find a viable alternative, they may ban the three categories again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-lifts-ban-from-three-categories-of-plastic/story-tKjm3kMOSOwCnnV4r25S5O.html
03-07-2020||City||Lalru ATM robbery: Three held, five still at large||Three weeks after an ATM from the Dappar branch of Punjab National Bank in Lalru was stolen, the police claim to have solved the case with the arrest of three men.On the intervening night of June 9 and 10, masked men had decamped with the cash dispensing machine, containing ₹16 lakh.Police said that the vehicle used in the crime and the uprooted ATM had been recovered from the three accused arrested from Uttar Pradesh (UP). As per the police, five suspects involved in the robbery are still absconding and raids are being conducted to nab them.The suspects have been identified as Farman of Saharanpur, UP, and Gulsher, alias Kala, and Mustafa of Yamunanagar, Haryana.The trio was produced in a local court on Thursday and remanded to police custody for four days.Mohali superintendent of police (SP, rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said the suspects carried out around six ATM robberies in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown, and many of their accomplices were already arrested by the UP and Haryana police.The suspects also named their accomplices — Inam, alias Pradhan, Sadiq, Rukam Din, Samsuddin and Jabir, all residents of Saharanpur — who are absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lalru-atm-robbery-three-held-five-still-at-large/story-9B1kSrx8KtWpjggnshK6ZI.html
03-07-2020||City||Increase contact tracing in Ambernath, Badlapur: Maharashtra health minister||Five new Covid-19 testing labs will be set up in Thane district in the next 10 days, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday during a review meeting of the Covid-19 outbreak in Ambernath, Badlapur and Bhiwandi cities. Expressing his dissatisfaction over the contact tracing in Ambernath and Badlapur, Tope pointed out that 1,500 new cases are being added to the district’s numbers every day.A two-hour-long meeting was held at the Kulgaon Badlapur Municipal Council, with health department officials, medical association members and elected representatives.“In the coming 10 days total five testing labs will be set up to cater to places like Badlapur, Ulhasnagar- Ambernath, Bhiwandi, Mira Bhayader and rural parts of Thane district. This will speed up the testing and these cities will not have to depend on Mumbai testing labs,” said Tope.“In Ambernath and Badlapur, contact tracing of Covid patients is not satisfactory. The authorities are tracing with the ratio of 1:6 (six contacts per one patient) which should increase to 1:15. I have asked them to follow up on this and isolate at least 15 contacts for one infected person so that there is a better chance of breaking the chain,” he said.rThe health minister pressed for the need to increase the number of ventilators and oxygen beds in these cities, and directed the civic bodies to take help from the doctors of Indian Medical Association (IMA). A 50-bed intensive care unit will be set up at Harne Ayurvedic college in Badlapur soon, he informed. Tope asked officials to prepare a dashboard for the entire district to check the availability of beds.He also urged the local civic bodies to admit patients on first-come-first basis, instead of sending them back to their residential city. Patients should Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) should get treatment anywhere in the area, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/increase-contact-tracing-in-ambernath-badlapur-maharashtra-health-minister/story-9NPm2JQBiAzWrq5k8AysEP.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Vegetable prices rise in Chandigarh as lockdown, rain impact supply||Uncertainty over the Covid-19 lockdown, coupled with unfavourable weather and rising fuel prices, has affected the vegetable supply, causing the prices to spike. Tomatoes, which are supplied through Himachal Pradesh, are the worst hit with the price rising from Rs 35 per kg to Rs 60 per kg in a week. “Due to the recent spell of rains in Himachal Pradesh, a lot of tomatoes have been damaged. Hike in fuel prices will cause the vegetables prices to rise even further in the coming days,” a UT market committee official said. Prices of vegetables like capsicum, ladyfinger, cabbage and ladyfinger have also increased, with farmers warning other vegetables will also be affected. Prahlad SIngh Bhamia, a farmer from Fatehgarh Sahib in Punjab, said, “We have lost a majority of bittergourd crop due to the recent thunderstorm in Punjab. Because farmers didn’t know for how long the lockdown will last, we didn’t plant new crop. It can take at least a couple of months for the new crop to get ready, which may cause shortage of supply and increase in prices.”Officials of the Punjab Mandi Board said apni mandis could help bring the prices down. “Right now vendors are moving in streets and need to make a profit. As wholesale prices start to rise, vendors won’t earn enough and will stop bringing vegetables to houses. Mandis can be resumed in a controlled environment, as it will benefit both the farmers and consumers,” an official said.So far, the UT administration has decided against restarting apni mandis as it won’t be possible to ensure social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vegetable-prices-rise-in-chandigarh-as-lockdown-rain-impact-supply/story-tazg6o6D3MR9uTMFOSanGL.html
03-07-2020||City||Researchers identify 33 molecules that can target 1 Covid-19 protein||Mumbai: Researchers at the Bengaluru-based National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) have identified 33 small molecules out of 3, 30,000 that can target one protein — NSP1 — in the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. Identifying these molecules may help with drug discovery and examining existing drugs, approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), that can be repurposed to treat Covid-19.Using computational biology techniques, the three-member team at NCBS, which is a biological centre of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, found that only one in 10,000 screened molecules has the potential to target the protein. “The choice of target protein, NSP1, is both unique among research at this time and important based on the role the NSP1 protein plays. It stalls host gene expression, could degrade host mRNA, and protects viral (self) mRNA from degradation. It is a great interactor with other proteins as well,” said R Sowdhamini, professor of biochemistry, NCBS, and corresponding author of the study which has been accepted by the Journal of Biosciences of the Indian Academy of Sciences.Researchers said narrowing down to these 33 molecules, which have exhibited stability and strong interaction with the Sars-Cov-2 protein, will save significant time on toxicity tests because some are used in FDA-approved drugs such as Remdesivir — currently being repurposed — while small molecules are mostly found in plants. In the virtual screening of the molecules with NSP1, the team described FDA-approved anti-viral drugs such as Remdesivir and Edoxudine as “promising” as Covid-19 treatment. Esculin and Acarbose, which are prescribed for inflammation and diabetes respectively but are not anti-viral drugs, were also found to have potential to inhibit the protein.The 33 molecules which displayed stability in their interaction with NSP1 are found in lactose, glycyrrhizic acid from liquorice plant (also referred to as athimathuram or yastimadhu); corilagin from pomegranates; galangan from blue ginger (also referred to as galangal or sitharathai); and gingeronone and shogaol from both ginger and blue ginger.Having started work based on new computational research since early March, the team said identifying 33 molecules will also translate into saving time, money and effort in experimental examinations.“We have recommended a set of promising small molecules to bind to NSP1. We hope some of these ligands (molecules) could be useful to combat Covid-19,” said Sowdhamini.Over the last three months, the team used computational docking algorithms to investigate how the ligands (molecules) would interact to inhibit the protein.“Scores were provided depending on the strength of favourable and unfavourable interactions. More negative the scores, higher the chance for that molecule to be a potential inhibitor for the NSP1 protein,” said Abhishek Sharma, a joint PhD student in two laboratories and first author of the study.Sharma added, “After two rounds of filters, the top-ranking molecules were considered. These docking runs took approximately 20 days of computing time, followed by analysis and literature survey”.Vikas Tiwari, PhD student of the laboratory and the one who performed molecular dynamics simulations to yield the small molecules with the most stable interactions with the NSP1 protein, said, “We found that the small molecule or ‘ligand’ stays on with the protein and does not fly away during our simulations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/researchers-identify-33-molecules-that-can-target-1-covid-19-protein/story-jK8MpYyk654BIs8aW5r1TN.html
03-07-2020||City||Day 1 of complete lockdown gets good response in Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli||Day 1 of the 10-day complete lockdown saw good response in Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli and Ulhasnagar on Thursday. In Thane, though most citizens remained indoors, there were some incidents of crowding at markets, which were allowed to remain open. After police intervention, the markets were closed and residents were sent back home. The traffic police seized 316 vehicles across the Thane commissionerate and issued 2,744 challans throughout the day to motorists for flouting lockdown norms.Amit Kale, deputy commissioner of traffic said, “We took action against a total of 800 vehicles and collected fines worth of ₹13 lakh.”Police patrolling at city’s prime spots continued for the whole day, with several areas, especially the residential complexes, being barricaded to restrict the movement of people.With only 55 of the total 120 Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) bus services operating on Thursday, most people in essential services found it difficult to reach the railway station. Santosh Badavte, 48, a postal department employee, said, “My office is at Mumbai Central and I reside in Kharegaon. I travel by TMT buses to reach the station, but the frequency was very less on Thursday and I had to walk to station.”Deputy civic commissioner Sandeep Malvi said TMT services will only be available for those in essential services or for cases of emergencies.On Thursday, Thane city reported 395 new cases and 11 deaths. The total case count now stands at 9,530, while the death toll is 333.Similar actions were taken in the neighbouring corporations of Bhiwandi, Kalyan-Dombivli and Ulhasnagar too.Shops remained shut, while very few less vehicles were seen on the streets. Most of the containment zones were sealed with barricades prohibiting movement. The police kept vigil at all the major roads of the city as well as the internal residential areas.Thane police commissioner Vivek Pansalkar who visited the city, said, “The response on the first day was very good, as most residents stayed indoors. A team of police also made announcements at societies to make residents aware about it. We need to follow it strictly.”Kalyan-Dombivli civic commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi informed that more than 1,000 employees of the corporation were on the field with the police to ensure the norms were followed. On Thursday, Kalyan-Dombivli witnessed its highest-ever daily rise in Covid cases. The 560 new cases took the total number to 7,485, while the death toll rose to 127 after three deaths.Meanwhile, the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) extended its lockdown in micro-containment zones till July 12. It had earlier imposed a complete 15-day lockdown since June 15.“Apart from essential services, no other shops will remain open in the containment zones. Grocery stores will be open from 11am to 3pm, while dairy stores from 8am to 10am and 5pm to 7pm. Ward officers and local police stations have been alerted and they will ensure that all rules are maintained in containment zones. Action will be taken against those found loitering within the containment zones,” said Pankaj Ashiya, commissioner, BNCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-1-of-complete-lockdown-gets-good-response-in-thane-and-kalyan-dombivli/story-tjQhjRF4ZsmVqCbpS2i7DI.html
03-07-2020||City||Classes to be discontinued if fee is not paid: VIBGYOR Schools to parents||Mumbai: Despite parents of VIBGYOR Group of Schools protesting against the institute’s decision to hike fees, the management has issued them an ultimatum to pay the fees or face action. In an email addressed to parents on Wednesday, the school stated that it “will be compelled to discontinue (online) classes for students who have not paid fees upto July 2020.”The email further stated, “For parents who have still not paid any fees for the academic year, it will be assumed that you are no longer interested in your ward continuing to study at our school. As a consequence, we will initiate the de-enrolment process for your ward from 13 July, 2020.” “We have provided a plethora of payment options to parents to pay fees in an easy manner. A large majority of our parents have been paying on time and they have nothing to worry about. Yet, the quality of learning being provided is suffering on account of a small number of parents who have not paid yet. Timely payment of fees will enable us to ensure academic continuity for our students” said the school’s official spokesperson.Parents said that the school was pressuring them to pay the hiked fees amid the Covid-19 situation.“We had requested the school to scrap the fee hike that it had imposed early this year, as parents are unable to pay the hiked amount, owing to job losses and pay cuts. The school has not responded to our concerns even once,” said the parent of a student from the Goregaon branch.On June 28, parents from different branches of the school across the state held an online protest against the 8-10% fee hike the school. They had also said that the school had not given learning materials to their children as they refused to pay the hiked amount. On May 8, the state issued a government resolution (GR) stating that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year. The GR had also allowed parents to pay fees in instalments. However, the Bombay high court on June 26 stayed the GR after several organisations of private school owners petitioned the court.‘Cancel Class 9 and 11 re-exams’Shivnath Darade, the secretary of Shikshak Parishad, a teachers’ body in the state, wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday, requesting for the cancellation of Class 9 and Class 11 re-examinations. In his letter, Darade said that while students who fail these classes can attempt a re-examination as per the government rules, this exam cannot be conducted owing to the restrictions imposed as a result of the lockdown. “Such students will miss out on classes for the next academic year if exams are delayed any further and there will be additional stress on them. They should thus be promoted to the next class, considering the current situation,” he said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/classes-to-be-discontinued-if-fee-is-not-paid-vibgyor-schools-to-parents/story-VHcblEun1IORuf7c63RLwJ.html
03-07-2020||City||Two doctors among four test positive for Covid-19 in Mohali||Four persons, including two doctors at separate private hospitals, tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali on Thursday, taking the district count to 280.The doctors include a 41-year-old man, who works at the Alchemist Hospital in Sector 21, Panchkula, and a 43-year-old man who works at a private hospital in Sohana. They live in Dhakoli and Phase 10, respectively. A 33-year-old man, a resident of Sector 91, who had recently returned from Spain, was also found infected. The fourth patient, a 43-year-old man from Kurali, also has a travel history to Delhi. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the family contacts of these patients will be tested. Of the 280 cases in the district, 198 have recovered and four have died. There are now 78 active patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-doctors-among-four-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mohali/story-FCtGkT8kDYyylAUiLHKtNK.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||Can’t convert coaches into ICUs for Covid patients: Railways to Bombay HC||It is not possible to convert railway coaches into intensive care units (ICUs) to treat Covid-19 patients without making extensive structural modifications and other major changes, the railway administration had informed the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday. The affidavit had been filed in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) by activist Naresh Kapur, suggesting that the railway coaches be converted into treatment facilities. The affidavit had stated that these coaches are converted to isolation facilities to augment Covid care and as a temporary measure, till train services resume. If any other major changes are carried out, the immediate re-use of the converted coaches for the purpose of travelling will become impossible without carrying out modifications again, the railways has claimed. The judges on Thursday dismissed the PIL, stating they had no doubt in their mind that the authorities “shall not leave any stone unturned to preserve the lives of citizens” and provide proper and adequate health care and medical treatment to those in need. The bench also recorded its appreciation for the concerns expressed by Kapur, which has resulted in the introduction of the rapid antigen test for detection of Covid-19 immediately instead of the long-drawn tests.In his PIL, filed through advocate Prerak Choudhary, Kapur had complained about the shortage of beds for treatment of Covid-19 as well as non-Covid patients across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, and suggested that railway coaches should be converted into treatment facilities. Kapur’s petition had also stated that the inefficient management of the coronavirus outbreak had resulted in the complete breakdown of the healthcare system within the region, with the cases rising at an alarming rate.Acting on the PIL, a bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice MS Karnik had on June 23 called for an affidavit stating why CR and WR did not consider it necessary to convert railway coaches into intensive care units (ICU) for Covid-19 patients.The railways in its affidavit on Monday had stated that the changes will require detailed design support and elaborate facilities that are made available at the stage of manufacturing. It had also claimed that Central Railway (CR) has converted 482 non-air conditioned coaches on 24 rakes – spread over the central line across Maharashtra – into isolation facilities, by removing the middle seat and converting one toilet at the end of the bogey into a bathroom. The first cabin near the entrance can be used as store and/or paramedic area.Similarly, the Western Railway (WR) has also converted 410 non-air conditioned coaches on 18 rakes into quarantine facilities and kept the rakes at important junctions along the line from Mumbai to Bhavnagar in Gujarat.Meanwhile, the court has rejected Kapur’s prayer for a direction to order the state and civic authorities to reopen all hospitals, nursing homes and dispensaries, which have been closed either due to departmental orders or judicial orders, to meet the needs of Covid-19 as well as other patients.“Granting the prayer would amount to tinkering with administrative or judicial orders and such course is plainly impermissible,” the bench had said while rejecting the prayer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/can-t-convert-coaches-into-icus-for-covid-patients-railways-to-bombay-hc/story-Jjri9C4FxdBWICwuba1OGJ.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||1,311 children in Mumbai tested positive for Covid since March: Civic corporation||Although minors constitute less than 1% of the total number of Covid-19 cases, more than 6,000 children in Maharashtra and 1,311 in the city have contracted the infection since March. Data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows 54% of these cases were among boys and 46% were in girls aged between 0 to 10 years. So far, seven minors have died of the infection.Doctors said children with low immunity and comorbidity may be particularly vulnerable to the infection. Detecting the infection in a Covid-positive minor is more challenging than in adults as 85% of the reported cases were asymptomatic. “Only 10% children show symptoms like cough and fever. Some even develop diarrhoea. But we still don’t know the exact symptoms among children,” said Dr Bhupendra Avasthi, trustee, Surya Maternity Hospital.There is also speculation that infants may be vulnerable with 10 newborns contracting Covid-19 either from their Covid-positive mothers or by cross-transmission in hospital. A report on Covid-19 in minors was submitted by the state health department to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in mid-May. “Cases of Covid-19 among children don’t even constitute 1% of the total. They do relatively better than adults because of their innate immunity and healthier lungs. As they mostly don’t have additional risk factors like obesity, diabetes and hypertension, their recovery rate is higher,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. At present, there are seven beds in paediatric intensive care units (PICU) for Covid-positive minors in Mumbai, of which six are occupied and there are 30 neonatal intensive care units (NICUs), of which 29 have newborn babies who are critically-ill with Covid-19.“Almost 70% minors are from outside Mumbai due to unavailability of Covid NICU and PICU in their districts. This often means a delay in their treatment, which deteriorates their health condition especially among children with weaker immunity and compromised lungs,” said paediatrician Dr Mukesh Aggarwal, from King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital.With few reported cases, there are questions surrounding Covid-19 in children. Approximately 5% of minor patients have needed treatment in intensive care units (ICU). “There is no treatment as children aren’t showing symptoms like other [adults],” said Dr Avasthi. Recently, some Covid-positive children in the city exhibited symptoms similar to Kawasaki disease, which causes inflammation in the walls of some blood vessels and can cause cause permanent damage to coronary arteries. Kawasaki disease usually occurs among children below five years and early symptoms include rash and fever. However, Dr Avasthi said, “Kawasaki-like child patients are present, but no confirmed case has been identified till now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-311-children-in-mumbai-tested-positive-for-covid-since-march-civic-corporation/story-53FQNA9ikNbHxdKKG1LOGL.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||Jawhar waterfall trip turns tragic as five youths drown||Five youths, all aged between 18 and 22, drowned in Kal Mandavi waterfall in Kelichapada-Kalsheti area, around 7km from Jawhar city, on Thursday evening. According to Jawhar police, a group of 13 youngsters from Ambika Chowk in Jawhar had gone to the waterfall around 3.40pm. While some of them stayed on the banks, two youngsters entered the water and were swept away due to strong currents. Three others dived in to save them, but they also drowned.The five victims have been identified as Nimesh Patel, Devendra Phaltankar alias Bala, Devendra Wagh alias Dadu, Prathamesh Chavan and Jai Bhoir alias Rinku, said inspector Appasaheb Lengare from Jawhar police station. The rest of the group panicked and looked for them. After they could not find any of them due to strong currents, they informed the police. The police, in turn, alerted the fire brigade and the disaster management team of Palghar district. After conducting a search for nearly four hours, bodies of all five youths were found, said Lengare. “We have sent the bodies for post-mortem at Cottage Hospital in Jawhar. Reports are awaited,” said Lengare. He added that the post-mortem reports would confirm if the youths were under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident. The police have registered a case of accidental death. A police officer said that none of the victims knew how to swim.The waterfall has three falls and is at least 50 feet deep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jawhar-waterfall-trip-turns-tragic-as-five-youths-drown/story-FtZ2XZ5i1zjxkNiMp0rm6O.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ayurveda doctor, two kin among four new cases in Chandigarh||A 54-year-old gynaecologist from a fertility clinic in Manimjara was among four new Covid-19 cases reported in Chandigarh on Thursday.The city, which has so far confirmed 450 cases, now has 55 active cases, with 389 recoveries and six deaths.Her two family members, including two males, aged 19 and 56, have also contracted the infection. Another family member and five family contacts have been sampled. Besides, their 10 workplace contacts have been isolated. The fourth patient is a 44-year-old man from Khudda Lahora.“His four family contacts are asymptomatic and are being sampled. The family has history of travel to Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh, from June 14 to 16,” UT’s official bulletin said.Meanwhile, 22 patients recovered on Thursday. Out of them, 15 were discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, and shifted to Post Discharge Quarantine Facility at Sood Dharamshala, while the remaining will remain in self-isolation at home for the next seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ayurveda-doctor-two-kin-among-four-new-cases-in-chandigarh/story-392q6cDnQBSeir0nrkDtHI.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cop booked for graft gives CBI the slip again||Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, who has been on the run since she was booked in a graft case, once again gave the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) sleuths the slip on Thursday.Former station house officer (SHO) at Manimajra police station, Jaswinder Kaur was booked on June 30 by the CBI for demanding Rs 5 lakh bribe from a Manimajra resident Gurdeep Singh in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him. The CBI had arrested conduit Bhagwan Singh while accepting Rs 1 lakh as part of the bribe amount on June 29.The CBI on Thursday received a tip-off regarding her whereabouts, but she managed to flee. Her mobile phone was switched off after the CBI had summoned her on June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-cop-booked-for-graft-gives-cbi-a-slip-again/story-VDW9Zjx7TbOZPj9ZY5WKgN.html
03-07-2020||City||Police step in to stop child marriage||Manpada police stopped the wedding of a 16-year-old girl in Dombivli (East) and arrested six people under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 on Wednesday.The police officers got a tip-off about the approximate location and time of the wedding, following which a 30-member police team was deployed in Dombivli (East). After four hours, the team found the venue in Sagarli village and stopped the wedding. The girl, who hails from Ahmednagar, was sent home while the groom, his parents and the bride’s parents along with a relative were arrested. Among the accused are Satish Jadhav, 26, the groom; his father Sahebrao Jadhav, 54; and mother Shobha Jadhav, 48. Assistant police inspector Maruti Andhale said he got a call from an unknown person alerting about the child marriage. He said, “We only had one-line information that a child marriage was going to take place around 1.30pm in Dombivli (East). It was already 1.00pm when we got the call and Dombivli (East) is a big area, making it difficult to locate the venue. We divided 30 officers in five teams and launched a search operation.”After four hours of searching every marriage and community halls, police found the house where the wedding was taking place around 5pm. Andhale said, “By the time we reached Sagarli village, the wedding ceremony was completed. We asked for the girl’s birth certificate, but they didn’t have it. Our women officer spoke to the girl and found that she was around 16-years-old. Then, we arrested the groom, his parents, the girl’s parents and the uncle under Child Marriage Act, though they have all been released on bail. We have sent the girl home with her family members.”The groom is a driver while his parents are labourers. The girl hails from the economically weaker section of the society and her parents sell vegetables in Ahmednagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-step-in-to-stop-child-marriage/story-j6CFm6oGUusUy2WFKyD42M.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||Citizens, MNS demand discount on power bills||In a meeting with state energy minister Nitin Raut on Thursday, citizen representatives from Mumbai and Thane along with political leaders from the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) demanded discounts on power bills, quick redressal on complaints and transparency in the billing system. Citizens across Maharashtra have expressed grief over exorbitant bills issued by utility firms in June 2020. MNS also submitted a letter demanding a 50% discount on bills as well as direction to not disconnect power supply in case of non-payment. The party also asked the minister to undertake a common meeting with all utility firms to address the issues.Rahul Daga, resident and chairman of Dosti Lily in Wadala who attended the meeting in Mahavitaran office at Fort, said, “Almost every other household has got bills ranging between ₹25,000 to ₹35,000. Yesterday, a household complained of getting a ₹64,000 bill. We need more transparency and quick redressal on these complaints.”Nandakumar Chile from MNS said the minister was positive on the demands. “There are cases in the city where people whose houses have been vacant since two months receiving exorbitant bills. The minister accepted that there have been some errors and said it would be inspected soon.”Following thousands of complaints from citizens, the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) on Monday has issued directives to utility firms to allow consumers to pay their bills in three easy monthly instalments and not disconnect power until disputes have been resolved. Despite several attempts, Raut was not available for a comment.Meanwhile, a Mumbai-based NGO, Watchdog Foundation, on Thursday also asked citizens to switch off their electrical appliances as a mark of protest against the bills. The foundation asked citizens to switch off the appliances between 8pm and 8.30pm on Thursday night. Taapsee Pannu meets Adani officials Actor Taapsee Pannu, who took to Twitter to complain about the high bill, said she had an hour-long meeting with representatives from the Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) on Thursday to understand the issue. Pannu tweeted, “So after an hour long meeting, crazy amount of numbers n calculations floating around, realised the ‘approximate’ reading wasn’t really THAT approximate. In fact far from it (sic).” She also said, “Glad @Adani_Elec_Mum had the patience to clarify every detail and hoping in the future we all will be better prepared and given a better ‘approximate’ jerk to deal with the reality later.”Energy minister seeks ₹10,000 crore for Maha discom State energy minister Nitin Raut on Thursday wrote a letter to the Central government seeking immediate assistance of ₹10,000 crore for the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). Raut said the discom is facing a financial crisis owing to the lockdown as most industries and businesses were shut. Around 60% of MSEDCL’s revenue is earned via industrial and commercial sectors. “The adverse effects of lockdown are expected to continue for the next few months. The low revenue will make it difficult to carry out day-to-day operations of MSEDCL,” a statement released by Raut stated. The minister further said the state’s distribution arm has a total debt of ₹38,282 crore as of March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/citizens-mns-demand-discount-on-power-bills/story-hVcLWCRXnPq6c15zfgOkOI.html
03-07-2020||City||76-year-old woman becomes Panchkula’s first Covid-19 fatality||The district registered its first Covid-19 fatality with the death of a 76-year-old woman from Sector 12, Panchkula.Besides, six new cases were confirmed, taking the district tally to 119.The elderly woman, who had tested positive on June 26, was a chronic kidney disease patient, suffered from diabetes and had even undergone a coronary artery bypass surgery in the past.She was undergoing treatment at Alchemist Hospital, Sector 21, for the past 14 days and was tested positive by a private lab. Finding lapses at the hospital in Covid-19 management, the administration has issued it a show-cause notice.Health authorities have also sealed an ICU at the hospital for the next 72 hours for fumigation. Besides, planned surgeries have been put on hold.“The notice has been issued after finding a few shortcomings. Action will be taken on the basis of the hospital’s response,” said Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, deputy commissioner, Panchkula.Civil surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said shutting down the Covid care facility at the hospital was not feasible, but they been asked to take measures to check spread of infection.DOCTOR TESTS POSITIVEA 41-year-old doctor at the hospital tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Apart from this doctor, who lives in Dhakoli, Mohali, two other doctors, a staff nurse and three patients, who were taking treatment for chronic kidney failure in the hospital, have been found infected previously. These include the 76-year-old woman.Hospital authorities have isolated five consultants and five staff members, besides testing 60 staff members.“One of the doctors, who tested positive on June 27, had been attending to patients. Others found positive are all members of his team. They have been isolated,” a senior official of the hospital said.FLU CORNER SET UP INSIDE, CROWDING WENT UNCHECKED During a recent inspection, the district health authorities had flagged improper crowd management at the hospital, despite high footfall. “We had asked them to ensure no crowding took place,” said Rajiv Narwal, nodal officer for Covid-19, Panchkula.“The flu corner is located inside the hospital, while it should be outside the building. There are no separate entry points. We had asked for action-taken report within 48 hours, but so far, the hospital has neither complied with our instructions nor filed the report,” he added.TAKING ALL PRECAUTIONS: HOSPITAL Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Parmjit Singh Mann said, “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, hospital management is taking all necessary precautions. Elective surgeries have already been minimised. All high-risk patients are being tested for Covid-19.”“To minimise rush, alternate days/timings of a few OPDs and appointment-based OPD consultation are already in place. All OPD areas are being cleaned after every two hours with disinfectant solution, and at night, all OPD rooms are fumigated, besides placing alcohol-based hand rub at all strategic locations,” he said.“Many positive patients have been successfully treated and discharged by the hospital,” Mann added.SIX NEW CASES The district tally rose to 119 with six new cases on Thursday. Of these, 91 have been discharged. There are now 28 active cases. Among the latest cases is a 20-year-old woman from Marranwala village in Kalka. She had recently travelled to Uttar Pradesh. A 29-year-old man, living in the Housing Board Complex, Kalka, was also confirmed infected. He is a contact of an already positive patient. A 63-year-man from Pinjore, and a 22-year-old man from Indira Colony, with a travel history of Delhi, were also found positive.The remaining two patients are two men, aged 59 and 25, both residents of Sector 17, Panchkula, and contacts of positive patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/76-year-old-woman-becomes-panchkula-s-first-covid-19-fatality/story-VmToXV3KZ8kTnMwCNlvUkN.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||Hit by cyclone, Raigad district crawls back to normalcy||A month after severe cyclone Nisarga left a trail of destruction along the coastal and inland tehsils of Raigad district, the overall situation has steadily improved, the district collector said.The restoration, however, has been challenging following intense monsoon rains.During June, Raigad recorded 545.5 mm rain, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Though it was 22% deficient for the month, it had the third-highest rainfall among all districts in Maharashtra. The district has recorded 791 confirmed cases of Covid-19, 298 recoveries, and 17 deaths so far.According to the district administration, electricity had been restored across 1,700 of 1,976 villages in Raigad. “Non-electrified villages are mostly across Shrivardhan, Tala, Mhasla and Mangaon tehsils, which were worst-affected due to the cyclone,” said Nidhi Choudhari, district collector and magistrate, Raigad. “The administration has been working on a war-footing for relief and restoration activities but intense monsoon rain combined with inaccessibility to electricity poles in marshy areas or mangroves has made it even more challenging for us. Also, we are keeping a close watch to ensure residents follow social distancing and safety measures during the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Chaudhari.Overall, 87% electricity restored by the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd. (MSEDCL) across other 11 talukas apart from the four most affected ones. A total of 5.5 lakh of 6.35 lakh consumer’s power supply is currently in place, said Choudhari. “Teams from other districts arrived during the third week of June for restoration efforts. However, due to different topography and climate they have faced difficulties,” she said.Choudhari said 88,000 people had been paid relief for their damaged houses in the district while 1418 of 2136 water supply schemes had been activated through electricity restoration. “Remaining areas are using generators for water supply. Hence, people aren’t facing inconvenience,” said Choudhari.“Residents of nearby villages have either been given generators or they have managed to purchase one among three to four households. However, there is very little availability of kerosene to power them. This is still leading to a shortage of drinking water but the situation is better than before,” said Rajendra Kudekar, resident of Tala town in Mangaon.Dattatreya Karanje, resident of Aravi village, Shrivardhan said, “It is now 28 days since there is no electricity in our village. We have been provided with a few generators that are mostly used for pumping water from bore wells. The local administration said it will take one more week to restore power. We are used to the dark and the dim candle lights.”Alibag resident Kunal Salunkhe said, “More than relief from the state, quick intervention by residents, non-government bodies, and assistance from relatives from cities like Mumbai and Pune during the Covid-19 pandemic have helped normalise the situation. People have built more studier rooftops but unfortunately, they are still made using tin.” The administration said they had restored network connectivity with 435 of 548 mobile towers in Raigad. “Telecom operators have powered their towers with the help of generators,” said Choudhari.Sandeep Mendharkar from Mhasala said, “Network availability is still low. There are certain spots near villages and towns where there is a network, and this can be identified by a small crowd located there through the day across villages in Mhasla.” The collector said relief amount had been paid for all deceased, injured citizens, livestock, and the compensation process for crop losses is underway. “In all, 12,000 hectares of crop or horticultural losses were recorded in the district. Crop compensation takes more time as land records have many names and all have to either share their account details or give consent for the transfer of relief amount to one of the occupants,” said Choudhari.Kudekar said this was the reason why long queues were spotted at banks located in small towns. “The only functioning bank is Bank of India, and villagers from surrounding areas are queuing up to claim compensation. Some have come and returned almost five to six times until they receive their money,” he said.Meanwhile, for the 1.6 lakh tree fall cases during the cyclone, Choudhari said all roads had been cleared. “Wood of trees cut in the wadis (farmlands or hamlets) belongs to people. Directions were given to use the wood of trees fallen by local panchayats for shamshan ghats (burial sites). For major highways and roads, the tree barks are yet to be cut as in cut into logs. Those cutting branches and taking away are using it for fuel in rural areas,” said Choudhari.CYCLONE NISARGA: WHAT HAD HAPPENED?Nisarga, classified as a severe cyclonic storm, made landfall at Diveagar, located between Shrivardhan and Murud between 12.15pm and 12.30pm on June 3 as it passed over Raigad district following the onset of the southwest monsoon. The wind speed during and after landfall had touched a maximum of 120 kmph leading to rooftops of several structures blown away, tree fall and power line damages, and a communication blackout across 80% of Raigad. While 1.4 lakh houses were damaged, 5.2 lakh structures were partially damaged. In addition, 1.6 lakh tree fall incidents and 16,000 electricity infrastructure damages was recorded. The district administration had calculated ₹200 crore in property destruction, including ₹40 crore losses due to power infrastructure damages. It also led to issues such as the drinking water crisis as without electricity, people were unable to pump water from bore wells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hit-by-cyclone-raigad-district-crawls-back-to-normalcy/story-NnMkyMMKJw3sPAFmoRdNQO.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Work on Halwara international airport to kick-start in two weeks||The work on international airport in Halwara would begin in the next two weeks, said Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma on Thursday.He said the road leading to the airport site would be widened and the PWD (B&R) officials have been directed to start the work on the boundary wall of the international airport at the earliest.The DC visited the site where the civil terminal of the international airport would come up and issued necessary directions to the officials concerned. He was accompanied by Jagraon additional deputy commissioner Neeru Katyal Gupta and Raikot sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Gupta, among others.With the start of international flights from Halwara airport, the area would develop as a business hub that would also boost the state’s economy, Sharma revealed.He informed that the over 161-acre land needed for the construction of the civil terminal has already been acquired and Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has taken possession of the said land. He said they would try to get the runway constructed on priority along with the terminal building so that international flights operations could be started soon.The DC said in lieu of the acquired land, farmers have been paid a compensation of ₹20,61,314 per acre (including 100% solatium, 12% AP and 1.25 multiplier factor). Besides, each eligible family would also be paid ₹5,50,000 as rehabilitation and resettlement amount.Punjab government and Airport Authority of India had signed the agreement for a joint venture for setting up the new civil and cargo international air terminal in Aitiana village of Raikot Tehsil, where the Indian Air Force station is situated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/work-on-halwara-international-airport-to-kick-start-in-two-weeks/story-LuUAD6zUcBajIs4t1AsnYO.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||No clarity on pending exams yet, PU initiates admission process for 2020-21||Panjab University (PU) has initiated the admission process for the 2020-21 academic session even though thousands of students enrolled here and in affiliated colleges await a decision on semester exams.A notice was issued regarding the admissions on Wednesday. Students including those who have already applied for various entrance tests at PU are required to submit an online admission form for all undergraduate and postgraduate courses by August 8, 2020, a tentative date given by the university. Students can submit the admission form irrespective of the declaration of result of qualifying exam or entrance test.For detailed information on courses, eligibility criteria and number of seats, PU will release a handbook in the first week of July.Dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla said, “We have initiated the admission process for the upcoming session. For examinations we are waiting for the directions of the University Grants Commission (UGC).”As compared to previous years, the admission process was delayed this year due to the outbreak of coronavirus. In 2019, the classwork for the new session had already started in July.How will the students react to the new development remains a question. Professor Rajat Sandhir of the biochemistry department said, “I think the university has taken the right step by initiating the admission process without any further delay. But I think the response [from the students] will not be good as many examinations are still pending.”Professor Navdeep Goyal, chairperson of the physics department, said, “In the best interest of the students and the university, at least the schedule for admission of ongoing classes with online teaching should be given out immediately.”PU’s Common Entrance Test (CET, PG) is scheduled for July 27 and 28, and CET (UG) is scheduled for August 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-clarity-on-pending-exams-yet-pu-initiates-admission-process-for-2020-21/story-ryaA2dfkzDf7emVVDEsMaL.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two evacuation flights with 246 passengers land at Chandigarh airport||Two flights with 246 stranded Indians from Auckland (New Zealand) and Kuwait landed at Chandigarh International Airport on Thursday .Air India flight number AI1317 from Auckland via Delhi landed at 7.24 am with 71 passengers from various states of the region.Another evacuation flight, GoAir Flight No G87230, from Kuwait landed at around 5.51 pm with 175 passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-evacuation-flights-with-246-passengers-lands-at-chandigarh-airport/story-ThTH4Anb0aos1uK7BCRRFK.html
03-07-2020||Pune||State will have to borrow money to pay salaries next month: Minister||In view of the fund crunch caused by the Covid-19 crisis, salaries of Maharashtra government employees are likely to be delayed further next month as the state plans to borrow money, according to Vijay Wadettiwar, Maharashtra minister for relief and rehabilitation “The situation is such that we will have to borrow money to pay salaries of state government employees next month. While we will not delay or deduct salaries of those fighting on the frontlines in the crisis, other employees may have to face a delay in getting payment,” said Wadettiwar, during a press conference on Thursday.The minister said state has not received any funds from the Centre, which according to him, has aggravated the situation. “We have not received any funds from the Centre. If someone is saying otherwise, he is betraying the state,” said the minister, an apparent reference to former chief minister and Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis, who had earlier said the Central government is helping Maharashtra in all possible ways.Earlier on Monday, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar also hinted that the state may have to raise funds in the form of loans to pay salaries of state employees as Maharashtra’s revenue has badly been impacted owing to a drastic fall in economic activities caused by the lockdown.Meanwhile, Wadettiwar said enough funds have been given to Pune-based training institute SARTHI (Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute (SARTHI), a non-profit government body for research, policy advocacy and training for socio-economic and education development of Maratha and Kunbi-Maratha communities.Maratha outfits have recently alleged that state government is apathetic towards SARTHI and wants to close it down. Responding to allegations, the minister said a section wants to bring in politics, although he would not name it and comment further. “Although the state government’s revenue has been hit due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, we have given required funds to SARTHI and the institute will continue to function in the future. Some social organisations had claimed that the institute did not have enough funds to function and these claims were baseless and there is no question of closing it down,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-will-have-to-borrow-money-to-pay-salaries-next-month-minister/story-wetDyDAHgmDw3xhVS9I2iP.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||FIR against Nanavati Hospital for overcharging||A first information report (FIR), based on a complaint from the civic body, has been filed against Nanavati hospital, one of the major hospitals dedicated to Covid-19 treatment in the city, for allegedly overcharging a patient. The 62-year-old patient, who was in hospital for 47 days, was charged ₹17 lakh, according to the complaint.The chairman, top management executives of hospital and other trustees have been booked by the police and summoned for recording their statements. Hindustan Times has a copy of the FIR, in which the names of the individuals have not been mentioned. The hospital management, in a statement, said, “We have learnt from media reports that an FIR has been filed owing to some alleged discrepancy in a bill. We are awaiting the copy of the complaint to scrutinise the bill and will fully cooperate with the authorities concerned to redress the issue.” “We have registered an offence against chairman and trustees of Nanavati hospital for overcharging a Covid patient, after receiving a complaint from [Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation] BMC officials. Investigation is on,” said Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police, zone 9.“We have received a complaint from BMC official on June 30 and on the basis of it, an FIR under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the executives of the Nanavati hospital,” said Suhas Raikar, assistant commissioner of police.According to the complaint, the victim is a woman from Santacruz. Her son said she was kept in a quarantine facility for two-three days in Lokhandwala. She was in a serious condition when she was taken to the institutional quarantine facility and then on May 9, she was admitted to Nanavati hospital.“She was in the hospital till June 24. She was kept in a non-ICU Covid ward for two days and later, was shifted to a Covid ICU ward. She was on a ventilator for at least 25 days,” the son said.At the time of the admission, her son deposited ₹90,000. After some days , he was asked to pay an additional amount. After 10-12 days, the family was told that the bill was ₹9 lakh and after deducting ₹5 lakh insurance cover and the ₹90,000 deposit, the family was to pay ₹3 lakh.The family approached Shiv Sena leader Nitin Nangaonkar, who spoke to the hospital’s management.As the time of discharge, the family was told that the total bill was ₹17 lakh and that the family has to pay ₹11 lakh after deducting insurance cover and depositThe family said that they were unable to pay the amount and the patient’s son said that no break-up of the bill was given. The son with the help of Sena leader approached BMC and civic officials began an inquiry.During the inquiry, civic officials found that the hospital did not follow the government’s order with respect to billing and charged the patient exorbitantly, the police said.Ramchandra Khobrekar, junior auditor of BMC’s K/W ward, then filed the police complaint on behalf of BMC. The patient was made witness in the complaint. Khobrekar was unable for comment.In May, Maharashtra imposed a price cap on private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients after allegations that many of these healthcare facilities were charging exorbitant fees in a bid to compensate for a 90% dip in the admission of non-Covid-19 patients. Restrictions had also been imposed on the billing of medicines in private hospitals.Private hospitals are allowed to charge up to ₹4,000 daily for the treatment of Covid-19 patients on a general bed, Rs7,000 for intensive care unit (ICU) and ₹9,000 for a ventilator, according to the new guidelines issued by the state health department.All private hospitals come under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and are liable to follow the rules of the state government amid the pandemic.The state government offers three kinds of facilities to treat Covid-19 patients.Government-run hospitals are offering treatment for free, while 1,000 hospitals are covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, which provides insurance coverage of ₹1.5 lakh. Private hospitals have to provide treatment as per the concessional rate decided by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fir-against-nanavati-hospital-for-overcharging/story-0i4OL0Txeix1FUncVwAfGI.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||HC restrains Haryana from giving info about Hisar private schools under RTI||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday restrained Haryana government from disbursing information about some private schools sought by some private persons under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.The high court order came on the plea of Sarva Haryana Private School Trust, a Hisar-based trust with 153 member schools in the district, which had approached the court seeking direction to different Haryana government departments to not supply any information about the member schools. The high court bench of justice Deepak Sibal has asked the schools to provide information to the government departments but the latter have been restrained from disbursing the same to private parties without court’s permission.The trust alleged that private persons could utilise the information for fishing expedition to fulfil their ulterior motives as the information as it could undermine the safety and security of the staff and students of schools. The trust had also sought quashing of instructions from different departments to provide information which would cause unwarranted invasion of the privacy of schools. The response has been sought by July 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-restrains-haryana-from-giving-info-about-hisar-private-schools-under-rti/story-ZZQhdirFfevuDy4H8KEZOI.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha sees its highest 1-day jump of 6,330 Covid cases||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded its highest single-day spike of 6,330 Covid-19 cases, first in excess of 6,000, as the tally rose to 1,86,626. Of them, 77,260 are active cases, according to data released by the state health department.In a relief, the number of recovered patients crossed the 1 lakh mark. In the past 24 hours, 8,018 patients had recovered or got discharged from hospitals, after which the tally of recovered patients reached 1,01,172. This also pushed the recovery rate of the state to 54.21%.Besides, the state has also conducted over 10 lakh Covid-19 tests. On Thursday, the health department said the number of tests conducted at various public and private laboratories stood at 10,20,368. Of them, 8,33,742 people tested negative. It means 18.29% of the total samples tested positive, said an official. Maharashtra has conducted 11.26% of the total tests in the country, as of July 1, with 90,56,173 samples tested across the country.As there was a projection that the peak is likely to come this month, the number of fresh cases is likely to further rise and the situation may become more challenging in the coming days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had on Sunday confirmed that there will be a spike in infections in the next few weeks as they have opened up activities and are giving further relaxations from lockdown to ensure revival of the economy. But following the surge in infections, the state has put on hold its plans to provide more relaxations.Meanwhile, state health minister Rajesh Tope clarified that there is no community transmission in the state. “The number of fresh cases is increasing, but it cannot be termed as community transmission as most cases are coming either from containment zones or institutional quarantine facilities. There is no community spread in the state yet,” Tope said.The state on Thursday recorded 125 deaths, taking the toll to 8,178. Of them, 110 deaths were from past 48 hours, while the rest were from past few days, the health officials said.Mumbai crossed the 80,000 mark after recording 1,554 cases in the past 24 hours. The city’s case count stands at 80,699, of which, 25,311 are active cases. Mumbai’s toll stands at 4,689 after 58 deaths were reported.Following the spike in cases, many cities and districts have re-imposed lockdown, although for a brief period, to break the chain of the virus’s spread.Cities in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) such as Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayandar, Ulhasnagar have imposed lockdown in their jurisdiction for ten days, while in Navi Mumbai and Panvel, it will be enforced from Friday for the next ten days. In Mira Bhayander, it was imposed from July 1. In MMR, cases have increased to 1,24,597 from 55,086 on June 3, when the state decided to provide relaxations in red zones, including MMR.In Mumbai, police has restricted the travel up to 2-km for residents, except for office-goers and essential services.The health minister said that they have found people stepping out of their homes unnecessarily and if that is resulting in rise in cases then curbs will have to be brought back. “The state has empowered all municipal commissioners and district collectors to impose necessary restrictions in their jurisdiction to contain spread of the pandemic, whenever required,” Tope said.Lockdown will also be imposed for 12 days in Panvel, which comes under Raigad district, due to spike in cases, from July 3. Aditi Tatkare, guardian minister of the district, said the Raigad is facing different situation as it was also affected by Cyclone Nisarga. “There was movement in the district because of different priorities as it was also affected due to cyclone. People from Mumbai have also come in the district as they have their home here too. More importantly, 85-90% of the daily cases are found among people related to essential services or their close contacts,” Tatkare said. Panvel has 2,652 cases at present.In a meeting chaired by the chief minister to review the pandemic crisis in MMR last week, more stress was given on building jumbo hospitals in the satellite cities, because they don’t have enough health infrastructure to cope with the crisis in case of a peak. The CM instructed local authorities to focus on augmenting health infrastructure as we have to be prepared in advance,” said an official, privy to the development. In other cities such as Aurangabad, lockdown will be imposed in Walunj industrial area between July 4-12. In Nashik city, night curfew has been imposed from 7pm to 5am to curb the pandemic’s spread.Aurangabad and Nashik have 4,688 and 2,491 cases respectively. Districts such as Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Beed too have imposed lockdown in their jurisdiction following surge in cases. In Ratnagiri, it was enforced from July 1 for eight days, Sindhudurg and Beed imposed it for seven days from July 2.Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Beed have 630, 221 and 121 cases respectively. Along with surge in cases, the state is also facing a rise in the number of deaths. To control the situation, the state on Thursday declared to start a task force of expert doctors in all districts. State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said that the task force will work on the lines of the one made in Mumbai. “The task force will decide treatment for all types of Covid-19 patients. They will also coordinate among all local authorities in a district. This will help in reducing mortalities as well as control the spread,” Deshmukh said. With 8,053 deaths on Wednesday, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded on 4.47%. It is the second-highest in the country after Gujarat, where CFR is 5.62% with 1,867 deaths (33,232 cases) till Wednesday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.Maharashtra still has highest number of deaths across states in the country.By the end of May, the state had successfully brought down the CFR to 3.26% (on May 26) from 7.41% (with 148 deaths) on April 13.So far, 41,741 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 5,72,032 people have been put under home quarantine.The health minister said they will be starting use of plasma therapy in all the districts as it is found as an effective way of treatment. “Nine of ten patients are responding well to the therapy,” he said.Tope also said that they will be allowing relatives of the patients to enter Covid hospitals. They will also be directing the hospitals to install CCTV cameras in intensive care units (ICU) so that relatives can see patients from outside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-its-highest-1-day-jump-of-6-330-covid-cases/story-wGdpImVzfnGJfTsZFrxMAI.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||CSIR-IMTECH to have biorepository of Covid-19 samples||The Microbial Type Culture Collection and Gene Bank (MTCC) at the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s (CSIR) Institute of Microbial Technology Chandigarh (IMTECH) has said they will store clinical samples of Covid-19 patients for research and development related activities.The centre has been identified as one of the 16 national Covid-19 biorepositories by the Government of India for collecting, storing, and maintaining clinical samples of positive patients. The samples will help researchers understand the early predictors of disease severity and how it develops given the immune response and other factors.“The biorepository will be critical to steer research towards innovating the development of new diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines,” said IMTECH director Dr Sanjeev Khosla. CSIR-IMTECH has also been authorised to share the samples with academia, industry, and commercial entities after scrutinising the purpose of the request and ensuring benefit to the country.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked all states to provide access to Covid samples to the designated biorepositories across the country.The MTCC at CSIR-IMTECH, where the samples will be stored, is a national facility established in 1986 and recognised as an International Depositary Authority (IDA).Various research institutes, academic organisations, pharmaceutical, biotech, and food industries involved in microbiological and biotechnological research regularly approach MTCC for microbial cultures and other microbiology-related services.“The biorepository at CSIR-IMTECH will collect the samples, transport, aliquot, store and share them as per standard operating procedure,” said Dr Khosla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/csir-imtech-to-have-biorepository-of-covid-19-samples/story-Rx0WonOouEXlbgPSPAvB9I.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir urges PM to probe embezzlement in ration distribution||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to order a probe into the embezzlement of central rations by Congressmen and favouritism in distribution of foodgrain and pulses to their supporters in Punjab.In a letter to the Prime Minister, the SAD chief requested that ration being sent under the extended Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) be monitored stringently through central observers to ensure ration received under the scheme is not pilfered and sold in the open market or distributed among Congress supporters again. Necessary measures are needed to ensure there is no discrimination in distribution of central foodgrain in the state, he added.Stating that it was of utmost importance that the central relief be distributed impartially on merit without any politicisation whatsoever, Sukhbir said even though the centre sent 70,725 metric tonnes of grain besides 10,000 metric tonnes of pulses to Punjab, the same was not distributed among the people. “While only 1% of the entire food grain stock was distributed during the month of April when curfew was imposed in Punjab and people needed the ration the most, the Punjab government later abrogated its responsibility towards the people and handed over the ration to Congressmen for distribution,” he said.He alleged that a major part of the central ration was embezzled by Congressmen even as they distributed part it to their supporters only. He said this worsened the plight of the poor and weaker sections of society who had to rely on social and religious organisations, including the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), for basic food items.The SAD chief urged the Prime Minister to constitute a special team to probe the entire scam. “As per our reports thousands of tonnes of food stock were never distributed to the poor. The stock of wheat and pulses was shifted to residences of Congressmen and later sold in the open market,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhbir-urges-pm-to-probe-embezzlement-in-ration-distribution/story-h18xRKOnOCKjQYedbLiKAO.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||As SFJ begins referendum registration today, vigil up at Golden Temple||As US-based banned outfit Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) has declared July 4 as the inaugural day for registration of referendum on Khalistan, Punjab Police have stepped up vigil in and around the shrine. An official of Punjab Police intelligence wing said the Centre has issued directions to the security agencies to keep a close eye on the Golden Temple premises in the wake of the call given by the SFJ headed by lawyer Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, who is among the nine people declared terrorist by the Union government under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on Wednesday.Devotees visiting the Golden Temple are being watched closely by the personnel of different wings of the Punjab Police. However, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Jagmohan Singh said, “They (SFJ) are giving calls from foreign countries and they don’t have followers here. So, we are doing routine duty around the shrine complex and no extra arrangements have been made. There are no inputs to put the force on extra alert.”Even as cops are always there at the shrine complex in civil dress, the DCP said it was the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC)’s duty to keep a vigil and ensure order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-sfj-begins-referendum-registration-today-vigil-up-at-golden-temple/story-qT70oMd65dwGXB06AxIsBO.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Community spread spirals in Amritsar, but contact tracing remains poor||Even as the cases of Covid-19 community transmission are on the rise in the Amritsar district, the health department’s tracing of contacts of positive patients continues to be far from satisfactory. So far, the district, which was categorised as a ‘red zone’, has repoted 971 coronavirus cases, including 45 deaths.In the past one week, the district witnessed a total of 75 cases of which 67 (nearly 90%) are of community spread and eight deaths. The remaining 10% patients were close contacts of those infected earlier. For the 957 positive cases reported in the district till June 30, the health department traced only 2,323 of their contacts for testing.“The officials and the medical staff were given instructions by the state government to trace the close contacts of the suspected patients and and those found positive. Even in the community transmission stage, the medical teams were only focusing on taking samples of the family members of the positive patients. They showed less interest tracing the source of infection. The poor contact tracing is another reason behind the hike in cases in the district. Now, it is being difficult to break the infection chain,” said a health department official.Civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh issued the notices to the district epidemiologist and the Covid-19 nodal officer besides senior medical officers to ramp up testing of close contacts of those found positive.“To contain the community spread we must trace the contacts of all the positive patients within 24 hours of the arrival of their reports. Testing of 2,323 contacts of 957 positive patients is grossly inadequate and the work is unsatisfactory. The medical teams must trace at least 10 contacts of each Covid-19 patient. The negligence in contact tracing will not be tolerated,” the civil surgeon’s order reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/community-spread-spirals-in-amritsar-but-contact-tracing-remains-poor/story-RPpNEIGPgpXRyBMmedclPL.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||NSG team visits blast site in Moga, collects samples||A four-member team of the National Security Guard (NSG) arrived here on Thursday to investigate a low-intensity blast that took place in a market in Baghapurana sub-division of Moga on Tuesday.The NSG team from Manesar, accompanied by Faridkot range inspector general of police Kaustubh Sharma and Moga senior superintendent of police Harmanbir Singh Gill, visited the blast site and collected samples for forensic test.On Tuesday, a courier company employee Chhotu Ram (47) was injured in the blast, which was initially reported to be a parcel bomb, but the police have now ruled out the theory. IGP Sharma said investigations suggest it was not a parcel bomb. “It was some kind of locally-made low-intensity explosive device. We were not able to identify the explosive material and the device and sought assistance from the NSG. So far, there is no lead but we are investigating all angles. The role of the injured is also under investigation,” he said.Baghapurana DSP Jasbinder Singh said it was a kind of ‘desi-bomb’. “We are investigating to find out who was behind this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nsg-team-visits-blast-site-in-moga-collects-samples/story-uptAE68Vi3oRzYWKJWJl6O.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Pathankot trader’s body found hanging from bridge, robbery suspected||A 30-year-old trader was killed after he was allegedly robbed by some unidentified persons on the national highway near Kotli Muglan village of the Pathankot district. The body of Mohit Kumar, a laptop dealer and a resident of Pathankot city’s Indra Colony, was found hanging from a bridge, 12 kilometres from the district headquarters, in the wee hours of Thursday, police said. The incident came to light at around 4am when someone informed the police about the body. The victim’s Honda XR-V car (PB35-X-5368) with its windscreen blackened with spray was found nearby. The windscreen was also partly broken. “Mohit called me at 8pm on Wednesday informing that he was going to Dinanagar to collect money from some customers and will be back by 10pm. When he didn’t return, I called him only to find his mobile phone switched off. We started searching for him in the morning, but to no avail. After some time, some policemen informed us about the incident,” said Ramesh Kumar, the victim’s brother. “My brother had sold two laptops and he should have been carrying around ₹1.5 lakh. But the cash was missing,” he added.Superintendent of police (investigation) Prabhjot Singh Virk, who reached the spot to investigate the case, said their preliminary probe suggested that the victim was on his way back home when the incident took place. “We have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) against unidentified persons. The body was sent for post-mortem. Our investigation to identify the assailants is on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pathankot-trader-s-body-found-hanging-from-bridge-robbery-suspected/story-dVxNuusDdPL5D4HI8gFgTM.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud: Rana Kapoor gets interim protection from arrest till July 11||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Thursday granted protection from arrest to Yes Bank’s co-founder, former managing director and CEO Rana Kapoor in two cases registered against him in connection with the Yes Bank fraud case.In March, CBI had registered two first information reports (FIR) against Kapoor. The first FIR had alleged that Yes Bank had invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) between April and June 2018, in return for which Kapoor was allegedly paid ‘kickbacks’ amounting to ₹600 crore by DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan.DHFL sanctioned a loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises in which Kapoor’s wife Bindu is a director and 100% shareholder, alleged CBI. Kapoor’s daughters, Rakhee Kapoor Tandon, Roshni Kapoor, and Radha Kapoor, are also 100% shareholders in DoIT Urban Ventures.Based on the case registered by CBI, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) began its probe into allegations of money laundering by the accused. Kapoor is presently in judicial custody in connection with the ED caseIn the second case, CBI alleged that Kapoor and his wife bought a bungalow from Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar at a much lower price than its valuation. In the past, Thapar had mortgaged the bungalow for a corporate loan of ₹600 crore, but he sold it for ₹380 crore to Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd, in which Kapoor’s wife was a director at the time.The investigative agency had on March 20 obtained a production warrant to arrest Kapoor after he was remanded in judicial custody by the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court. The agency, however, had not executed the warrant.Fearing arrest by CBI, Kapoor had approached the special CBI court for pre-arrest bail last month, following which the court had directed the agency to file a reply on Kapoor’s plea. On Thursday, when the plea came up for hearing, Kapoor’s lawyers Abad Ponda and Subhash Jadhav sought interim protection from arrest.The central agency had not submitted its reply on the plea due to which the special court granted protection from arrest to Kapoor till July 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-rana-kapoor-gets-interim-protection-from-arrest-till-july-11/story-VMw347voDi73oHXparVAEL.html
03-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram police slaps SFJ chief with sedition charges||The Gurugram police on Thursday booked the chief of banned outfit ‘Sikhs for Justice (SFJ)’, Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, on charges of sedition for allegedly indulging in unlawful activity by “openly supporting the secession of Punjab from the Union of India by inciting the Sikhs and in activities aimed at threatening the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of India and inciting ill-will and hatred against people of Haryana.” The Gurugram police have also have invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against Pannun.The FIR lodged at Bhondsi police station was filed under sections 124-A (sedition) and section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 10 (A)and 13 of the UAPA on the basis of a complaint registered by Anand Kumar, in-charge of the technical division, Haryana Police’s Special Task Force (Headquarter) Bhondsi.In the FIR, the complainant stated that he received information from a “secret source” that a pre-recorded audio-video message had been circulating on social media, in which Pannun, who identified himself as General Counsel of SFJ, allegedly blamed the Government of Haryana and the people of Haryana for “being inimical to the interests of Sikhs and Punjabis.”“In the pre-recorded message, he claims that Haryana will be a part of Punjab when it becomes an independent country. He says that the people of Haryana will then have the option of either siding with Punjab as an independent country or of leaving the State and moving to other parts of India. He extorts the Sikhs from Haryana to take part in the voter registration for a so-called referendum to be held online on July 4, 2020,” reads the FIR.The FIR also mentions that SFJ is a “pro-Khalistan organisation” based in the United States of America that has been declared to be an ‘Unlawful Association’ under the provisions of sections 3 (1) (3) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967 by the union ministry of home affairs(MHA).The complaint says, “SFJ has been found to be indulging in activities that are prejudicial to the public order and the internal security of India and that have the potential of disrupting peace, unity, and integrity of the country. SFJ is in close touch with militant organisations that support the violent form of extremism and militancy in Punjab and elsewhere and has a declared objective of carving out a sovereign Khalistan out of the territory of India.”Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police, crime, said, “An FIR has been registered at Bhondsi police station. We will probe the contents of the complaint.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-slaps-sfj-chief-with-sedition-charges/story-LX2eqCYOfsKHtxiulNVg1L.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||FINANCIAL MESS: Higher education dept asks Punjabi varsity officials to pull up their socks||Taking a serious note of the financial mess at Punjab University, Patiala, the Punjab higher education department has directed its authorities to pull up their socks in order to bring the 58-year-old institution back on track.A high-level meeting chaired by secretary, higher education, Rahul Bhandari was held in Chandigarh on Thursday to discuss issues, especially the financial crisis in the university, at length. The varsity is toiling hard to meet its monthly committed expenditure, including payment of salaries to its employees.Vice-chancellor Prof BS Ghuman, along with a team of senior functionaries of university, higher education department and three retired professors of government colleges attended the meeting.“A meeting was held not only to take stock of the present situation, but to have a freewheeling discussion to resolve key issues, such as financial mess and pending inquiry reports, at the earliest. The basic purpose of the meeting was to come up with immediate steps to improve the overall condition of the university,” Bhandari said.On the financial front, Bhandari said the department told the university authorities that the government can only provide annual grant as allocated, while it has to generate its income from its own resources.“Though vice-chancellor is empowered to take all key decisions, the department has asked the university to reduce its expenses and adopt some austerity measures to stabilise its financial condition. Moreover, the university has been suggested to rationalise courses and discontinue that do not attract admissions,” said Bhandari.As per budgetary proposals for this fiscal, the university expects an income of ₹380 crore, while the expenditure is pegged at ₹676 crore, leaving a massive ₹296-crore deficit. The university also has an overdraft of ₹140 crore, which is expected to touch ₹150 crore by the end of the year.The failure of varsity in making timely payments of salaries has forced teaching, non-teaching employees and pensions to sit on protest for the past one month.Going through the univeristy exchequer, Bhandari said the university management has been asked to carry out rationalisation of teaching and non-teaching staff to check overstaffing.ON PENDING INQUIRY REPORTSThe officials also held discussion on pending action on inquiry reports related to allegations of corruption, nepotism and misuse of funds during 2007-2017.Following the resignation of former vice-chancellor Dr Jaspal Singh in March 2017, the then secretary, higher education, Anurag Verma, who was appointed as the officiating V-C, ordered 14 internal inquiries in April 2017.A two-member committee, comprising of former IAS officer Jagjit Puri and former IPS officer VK Kapoor, was setup. The panel submitted its sealed findings to the university in July 2018, but no action has been taken so far.“I have asked the vice-chancellor to hold a syndicate meeting at the earliest so as to decide future of these reports,” Bhandari said.V-C Prof BS Ghuman and registrar Prof Manjit Singh Nijjar could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/financial-mess-higher-education-dept-asks-punjabi-varsity-officials-to-pull-up-their-socks/story-H4YrHT6UzV6SIVklTXpJcM.html
03-07-2020||City||Anxiety, anticipation in rapid test centres across ‘red zones’||New Delhi: It is largely quiet at the local community hall in Sarita Vihar’s Block A, one of Delhi’s 445 containment zones, as people queue up for a 30-minute test that will determine whether they picked up the Sars-Cov-2 virus. Outside, all businesses are shut and access to the neighbourhood of around 750 families is extremely restricted – as is the exit. In a sudden flutter of activity, officials in bodysuits gather around and ask people to spread out as a woman, in her mid-thirties, finds out she is positive, almost immediately breaking down. The scene reflects the tense wait common to the hundreds of antigen testing centre around the capital, which have now become equally important as the web of dozens of diagnostic labs that together carry out tests for Covid-19. The antigen tests, rolled out on June 18 in community halls, schools and banquet halls across the city, offer a result in less than 30-minute, removing a significant bottleneck in what is the first of the three crucial steps to contain the epidemic: test, trace and isolate. “We are encouraging people to get tested, and the response has been positive so far. We conduct around 100 Covid-19 tests every day, of which only three or four test positive,” a health department official, who asked not to be named, said outside the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) community hall in the area.Pocket A houses around 750 families, all of whom are holed up in their DDA-built flats. The colony’s gates are blocked by Delhi Police barricades, cops stand guard outside while health workers keep a close watch on the streets inside the block. Essential service work and deliveries, such as groceries, are allowed only after application for passes are checked by the district magistrate. There were at least eight positives cases on the day the government issued the sealing order. Officials at the spot, who did not wish to be named, said there could be around 20 cases, many with mild or no symptoms. “It smells like a hospital here,” said Rakesh, a civil defence volunteer deployed in the area to monitor the containment area. The community hall, which earlier hosted bustling crowds for weddings and birthday parties, is now swarming with health officers in personal protective equipment (PPE) suits and sanitation workers who disinfect every inch of the main hall.“They have asked me to wait for half an hour. It reminds me of our schools days when we waited for the results after the exams. Only this time, it is more serious and the consequences could be fatal,” said Arjun K, a local resident. The collection of the sample – a health worker uses a cotton-tipped bud to swab the insides of the nose and the throat – takes a quick minute, but it takes another 20 for the stick-like kit to show whether the sample has the virus. “I know I do not have the virus but I still came to take the test because ours is a containment zone. One may admit or may not admit it, but everyone here is scared,” said Gopal Singh, 35, while for his turn in what was quickly turning into a warm, humid hall as the sun rose higher in the hot afternoon.The facility is centrally air-conditioned but officials have kept all doors and windows open in order to minimise the risk of indoor spread of the virus, which has been established to spread the air-conditioning flow.According to government records, until June 26, of 99,274 people across Delhi surveyed using the rapid antigen method, 7,414 have tested positive, suggesting a positivity rate of 7.46% among them. “The ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] has said the sensitivity of the antigen test is 50-80%. Suppose there are 100 positive cases, and if you apply gold standard tests then all 100 will test positive. But if you apply a test that has 80% sensitivity, that means it will be able to detect 80 such cases. There may be some false-negative cases. But on the positive side, you get results quickly,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, welcoming the antigen testing campaign and urging as many people as possible to get tested. “To some extent, this will help contain the virus. There is no harm in getting tested. The government is also doing it for free. But again, until there is a cure, people must maintain social distancing and wear masks,” he added.Pawan Rohail, a civil defence volunteer says, says he has to take the test once a week. “We work in containment zones for almost 12 hours a day. I can understand what residents must be feeling because we take tests every week and go through the same nervousness. This nervousness has become routine now.”People like him were previously involved in other civil assistance work. A fellow civil defence volunteer, Pankaj Kumar, was a marshal on DTC buses to ensure women’s safety. “In the morning we were helping officials ensure social distancing. Now I am back to showing the sanitation worker every inch of space that people had used in the morning. The virus could be anywhere. Our job is to kill it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anxiety-anticipation-in-rapid-test-centres-across-red-zones/story-hBybkXEN0iIpOxXMgUIIQN.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar GMC PPE scam probe stuck as testing report on kits awaited from DRDE||The investigation into the alleged scam involving purchase of personal protection equipment (PPE) at Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, has got delayed as the authorities are yet to receive the testing and certification reports of kits from the Defence Research and Development Establishment (DRDE). The DRDE, an agency of the defence ministry, has been authorised to conduct laboratory testing of Covid-19 kits. The alleged purchase scam surfaced in April when doctors, nurses and other medical staff at the hospital refused to use the 2,000 kits saying they were substandard and did not have N-95 masks. They had also accused the authorities of paying around ₹41 lakh for the kits, which according to them should not have cost more than ₹7 lakh. Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GMC’s hospital) medical superintendent Dr Raman Sharma had placed the order to buy the kits. On April 24, Amritsar deputy commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon marked an inquiry into the matter to Pallavi Chaudhary, chief administrator, Amritsar Development Authority. But no report has been submitted yet. After the Centre wrote to the Punjab government to complete the inquiry in a time-bound manner on June 23, on the request of Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, the probe picked up pace and statements of 20 doctors were recorded.Even after the enquiry into the alleged scam was marked on April 24, it took around 44 days for the hospital authorities to send the samples of PPE kits to the DRDE for testing. “The samples of PPE kits were sent on June 7. The reports from DRDE were supposed to be received within a month. We recently sent a reminder to DRDE asking for the reports,” said Dr Raman Sharma. Dr Sujata Sharma, who was shunted out as GMC principal on Wednesday, said, “The probe cannot be completed till the DRDE sends reports as we cannot ascertain if the kits were substandard or not.”Besides the probe entrusted by the DC, Dr Sujata Sharma had also formed an inquiry panel of college officials to look into the matter.On Thursday, GMC committee in-charge Dr JP Atri submitted a confidential report to Pallavi Chaudhary who was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amritsar-gmc-ppe-scam-probe-stuck-as-testing-report-on-kits-awaited-from-drde/story-b6Wuy8yuf0hcxVNSY3LJkL.html
03-07-2020||City||Badlapur residents warn homebuyers about lack of water supply||Irked with water woes in Badlapur city, residents of Shirgaon, Badlapur have put up signboards across the locality asking home buyers to be wise while booking flats in this area stating that residents have been facing water shortage since the past five years.The signboards read, “This is to inform those who are planning to buy flats at Shirgaon in Badlapur that the area has severe water shortage, water supply is at very low pressure. Do not fall prey into the traps of the builders and be alert while booking a flat here.”Arun Surval, a 51-year-old resident of Shirgaon, said, “We hardly get water for half an hour and sometimes at low pressure. There are so many new constructions in these areas, but there is no effort to provide adequate water supply to the residents. People pay lakhs for flats and then face water shortage. We don’t want others to fall prey like us.”“We had complained about this to officials but no solution has been given yet. With the kind of construction works happening in these areas, the authorities should sort out our water supply woes,” he added.Shirgaon and nearby areas in Badlapur Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) region comprises of a population of around 50,000 people which is increasing with more constructions coming up in the area.“Sometimes when the water supply is inadequate we have to depend on tankers. The tankers are not easy to get and the water is unhealthy and stinks. We don’t know from where it is lifted. When we bought a flat here around four years ago, the water supply was adequate. However, it’s not the same now,” said Uday Patil, 40, another resident.The Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP) supplies a total of 30 MLD water to these areas. “Recently there have been issues with pumping water, and we are working on regularising it. Meanwhile, we have also got the approval for the increase in quota of water supply for the area, though the quantity is not yet finalised. We are preparing a plan to set up a system and distribution network for the additional supply. The work is in progress,” said an official from MJP, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/badlapur-residents-warn-homebuyers-about-lack-of-water-supply/story-TCaXRFMLaZYa32yDHAIy8J.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Will disburse ₹8,200 crore for farm loan waiver by month-end’||State cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil said the remaining amount of ₹8,200 crore towards loan waiver to 11.25 lakh farmers will be disbursed by month-end. After paying more than ₹12,000 crore towards 19 lakh beneficiaries, the scheme was put on hold owing to the cash crunch due to the lockdown. Patil said that after the two phases of loan waiver, the process of verification of accounts and authentication of Aadhaar numbers was stalled due to the lockdown. “It has now been resumed, and we have released ₹2,000 crore for its next phase. Farmers in the list of beneficiaries are requested to complete their authentication at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-disburse-8-200-crore-for-farm-loan-waiver-by-month-end/story-d9llwXzebG1HRDqzJezndP.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||2015 FIRING: SIT adds charges of fabricating evidence to Behbal Kalan case||The special investigations team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing on the Bargari sacrilege protesters on Thursday added charges of fabricating evidence in the Behbal Kalan case, earlier registered under sections of murder and attempt to murder. The move comes days after the SIT arrested Faridkot lawyer Sohail Singh Brar and Pankaj Bansal, a Moga-based car dealer, for their alleged role in fabricating evidence in the Behbal Kalan firing episode. The SIT had arrested Brar and Bansal for allegedly helping the accused policemen in constructing ‘fake self-defence theory’ by fabricating bullet marks on the escort vehicle of the then Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma. Brar was arrested on June 16, while Bansal was taken in custody on June 20. Sections 194 (giving or fabricating false evidence with intent to procure conviction of capital offence) and 195 (giving or fabricating false evidence with intent to procure conviction of offence punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment) of Indian Penal Code were added to the FIR filed in 2018.Last month, the SIT also added Section 109 (punishment of abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence and where no express provision is made for its punishment) to the FIR.PRODUCTION WARRANT OF EX-SHO ALLOWEDJudicial magistrate (first class) Ekta Uppal on Thursday allowed production warrant of then Kotkapura station house officer (SHO) Gurdeep Singh Pandher on the plea of the SIT. Pandher was arrested on June 25 for his alleged role in tampering with evidence in the Kotkapura firing case. He was sent to judicial custody the next day. District attorney Rajnish Goyal, who appeared for SIT, said, “The Bathinda jail superintendent has been asked to produce Pandher in the court on Friday. We will demand his police custody for further investigation.”HEARING ON BAIL PLEA ADJOURNED Acting district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi adjourned the hearing in the bail applications of Pandher, Brar and Bansal, who were arrested in the 2015 Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing cases, to Saturday. They all are in judicial custody. Defence counsel Gursahib Singh Brar said, “The prosecution has opposed the bail of Brar and Bansal stating new sections were added in the Behbal Kalan case and that of Pandher demanding production warrant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2015-firing-sit-adds-charges-of-fabricating-evidence-to-behbal-kalan-case/story-NHUU8GRjuKjs8HTXewL6YN.html
03-07-2020||Noida||Amputated hand re-joined in rare surgery at Noida hospital||Doctors at a Noida-based hospital have performed a rare surgery and rejoined the amputated the hand of 25-year-old Greater Noida-based man. The patient’s family members have termed it a “miracle”. On June 29, a family dispute over property in Greater Noida’s Niyana village under Kasna police area led to altercation, leading to the left hand of Devender Bhati getting amputated via an axe-like object. “Devender is a contractual worker with the Greater Noida Authority. His father Rajinder, too, suffered injuries and multiple fractures. Bijendra Singh, a relative, was shot dead by the opposing party,” said Dinesh Kumar Kapasiya, Devender’s cousin.He said when Devender was injured when he went to the aid of Bijendra, when Nishant, another accused, allegedly attacked him with a sharp edged, axe-like tool, which dismembered his hand from his arm. “Police have arrested four of the accused while one accused is yet to be arrested,” he added.Devender’s relatives immediately picked up his dismembered hand, tied a cloth around the profusely bleeding stump and took him to a local hospital. “As the local hospital did not have the facility for a replantation surgery, I called up the Jaypee Hospital,” Dinesh said.He initially took the victim to Yatharth Hospital, from there he was taken to the Jaypee Hospital in an ambulance.“It is a miracle for us. The hand has been joined by Dr Ashish Rai. It’s nothing short of a miracle for us,” he added.Dr Ashish Rai, additional director, plastic, aesthetic and reconstructive surgery, Jaypee Hospital, Noida, said Wednesday, “I asked them not to waste time and rush him to the hospital. The patient took another hour to reach the hospital. Already three-and-a-half hours had passed since the incident and I was worried about the success of the surgery. “We took the patient straight to the Operation Theatre without waiting for the Covid-19 test as another hour’s delay would have done irreversible damage. After a seven-hour long surgery, we were able to successfully join the hand to the forearm,” he said.“The patient is doing well and his hand is holding very well. He is on antibiotics and blood thinner and will be discharged in one week. This is a rare surgery requiring micro vascular and hand surgery expertise,” said Dr Rai, adding that his Covid test reports have come out negative.“It was a race against time as if we are not able to restore the blood supply within six hours of amputation, the chances of failure is high,” said Rai.Indian Medical Association Noida president Dr NK Sharma said, “Noida has been emerging as a medical hub for rare surgeries. The doctor has done commendable surgery. In the city, Sharda Hospital, Kailash Hospital, Fortis Hospital and Metro Hospital & Heart Institute have been performing rare surgeries. Medanta hospital has also bought land in Noida for setting up of a hospital.”Noida district CMO Dr Deepak Ohri could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. “The FIR has been lodged at Kasna Police station. Police have arrested four accused so far: Jasmal, Raj Kumar, Nishant and Monty. Another accused is yet to be arrested,” added Dinesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/amputated-hand-re-joined-in-rare-surgery-at-noida-hospital/story-rsMWEW2soTrTvgX2z2x3BP.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||No work, salary: House helps’ struggle continues||Shahida Shaikh, resident of the slum area in Goregaon’s Bhagat Singh Nagar, is unemployed from more than three months, after the lockdown was imposed. Four of the five homes where she used to work as a domestic help asked her not to come to work until the outbreak is over.Currently, she has resumed work only at one home, for which she will be paid a monthly salary of ₹1,200. Her 20-year old son used to work at a garage, but owing to the lockdown, it is currently shut. The mother and son are struggling to even manage meals twice a day. With bills piled up from the past three months, Shaikh has been received warnings stating that her water and power supply will be disconnected if she does not pay the amount at the immediately. Moreover, she also suffers from a liver ailment and is finding it difficult to arrange for medicines. She also has been postponing the sonography which her doctor has advised her to undergo.“Not only Shaikh, but thousands of domestic helps in the city are struggling for their survival. Only 4-5% of them have been paid for April, while none of them have been paid after that. Many lost their jobs. Some of them are now selling vada-paav, vegetables or eggs, but not without disruptions from the authorities,” said Babli Rawat, general secretary, National Federation of Domestic Workers.While the state cooperation department said that housing societies cannot prevent the entry of domestic helps, most societies are not keen to rehire them owing to the fear of the spread of the virus.Apathy at the government level has made the situation even more challenging as the welfare board for domestic helps constituted a decade ago is defunct and the welfare schemes remain only on papers. Activists now demand for the resumption of the schemes and urge the state to tweak the Domestic Workers Welfare Board Act to ensure minimum wages, weekly-offs, sick leaves, Diwali bonus and other welfare benefits to house helps.Vilas Borade, general secretary of Vidarbha Molkarin Sanghatana, a state-based organisation for house helps, said, “Most of the welfare schemes are defunct on papers from the past six years as the government did not make adequate provisions or revived the welfare board. Since there are no schemes in operation, the members are not willing to pay their annual fees to keep their membership valid. The state should allot ₹10 crore every year to keep the welfare schemes going. In the two-day session of various organisations working for the domestic helps in December, we passed a resolution urging the state to bring changes in the Act.”According to a senior official from the office of the development commissioner of labour (unorganised labour), the number of members registered with the Maharashtra Domestic Welfare Board dropped to 1 lakh. According to rough estimates, more than 25 lakh people, mostly women, work as domestic helps in the state.“There were 4.5 lakh registrations of domestic helps previously, which dropped to 1 lakh now. From one-time cash benefits such as Sanman Dhan of ₹10,000 to domestic helps in the 55-60 age group, to scholarships, maternity benefits and funeral assistance, we extend the benefits as and when they are applied for,” the official said.Labour department’s website stated that 1,902 members were paid ₹10,000 each as Sanman Dhan, though the official claimed that more than 12,000 members were paid the amount. Most other insurance schemes covering accidental deaths and disability benefits were linked to Life Insurance Corporation’s (LIC’s) Janashree Yojana, but the state government has not paid its premium as it wants to link the scheme to centrally-sponsored schemes. Activists, however, said the money has not disbursed in the past six years. “The Prithviraj Chavan government made the budgetary allocation, but the next government dissolved our board in 2014, comprising the representatives of helps, organisations and employers. It has been now a one-member board headed by the development commissioner and with no budgetary allocation,” said Rupa Kulkarni, one of the former members of the board.Development commissioner (unorganised labour) Pankaj Kumar said, “We proposed to extend Prime Minister Jeevan Jyoti and Prime Minister Suraksha Bima Yojana insurance schemes after the Janashree scheme was discontinued. We are awaiting the government’s nod now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-work-salary-house-helps-struggle-continues/story-h3hliKCaAZq0zm9Lftp0fL.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||Hot spot Govandi shows signs of improvement says BMC||After Dharavi, Mumbai’s second largest slum belt Govandi-Mankhurd is showing show signs of improvement in the fight against Covid-19. M-East ward, which includes slum pockets of Deonar, Govandi, Baiganwadi, Shivaji Nagar and Cheetah Camp and Deonar dumping ground, is spread across an area of 32.50sqkm. The total population of the ward is 8,06,433, of which 6,85,468 lives in slums. As of Thursday, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in these areas reached 68 days, compared to the city’s 41 days. The doubling rate is the amount of time required for the cases to double. The average daily infected cases reported in M-East ward have come down from 80-90 cases in May-end to 15-20 cases in the past one week, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). However, experts remain sceptical, claiming BMC has not released crucial data to determine if the situation on ground has improved.In the second week of May, M-East had the highest number of Covid cases, Govandi being a hot spot. Almost 70% of the cases reported in M-East were from Govandi, mainly from Baiganwadi, Shivaji Nagar, Limouni Baug and Natvar Parek compound. The ward has now come down to the 13th position among the city’s 24 administrative wards. The total Covid cases in M-East stand at 3,154, of which 1,732 patients have been discharged.The growth rate of cases in Govandi and Mankhurd has also come down to 1%, while the city’s average growth rate is 1.72%. Officials from the ward confirmed the number of daily cases started to decrease from the first week of June.Sudhanshu Dwivedi, assistant municipal commissioner of M-East ward, said, “Earlier, if there were 70 cases in the ward, 50 were found in Govandi alone. Now, if there are 30 cases, less than five cases are from Govandi. Over 7, 000 households are screened everyday at the 15 health posts. At least 50-55 people are tested daily in the ward.”Dwivedi explained that they formed 46 local leaders in all containment zones, calling them ‘containment observers’. “These observers tell us if anyone in their area needs immediate medical help, toilets are not sanitised or social distancing is not followed. This helped us tackle the situation. We also focused on quarantining more people from slums who use community toilets,” he said. The ward has 46 containment zones and over 70 sealed buildings.Arun Kumar, CEO of NGO Apnalaya which works with communities in Shivajinagar slum clusters of Govandi, said, “There are a couple of things we need to determine if the situation has improved. Firstly, have we increased the number of testings in wards like M-East whose more than 50% population lives in slums? Is there a behavioural change among residents towards social distancing norms? BMC needs to release data based on these points in order to back their claims of improvement.” Kumar, however, agreed that the number of beds, ventilators and ICU beds have increased as per BMC’s data. The other hot spots of Dharavi and Worli, too, have shown improvement. The doubling rate in G-North (Dharavi) and G-South (Worli) is 57 days. The growth rate of cases in these two wards is 1.2%. While Worli witnessed a decline in numbers from mid-May, the numbers in Dharavi started plunging from June 1. As of Thursday, the total cases reported in G-North is 4,967 and G-South is 3,758. Dharavi reported 19 new cases on Thursday, taking the total to 2,301.On Thursday, Mumbai reported 1,554 Covid-19 cases, bringing the total to 80,699. New 58 deaths brought the toll to 4,689. Of the 58 deaths, four were below 40 years of age, 34 above 60 years, and 19 patients between 40 and 60 years.As per BMC’s data, 5, 903 patients recovered and were discharged on Thursday, the highest so far. A total of 50,694 patients have been treated and discharged by now. The recovery rate in Mumbai has now gone up to 63%. The number of Covid tests conducted till Wednesday is 3.39 lakh. On Wednesday, 6,044 tests were conducted in Mumbai, highest in a single day so far.Fifteen days after CM Uddhav Thackeray e-inaugurated a 1,000-bed hospital at Bandra-Kurla Complex, Maharashtra Navanirman Sena slammed the authorities, alleging the hospital does not have adequate staff or ICU beds as promised. MNS leader Akhil Chitre said, “When I called up the Covid facility, I was told that the ICU facility is not ready yet and there is shortage of staff. Why is the state lying to the common public?” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of Health, said, “The phase 1 hospital at BKC has 40% beds vacant. We have 174 ICU beds vacant across Mumbai. The scaling up of beds has been planned. The facilities are ready, but what will we do by starting phase 2, when phase 1 of the Covid facility is still vacant?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hot-spot-govandi-shows-signs-of-improvement-says-bmc/story-LV5Kd7tpiIoT3ErneTrb6O.html
03-07-2020||Mumbai||50% shops stay shut as restrictions make business tough||The state government started easing the lockdown restrictions in June, yet, less than 50% of shops in Mumbai have opened their shutters for business. The main reason for this, traders say, is a massive shortage of staff, lack of transport facilities, and restrictive business timings.Also, the 2-km radius restriction rule has deterred shop-owners from resuming work.According to the Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT), more than half the city’s shopkeepers have not opened their establishments. “Both traders and their staff do not have travel facilities as they are not allowed on trains and buses. In addition, the timing of 9am to 5pm is not very conducive to carry out trade. Even if our traders try to come early in private vehicles, they are caught in massive traffic jams. Hence, it makes no sense for them to open their shops,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, CAMIT. “Most of the staff have migrated back to their hometowns; many traders are unable to open due to shortage of labour,” he added.Mitesh Modi, convenor, Lamington Road Traders Association Action Committee (LRTAAC), said the 2-km radius rule has only aggravated the situation.“Everything is not available within the 2-km radius, but this rule has dissuaded many of our customers for fear of police action,” said Modi. LRTAAC represents traders dealing in electronic goods, two-wheeler spare parts, and plywood.Many traders who have not opened their shops say they are studying the situation. “This rule of opening shops on alternate days makes our whole business unviable. Besides, once we start, we have to pay rent as well as salaries to the staff,” said Datta Khedekar, who runs four beauty parlours in central Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/50-shops-stay-shut-as-restrictions-make-business-tough/story-x269gLU4T8GtfHeG2MjJ8L.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Pay ₹5,000 fine for not registering pet dog in Chandigarh||Want go get a cute, furry friend home? If you’re in Chandigarh, it could now be an expensive proposition as you will have to pay a fine of ₹5,000 if you do not register your pet dog, according to the Chandigarh Registration of Pet Dogs (Amendment) Bylaws 2020, notified by the UT administration on Thursday.The MC general house had, last year, approved the proposal for the tenfold increase in penalty from ₹500 earlier.Even applying for registration will cost owners ₹500 instead of ₹200.And forget taking your dog to your favourite exercise haunt as they are barred from the Sukhna Lake, Rose Garden, Shanti Kunj, Rock Garden, Leisure Valley, Mini Rose Garden, Fragrance Garden, Terrace Garden, Shivalik Garden and other public places/gardens in the city.Those who delay registrations will have to pay an additional fine of about ₹200 for a maximum of seven days. Earlier, the fine was ₹20.Maintenance charges of ₹100 for dogs seized or detained under the bye-laws have been increased to ₹1,000 to claim the pet.The bye-laws state it is mandatory for dog owners to register each pet at the municipal corporation office once the canine is four months old. Only two dogs are allowed per family.The order states, “The UT Administrator has approved for amendment in the existing rates of charges/fines in the registration of Pet Dogs Bylaws 2010, as per the resolution passed by the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh in its 259th meeting. The approval is in accordance with the provisions available under the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976 as extended to the union territory, Chandigarh by the Punjab Municipal Corporation Law (extension to Chandigarh) Act, 1994.”The owners need to ensure that a collar affixed with a metal token issued by the registration authority is tied on their pet’s neck. All ferocious dogs have to be muzzled and a stick has to be carried by the escort accompanying the dog while taking them out.There are around 8,000 registered pet dogs in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pay-5-000-fine-for-not-registering-pet-dog/story-ir39TBvuAwzhGfwIpEM78L.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Charges dropped against Balbir Sidhu in 2015 train obstruction case||Charges against cabinet minister cum local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu Mohali of obstructing trains were dropped by chief judicial magistrate Deepika Singh on Thursday on the grounds of railways failing to file a complaint on time. On May 2, 2015, Sidhu with 200 supporters was accused of stopping trains at Lalru during a state wide agitation in May for over two hours causing losses to railways. However, the railways filed a complaint on May 24, 2019, four years later.  Sidhu had sought dismissal of the complaint filed by the railways under section 174 in The Railways Act, 1989,which calls for prosecution and three-year jail term if guilty for anyone obstructing trains. The court said in view of the bar under Section 468 CrPC it was not competent to take cognizance of the offence for which a complaint was filed four years later, after the lapse of the three-year period of limitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/charges-dropped-against-sidhu-of-obstructing-trains-in-2015/story-4OXP9Oz0r7nuIFM4etfOgL.html
03-07-2020||Delhi||Diesel, supply disruption push up vegetable prices: Traders||The retail and wholesale prices of vegetables such as tomato, capsicum, okra, ridge gourd and cauliflower, have witnessed an “unusually sharp increase” in the national capital over the last week.Traders and wholesale market committees attributed the increase to the annual disruption in supply during the monsoon, but also to the increased margins by middlemen who have suffered losses in the lockdown months, and the increase in diesel prices that has a direct correlation with transportation cost.On Thursday, most retail markers in Delhi sold tomatoes for ₹70-80 per kg, capsicum at around ₹100-120 per kg, okra for ₹90-100 per kg, ridge gourd for ₹100-110 per kg and cauliflower for around ₹60 per kg. The rates were up between 50% and 100% in the last one week, the traders said.“There has been no stability. Vegetables usually get costlier in this season because of the rain. The loss is relatively higher for green vegetables, which are more perishable in nature. But this year many factors played to increase the prices too much in too short a time. This is unusual,” said Nilesh Kumar, a trader based at the retail vegetable market in south Delhi’s Mehrauli.Records of Azadpur agriculture wholesale market, which accounts for more than 80% of the total supply of vegetables across Delhi, showed significant increase in prices. On June 25, the wholesale prices for tomato was₹14.75 per kg (on Thursday, this was ₹32), capsicum ₹10.25 per kg (₹32.5), okra ₹10.50 per kg (₹16.50), ridge gourd ₹9.50 per kg (₹12) and cauliflower ₹10.75 per kg (₹14).While eastern and northeastern India continue to receive heavy rain, the monsoon is likely to intensify in the coming days in central and western India, the India meteorological department had reported .“Prices go up in the monsoon because the losses go up and add to the cost of vegetables. But this year, the increase in diesel prices have contributed to a two-fold blow,” said Adil Khan, chairperson of the agriculture produce market committee in Azadpur.The Azadpur market gets its largest share of green vegetables from states such as Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. But, tomatoes mainly come from Maharashtra, Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh.The increase in retail prices in Delhi is disproportionate even if compared to the wholesale price increase, Haji Yamin, a wholesale vegetable trader based in the Okhla market, pointed out.Yamin, said: “The increase in diesel price has a direct effect on transportation cost. That is likely to affect prices. But, other than that, traders and middlemen have also contributed to the disproportionate jacking up of prices in different levels to make up for the losses incurred during the lockdown months through increased margins, taking advantage of the monsoon price hike and diesel rates.”Fuel prices have been soaring in the country since daily price revisions were resumed from June 7. The price of diesel rose by ₹11.14 per litre in about three weeks; on Thursday price of diesel per litre in Delhi was ₹80.53, Gurugram ₹72.81, Mumbai ₹78.95, Chennai ₹77.78 and Bengaluru ₹76.59.Naveen Gupta, secretary-general of the All India Motor Transport Congress, said that the change in diesel rates usually takes some time to affect transport costs. “Recently, the diesel rates have increased too rapidly in too short a time, and it is difficult to ascertain how that has contributed to increased costs of products in the agriculture sector. However, diesel comprises of around 65% of transport cost and an increase in diesel rate will definitely have a direct effect. But every market sector needs its own time to ascertain the effect of such complicated inter-related factors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/diesel-supply-disruption-push-up-vegetable-prices-traders/story-tLKecr34lKAsEqgOU5BDHO.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana govt schools to commemorate Guru Tegh Bahadur’s birth anniversary with online competitions||Online educational competitions will be organised for students of Ludhiana government schools from July 6 to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Students will participate in competitions including poem recitation, debate, painting, slogan-writing, poster-making, handwriting, Power Point presentation and will make videos of the activity and send it on the class WhatsApp group.The topics of the competitions will be based on the life, teachings and achievements of the guru. The aim is to make students aware of the teachings and life of Guru Tegh Bahadur.A letter has been issued by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) to district education officers (secondary), elementary and school heads to make maximum students participate in these competitions. It is the responsibility of principals to make students register online for the competition. The competitions will be held at school, block, district levels and then state level. The winners will be issued certificates online by SCERT.A six-member committee will be formed and competitions will be conducted under their supervision. The district education officer will be the chairman of the committee.DEO (secondary), Swaranjit Kaur, said, “Participating in these competitions will make students aware of the teachings and life of the ninth guru. The school principals have been informed so that maximum students can participate.”The shabad gayan competition will be conducted at school level and video will be uploaded for tehsil and block level competitions between July 6 to July 12. The selected students will participate at district level between July 20 to July 26.At state level, the school heads will get the videos uploaded on the winners of the district level between July 27 to August 2. The final results will be announced by the head office on August 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/students-of-ludhiana-govt-schools-to-participate-in-various-competitions-to-commemorate-400th-birth-anniversary-of-guru-tegh-bahadur/story-DjwJdTWqgPIKMcmbwm2LeN.html
03-07-2020||Pune||PCMC records highest number of fresh cases in a single day, 314, on Thursday||Pimpri-Chinchwad on Thursday registered the highest number of positive Covid-19 cases at 314.The twin township has been reporting more than 100 cases since the past three days. As of Thursday till 7:30pm, there are a total of 3,544 Covid-19 cases in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). At least, 2,154 have been cured while 1,364 are still undergoing treatment. A total of 47 people have died due to Covid.“The number of positive patients are increasing as we are conducting 500-600 tests daily. The number is expected to rise as we will be starting rapid antigen detection tests,” said Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.One lakh rapid antigen detection kit will be available with the PCMC health department from Friday.“The kit will play a big role in putting brakes on the spread of Covid-19 as we will get results in 30 minutes which will speed up our testing process,” said Usha Dhore, mayor, PCMC.In Pune, rapid antigen detection tests were conducted on Wednesday at Naidu Hospital. On the first day, the tests were conducted on 25 people out of which four tested positive.With rising cases, civic authorities have appealed to people to follow guidelines to minimise the risk of Covid-19 infection. Shopkeepers should encourage the use of contactless transactions/cashless payments wherever possible and should emphasise that not more than five people will be present at one time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-records-highest-number-of-fresh-cases-in-a-single-day-314-on-thursday/story-UeaWaXMh1fVJLTWoYdutUN.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Former Punjab minister Mittal defends agri ordinances, accuses Congress, AAP of misleading farmers||Ludhiana The Punjab unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday hit out at the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for criticising the Central government’s ordinances on agricultural reforms, saying they were misleading the farmers.All the ordinances were formulated in cognizance of the Swaminathan committee report, said former Punjab Cabinet minister and BJP leader Madan Mohan Mittal.Terming the recent statements of Congress state president Sunil Jhakhar and AAP’s Bhagwant Mann as totally “fabricated and malicious,” Mittal said the Central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was committed to uplifting the economic status of the agriculture sector.Mittal was visiting the BJP office near the Clock Tower to address a conference on the ordinance. “We want to remind the Congress party that it was in power for 10 long years and Manmohan Singh did not bother to implement the Swaminathan report on agriculture,” he said.The BJP had taken into consideration the long forgotten report and tried to come up with plans to address the plight of the agrarian sector. It was the protectionist ordinance of the Modi-led BJP government which would ensure that a farmer did not lose his “ rights of ownership” even if he had leased his land for long periods.The National Commission on Farmers (NCF) was set up on November 18, 2004 under the chairmanship of Professor MS Swaminathan to address the nationwide calamity of farmer suicides in India. It has submitted a number of reports with suggestions to achieve the goal of “faster and more inclusive growth.” The government had given the farmers the right to sell their produce to the highest bidder in the market after 73 years of India’s independence. The Union agriculture minister had repeatedly gone on record to say that MSP would not be discontinued and the farmers would not have to worry that their crops would not get buyers, he said.“Unfortunately the Congress and APP have nothing to demonstrate what they have done for the agriculture sector. They have found themselves in a desperate situation and are misleading the farmers,” Mittal added.Giving the assurance that marketing committees would also function as before, he said: “We promise to the farmers of Punjab that BJP will stand committed to protect the agriculture of this state which has made the country food surplus.” The state BJP would be launching an awareness drive and go to each village in the state and inform the farmers about the newly introduced farmers’ ordinance, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-minister-mittal-defends-agri-ordinances-accuses-cong-aap-of-misleading-farmers/story-Me0YR5mVdve1IFzhkI1cYN.html
03-07-2020||Pune||Pune to have 450 ventilator beds to deal with rising cases: Civic chief Shekhar Gaikwad||Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Wednesday said that the civic administration will increase its ventilator beds capacity to deal with critical patients. “A total of 450 ventilator beds would be available within the next two-three weeks. Private hospitals have enough ventilator beds which have not been acquired as of yet, however, the civic body will acquire them in a phased manner,” said Gaikwad.Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited and Pune Municipal Corporation published their report for Covid-19 data between June 19 and June 30 and projected a shortage of ventilators and ICU beds by the end of July. As per the report, Pune will face a shortage of 202 ventilator beds and 400 ICU beds.The report also projected the Covid-19 cases for July and the civic infrastructure readiness to handle the situation. Pune is projected to have 47,796 Covid-19 positive cases by the end of July, of which 19,596 will be active cases. Currently, Pune has a total bed capacity of 18,556, which includes private bed acquired or reserved by PMC. Hence, there will be an acute shortage of beds. The number of ventilators is also a concern for the civic body as currently there are only 288 and by the end of July, the number would be in the negative zone.Considering the report, mayor Murlidhar Mohol held a meeting with the civic chief, IAS officer Saurabh Rao and additional commissioners on Wednesday evening. “The situation will become critical for us by July-end, however, we have time to boost our infrastructure,” said Mohol.“I have instructed the civic administration to acquire maximum beds from private hospitals and the commissioner will soon issue an order for it,” he added.The civic chief said, “We got 21 ventilators from the PM Cares fund. As the PMC did not have enough medical staff, we handed over these 21 ventilators to the Sassoon General Hospital. I am planning to increase ventilators at Sassoon to 50 by this week. I will issue the order to acquire more private hospitals bed soon.”Commissioner said that the civic body was preparing for a critical situation and plan to increase the infrastructure as per requirement.The doubling rate of total positive cases in the city is 17.98 and PMC has already crossed the 18,000 positive numbers. “The cases were expected to rise with the unlocking process. For symptomatic patients, we have enough infrastructure. We need to care mainly for critical patients and mainly, the patients who require ventilator support,” added Gaikwad.Advocate Vijaysinh Thomare said, “My personal experience is that patients are not allotted beds easily in private hospitals. One of our colleagues tested Covid-19 positive and she had to go through two-three hospitals in order to finally get admitted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-to-have-450-ventilators-beds-to-deal-with-rising-cases-civic-chief-shekhar-gaikwad/story-4OVcA8DAOP3NjO6GzZY2iI.html
03-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traffic police push accelerator on challaning speedsters||In just the past two months, the traffic police have issued 13,477 e-challans for speeding, over 1.5 times more than the 8,813 challans issued in the entire last year.The challaning drive started on May 5, when the traffic police introduced three automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) systems. Mounted on tripods, these are equipped with cameras and sensors to measure the speed of vehicles and click a picture of those crossing the speed limit. The device can also be used at night and can be shifted within a few minutes. As this requires only one personnel to man it, the previous practice of setting up barricades with traffic cops and marshalls has been done away with. The challans are sent to the violator through a text message on their registered mobile number. Violators are fined Rs 1,000 for the first offence and Rs 2,000 for subsequent offences. The driving licence is also cancelled for three months. “We have started installing the system on two-lane roads as well where the speed limit is 50km/h. Contrary to common notion, the speed limit is not 60km/h on all roads,” said Kewal Krishan, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic administration).Special vigil around Sukhna LakeFollowing a litany of complaints from the residents regarding speeding at Sukhna Lake, traffic police are maintaining a special vigil on the roads around it. Taking to Twitter, deputy inspector general of police (DIG, traffic) Shashank Anand said a team of traffic police had been posted at the lake, and over 120 challans for speeding had been issued over the last weekend.Pay fines online from FridayUT administrator VP Singh Badnore will inaugurate online payment of e-challans on Friday. The traffic police have been using e-challaning machines since 2018. It will now be possible to pay the challan on the spot or even through the internet by using a credit or debit card.DSP Krishan said except for drunken driving and dangerous driving, which includes using a mobile phone while driving, jumping a red light and driving on the cycle track, all challans can be paid online. “A seizure slip will be given for offences like speeding, riding without helmet, triple riding and using a pressure horn, among others, if the motorist pays on the spot. The licence will be seized and sent to the relevant transport authority for further action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/slow-down-chandigarh-traffic-police-get-cracking-against-speedsters/story-5wDCp8WZFV1k5DMxGBNURP.html
03-07-2020||Pune||‘If shortage of medical staff arises, doctors working at flu clinics will be diverted to Covid care centres’||Mayor Murlidhar Mohol on Wednesday conducted a review meeting of the Covid-19 situation in the city with top civic officials and instructed them to act speedily to keep the pandemic under control. HT spoke to the mayor regarding the administration’s Covid-19 preparedness.Do you think that Pune will soon face a shortage of beds considering the 500-600 Covid-19 positive cases emerging daily in the city?We have enough infrastructure to deal with the rise and we can also increase the facilities. Our main concern is the medical professionals. I conducted a meeting with the municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad; sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao and all the additional municipal commissioners and instructed them to speed up the process to get more medical staff. I even instructed the administration that the doctors working at flu centres can be diverted to Covid care centres, if the need arises.Pune Smart City and the Pune Municipal Corporation data point to a shortage of ventilators and oxygen beds by the end of July. How will you handle the situation?It is true that by the end of July, the situation would become critical for us. We can create the oxygen support beds, but will need to increase the ventilator beds. I have instructed the municipal commissioner to take charge of beds from all the hospitals in the city. We recently gave temporary appointments to doctors and nurses, but most of them did not join duty despite being given appointments.Is the PMC seeking support from the state and central government to handle the situation?The Pune Municipal Corporation has spent at least Rs150 crore till date to handle Covid-19 pandemic. Now, the private hospitals have sent the civic body Rs25 crore bills for treatments under the urban poor scheme. The state government needs to support us and I have spoken to the guardian minister Ajit Pawar. PMC received 21 ventilators under the PM Cares scheme recently.If the city faces a shortage of medical staff, how will you handle it?I have asked the municipal commissioner to approach nursing colleges and try to recruit nurses from there. Pune has started almost 70 flu clinics. There are very few patients coming to some of these centres. Staff from these flu clinics can be shifted to Covid care centres. We have empowered the municipal administration to start recruitments. The need of the hour is to differentiate between symptomatic patients and critical positive cases. PMC needs to focus on critical cases as symptomatic patients will not need so much medical care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/if-shortage-of-medical-staff-arises-doctors-working-at-flu-clinics-will-be-diverted-to-covid-care-centres/story-SfnsuDw01Ht4tq4UmU5tmM.html
03-07-2020||Pune||10 ventilators in an ICU facility worth Rs 1cr lying unused since two months due to lack of intensivist and trained PMC staff||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) plan to upgrade its health infrastructure to combat Covid-19 has hit a roadblock at Dalvi hospital due to absence of an intensivist and trained faculty for running the advanced ICU facility. The lack of trained personnel has forced the ICU facility, estimated to be worth Rs 1 crore, to remain shut for the past two months since its inauguration.The ICU at Dalvi Maternity hospital was formally started on April 28 when Credai (Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India) donated 10 ventilators to the PMC. According to additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal, the delay in strating the ICU unit at Dalvi hospital has been because of the installation work and non-availability of intensivist.“It takes time for installation of the ventilators. We had requested Credai for the ICU ventilators. It’s not that we don’t want to use them, we had even issued an advertisement to hire an intensivist. However, nobody came forward. We published an advertisement again and this week we will complete the recruitment process and start the facility. We have requested Sassoon General Hospital to conduct training for 15 days for our doctors and other medical professionals regarding the Covid-19 situation. The advertisement was issued in March and this is a permanent post, but still nobody came forward,” said Agarwal, who heads the health department.It was after an appeal by PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad for assistance from the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds that Credai Pune chapter helped build an ICU facility within eight days for which it allocated Rs 1 crore at PMC-run Dalvi Hospital in Shivajinagar.The PMC has dedicated the hospital as a Covid-19 centre and all maternity operations have been stopped post the declaration.The advanced ICU includes 40 state-of-the-art equipment such as beds, ventilators, defibrillators, suction machines, ECG machines among other equipment. Vivek Velankar, an RTI activist who has been vocal about the civic body’s poor expenditure on health infrastructure, said, “The PMC should have honoured its commitment. When things are done for free, it is natural that things are taken for granted. In this case, at least the ICU should have been operational during this time of acute crisis. Its operations have been inordinately delayed.”Suhas Merchant, president, Credai- Pune Metro said, “Considering the current situation, the municipal commissioner had appealed to Credai Pune Metro to set up an advanced ICU at Dalvi Hospital. At that time, we promised to set up a unit at the hospital in the next 15 days. But nonetheless, our office-bearers worked tirelessly to set up the ICU in a record time of just eight days.”PMC has projected that if the Covid-19 cases continue to surge, the city will face shortage of ICU beds by July end. As on July 1, Pune’s Covid-19 tally had reached 18,105.“We responded fast to address the needs of the local administration in its fight against Covid-19,” said Merchant.Nasal Cannula Oxygen Therapy devicesAs per the instruction of Dr Sanjay Oak, chairman Covid-19 task force and Dr Shashank Joshi, dean, Indian Medical College, the PMC under the directions of additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal installed 20 nasal cannula oxygen therapy devices at Naidu Hospital, each worth Rs 4 lakh. “These machines are very important as it helps in the fast recovery of patients. We have installed them at Naidu Hospital,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/10-ventilators-in-an-icu-facility-worth-rs-1cr-lying-unused-since-two-months-due-to-lack-of-intensivist-and-trained-pmc-staff/story-yf38SAi8yLLBnn8KtKkdRM.html
03-07-2020||Education||Jharkhand unveils SOPs for schools’ reopening preparedness amid pandemic||Hand wash, sanitization, masks and social distancing will be on the strict check-list for students, teachers and mid-day meal cooks in a bid to fight the Covid-19 pandemic after schools reopen in Jharkhand, according to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for schools which was unveiled during a webinar on ‘Covid-19-Awareness and Preparedness in Schools’ here on Wednesday.Assembly prayers, sports or any other gatherings in schools will be postponed. Besides, schools will have to ensure a certain distance between two students in a classroom and there should be an appropriate gap between two benches, officials said while reading out the SOP.Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC), with technical support of UNICEF, has developed e-modules of SOPs for school reopening. These SOPs are expected to help schools in implementing, communicating and monitoring the new way of practicing social and personal hygiene, and protocols for sanitizing school premises.Secretary of school education and literacy department Rahul Sharma said, “Under Unlock-2.0, schools and colleges will be shut till July 31. However, the Centre gives relaxations at regular intervals. The Centre might allow some states, where Covid-19 cases are comparatively low, to open schools. So, we should be prepared in advance. These SOPs will help spread awareness among teachers, students and parents much before opening of the schools.”Schools have been closed in Jharkhand since March 17, almost for 100 days now, which has resulted in huge education loss to students, he said.Jharkhand has around 45,000 schools, including 35,000 government schools where more than 50 lakh students study taught by 1.10 lakh teachers.Providing a normal and secure atmosphere to students and teachers after reopening of the schools will prove to be a mammoth task for the government, experts said. Over 3,500 schools are being used as quarantine centres and would need intense sanitization.In a bid to set up hand wash units, maintain hygiene and cleanliness, the state government will have to spend on safety measures for over 35,000 government schools.“We need masks, thermal guns, hand washing units and sanitizers on a large scale. We will request corporate units, banks and civil societies if they can help schools in their catchment areas,” Sharma said.JEPC state project director, Uma Shankar Singh, said, ‘’While continuing to provide education, what matters is our ability to broaden our planning at a technical level to handle the pandemic when schools reopen. Therefore, all teachers have to compulsorily undergo Covid-19 training through e-learning module and be certified.’’Dr Yasmin Ali Haque, representative of UNICEF India, said the SOPs would serve as a milestone in Jharkhand and UNICEF is committed to support its implementation, especially the monitoring and capacity building of teachers and supervisors.’’SOP Pointers:Disinfecting school buildings, classrooms, benches and desks, hand washing units, mid-day meal rooms with sodium hypochlorite every dayArrangement of alcohol based hand sanitizers or soap at entry point of the schoolsEnsuring social distancing at classroom and while taking mid-day mealMask mandatory for students, teachersPostponement of assembly prayer or sports for nowFlexible attendance and sick leave policyKeeping an eye on students health||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/jharkhand-unveils-sops-for-schools-reopening-preparedness-amid-pandemic/story-o863vUpCdUpvNfhnobjJWL.html
