04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Six men held with five firearms in Tarn Taran||Police on Saturday arrested six gang members and recovered five firearms from their possession in Patti.Police said the arrests were made on the basis of secret information that the accused were about to attack a rival group, whose five members managed to escape from the spot.Those arrested were identified as Arshdeep Singh, Gursewak Singh, Rajkawar Singh, Gurjant Singh, Harpreet Singh and Jagdeep Singh. Those absconding are Diljan Singh, Akashdeep Singh, Nishan Singh, Bunty Singh and Gurvel Singh. All the accused belong to various villages of Patti sub-division.In-charge of the crime investigation agency (CIA) wing of Tarn Taran police, Prabhjit Singh, said they had secret information that the said groups were about to clash in Patti. “We recovered three pistols and two revolvers from them. We have also recovered four luxury cars,” he said.He said three of those absconding—Nishan, Bunty and Gurvel—are drug smugglers and police had already frozen their assets worth ₹44 lakh under the NDPS Act. They were booked in five cases of drug smuggling.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya said more recoveries are expected when those absconding are arrested. He said they have adopted zero tolerance against the miscreants, especially against the drug smugglers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-men-held-with-five-firearms-in-tarn-taran/story-5UFYwSTaCYMmN0BoKV7YrM.html
04-07-2020||City||Man, 2 aides kill elder brother over business issues, arrested||Kopar police on Friday arrested a man, along with his two employees for allegedly killing his elder brother over business clashes on June 2. The accused then tried to pass it off as an accident.All three accused attacked Mahesh Chawla, 48, with heavy iron object and placed his body at a well-known supermarket owned by the family. They claimed that the man accidentally fell off a seven-feet ladder and died. During the post-mortem, Kopri police officers found this suspicious and investigated the matter.According to police officials, the accused Anil Chawla, 45 (victim’s younger brother) had expanded their small shop into a big supermarket and were operating it for many years.On June 2, the Kopri police received a call at around 7.30pm about Mahesh Chawla’s fall and his subsequent death. Since it was an accident, the police sent the body for the post-mortem.Kopri police station, crime police inspector, D Gawde said there were many discrepancies in the family’s statement. He said, “According to family and the younger brother, the incident happened around 3pm and police were informed late. Moreover, they took him to the hospital at 5pm, which was much later than the fall. The doctor who conducted the post-mortem said that there were many brutal injures on the head.”The police immediately started an investigation and questioned the other two men involved who were identified as Abhay Agnihotri, 20, and Shobit Singh, 19. The duo confessed that together with Anil Chawla, they carried out Mahesh Chawla’s murder by hitting him with an iron stool and other equipment, at some other place after which they brought him to the shop and tried to pass it as an accident.Gawde further added, “We are yet to get details about the reason behind the murder as we arrested the accused late on July 3. As per the employees, they had some business-related issues. We have arrested all three accused in the case.”The three have being remanded to police custody for five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-2-aides-kill-elder-brother-over-business-issues-arrested/story-JvtiMrPESpEmCq6SLdF7lJ.html
04-07-2020||City||Formulate special action plan for Ghaziabad, Noida to fight Covid-19: CM Yogi Adityanath||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked the health and medical education departments to formulate a special action plan for Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the two districts.The CM said more efforts were required to contain the pandemic and improve health services in these two districts, which fall under the National Capital Region (NCR).This was announced during a high-level review meeting for Unlock 2 that Adityanath was taking at his official residence in Lucknow, during which he said that a team of health officials should be sent to Ghaziabad who would camp there and bring about an improvement in the health services of Covid hospitals, he said.The CM added that the best services should be provided to the Covid-19 patients in the two districts. He also directed officials to send a similar team to Bulandshahr district. Clear guidelines should be issued for the government as well as private hospitals to keep TrueNat machines functional, the chief minister added.He said Covid testing should be substantially increased by the use of RTPCR method, TrueNAT machines and rapid antigen tests.Adityanath said proper arrangements should be made in the state’s medical colleges where senior doctors should take regular rounds of wards under their charge. A separate officer should be nominated for monitoring health services in the medical colleges, he added. He also said special secretary rank officers should be sent to the districts as nodal officers, to monitor arrangements in Covid hospitals.He said relatives of patients admitted in Covid-19 hospitals should be informed about their condition on a regular basis.For this, in-charges of wards should make arrangements to inform the attendants about the condition of patients on telephone. He said Covid helpdesks should be set up in every hospital.He further said arrangements for quarantine and screening of travellers coming via international flights should be made. Similarly, screening facilities should be set up at railway and bus stations, he said.He said all precautions should be taken to check the spread of Covid-19. Proper attention should be paid to training of medical personnel for protection from infections, he added.Efforts to protect PAC battalions from infection should continue, he said. The chief minister said that social distancing norms should be followed and better sanitation in public places should be ensured. He said doorstep delivery mechanism should be ensured in containment zones for supply of essentials items. A special communicable disease control campaign had been launched and all departments should coordinate to make the same a success, he added.He also said special attention should be given to food grain distribution under normal public distribution and the PM’s poor welfare food grain scheme. He said transparency must be ensured in distribution and availability of food grains to the needy. Arrangements to check locust attacks should be made, he said. The chief minister stressed on the need for more effective steps to augment GST collection in Uttar Pradesh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/formulate-special-action-plan-for-ghaziabad-noida-to-fight-covid-19-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-72kMH0zK60FynoBJ37h1DL.html
04-07-2020||City||Fadnavis alleges state’s priorities are misplaced||The Opposition leader of the state and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has come down hard on the state government for sanctioning purchase of vehicles for ministers at a time when the state is reeling under a financial crunch due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Speaking to the media, following his review of the Covid status in Panvel and Navi Mumbai, Fadnavis said, “Vehicles are not a priority and their purchase can be put on hold now. It is not as if there are no vehicles in Mantralaya. If someone does not have a vehicle then private vehicles can be used. The purchases can be done once the situation normalises. I don’t understand what the government’s priority is.”He added that salaries are not being paid and are being deferred. The salaries of even health workers are being deferred. The policemen who are working 24/7 are not getting the required support. “And yet decisions like the purchase of vehicles and other unnecessary works are being undertaken by the government. In the present circumstances, the chief minister and the deputy chief minister, who is also the finance minister, should take stern measures and policy decisions,” Fadnavis added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fadnavis-alleges-state-s-priorities-are-misplaced/story-tBf5FARpgHMlOzgqB299jM.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||3 Kotkapura men held for June 30 Moga blast||Police on Saturday arrested three persons in connection with a low-intensity blast that took place in a market in the Moga district’s Baghapurana sub-division on June 30. A courier company employee, Chhotu Ram (47), was injured in the explosion.The police claimed that the accused learnt bomb-making from the internet and planted a trigger bomb at the site. The accused were identified as Sandeep, his brother Manoj and friend Anup Singh, all residents of Kothe Sainian of the Kotkapura sub-division in the Faridkot district. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmanbir Singh Gill said the blast was planned by Sandeep over a dispute with his old employer Raju. “Sandeep used to work at Raju’s kulcha shop till a year ago and was fired. He then started working with his brother by selling kulchas on the roadside. But since he made less sale due to Raju’s shop he decided to teach him a lesson. He along with his brother Manoj and Anup purchased raw material and prepared a pipe bomb. Later, using construction material they made it to look like a brick,” he said.“Around 4am on June 30, Anup placed the bomb near the shutter of Raju’s shop. But Raju moved the bomb and it did not set off. Later in the evening, when Chottu Ram moved the bomb it exploded,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-kotkapura-men-held-for-june-30-moga-blast/story-hcjK0qJdoXHvmTtEe5CSzH.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai gets 289mm rain in 36 hours||The city witnessed heavy to very heavy rain on Saturday, with more intense showers in the suburbs than in south Mumbai. Thane (213.3 mm from 8.30 am to 8.30 pm on Saturday) and Mumbai suburbs (132.2 mm from 8.30am to 8.30pm) recorded maximum rain across the state over a 12-hour period, said Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).For today, the weather bureau has issued a yellow alert (moderate showers with the possibility of heavy rain) for all areas along the Konkan coast, including Mumbai, except Palghar where heavy to very heavy rain is expected (orange alert).The Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 289.2 mm rain over a span of 36 hours (Friday 8.30 am to 8.30 pm Saturday). The 24-hour rain (8.30am Friday to 8.30 am Saturday) was 157 mm while 12-hour rain on Saturday (8.30 am to 8.30pm) was 132.2 mm.The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 243.6 mm rain over 36 hours (Friday 8.30 am to 8.30 pm Saturday), 169 mm rain over 24-hours (8.30am Friday to 8.30 am Saturday), and 74.6 mm over 12-hours on Saturday (8.30 am to 8.30pm).Mumbai has so far recorded 316.5 mm rain (from July 1 to July 4, 8.30 pm), which is 38% of the month’s average rainfall (840.7mm). The city had recorded 395 mm rain in June, which was the lowest monthly rain in five years. However, with continuous downpour over the 36 hours, the city has so far received almost 31% of its seasonal average rain (711.5 mm of 2,317 mm). “Monsoon currents remained active over the Konkan coast, including Mumbai, for the second consecutive day leading to widespread rainfall,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. On Saturday, rain led to 3.3 degree Celsius drop in maximum temperatures with 27.3 degrees Celsius and 27 degrees Celsius in the suburbs and south Mumbai respectively. “Rain amount will decrease in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region from the second half of Sunday. The region will witness intermittent showers in the coming week of mostly light intensity,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom.Rainfall on FridayKandivli and Borivli record highest rain in Mumbai on Saturday. Most areas in the suburbs recorded over 100 mm rain with Kandivli at 184.3mm, Borivli at 174.1mm, Vikhorli 133.5mm, Mulund 126.4mm, Chembur 123.7mm Malad 118.2mm, Andheri 115mm, Bandra 110.2 mm, Kurla 100.3mm (between 8.30 am ad 8.30 pm).Tree falls on SGNP Veterinary CentreIncessant rain in Borivli on Saturday led to a tree falling on the veterinary centre at the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP). “Six people were inside when the 80-year-old tree uprooted and collapsed on the roof. No one was injured,” said Vijay Barabde, range forest officer, SGNP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-289mm-rain-in-36-hours/story-JLbIZSkgfnnVVPwvKSkNvN.html
04-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram looks at setting up plasma bank||After Delhi, Gurugram too may have its own plasma bank to treat critical patients suffering from Covid-19.Plans are afoot with the district administration creating a database of more than 4,000 patients who have recovered from the disease and are willing to donate plasma, said health department officials.Convalescent plasma therapy, in which antibody-rich plasma from recovered patients is injected into recovering individuals to help them stave off infection, has previously been used during the Sars and Mers outbreaks (which were also caused by viruses in the same family as the coronavirus Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19).Plasma is a major component of a person’s blood, making up almost 55% of it. A plasmapheresis machine separates it from the blood and returns the rest -- the red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets -- back into to the donor who typically supplies 300-500 ml of plasma, and the transfusion process takes between 60-90 minutes. Although promising, the effectiveness of the treatment is still in the experimental stage.However, with many cured patients reluctant to return to hospital and families of patients finding it hard to locate plasma donors, Delhi had earlier this week instituted the country’s first plasma bank at a hospital.Starting a plasma bank, however, requires a series of approvals from the state government and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for which senior doctors from the state’s Covid-19 nodal hospital - Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) Rohtak – are likely to visit the city next week. Currently, Gurugram has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, which is likely to breach 6000 mark soon. Nearly 4496 patients have recovered till now, and 140 patients are critical. The decision to set up a bank in Gurugram has come at a time when the Haryana health minister Anil Vij on June 30 said that plasma therapy will be started in five medical colleges of the state – Rohtak, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Sonepat and Nuh Shubhi Kesarwani, officer in-charge for the project, said, “Our teams in coordination with the Red Cross Society are following up with the recovered patients and maintaining data base. Till now, 500 patients treated for the coronavirus in the city have been approached, out of which 50 are ready to donate their blood for plasma therapy.”Officials are also studying the details of Delhi’s plasma bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), Vasant Kunj. “The proposal is in the initial stages, as we are in talks with doctors at PGIMS Rohtak where convalescent plasma trial has recently started,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, who is coordinating with Rohtak team. “It is not an easy process. Before anything starts, we need to have facilities where we could check antibodies in the blood that can be transfused. For this we will be sending our plan to the state government for approval.”Dr Dhruv Chaudhary of PGIMS- Rohtak, who is also the state’s nodal officer Covid-19 tertiary care, said that the proposal from the administration and the health department has been received. “Since the convalescent plasma therapy has already started in PGIMS Rohtak, we would be able to help Gurugram health team in setting up the plasma bank,” he said, adding that the plasma treatment costs ₹9,000 in their government set up.Currently, Dr Chaudhary and his team has initiated the ICMR’s clinical trial ‘A Phase II, Open Label, Randomised Controlled Trial to Assess the Safety and Efficacy of Convalescent Plasma to limit Covid-19 Associated Complications in Moderate Disease” called as the PLACID trial, in PGIMS Rohtak. Besides Rohtak, a private hospital in Gurugram is also conducting plasma therapy. Explaining the necessity of having apt facility for antibody testing to start a blood bank, Dr Chaudhary said, “The concentration of antibody in the blood plasma has to be checked before it is transfused in a patient. In this process, the blood taken from the recovered patients is diluted repeatedly. The concentration of the plasma is diluted in ratio like 1:60, 1:80 and 1:320 just to check till what level of dilution the sample will come out as positive. The highly diluted samples which turns to be positive, are the ones with high antibody levels.”“To check its effect, neutralizing antibody test is being done. It is only after the technical process, the plasma is transfused in the Covid-19 patient for recovery,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-looks-at-setting-up-plasma-bank/story-9MGbQgQnXynwndCPQs7h1I.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rainfall on Saturday leads to waterlogging two days in a row||Waterlogging was reported in several low-lying areas on Saturday, including Hindmata, Dadar, King’s Circle, Matunga, Milan subway, Dahisar subway, Gorai, Kandivli and Andheri subway. On Saturday, a high tide of 4.63 metres was recorded at around 12.23pm, which coincided with heavy rain in the western and eastern suburbs. However, waterlogging was reported only after 4pm. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), waterlogging was reported from 10 major spots, including Hindmata, Dadar terminus, Dharavi junction, Matunga, Wadala, Byculla, Chembur, Andheri subway and near National College in Bandra (West). This was the fourth time waterlogging was reported in the city in the past month. Following reports of waterlogging on Friday, BMC had said the flooding was not caused by blockage in drains, but because high tide and heavy rain had coincided. Activist Abhijit Joshi, a Matunga resident, said, “On Saturday the high tide was at around noon, but waterlogging started between 4pm and 5pm. If the cleaning of gutters was done why was there waterlogging on Saturday?”Sanjay Darade, deputy municipal commissioner of stormwater drainage, BMC, said, “There was a high tide in the afternoon followed by heavy rainfall, and hence the water took time to drain. But our staff was on the spot wherever waterlogging was reported.”Mumbai traffic police said waterlogging was reported across the city, including near JJ flyover, Pydhonie, at multiple locations in Kurla, LBS Road, Mahalaxmi temple, Nagpada, and Dockyard station. Traffic had to be diverted near Khar Masjid on SV Road, King’s Circle, Andheri subway and in Mazgaon.On Saturday, four house and wall collapses were reported in the city along with approximately 32 trees falling. Nine incidents of tree fall were in south Mumbai; three in eastern suburbs; and 20 in western suburbs. Ten complaints of short circuit were also reported. No injuries were reported from any of these incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rainfall-on-saturday-leads-to-waterlogging-two-days-in-a-row/story-5pMXVSSYDQ8uIlqAE43V3M.html
04-07-2020||City||Gurugram: GMDA begins pre-construction work for 3 STPs||Gurugram: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has received the state government’s nod to build three more sewage treatment plants in the city, – at Bajghera, Dhankot and Jahajgarh – officials in the Authority’s infrastructure department said Saturday. However, due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to curb its spread, execution of the projects will take at least another year-and-a-half, they clarified.“The STPs of Bajghera and Dhankot have been in the pipeline for some time. As the lockdown has eased, we have opened tenders for them. Both areas are currently disposing of the bulk of their sewage untreated into the city’s drainage system. The chief minister gave his nod for the projects and we are already carrying out technical evaluation for both STPs,” said Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA. In addition, the GMDA and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) together are setting up a 20 million liters per day (MLD) sewage treatment plant in Jahajgarh. “The corporation and the GMDA were building two separate 10MLD plants nearby, but there has been a land acquisition issue with the GMDA’s proposed STP in Sector 107. It has been decided now to split the costs and create one 20MLD capacity STP at the civic body’s location in Jahajgarh, which we will oversee,” Kumar said. A tender for this project has been floated, and pre-bid meetings with potential vendors have been conducted, he added.MCG QUOTEWhile the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had earlier directed the district administration to complete all capacity building (for treatment of sewage) by December 2020, Kumar explained that the deadline is no longer feasible. “We had already asked for an extension of the deadline prior to the lockdown. We will make another appeal to the NGT to allow till at least December 2021. The past three months have been a huge setback, and even though we are trying to make up for lost time, our contractors themselves are unable to find the required work force,” Kumar also said.The GMDA currently treats 388MLD of water every day at its STPs at Dhanwapur and Behrampur, of which it uses roughly 25MLD of recycled water in green belts and discharges the remaining into the Najafgarh drain. Besides that, the city discharges roughly 80 to 90MLD of untreated water to drains and in open areas leading to Najafgarh drain from unauthorised colonies, many villages and other areas. “With these three upcoming STPs, the GMDA will be able to treat about 410MLD of sewage per day. “That should bring us in compliance with the NGT’s instructions,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-gmda-begins-pre-construction-work-for-3-stps/story-VuhHCkldW5MwB9NvzbzNwL.html
04-07-2020||City||Man held for stealing over 200 mobile phones from playgrounds||Gurugram: Police on Thursday arrested a 30-year-old executive of a multinational company from Faridabad who was allegedly involved in stealing over 200 mobile phones and siphoning off over ₹10 lakh from the bank accounts of the victims.Police said the suspect would visit playgrounds, stadia and sports complexes and would mingle with players, while closely watching them unlock their phones and memorising their passwords. Later, he allegedly entered their dressing rooms and made away with their wallets and mobile phones from the space designated to keep them.Police identified the suspect was identified as Twinkle Arora, a resident of Sector 17 in Faridabad. He worked as a technical support officer, responsible for the maintenance of the company’s servers. He was produced before the court on Saturday and was taken on three days police remand.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Arora would use his victims’ ATM and cash cards to shop online and transfer money to another account. “With the unlocked mobile phone, he could use the one time password to commit his crimes.As per records of money transactions, he has siphoned off Rs 10 lakd. He had stolen over 200 phones in June from Delhi, Noida, Faridabad and Gurugram,” he said.Gururgam police had received more than 20 complaints in the last one month and cases were registered at different police stations against the unidentified person, said police.On Wednesday, police received a complaint from a Sector 56 resident that he had gone to play cricket with his friends at a commercial playground in Sector 65 and an unidentified person stole his wallet and mobile phone.Sangwan said there were no CCTV cameras installed in the area. “After the lockdown, the suspect had identified areas in the city with no CCTV cameras and started visiting there every morning and evening to steal the mobiles and wallets,” he said.Police said there are more than 50 private cricket grounds in the city located in Ullahwas, Kadarpur, Badshahpur, Bairampur, Wazirabad, Baliyawas, Palam Vihar, and Sector 23 where several athletes come to train.Finally, investigators got lucky with one CCTV camera located near a residence in Sector 65 that had caught Arora. Finding his movement suspicious, the crime investigation unit led by Ajay Dhankhar arrested him from his home.Arora allegedly confessed . Dhankhar said during questioning he revealed that he has been lodged in Tihar jail, Nimka jail in Faridabad and in Bhondsi jail in the last three years. He was allegedly involved in laptop thefts and was arrested in 2019 from Delhi gate. “We have taken him on remand to get more details of cases and to recover the money from him,” he said.The company he worked for allegedly did not do a background verification exercise before employing him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-stealing-over-200-mobile-phones-from-playgrounds/story-bRfqIKXlZUBJpcQsJFFb1O.html
04-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Over 1,000 properties identified to turn into Covid isolation centres if cases surge||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has identified at least 1,360 properties, which include banquet halls, clubs, hotels, guest houses, paying guest accommodations, hostels and religious institutions as potential sites for establishing isolation centres, officials said Saturday.On June 17, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had directed officials in Gurugram to identify potential sites that can be used as isolation centres if cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease surge and number of hospital beds fall short.In this regard, the MCG had held a meeting with officials of the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) on Monday and the district education department at its Sector 34 office to identify large-scale properties across the city that can be used for setting up isolation centres.Subsequently, officials of the MCG’s tax department were tasked with identifying such properties. Based on its property tax data from March 31, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, the MCG has identified 64 banquet halls, 57 clubs, 174 hotels, 321 stand-alone hostels, PGs, guest houses, and 744 religious and charitable institutions in the city. The list also includes 5,055 institutional properties such as schools, universities, and government buildings.“Aside from the 1,360 properties, we are also estimating that the city has more than 2,000 colleges and schools that can also be used for isolation purposes. However, we are working towards figuring out the exact number. We realised that logistically, we cannot approach owners of all such buildings individually. Hence, we will be using the assistance of resident welfare associations (RWA) to help identify properties that aren’t located in congested, narrow lanes, are based at secluded spots and can accommodate at least 25-30 beds,” said an official privy to the matter, requesting anonymity.The official further said that once identified, both the RWA and the MCG will approach owners of such establishments to lease their properties for setting up isolation centres.Surender Singh, MCG additional commissioner, said that of the 174 hotels, 93 have been identified for setting up isolation centres.“We will be setting up isolation centres in two stages. In the first stage, we will be offering isolation in hotels only. In the eventuality that cases tally surges further and hotels also run short on beds, only then we will activate the second stage which includes PGs, guest houses, hostels, schools, colleges, and religious institutions as isolation centres. We have essentially taken pre-emptive measures by creating a database of places that can be quickly turned into isolation centres to ensure the city does not encounter shortage of beds,” said Singh.Singh said that he has held meetings with a large number of PG, guest houses, schools, colleges, and religious institution owners, who came forward for the initiative this week. He said that he has asked them to submit a seven-point checklist in this regard.“We have asked them to give details such as the total number of beds that can be accommodated in their building, types of entry and exit, whether they have toilets, water connection, electricity connection, among other such issues to create a database for the future,” said Singh.He added that he has directed the zonal taxation officers (ZTOs) to approach banquet hall owners and also present them with the seven-point checklist. In addition, he also said that the MCG has created a helpline number-1950-from where Covid-19 patients can seek details on isolation facilities.Last month, Vivek Kalia, nodal officer, hospital and ventilator management, had projected that if the number of Covid-19 cases in the city reaches one lakh in August, Gurugram would require at least 37,000 beds and more than 2,000 ventilators.On June 15, Sonal Goel, the nodal officer for facilities and bed management in hospitals, at a meeting with Haryana government officials had said that the city currently has a total of 4,314 beds and 329 ventilators.The MCG has also tied-up with RWAs for setting up home isolation centres within their plotted colonies, societies, and condominiums. Until June 26, 19 RWAs had set up such a facility in their respective areas.Aside from this, in assistance with local RWAs, the MCG is also in the process of establishing a 75-bed isolation facility at a community centre in sector 27 that can accommodate Covid-19 patients that need oxygen support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-over-1-000-properties-identified-to-turn-into-covid-isolation-centres-if-cases-surge/story-zx5ATA1pSpNGsh3K5ngqWK.html
04-07-2020||City||Gangster’s property demolished in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A building constructed on the land, acquired illegally by a gangster in a Greater Noida village, was demolished on Saturday evening, police said.According to the police, gangster Sunder Bhati had illegally obtained the government land in Ghangrola village a few years ago. The village comes under the Kasna police jurisdiction.The action comes hours after the house of Vikas Dubey in Kanpur, who is allegedly responsible for the brutal killing of eight UP police personnel on early Friday morning, was razed.The police said that Bhati, who is currently serving time in Hamirpur jail, had gradually constructed a structure on the land that he had acquired through fraudulent means.“He is booked under the gangsters act. According to provision 14a of the act, any property of his that has been acquired illegally can be attached. It was during this process that we came across the property in Ghangrola. The building was demolished on Saturday evening as it was an illegal structure constructed on government pond land,” said Prabhat Upadhyay, station house officer, Kasna police station.The land is spread across about 700 square metres and is valued around Rs 36 lakh, said the police, adding that following the demolition, locals gathered around the site after which police force was deployed in the area.A senior police official said that there are several more such illegally obtained properties of the gangster scattered across the Gautam Budh Nagar district and action will be taken to attach them all in the coming days. The Noida police are also working on identifying assets of his associates like Satveer Bansal and other known gangsters in the district, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangster-s-property-demolished-in-greater-noida/story-fZG2b3aYKpQl795wEV8iwN.html
04-07-2020||City||Plantation of 1.7 million saplings in Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad from today||NOIDA: In a bid to increase the green cover, the Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts are set to start plantation drive on Sunday as the rainy season has started, officials said on Saturday.The Gautam Budh Nagar district will plant 900,000 saplings and the neighbouring Ghaziabad will plant 790,000 saplings this season, said the officials. In Gautam Budh Nagar, the Noida authority will plant 600,000 saplings, while the rest will be planted by other agencies that include Greater Noida authority, Yamuna Expressway authority, and the district administration. Other agencies are likely to start the plantation drive soon, the officials said. Last year, the Noida authority alone had planted 575,000 saplings.The Ghaziabad district had planted 957,000 saplings last year. The Noida authority has planned to plant fruit bearing plants and saplings of medicinal value in green belts and parks.“The authority will plant ornamental saplings along the city roads so that the motorists enjoy a serene drive on the city roads. We have decided to plant medicinal saplings so that these trees benefit the residents. The medicinal plants include Amaltas, Sahjan, Giloy and Arjun, among others,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty, Noida authority. The UP government that aims to plant 6.5 crore saplings this season across the state has directed the officials to plant medicinal and fruit bearing trees so that the residents can make use of them once they are grown up.“Residents can enjoy fruits like mango, blackberry (jamun) and pomegranate (anar), among others,” said Singh.Ghaziabad district officials said that social distancing would be maintained at plantation events in the city.“Besides, proper sanitization must be carried out so that the spread of Covid-19 infection can be prevented. The staff must ensure that all directions of the state government are adhered to in totality during the plantation drive,” said Ajay Shanker Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plantation-of-1-7-million-saplings-in-gautam-budh-nagar-ghaziabad-from-today/story-Op7ldSkgtUjTWDWvbBPbNM.html
04-07-2020||City||51 booked for organizing unauthorized cricket match||Police booked 51 people on Friday for allegedly organising and participating in a cricket match in Greater Noida at a time when government orders prohibited such outdoor activities in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.According to police, they had got a tip of people gathering at a ground near an engineering college in Knowledge Park 3 following a team arrived at the spot around 2pm.“Some people fled, while several others, including the organisers, were taken in to custody and their vehicles were challaned,” said a police officer from the Knowledge Park police station.The organisers were identified as Delhi residents, Deepak Agarwal and Nagik Khurana, both in their 30s nd run a cricket academy and an online application for budding cricketers. Police said that the match was part of a tournament among corporate houses scheduled to take place over the next week and included players from other states like Haryana and Punjab as well.“A total of 51 people were brought down to the Knowledge Park police station and booked while 17 vehicles in which they had come to the ground were challaned,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Rajesh Kumar Singh.He said that the match was a violation of the current Covid-19 prevention guidelines and Indian Penal Code section 144 (prohibit gathering of four or more people) imposed in the district. The organisers did not have any permission for the match and most of them were not even wearing masks, said police.The suspects were booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act.For violating section 144, a suspect is booked and then released on bail. It is in force in the district till July 31/In view of the pandemic, all political, cultural, religious, or sports events had been barred. District police has challaned more than 7500 people for violations since the beginning of the lockdown on March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/51-booked-for-organizing-unauthorized-cricket-match/story-XE2TGYUlRiJP9h2Wobp9MI.html
04-07-2020||City||Noida: Month later, malls as empty as first week of reopening||Noida: Even though a month has passed since they were allowed to reopen, the shopping malls of Noida bear a deserted look. As a result, shopkeepers say they are facing heavy losses and hope for some rebate in the rents to sustain.While some malls such as DLF Mall of India at Sector 18, one of the largest in the city, is yet to open, several shops are still closed in those which are open food courts in some are non-functional. Officials of many malls say that while footfall is slightly better since the first week of reopening, people are still largely keeping away due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Managers said even on weekends, when malls used to be packed with shoppers in pre-Covid days, the footfall now is barely a sliver.“There is hardly any business, despite it being a weekend. Earlier, our stall used to make a minimum sale of Rs 40,000 on weekends while on weekdays it used to be between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000. Compared to that, at Rs 1,400 so far, my sale today has been abysmal. Only a few dedicated customers are coming and they don’t even try the products. People are scared,” Ritu, who manages a cosmetic stall at the Great India Place Mall at Sector 18, said Saturday.A bookstore owner at the same mall said that re-opening the shop felt like starting from scratch, with hardly any sale.“The sale is less than 80% of what it used to be. It almost feels like we will have to start from scratch. The shop owners have decided to form an association to request the mall management to give us some rebate in rent,” said Peeyush, a bookstore owner at Mall of India.Commercial establishments such as malls, hotels and restaurants in the city were allowed to reopen from June 8.“The footfall has increased and almost 70% of our shops are now open and sales have also increased but this is of course nothing compared to pre-Covid times. Like earlier, if we had about 45,000 to 50,000 visitors during the weekend, the maximum footfall after re-opening is around 4,500,” said a mall manager at Gaur City mall, Greater Noida west, asking not to be identified.While the number of visitors is less, an HT visit revealed that malls were taking necessary measures as directed by the state government, including sanitisation, no-mask no-entry system and thermal screening before entering, among others.Managers say that while they have made all the necessary arrangements in place to make the dining experience at the food-court safe, only a few outlets have opened up.“The footfall has increased a little but the numbers are still a long shot from their pre-Covid average. I guess it will still take a few more months to get there. There are few outlets in the food court which have opened now. There is also an issue with the timing, as we have to start closing the mall by 7.30pm to meet the curfew timings, which is the peak hour for mall visitors,” said Angad Makan, head, Logix city centre mall.Since the visitor’s influx was low, social distancing was not an issue, many managers added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-month-later-malls-as-empty-as-first-week-of-reopening/story-53FGYon7O2yWPLHgOAeWnO.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||25-year-old jumps off Bandra-Worli Sea Link||A 25-year-old man drove his bike on Bandra-Worli Sea Link and allegedly jumped off the iconic bridge on Thursday. On Friday late night, his body was found at the Shivaji Park Chowpatty seashore. “We do not suspect any foul play as the CCTV captured the incident, in which the man can be seen jumping off the bridge,” said Sudhir Jambavadekar, assistant commissioner of police (Worli division).The deceased person was a resident of Antop Hill area and lived there with family. He was unemployed. His father is employed with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and is scheduled to retire soon. The family had decided to give his father’s job to him after his retirement as deceased’s two elder brothers are already employed.On Thursday afternoon he left home after having lunch. On his bike he drove to Bandra Worli Seal Link from the Worli end. Two-wheelers are banned on the iconic bridge for safety purpose. But as the lockdown is in effect there was no traffic jam or presence of policemen at the Worli-end.After covering some distance on the bridge, he stopped his bike and then crossed the railings and jumped off the bridge.The ACP further added that from his bike’s registration number plate his family could be contacted. The bike was registered on his elder brother’s name.On Friday late night, his body was fished out at the seashore of Shivaji Park Chowpatty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-year-old-jumps-off-bandra-worli-sea-link/story-D2ySYLXer9e6hMGrsQT14M.html
04-07-2020||City||13 inmates test Covid-19 positive at juvenile home in Gautam Budh Nagar||NOIDA As many as 13 inmates of juvenile home in Gautam Budh Nagar have tested Covid-19 positive during the mass surveillance drive in the district.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that all the infected inmates have been sent to Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) for treatment. “Samples of all the inmates and staff of the observation home were taken on Thursday through rapid antigen kits. Out of 163 inmates and 17 staff, 13 inmates have been found Covid-19 positive. For those who have tested negative, we are trying to get their samples tested through lab-based reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR),” DM said.Suhas further said that chief development officer Anil Kumar Singh, along with district panchayati raj officer and health workers, visited the observation home on Saturday. “Each inmate has been given two masks and a bottle of hand sanitizer. We have also asked the health officials to sanitize the whole premises,” he said.Dharmendra Maurya, caretaker of the observation home, said that seven of the infected inmates were new to the correction centre and had been serving the two-week mandatory isolation in two separate rooms on the campus. “It appears that the infection has spread due to the use of common toilets. We are now taking special care of remaining inmates as they are now being served lukewarm water and tea. As a precautionary step, we have removed water coolers from the common area,” Maurya said.Meanwhile, district probation officer Atul Kumar Soni, who is the official in-charge of the observation home, claimed that out of 13 inmates who had tested positive on Thursday, eight have been declared negative through RT-PCR test. “As the rapid antigen testing is not much credible, we conducted their RT-PCR tests. Eight have been found negative, while the reports of remaining five are still awaited,” he said.However, contradicting Soni’s claims, district chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that if a person tests positive on rapid antigen kit, there is no scope to cross-examine it. “We conduct RT-PCR test for only the person who has tested negative through rapid antigen test,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-inmates-test-covid-19-positive-at-juvenile-home-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-N57vueHO21q7USi8IMSG9J.html
04-07-2020||City||Gautam Budh Nagar district received 260,000 distress calls since Lockdown 1.0||Noida The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has urged residents to use the Covid-19 helpline as much as possible in case of any pandemic-related emergency, and said that over 260,000 calls were received through different helplines since the first phase of lockdown was announced in March.Officials said that at least 400 calls are received daily on the 24-hour Covid-19 helpline number – 1800 419 2211 – at its integrated control room which was launched on April 4.“Till Thursday, at least 260,000 calls were received through different helplines and the numbers are gradually increasing. A team of 20 to 50 staff work at the integrated call centre alone, depending upon the call flow. With increasing number of queries, we are looking forward to increasing the strength of staff handling the helpline,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. The complaints through the helpline are received by the staff from district administration, police, health department and other local authorities.“Apart from focusing more on the sampling and strengthening out isolation facilities, we are also trying to keep the residents informed and we urge them to reach out to us to avoid any confusion or to seek any help related to the Covid-19,” the district magistrate said.He said that with time the nature of calls have changed. “Earlier, most of the calls were related to the food and ration, which were being distributed through community kitchens. Now, they are about the health related issues. Many people enquire about the symptoms related to Covid-19, and want to get tested,” Suhas added.The officials said that there are different parallel helplines in the city which are being used since the lockdown was announced on March 25. “There is a separate helpline for chief medical officer. Then there is one announced by the police. Besides, each development authority has its own helpline. The latest in the series is the integrated helpline that has been working round the clock,” said Rakesh Chauhan, district information officer, while explaining the large number of calls. The district has so far recorded 2,569 positive cases, the highest for any district in the state, according to official figures updated till Friday. Of the total positive cases in the district, 1,005 are active patients, the data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gautam-budh-nagar-district-received-260-000-distress-calls-since-lockdown-1-0/story-rDe7SaCEljPpzeyGeGpY3M.html
04-07-2020||Noida||Business revenues down by 85%, claim owners||Local businesses in Noida claim that their revenues in the last three months have gone down by nearly 85%, while standalone shops in markets are functioning at only 15% to 20% of its capacity due to the odd-even rule and night curfew.They claim they are being discriminated against as malls in the district were allowed to operate seven days a week while.“A standalone shop is operating barely 12-13 days in a month, which reduces to productivity to 33%. If we factor in the night curfew which cuts into prime business hours, the functioning capacity of any business comes down to 15 to 20%. The footfall is also so low and so there is hardly any revenue, falling by as much as 85%,” said Sushil kumar Jain, president, sector 18 market association.He said that the meagre demand in the markets is only for basic necessities like food, stationary, clothing, etc.“No item except the basics is important these days. There was some demand for purchase or service of electronic/ electrical gadgets or phones in the beginning when markets opened but even that has dwindled now. And with most people working from home, market requirements have reduced drastically,” said Jain.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic the district had ordered shops in market areas to open on an odd-even basis based on their shop numbers given by the market. One day is a mandatory sanitisation day for all.“Very few restaurants have started business. The timings are not in our favour. We are required to shut down before the dinner rush and with the present weather conditions, lunch hours don’t see many customers. For us opening is not even worth the effort and with the current non-existent footfall, regular operations will only lead to wastage of food. We are hopeful that the curfew timings will revise from July 10 and then we can decide further,” said Varun Khera, a restaurant owner.Business owners feel that certain segments like retailers, travel businesses, jewellery stores have been affected worse than others.“Our revenues have dropped by nearly 90% so much so that it doesn’t even make sense to open the agency. International flights are the major source of profit and that business is at hardly at a 30% capacity. With no student travel, business is meagre. We don’t know when the situation will improve,” said Sunil Dang, owner of a travel agency in sector 18.Business owners had even earlier requested the administration for changing the odd-even rule to six days a week but to no avail.“There is no official order for changes in the odd-even system for now,” said district labour commissioner, PK Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/business-revenues-down-by-85-claim-owners/story-v2zitDl1sQ7a4HsfsSNyKJ.html
04-07-2020||City||Noida achieves over 80% target of Covid-19 sampling on third day of drive||NOIDA: On the third day of a 10-day massive surveillance drive, Gautam Budh Nagar achieved over 83% of its stipulated target of sampling 4,000 persons, officials said.According to district magistrate Suhas LY, altogether 3,328 samples were collected on Saturday through different methods, including on-site rapid antigen kits, TrueNat machines and lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. “On Saturday, our sample collection teams achieved 83.2% of the stipulated target. Out of 1,796 samples collected through rapid antigen kits, 66 samples tested positive. Our teams have also collected 1,512 samples through RT-PCR tests and their results will come in a few days. Apart from this, 20 samples have been taken through TrueNat machines, of which none came out positive,” the DM said.He added as many as 1,488 surveillance teams and 40 sample collection teams were deployed across the district for this drive on Saturday.“A surveillance team comprises three civil volunteers and at least one ASHA or other auxiliary health worker for door-to-door surveys to collect information on people with symptoms of. The sample collection team, on the other hand, comprises one doctor, one nursing staff and one assistant for taking samples of people with Covid-19 symptoms,” LY said.CMO TESTS POSITIVEMeanwhile, Gautam Budh Nagar’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri has tested positive for Covid-19. Dr Ohri’s samples were taken Friday evening, when he had a very high fever with influenza like illness (ILI) symptoms.According to Dr Sunil Dohre, the district surveillance officer, the CMO has been admitted to the isolation ward of a Covid-19 hospital. “His condition is stable and under control now. In his absence, the additional chief medical officer (ACMO), Dr Nepal Singh, will take over,” he said, adding that as per standard protocol, it has been decided to sanitise the entire CMO office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-achieves-over-80-target-of-covid-19-sampling-on-third-day-of-drive/story-vX7Fk7qIUZmRBpxRQK4XCO.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Groud water board graft case: CBI court grants bail to official||In the 2017 graft case involving officials of the Central Ground Water Board, the special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday granted bail to Gyanendra Rai, senior technical assistant (hydrogeology) for the northwest region.The CBI had named Rai and Dinesh Tewari, a senior hydrogeologist, in a supplementary chargesheet filed in May.Rai surrendered before court on Saturday, following which he was taken into custody and later released after furnishing ₹1-lakh bonds.The case dates back to October 10, 2017, when the CBI had arrested a Gurugram-based businessman, who had allegedly bribed board officials to get a no-objection certificated for a bottling plant. Sanjay Pandey, an assistant hydrologist, and technician Chander Parkash Midda besides a middleman were also arrested. Rai and Tewari’s names came up during investigations.It was pleaded in court that Rai “is neither named in the FIR nor there is any allegation of demand, acceptance and recovery of bribe amount from him”. It was further stated that he “fully cooperated” in the probe, making himself available as and when required, and the investigating officer “did not feel any necessity to arrest” him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/groud-water-board-graft-case-cbi-court-grants-bail-to-official/story-LcN1X3j97zau9a1XCNt4oI.html
04-07-2020||City||Noida Covid death toll inches closer to 30; Ghaziabad case tally crosses 2,000||NOIDA: The Noida district on Saturday reported five Covid-19-related deaths, taking the overall death toll of Gautam Budh Nagar to 28.According to the state’s daily Covid-19 bulletin, with 83 new cases, in the past 24 hours, the overall count of the district rose to 2,646 cases. The details of the deceased patients, however, have not been revealed in the report.As many as 105 positive patients were cured and discharged from different hospitals across Gautam Budh Nagar by Saturday, taking the overall number of cured Covid-19 patients 1,646 in the district so far. “So far, 28 Covid-19 positive patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 972 active cases,” the bulletin stated.Ghaziabad case tally crosses 2,000The Ghaziabad district has also reported three Covid-19-related deaths, taking the overall death toll to 62. According to the state’s bulletin, with 84 new cases in the past 24 hours, the case tally of the district rose to 2,023 cases. As many as 10 positive patients were discharged from different hospitals by Saturday, taking the overall number of cured patients 843 until now in the district. “So far, 62 Covid-19 positive patients have so far lost their lives in Ghaziabad district. As a result, the district now has 1,118 active cases,” the bulletin stated.In Uttar Pradesh, in the last 24 hours, as many as 24 Covid-19-positive patients lost their lives. The overall tally of positive cases in the state has gone to 26,554 with 772 new cases in last 24 hours. While 773 patients have lost their lives due to coronavirus infection in the state so far, 18,154 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the state till the date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-covid-death-toll-inches-closer-to-30-ghaziabad-case-tally-crosses-2-000/story-xuudeLtaT6rieE2ghYug5J.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum temperature falls 8 notches after rain in Chandigarh||Minimum temperature fell eight notches after 10.8mm rain was recorded in the early hours of Saturday in Chandigarh. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast moderate showers of around 30-40mm on Sunday as well, which are likely to continue at least till Tuesday.“In view of approaching monsoon system and eastward moving western disturbances and moisture incursions from the Arabian Sea adjoining Gujarat coast, moderate rain is expected in the city. Chances of heavy rain will also persist in the city with gusty winds over 45km/h likely to blow during this duration,” said the weatherman.Meanwhile, maximum temperature fell from 39.1°C on Friday to 35.3°C on Saturday, which is normal. Minimum temperature fell from 30.6°C to 22.6°C on Saturday, six degrees below normal.In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 34 and 36 degrees while minimum will be around 22 to 23 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/minimum-temperature-falls-8-notches-after-rain-in-chandigarh/story-no8DYsm6DBxljJLxVBRsjJ.html
04-07-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Covid count reaches 993 with 33 new infections||The district’s Covid-19 count reached 993, highest among all districts in Punjab, with 33 people, including five healthcare workers at different private hospitals, testing positive on Saturday.The healthcare workers include a 24-year-old woman from Mohar Singh Nagar, a 29-year-old woman from Lamma village and a 33-year-old woman. The other two are a 38-year-old man from Centra Greens, Pakhowal Road, and a 42-year-old man from BRS Nagar. A 28-year-old female healthcare worker from Barnala also tested positive in Ludhiana.Three cases each surfaced in Talwara village, Janakpuri and Dhandari Kalan, while two cases were reported from Millar Ganj, Haibowal and BRS Nagar. One case each was confirmed in the micro-containment zone of Ashok Nagar, Civil Lines, Mullanpur, Islam Ganj, Madhopuri, Gurdev Nagar, Ayali Kalan, Mohan Nagar, Aggar Nagar, Model Town and Sham Nagar.Of the 993 cases in the district, 467 patients have been discharged and completed their post-discharge quarantine period. As many as 24 people have succumbed to the virus. The district now has 502 active cases, including patients who are in quarantine after being discharged from hospitals.Besides 24 patients from Ludhiana, 25 people from other districts and states have also died due to the virus in various health facilities of the district.Patients complain of poor hygiene High drama was witnessed at the Mother and Child Hospital near Vardhman Mill on Chandigarh Road after the Covid-19 patients quarantined at the hospital complained about poor sanitation at the hospital. The patients complained of hygiene issues after they were shifted in the ward on the first floor and spotted dust on pillows and bedsheets.Taking note of the complaints, health department workers swung into action and carried out the ward’s cleaning. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said a couple of patients raised some complaints about cleanliness, which were addressed promptly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-covid-count-reaches-993-with-33-new-infections/story-JW2oN9hDfm35EPDZeo4USN.html
04-07-2020||Patna||Lightning strikes, takes 21 more lives in Bihar, CM asks people to stay indoors||Lightning strikes continue to take lives in Bihar with twenty-one more deaths and over 40 injuries reported in the state amid heavy rain and thunderstorms on Saturday, according to the state disaster management authority. However, the chief minister’s office has put the number of casualties at 20. Fifteen people were killed in lightning strikes in different districts of the state on Friday. The injured are undergoing treatment in local hospitals. Most of the fresh casualties are farmers and labourers who were working in the fields.Chief minister Nitish Kumar has expressed grief over the loss of lives while announcing an interim relief of four lakh rupees each to the next of the kin of the deceased. Kumar has also ordered free treatment for the injured.Of the 21 people killed by lightning during the last 12 hours in the state, nine were from Bhojpur, five from Saran, three from Kaimur, two from Patna and one each from Buxar and Gaya districts.One woman was among the nine casualties and 10 injuries reported from Grahni, Narayanpur, Udwant Nagar, Ara Sadar and Agiyaon localities of Bhojpur. Bhojpur DM Roshan Kushwaha confirmed the incident and ordered the concerned Circle Officers to provide financial assistance to the next of kin of the deceased.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAccording to the reports from Saran, five persons including a woman from Marhaura were killed after being struck by lightning. 35-year old farmer Chandan Singh of Nathua village died when he was working in his agriculture field. Similarly, Sony Devi, 50, was also struck by lightning at Narharpur locality while returning from her agricultural field. Casualties were also reported from Rivilganj, Bheldi and Taraiya localities.Altogether 10 persons in Madhubani, four persons each in Siwan and Buxar, three in Bhabhua and two in Sasaram were injured due to lightning strikes. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Nitish Kumar has appealed to the people to be vigilant and follow the guidelines issued by the disaster management department for protection against lightning during the inclement weather. He suggested that people stay at home during rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/lightning-strikes-takes-21-more-lives-in-bihar-cm-asks-people-to-stay-indoors/story-9JThEWCfr5zIiKR2aFM5KI.html
04-07-2020||Dehradun||‘Operation Monsoon’: Corbett Tiger Reserve to check poaching in rainy season||A state forest department-led patrolling season ‘Operation Monsoon’ to check poaching in the Corbett Tiger Reserve in the ongoing rainy season has started from July 1. In the operation, about 700 forest department staffers are being deployed in the world famous tiger reserve for round-the-clock patrolling during the monsoon, said officials. RK Tiwari, wildlife warden at CTR said, “The forest department has done the required preparations for the operation which includes giving fresh stock of ammunition and rations to our men deployed in posts deep in the Reserve.”Tiwari said the patrolling season is significant considering the fact that chances of poaching increases during rainy season. The reason behind this, Tiwari said, is stated to be the ease with which poachers find it easy to enter the forest through broken pathways or waterlogged places. He also informed that during patrolling season this year, the department would be emphasising on, “drains, rivulets and other water bodies connecting the Reserve to UP as through these water bodies possibility of UP poachers coming in CTR is more.”“Special surveillance teams were also set up this season for surprise raids during the rainy season in CTR that is spread in an area of 1,300 sq km,” said Tiwari adding patrolling is being done on foot, elephants and All Terrain Vehicles in the CTR.In view of monsoon being breeding season for tigers, damage of roads and safety of tourists, the NTCA in August 2015 asked tiger parks in the country to remain shut during the season. It, however, allows field directors to take a decision on their own after looking into prevailing conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/operation-monsoon-corbett-tiger-reserve-to-check-poaching-in-rainy-season/story-z57BAAihhHchsICEdiKhDI.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Roundabout: My Other Half – Telling tales of the storyteller from Sialkot||The greatest happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved; loved for ourselves, or rather, loved in spite of ourselves. So said French writer Victor Hugo and this conveys a lot because to be a writer’s wife is not the easiest of things. For one, it means always coming second to his first love – writing. Yet she is to be the muse as well as the first reader, critic and much more. Perhaps, it is not so complicated to be a writer’s husband for an author making her way from second sex knows and accepts that she has to be her own support more often than not.However, there have been women who have been immensely supportive in the writing careers of their partners and very often been their fans, loving the person first wedded to the pen, in spite of it all as Hugo puts it.In the hands this weekend is a delightful, slim volume titled My Other Half by Red River Books in which Krishna Paul wife of Urdu fiction writer Joginder Paul, engages in conversations with Chandana Dutta. It is indeed a narrative that comes straight from the heart and leaves the reader enriched and elevated in this story of love and caring. Indeed, it is all about the past which is very much a part of the present.The writer’s wifeWriter Chandana says: “The writer’s wife: Well, that’s what I thought of her when I began to read the works of Joginder Paul and plan projects around them. But over time I could not see her just as a writer’s wife, the fallback person.” The conversations with her revealed to Chandana that she was a person as much in command of her universe as was Joginder Paul, who was in command of the universe of his words. It was an amazing role that Krishna played in holding the fort all those years so that her husband could write uninterrupted. One endorses these thoughts and I have memories of meeting the Pauls long ago at their south Delhi home even before I had made an acquaintance with their daughter Sukrita, who is now a friend.My first introduction to Joginder Paul was when he had come to participate in a literary event at Panjab University and city poet Kumar Vikal had heartily praised his stories. Years later I was to visit their home to take permission to translate Dera Baba Nanak, which is one of the most heartwarming stories of a humane gesture in the mad frenzy of the great divide. That one visit made me an insider as it used to be with the littérateurs of yore. It also gave me a chance to listen spellbound to the very adventurous vignettes of their lives.Suitable boy in AmbalaIn early 1948, Krishna’s parents decided that their daughter had passed her senior Cambridge with distinction in six subjects so it was time to discontinue studies and find a suitable boy and marry her off. Krishna always took glee in relating the consequences that led to her marrying Joginder and so also in this book. Krishna’s father was an unlettered but wealthy businessman in Nairobi, Kenya. On a mission of groom-hunting in Delhi, they received a proposal from Ambala. There a relative’s cousin took them around the place and in the father’s eye he became the suitable boy.Krishna’s description of the meeting in Ambala is most readable in its comic sadness. Joginder has been uprooted from Sialkot with his family and they are staying in a shabby evacuee property. He is supporting the family by running a milk procuring and selling business from home although he is already a well published author. There the vow is made as Joginder tells her with a pinch of humour that he could not have turned her away as his mother believed in the old tradition of not turning away good luck and fortune that had come knocking their way. Krishna too loses her heart to this unusual young man who wears a pyjama and gobbles some half a dozen rotis sitting across the stove from his mother. “I somehow knew that here was someone who would let her continue with her studies. And so he did!”Together they moved to Kenya, then to Aurangabad and finally their love nest in Delhi with Krishna being the first reader of his stories and also the Hindi translator. This is how love stories are made and this one is so engaging. As author Chandana says: “ This seamless bend of time, both full of love and wit, makes life seem so worth its while!”nirupama.dutt@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-my-other-half-telling-tales-of-the-storyteller-from-sialkot/story-Vqb7rbFtrHA4hRYb8yHDuO.html
04-07-2020||Ranchi||Lalu Prasad moves bail plea in Jharkhand HC in fodder scam case citing ill health||RJD supremo Lalu Prasad has moved a bail petition in the Jharkhand High Court in one of the multi-crore fodder scam cases, citing poor health, his counsel said on Saturday. Prasad has been convicted in four of the five fodder scam cases in Jharkhand. While two cases pertain to the Chaibasa treasury, the other two are regarding withdrawal of funds from Deoghar and Dumka treasuries. He is facing 14 years jail term in the case pertaining to illegal withdrawal of funds from Dumka treasury in the 1990s and the bail petition was moved in this case. The bail petition in the RC 68A/96 case was filed on Friday. Counsel Prabhat Kumar said the bail has been sought on the ground that Prasad’s health condition is deteriorating. The fifth case that Prasad is facing is being heard by a special CBI court in Ranchi pertaining to fraudulent withdrawal of money from Doranda treasury. Prasad, who is in jail since December 2017, is currently undergoing treatment at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi. He has already been granted bail in the Deoghar case and in one of the two Chaibasa cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/lalu-prasad-moves-bail-plea-in-jharkhand-hc-in-fodder-scam-case-citing-ill-health/story-K3FQIDTTOr0b1OguwOwiNK.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Random Forays: A sense of humour in times of despair||When a writer attempts to lighten the mood of his readers, he faces a rather onerous and daunting task, not only in pandemic-related painful times, but at any moment in history. For life, and the world, have always managed to accomplish the task of dampening the general mood, even souring it, beyond redemption.Life, after all, is full of its bumps and rubble, its humps and trouble. There is nary a moment when news of the unsavoury variety will not come intruding into your relative sense of calmness. In these times of unstoppable always-on gadgets and that mother of all intruders, the internet, even more scarce is the moment which is undisturbed by unwarranted intrusion.Thus, even to try and inspire friends or acquaintances to adopt a sunny, cheerful, lighthearted attitude towards life, is fraught with risk of the kind that only a bullfighter who tries to appease a raging bull has ever encountered. Moreover, the Indian summer is at its peak, and people’s nostrils tend to flare up much more at such times.Humorous banter might not therefore receive the welcome it perhaps deserves. But then writers are dogged people, and they buckle down to write what they have to, people’s moods and outdoor temperatures notwithstanding!When a not-so-young-man called up the other day from the interiors of Haryana, he gave me reason to not only smile, but also to mention him in this column. Having called at a late hour, he began with an enthusiastically cheery “Good night, sir!” I was a little taken aback at this, and nonplussed for a minute, but when he repeated these words, I got the thrust of what he meant. Instead of responding in the same vein and closing the conversation with “Good night!” I decided to answer him with a “Namaskar” and we chatted for five minutes.Ways of communicating have necessarily found new avatars. Webinars are the order of the day. Most of us have become actors these days for we have to appear on screen. What is extremely difficult for all generations except GenX to understand is that the virtual world requires us to be ourselves just as much as reality does.These days I am a part of several webinars and I have learnt a few new facts as a result. There are webinar intruders, webinar escapists and webinar experts around. Some people are just very informal on webinars, believing that they can ‘feel at home’ because they are working from home and not from office! Some snore, others wash dishes, while on a webinar!My friend Atul Khosla, pro vice chancellor of Shoolini University, has spoken at over a hundred webinars on Zoom and says he has become a ‘Zoombie’!Work from home also has hilarious consequences. A grandmother popped into a 20-year-old intern’s call with his manager and scolded the senior person on camera for turning her home into an office. The icing on the cake was that the manager’s mother appeared on the other end of the call and totally agreed with her!The banning of Chinese apps has queered the pitch but Indians have great resilience and will surely come up with apps which are even more impactful. TikTok has been ticked off, so to say, but similar Indian apps have already registered millions of users and the day is not far when we will have people swearing by something like ‘Been Bajao’ instead of TikTok.The new appearance that we have to present to the world, with masks on, is also leading to piquant situations. Some people wear a mask as if their life depends on it, and it might well do. But others wear it as if it is an accessory of the chin alone, and not of the face. Colourful and fashionable masks have made a killing in the market, with designers coming up with extremely creative ideas already.Finding humour in exacting situations is not everybody’s cup of tea. But that is the way that life must be led. By finding the smile within us when all is seemingly going wrong and spreading the smiling habit to all we live more meaningfully, for sure.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-a-sense-of-humour-in-times-of-despair/story-ZSmnX1PvqZ3mgRlGnPgCpK.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: Of ‘Chini Kum’,migrants’ maps& China’s TikTok apps||As it’s been long since the hyped “Hindi Chini Bhai Bhai” slogan suffered a bye-lateral burial by being dumped into diplomatic folklore and history books, like a long-lost Bhojpuri or Bihari sub-dialect, it is the current “Chini Kum” narrative that’s scripting life in India Unlocking.As with hashtags, so also with households, Covid-19 has overnight been upstaged by another “C” – China – in its role of Villain No 1. Smacks so much of a Prem Chopra-outrivalled-by-a-Shakti Kapoor script.The “Chini Kum” narrative – driven by hashtags #RIPTiktok, #BoycottChineseApps blah blah – has found resonance not only in the garrulous gabs of tamasha TV or Twitterati. It is also echoing in the living rooms of the Lollitas, Lamba jis and Lala jis.Of much ado about migrationIncredibly Indian, isn’t it, how India Unlocking’s migration narrative has suddenly got skewed – it now boasts a new metaphor, a substitute symbolism.Till now, migration was the outflux mapping out between urban and rural India - The Return of the Native. Ah, but (mis)trust the Chinese to trudge in to trigger a parallel migration. Digital natives of Dhulia to Dhanbad migrating from TikTok in the direction of a different digital home.Blame it on the banning of 59 Chinese apps in the wake of India-China tensions. TikTok’s pain is Instagram and YouTube’s gain. Oh, actually, if one factors in the TikTokers’ small-town scorn for the elitism of Instagram or YouTube, then TikTok’s pain could spell home-grown app Chingari or Mitron’s gain.What this also translates into is a tectonic shift in the ground reality of India Unlocking’s middle-class households.The Lollitas are spectators or sufferers of the double migration – seeing not just a majority of maids, Lalitaas and Lajjos, migrating from the metropolises to Malda or Midnapore, but now also migrating from TikTok.Seen more as the semi-urbanites’ social media platform, remember how TikTok had overnight made star sensations out of the Kaamwali Bai or Kabadiwala Bhai? Remember, how when the Lollitas thought the Lalitaas were bestowing benediction on the stains on the floor by flailing the mop-stick with a vampish vengeance, the latter were actually rehearsing or choreographing the moves for their next TikTok video?No wonder, now the Lollitas are a bit befuddled about which is a more “burning” concern (that is, if you don’t count the frozen GST-grilled Parottas or Paranthas burning on the tawa bemoaning the Bai’s exodus) – the Lalitaas and Lajjos migrating from metropolises or migrating from TikTok.Alas, those latkas ‘n’ jhatkas of the Lalitaas with the broomstick or their lip-syncing to “Tu cheez badi hai mast mast” before the bathroom mirrors of the Lollitas face a freeze till TikTok’s Bais and Bhais figure out a different digital home. Lalitaas’ pain is Lollitas’ gain.But trust those Blabbermouths of Breaking News – Arnab Goswami & Co – to bring their melodrama into this “Chini Kum” narrative. Where was the need for Arnab to babble, “The sheer suddenness of the move, the unexpected nature of the move, the unpredictability of the move ...”? It almost seemed he was egging on the Lalitaas and Lajjos by felicitating their flux from TikTok. No wonder, his Theatre of the Absurd had trolls twaddling that it was Arnab who was the “real TikTok star”.If you’ve ever watched Poodles or Persian Cats chase after chicken lollipops first, and then suddenly starting to steer their heels in a divergent direction to dash after sausages, you may detect definite resemblance to New Normal’s muddled migration maps.The curious case of TikTok tasting the Chini Kum narrative and twattling – Who Moved My Cheez!Of Swiggy & sweet ‘n’ sourThe Chinese app ban and subsequent migration from TikTok are also playing party-poopers for the poor neighbourhood Khanna jis and Khullar jis (K&K).Remember, how the Lalitaas and Lajjos on neighbouring balconies, aspiring to be anointed TiKTok’s future “Revolver Ranis” etc – would engage the Glad Eye of the K&Ks?Alas, as the Khanna jis and Khullar jis now stand deprived of those TikTok-driven latkas ‘n’ jhatkas of the Lalitaas – practised and perfected in pochaa-jharoo mode – they have been trying to divert their male gaze to temptations called Reshmi Kebabs or Nargisi Koftas proffered by Swiggy or Zomato. Only to learn that half the apps that are supplying Sweet ‘n’ Sour Chinese or desi gastronomic distractions to their Glad Eye are also in the eye of the storm. The Party-poopers – nuggets of news trickling in that Swiggy, Zomato & Co too thrive thanks to Chinese funding. Thus, they too are inviting a taste of hashtags #boycottchina blah blah.The curious case of gluttony’s glad eye grunting – Who Moved My Chinese!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-of-chini-kum-migrants-maps-china-s-tiktok-apps/story-9GZySaQBpZjuAdVhMbsM6N.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sonepat law varsity vice-chancellor seeks action against PU senator for ‘verbal abuse, threats’||The vice-chancellor of Dr BR Ambedkar National Law University, Sonepat, has written to the Panjab University VC alleging that a PU associate professor used abusive and threatening language against her. However, the PU faculty has denied the allegation.It is learnt that the Sonepat law varsity vice-chancellor Prof Viney Kapoor was given the PhD thesis of a PU student for evaluation as an external examiner. The controversy erupted between Prof Kapoor and Dr Ajay Ranga, a faculty of University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS) and PU senator, after she had written a revision for the thesis.In her letter she said, “On June 5 morning, I received a call from Dr Ajay Ranga. He started using abusive language, asking how I could write a revision in the PhD report of his candidate. He threatened me of facing consequences and said he will file a case under the SC/ST Act against me.”Prof Kapoor said she is shocked that “this is the level of a PU teacher and that the university allows any supervisor to contact and abuse the external examiner and harass them in this manner. “If he can use threatening language against a woman and that too to a vice-chancellor, then I am shocked what kind of language he might be using towards his women colleagues at Panjab University,” she stated in the letter.PU SENATOR DENIES ALLEGATIONSRanga admitted calling Prof Kapoor, but denied the accusations of him threatening her. He said, “I called her on June 4, but I did not threaten her. This move seems to me as politically motivated as senate elections are approaching. Before she sent the report of the thesis back, she was given many reminders since last year. I will take legal action against her in the future.”MATTER NOW WITH STANDING COMMITTEEPU has forwarded the matter to its standing committee. Dean University Instructions Professor RK Singla said, “The university has received the complaint and the matter has been referred to the standing committee.”Panjab University controller of examinations Prof Parvinder Singh said, “The thesis was submitted last year in March. More than ten reminders were given to the examiner by the secrecy branch after that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sonepat-law-varsity-vice-chancellor-seeks-action-against-pu-senator-for-verbal-abuse-threats/story-3IuCuKn6sYUMQii2hUqY7M.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: With adopting a pet comes great responsibility||By notifying the Chandigarh Registration of Pet Dogs (Amendment) By-laws 2020, the UT administration has taken its first steps towards a more structured, coherent strategy in controlling the dog population in the city, where cases of dog bite had touched 10,387 till September, 2019.According to the by-laws, a fine of Rs 5,000 will be slapped on those not registering their pet dogs, a tenfold rise from Rs 500 charged earlier. Even applying for registration will cost owners Rs 500 instead of Rs200.There are about 8,000 pet dogs registered in the city, the fear of fines is likely to push more people into getting the paperwork done for their pets, and as a result be accountable for any incident involving the animal.Maintenance charges of ₹100 for dogs seized or detained under the by-laws have been increased to ₹1,000 to claim the pet.The by-laws state it is mandatory for dog owners to register each pet at the municipal corporation office once the canine is four months old. Only two dogs are allowed per family.Control and regulation of strays as well as pets is urgently required in the tricity with attacks by pets too reported frequently. Earlier this year,a pet dog bit two people in quick succession in Sector 30, Chandigarh, but the owner, despite having a case registered against him under Section 289 of the IPC for negligence in preventing harm to others from an animal in his possession, was released on bail. The dog had reportedly attacked five people in all.With adoption of a pet comes great responsibility... of ensuring that it is taken care of and does not harm others. Increased fines for non registration of dogs will deter people from getting pets on a whim without assessing their own capacity to nurture and protect the animal and ensure it does not get into trouble.Residents have to be brought to task for flouting rules. Most of them are not picking up their dog’s stools while taking the animal out for a walk. Not many choose to muzzle ferocious breeds while taking them outdoors – and another matter of concern is that no system of licencing exists in the country for such pets.Designated areas have to be marked out where the animals can be exercised – as is done in Western countries. It is also time for the authorities take a recount of the stray dog population and ensure the animals are neutered and vaccinated.PET PEEVEWhat can be done to save the city from going to the dogs? What more needs to be done to ensure responsible dog ownership/stray control in the tricity? Send your answers to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by July 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-with-adopting-a-pet-comes-great-responsibility/story-vHNu8c6xCgzNkRYJF2AtrJ.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||132 fined for not wearing masks in Chandigarh||In a special drive, the Chandigarh police challaned 132 persons for moving around without wearing face masks.The challans were issued by the police as part of a two-day special drive conducted from 6pm to midnight on July 3 and July 4, as per the directions of SSP Chandigarh.On Friday, fines worth ₹66,000 were collected from 132 persons for not wearing face mask. One challan was issued for not following social distancing norms and ₹500 fine was collected from the violators.Apart from this, 10 persons were booked under Section 188 of IPC for violating curfew norms. In Chandigarh, the curfew remains in place from 10pm to 5am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/132-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-in-chandigarh/story-dRHtkeJfDbVMayYRdw38nJ.html
04-07-2020||City||Entry at Palghar waterfalls, beaches barred||The Palghar district collector Dr Kailas Shinde has invoked section 144 (unlawful assembly) and Disaster Management Act, 2005, at all beaches, forts, dams, river, ponds and waterfalls till August 9, to prevent drownings. Five youths drowned in the Kal Mandavi waterfall in Jawhar on July 2. As per the order, with immediate effect, tourists will not be allowed to click selfies, drink alcohol, ride bikes, drive cars to the waterfalls, and also playing loud music in the district. Stict action will be initiated against those violating the order, said Shinde.The areas banned are the Kal Mandavi and Dhabosa waterfalls in Jawhar, Palucha waterfall in Vikramgadh, Waghobha waterfall in Palghar, Aina Dabhon waterfall in Boisar, Devkhop dam in Palghar, Zanzorli dam in Kelwe, Chinchoti waterfall in Vasai, and seven other waterfalls in Palghar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/entry-at-palghar-waterfalls-beaches-barred/story-PKdoKVKyfJY3wJhqaIBiPJ.html
04-07-2020||City||Centre sanctions Rs 50 crore for Mansa Devi temple, Nada Sahib gurdwara||The Centre has sanctioned Rs 50 crore for the development of Mansa Devi temple and Nada Sahib gurdwara in Panchkula into religious tourism centres, as per the roadmap prepared by the department of tourism.Haryana assembly speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta said that of the Rs 49.50 crore sanctioned, Rs 10 crore will come to the Panchkula administration. “The scheme will emerge as an engine of economic growth and employment generation,” he said.The development plan includes, beautifying the front court of the temple complex, construction of multi-storey parking, toilets and washrooms.The development of Nada Sahib gurdwara, which also includes beautifying the front gate and building a multi-storey parking, will cost more than Rs 25 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-sanctions-rs-50-crore-for-mansa-devi-temple-nada-sahib-gurdwara/story-LMlf6sYNNYsPbAYYGr5AWL.html
04-07-2020||City||Will keep fighting against anti-farmer ordinances: Capt||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has said that he will fight against the anti-farmer ordinances of the Centre. “I will be writing soon to the Prime Minister for an appointment for an all-party delegation which all Punjab parties, except the BJP, have unanimously agreed to be a part of,” he said while addressing his weekly #AskCaptain Facebook Live session.“No matter what Sukhbir Badal or BJP say, once these ordinances are passed, the Centre’s next step will be to end the MSP regime and dismantle the Food Corporation of India,” Amarinder said.While pointing to the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee, he said the procurement process will come to an end and mandis won’t exist once the ordinances become law.He said the Akalis were interested only in protecting their political interests. “Badals were appeasing the BJP to save their alliance in Punjab and Harsimrat Kaur Badal was focused on safeguarding her position in the Union cabinet,” he said, adding barring the BJP and SAD, all the political parties and Kisan Unions want scrapping of the ordinances.Captain Amarinder welcomed the permission given by the Centre to his request for using helicopters to spray insecticides on crops to prevent locust attack. While expressing the hope that the locusts will spare Punjab, he said an MI17 chopper had been earmarked for spraying chemicals and the operation will start from Rajasthan soon.On the Covid-19 situation, the CM said things were not good, as cases are on the rise across India, and even Punjab touched the 6,000-mark, along with 157 deaths. He reiterated the importance of social distancing and wearing of masks.A student wanted to know his chances of travelling to Canada where he has an exam in September, Captain said while he expected international travel to be open before that, the state government will also try to get his name on the list sooner if flights resume.To a question regarding the high court’s decision on payment of school fee in the absence of classes, the CM said the state government was in the process of filing a review petition in the high court.Meanwhile, in a major initiative for general ex-servicemen, Amarinder announced the number of attempts in PCS examination to six instead of four. While the SC candidates among the general category will continue to get unlimited chances, candidate from the BC category of ex-servicemen can take the exam nine times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-keep-fighting-against-anti-farmer-ordinances-capt/story-DXkq3XOuGCM1KtXg1L53jK.html
04-07-2020||City||Woman, ‘lover’ booked for killing husband||A 34-year-old woman and her ‘lover’ have been booked for allegedly killing her husband at Jethuwal village falling under Kambo police station, on Saturday.Police said the incident took place in May, but a case was registered on Friday after investigation.“Deceased was Hira Singh, while the accused are his wife Amandeep Kaur and her alleged lover Charanjit Singh of the same village,” police said.The case has been registered on the complaint of the victim’s father Sukhwant Singh. He had lodged a complaint on June 8, a fortnight after his son’s death. He said, “My son got married to Amandeep 12 years ago and the couple has two children. My son was found dead in his room on May 23.”“After 15 days of my son’s death, I came to know that my son was murdered by his wife and Charanjit. Amandeep had developed illicit relations with Charanjit and the duo planned my son’s death. They gave him some poisonous substance. I wanted a postmortem to be conducted on my son, but the duo did not allow it and he was cremated in a haste.”Kambo SHO Yadwinder Singh said, “During the investigation, we came to know that Amandeep and Charanjit had killed the accused. They are absconding and raids are being conducted to nab them.”The duo are booked under Sections 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-lover-booked-for-killing-husband/story-JwlzOzvI3TpZRYCZRWog8N.html
04-07-2020||City||11 arrested from Zirakpur hotel for gambling, consuming hookah||Eleven persons were arrested on charges of gambling, from a newly opened hotel in Zirakpur, where hookah was also being served despite a ban. Cops had raided the hotel on Friday night following a tip-off. They also recovered Rs 22,500 cash, two hookahs, 58 gram ganja, 11 mobile phones and two laptops along with dice and playing cards from the spot. The accused have been identified as Rahul of Peer Muchala, Rakesh Kumar of Sector 25, Panchkula, Naveen of Malerkotla, Gobind Mittal of Zirakpur, Sanjiv Kumar of Ludhiana, Raj Kumar of Mansa, Neeraj Kumar of Kurukshetra, Anil Kumar of Mansa, Raj Kumar of Sector 20, Panchkula, Chara Jindal of Malerkotla and Amit Singla of Sector 50 Chandigarh. They were booked under the NDPS and Gambling Act and produced in the court, which sent them to one-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-arrested-from-zirakpur-hotel-for-gambling-consuming-hookah/story-rK6YjEVXfbgwXtoj87y48H.html
04-07-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Vivek Atray gives Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham a pep talkThe Chandigarh administration has roped in motivational speaker Vivek Atray, a former IAS officer, to give a pep talk to residents of Bapu Dham Colony, a Covid-19 hotspot in Sector 26. With patience running thin in these testing times, Atray’s voiceover comes as a relief as it urges residents to stay connected, virtually. He urges them to follow rules for containment zones diligently while keeping busy at home and focusing on their families. He suggests making videos and sharing in neighbourhood groups. Addressing the residents’ financial concerns, Atray says they could explore cottage industry options and learn a skill they always wanted to but didn’t get the time to.Tight-fisted MC commissioner has Chandigarh councillors disappointedChandigarh municipal corporation commissioner KK Yadav is walking the tightrope on spending these days with the UT administration and councillors pulling in opposite directions. The UT administration wants the MC to follow strict financial discipline, while councillors accuse the commissioner of centralising spending. “Approvals that were earlier given by an executive engineer (XEN) level officer now go to him. He asks umpteen questions before clearing any expenditure. This is delaying the implementation of development works in our wards,” said a councillor, requesting anonymity. Defending his boss, a senior MC official said, “Only those works for which the MC has funds get the nod. Earlier, councillors could pressure junior officers into sanctioning works, but now it’s hard for them to do as they please.”With no challans due to Covid-19, vendors have a free run in MohaliCovid-19 has come as a blessing in disguise for vendors or rehri and phariwallahs in Mohali with the enforcement wing of the municipal corporation staying put in office. For three months, the wing has not issued a single challan. Buoyed by the absence of officials on the ground, the vendors are making their presence on the roads, obstructing traffic at times. The worst-hit areas are roads in Phases 9, 10, 11, 3B1, 3B2 and Sector 68.Missing two-wheelers remain mystery for UT policeResidents of Chandigarh continue to lose their two-wheelers to vehicle-lifters. On an average, two thefts are reported everyday in the 16 police stations of Chandigarh but where these two-wheelers go remains a mystery. Most of the times, they are not parked in authorised slots and owners end up rushing to the police station to lodge a complaint.Environment director occupies two postsEver since the transfer of TC Nautiyal on June 30, UT director, environment, Debendra Dalai has been appointed as member secretary and vice-chairman of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC). According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) 2015 notification, the charge of member secretary is kept for the deputy conservator of forests (DCF). However, DCF Abdul Qayum has been given the additional charge of conservator of forests (CF) instead. On the appointment, UT adviser Manoj Parida said that this is a temporary arrangement and Nautiyal’s replacement will be sent soon to take charge as CPCC member secretary and CF.Chapatti-making machine unveiled at PGIPost Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, is known for its hi-tech diagnostic machines but last week, it was the turn of a different kind of machine to be unveiled. PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram inaugurated an automatic chapatti-making machine at the employees’ welfare canteen. The machine has been donated by a private company to the hospital’s canteen that provides meals to nearly 7,000 employees and healthcare workers daily at a nominal rate.PU yet to decide on classes in Covid timesPanjab University is yet to decide on holding exams and classes for the next academic session. Teachers say the university should take steps to hold classes without wasting more time but the PU authorities would rather wait for directions from the University Grants Commission.Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Amanjeet Singh Salyal, Rajanbir Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-7aukFgXgZ5E5F79Qg1WLXP.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab allows staggered arrival of flights||Director (civil aviation, Punjab) Girish Dayalan on Saturday said that requests are being received from airlines, charter, and other operators to land flights in Mohali and Amritsar airport carrying Indians stranded abroad. In view of this, they will be granted permission to land here, subject to some conditions.Dayalan said, “To facilitate easier transport, airlines may ensure that the flights carrying passengers from Haryana, Chandigarh, and HP may land at Mohali, while passengers from J&K and HP may land at Amritsar.”After consultation with the district administration regarding capacity of handling incoming passengers and ensuring proper institutional quarantine, the arrival of flights may be staggered allowing only two flights a day at either airport.Under exceptional circumstances, more flights may be considered. The respective state governments may designate their nodal officers from whom NoC is to be sought and who shall be responsible for making arrangements to collect and transport passengers.All passengers from Punjab should download Cova app and make bookings in advance at hotels for institutional quarantine in their destination districts.As per MHA guidelines, all international passengers arriving in state should undergo institutional quarantine for seven days followed by home quarantine for seven ore days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-allows-staggered-arrival-of-flights/story-71v3BWAZTE1NpCIU8JgrSI.html
04-07-2020||City||10 take ill after consuming ‘parsad’ at Tarn Taran gurdwara; three critical||As many as 10 people, including three children, fell ill after consuming ‘parsad’ at Bhagat Namdev Gurdwara situated at Mohalla Tank Kushatri on Saturday.Police said the condition of three persons, including a woman and her son, is said to be critical, who have been referred to an Amritsar-based hospital.One Sharanjit Kaur, 60, had died a few days back, and her family organised a discourse of ‘Sukhmani Sahib’ at their home.Granthi Balvir Singh said, “I prepared ‘karha parsad’ which was distributed among people after culmination of the bhog ceremony. The leftover parsad was taken to the gurdwara where it was consumed by me, my two grandsons, my wife, and six others. After some time, we started choking and some vomiting.”They went to a local doctor for treatment. The granthi and his family are stable but others were taken to a Tarn Taran hospital.Councillor Sarabjit Singh Lali said, “There was a dispute between two sons of Sharanjit over possession of the family house after her death. Someone may have laced the parsad with poisonous substance. Strict action should be taken against the guilty.”City police station SHO Saminderjit Singh said preliminary investigation shows that the parsad may have been laced with some poisonous substance. “Investigation to ascertain identity of the accused who mixed the poisonous substance in parsad is on,” he said. A case was registered against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-take-ill-after-consuming-parsad-at-tarn-taran-gurdwara-three-critical/story-rpTiHljgD9poSM4fsn6SZI.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Despite Chandigarh adviser’s direction, pvt lab to seek prescription for Covid-19 test||Even though UT adviser Manoj Parida on Friday announced that a doctor’s prescription is no more mandatory for Covid-19 testing from a private lab in Chandigarh, SRL Diagnostics — the only lab authorised to conduct these tests here — on Saturday maintained that it will go by the “guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which essentially requires a prescription from a registered doctor”.The new ICMR guidelines call for a prescription of either a government or registered private doctor, said a spokesperson of the lab.However, Parida said the private lab will have to follow directions issued by the central government, and the UT administration has just passed them on to it.The ambiguity seems to have arisen due to a recent letter of the Union health and family welfare ministry to all states and union territories, a part of which states, “ICMR strongly recommends that the laboratories should be free to test any individual in accordance with its guidelines and state authorities must not restrict an individual from testing.” The letter initially states that private medical practitioners can also prescribe Covid-19 test in addition to government doctors.“Even private labs can ascertain whether the individual coming for testing fulfils the ICMR guidelines and go for the test accordingly without prescription from any medical professional,” a senior UT health official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-chandigarh-adviser-s-direction-pvt-lab-to-seek-prescription-for-covid-19-test/story-NLeEwJztevqzpAdlgACEkK.html
04-07-2020||Pune||Flying squads in rural areas to check violation of Covid-19 norms||As the rural areas from Pune district have started reporting a surge in Covid-19 positive cases, the administration has begun constituting squads to act against those not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms.As on Friday, rural areas of Pune district have reported 2,159 progressive cases of which 1,573 have recovered. As many as 71 deaths have been reported in rural Pune. According to district collector Naval Kishore Ram, who visited Khed on Saturday to review the situation, it was decided to have larger containment zones in rural Pune areas instead of micro-containment zones to bring restrictions on the larger territory.“We discussed the situation in Khed and other areas and decided to implement containment zones in larger areas. A decision was also taken to constitute flying squads to act against people not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms,” said Ram.The squad includes staff from police, revenue and health department. It will fine people and file first information reports (FIRs) against them if found violating the guidelines repeatedly“We have already filed FIRs in Khed, which has reported over 118 cases,” said Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/flying-squads-in-rural-areas-to-check-violation-of-covid-19-norms/story-9FF7MSAO2kjT0BojeiSVnI.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||35 police officers transferred in Himachal||Thirty-five Himachal Pradesh Police Service (HPPS) officers were transferred on Saturday. Shimla additional superintendent of police (ASP, CID) Brijesh Sood is now ASP chief minister security, while Sushil Kumar who was posted as ASP CM security has been posted as ASP district Sirmaur. ASP Solan Shiv Kumar is the new Solan home guard commandand. Narender Kumar is the Baddi ASP, Badri Singh is Sakoh ASP 2nd India Reserve Battalion (IRBn), Bhupinder Singh is ASP Traffic Tourist and Railways Police (TT and R), Shimla; Puneet Raghu is ASP 1st IRBn Bangarh, Una; and Ashish Sharma is ASP, Mandi.Rajender Kumar is deputy superintendent of police (DSP) IRBn Jungleberi, Hamirpur; Madan Kant is DSP fifth IRBn Bassi, Bilaspur; Navdeep Singh is sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Baddi, Solan; Braham Dass Bhatia is SDPO Baijnath, Kangra; Manohar Lal is DSP third IRBn Pandoh, Mandi; Vikas Kumar Dhiman is DSP (CID) Dharamshala; Khajana Ram is DSP Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) Sundernagar, Mandi; Ram Prasad Jaswal is DSP sixth IRBn Dhaula Kuan, Sirmaur; Puran Chand is DSP fourth IRBn Jungleberi, Hamirpur; Rahul Sharma is DSP fifth IRBn Bassi, Bilaspur; Madan Lal Dhiman is DSP sixth IRBn Dhaula Kuan, Sirmaur; Anil Kumar is DSP first IRBn Bangarh, Una; Shakti Singh is SDPO Sangrah, Sirmaur; Ramakant Thakur is DSP (HQ) Una; Ram Karan is DSP state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (ACB) Chamba; Ajay Kumar is DSP State Vigilance and ACB, Kullu and he will also hold additional charge of SV and ACB in Lahaul-Spiti district; Varun Patial is DSP SV and ACB Shimla , Chander Shekhar is DSP first Himachal Pradesh Armed Police (HPAP) Junga, Shimla; Ravinder Kumar is DSP State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), Junga, Shimla; Raj Kumar is SDPO, Chopal, Shimla; Sanjay Kuamr is DSP SV and ACB Bilaspur, Rajeev Mehta is DSP SV and ACB Kinnaur at Reckongpeo; Anil Kumar as SDPO Ghumarvin, Bilaspur; Sher Singh is SDPO Salooni, Chamba; Lokender Singh is SDPO Padhar, Mandi; Om Prakash is DSP third IRBn Pandoh, Mandi; and Anil Thakur has been transferred to the post of DSP sixth IRBn Dhaula Kuan, Sirmaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/35-police-officers-transferred-in-himachal/story-bt5IQuG93ZRCj2vWI8LpFL.html
04-07-2020||Pune||NCP corporators switch sides on Taljai hill development plan after Ajit Pawar approves 13 cr project||The development plan at Taljai hill proposed earlier received severe opposition from Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporators, however, at least two corporators have changed their position after deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar approved a forest eco-park project.A total of Rs 13 crore was also approved to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for a refurbished project of Taljai hill under the hilltop zone category. The total area of Taljai hill is about 110 acres and the primary objective of this proposal is to restore and enrich the greenery of Taljai hill by means of water and soil conservation measures and providing protection from illegal encroachment of the hill, according to the PMC initiative with people’s participation.Earlier, congress corporator Aba Bagul had proposed various initiatives on the 110-acre Taljai hill plot.NCP corporator Subhash Jagtap said, “The proposal of installing solar panels included cutting around 300 trees which were not at all acceptable. Hence, my opposition to the proposal was obvious. There are almost 13 projects started by Aba Bagul which are not maintained and closed after a few months of the inauguration. I am not opposing the forest eco-park project as it does not include cutting of trees and damaging the environment and the only trees which will be felled are the Gliricidia trees, which are useful for prevention of soil erosion, but are harmful to other trees.”NCP corporator, Ashwini Kadam said, “The proposal of Aba Bagul was not beneficial for the residents. The new proposal is mainly focused on developing an oxygen park at Taljai hill. The proposal also includes small amphitheatres and cultural facilities. Moreover, sports facilities such as cricket stadium, skateboarding ramp, and rock-climbing facilities will also be part of the project.”Local residents continue to remain unhappy with the whole concept of a development project.Aishwarya Dhere, a regular visitor of the Taljai hill, said, “I go there to exercise and meditate in peace and according to me there is enough oxygen at Taljai hill. Developing any cultural and sports facilities on a beautiful natural place like Taljai hill will be like losing the essence of nature.”Aditya More, who also is a regular visitor to Taljai hail believes there isn’t a need for amphitheatres and sports complexes at Taljai Hill.“It will attract more crowd which will cause noise and air pollution and will affect the animals living inside the jungle. Taljai Hill is much more beautiful without all these materialistic add-ons,” More said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ncp-corporators-switch-sides-on-taljai-hill-development-plan-after-ajit-pawar-approves-13-cr-project/story-FVd6L8dEmERURdIfaAtNHN.html
04-07-2020||City||Prepare list of beneficiaries of welfare schemes: Himachal CM to DCs, BDOs||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday held a video conference with deputy commissioners (DCs) and block development officers (BDOs) and directed them to prepare list of beneficiaries of different welfare schemes initiated by the government . Jai Ram Thakur said, “ It is essential that we constantly interact with the beneficiaries and have a mechanism to get their feedback regarding different schemes. Optimum use of technology must be ensured.” He directed the BDOs to have a detailed database at panchayat level so that it was available at the click of a button.In the first phase, the state government had decided that beneficiaries of schemes such as Ayushman Bharat and HIMCARE, Ujjawala Yojana and Grihini Suvidha Yojana, housing schemes like Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojana, Mukhyamantri Aawas Yojana, workers registered with Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, ASHA workers, Pradhan Mantri Kissan Samman Nidhi, Social Security Pension beneficiaries, Sahara Yojana, and Jan Dhan Yojana will be listed. He said the list of beneficiaries should be provided to the panchayats and must be readily available with them and all lists must be made available to panchayats by tenth of the month. He directed the BDOs to get webex software loaded in the mobiles of the beneficiaries and also train them regarding its use.Efforts will be made to increase enrolment in govt schools:CM Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday said efforts will be made to increase the enrolment of students in government schools, particularly at pre-primary and primary levels.Addressing the review meeting for budget assurances for the year 2020-21, the CM said there should be qualitative improvement in education so that students could get good education near their homes.CM said that the Swaran Jayanti Gyanodaya Cluster Sreshtha Vidyalaya Yojana was being launched. Under this scheme 100 Schools of the state will be improved by bringing them qualitative changes and student -teacher ratio will be ensured in the state. He said Rs 15 crore would be spent under this scheme. The CM said that the Medha Protshan Yojana launched by the state government had proved to be a boon as they were getting an incentive of Rs 1 lakh for pursuing coaching for various exams such NEET, IIIT. He said that this year under Swaran Jayanti Super 100 scheme, 100 Class 10 toppers will be provided an assistance of Rs 1 lakh each for undergoing coaching to compete in different entrance examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prepare-list-of-beneficiaries-of-welfare-schemes-himachal-cm-to-dc-s-bdos/story-xWA8MqboeHp3DmK1rIDKdM.html
04-07-2020||Kolkata||Mother, daughter killed after short circuit at Kolkata home sparks fire||A 68-year-old woman and her 42-year-old daughter were charred to death when a fire broke out in their house on Saturday afternoon at Behala in west Kolkata.The two have been identified as Soma Mitra and her daughter Kakali Mitra. The two other residents of the house managed to escape unhurt.“The two women got trapped on the first floor of the two-storey building and were charred to death. Their bodies were recovered after the flames were doused,” said a senior fire brigade official.Locals said that they heard a loud noise around 12:30 pm after which the fire started. Preliminary investigation by the fire department revealed that it could be a short circuit that triggered the fire. The police have started a probe.Total five people lived in that house. The two who managed to come out after the fire were Hirak Ghosh and Mousumi Ghosh, but they could not be contacted. Chabi Rani Ghosh, another occupant, had gone out for some work when the accident took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mother-daughter-killed-after-short-circuit-at-kolkata-home-sparks-fire/story-3aXmalG4iSimYEBTkj0ieM.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Six booked for drinking in public in Panchkula||The Panchkula police have registered five cases against six persons for consuming alcohol in public places.The FIR was registered under sections 188 of the IPC and 68 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 (Haryana Amendment Bill, 2020).As per the police, ASI Tarsem Singh was patrolling in Sector 10, Panchkula, when he found a person drinking liquor near Tawa Hotel around 10pm on Friday. On seeing the police, Mohit Kumar of Baltana threw away the bottle. Following this, a case was registered against him for breaching the law.In another case, an FIR was registered against two men, identified as Bhupinder Singh (35) of Pinjore and Rahul Malhotra (32) of Zirakpur. They were found drinking alcohol near a tavern in Sector 5, Panchkula.Similarly, the police registered a case against Vijay Kumar of Khadak Mangoli. He was walking on the road with a liquor bottle in a drunken condition.In the other two cases, FIRs were registered against Gopal Singh of Ghaggar village and Sandeep Kumar of New Colony, Chandimandir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-booked-for-drinking-in-public-in-panchkula/story-foKbHjsy5j64oecBwNdwDM.html
04-07-2020||City||Money laundering case: Interim bail dismissed, industrialist Gaba back in jail||Mohali The interim bail granted to industrialist Chunni Lal Gaba, 72, in a money-laundering case in the wake of Covid-19 was cancelled by a Mohali court on Saturday.Gaba surrendered before the CBI special court, which is designated ED court as well, and sent to judicial custody. Gaba’s interim bail was dismissed in the wake of the Punjab and Haryana high court order of July 2 that was in line with the Supreme Court observation that “bail in cases involving heinous crimes, like the offences under the Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances Act, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, may not be granted as a matter of right”.Gaba was granted interim bail on March 28 and it was extended on May 8. Gaba, in February this year, had surrendered before the court in connection with the money-laundering case against him.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had chargesheeted nine members of Gaba’s family, associated with his 11 firms, in connection with the Bhola drug case for the alleged violation of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).Besides Gaba, his three sons — Gurjit, Gurmesh and Mahesh — father Suresh Kumar, brother Harmesh Gaba, 23-year-old grandson Khushwant Gaba, Gurjit’s wife Rekha and Harmesh’s wife Sudesh Rani were booked.The ED’s chargesheet had listed 11 firms, jointly owned by the Gaba family, and their properties at Phillaur, Goraya and Una (Himachal Pradesh).The ED had registered the money laundering case after former Punjab Police DSP and drug lord Jagdish Singh Bhola had in January 2014 accused Gaba of trading in synthetic drug pseudoephedrine in association with Delhi-based smuggler Varinder Raja.Gaba has business interests in cold storage fibre, real estate and pharmaceuticals in Una and Baddi districts of Himachal Pradesh.Gaba was acquitted in the Bhola drug case while his son Gurjit Singh Gaba alias Monu was convicted and sentenced to 10-year jail. Their manager Suresh Kumar was awarded 12-year imprisonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/money-laundering-case-interim-bail-dismissed-industrialist-gaba-back-in-jail/story-poxDUDOOsD8L2LzzeqUaDN.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh private schools seek deferral of last date to upload balance sheets||Private schools in the city have sought the postponement of last date of uploading balance sheets on their websites saying that the matter is sub judice.The independent school association has written to the district education officer in this regard. The body has asked for the date to be postponed by a fortnight.Last month, the schools were asked to send compliance reports before July 4 regarding uploading of balance sheets online, along with the undertaking that they charged only tuition fee for the last academic year.“This is to request you to postpone the last date for uploading of balance sheets on the school websites by a fortnight as the case related to this is still sub-judice in the Punjab and Haryana high court and is likely to be decided on the 14 of this month,” reads the letter.The body has also requested that no coercive action be taken against schools till the final disposal of the case.The fee regulatory body of Chandigarh had issued fresh show-cause notices to all 79 private schools of the city last month. This is the second round of mass show-cause notices issued to the schools for non-compliance of the provisions of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016. Previously on May 26, 51 private unaided schools of Chandigarh were asked to explain their position within seven working days.District education officer (DEO) Harbir Anand said, “We have received the letter from them and I have forwarded it to director school education (DSE).”However, DSE Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We will seek the details from DEO on Monday about the compliance by private schools.”The standoff between the UT education department and private schools started when the UT directed them to defer the collection of school fees during the lockdown period. The schools, however, ignored the directive saying they won’t be paying salaries to their staff unless they were allowed to collect fees. Later, invoking the fee regulation Act, then DEO Alka Mehta asked the schools to upload their balance sheets online.VIOLATING ACT PUNISHABLE OFFENCEAs per the Act, which was notified in 2018 in Chandigarh, if any school contravenes the provisions, it shall be punished with a fine between ₹60,000 to ₹4 lakh depending on the number of violations and the level of school (primary, middle, secondary).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-private-schools-seek-deferral-of-last-date-to-upload-balance-sheets/story-pFImgxmR4bUw0TlASKRIaP.html
04-07-2020||Lucknow||Amid statewide alert, manhunt continues for accused in Kanpur shootout||Uttar Pradesh (UP) Police on Saturday sounded an alert in all 75 districts of the state for the arrest of dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey, the prime accused in the shootout in which eight police personnel were killed in Kanpur Dehat district late at night on Thursday during a failed raid to nab him.Police officials said at least 20 dedicated teams and 3,000 police personnel across the state were deployed for the arrest of Dubey and his henchmen.Hitesh Chandra Awasthy, director-general of police (DGP), UP, said the alert was sounded across the state and the police in all the districts had been briefed about Dubey’s details.The police tightened vigil at the state’s borders and also the porous Indo-Nepal border in a bid to prevent Dubey from fleeing the state and the country to evade arrest, he said.He said multiple police teams of Kanpur and the UP Special Task Force was working for the arrest of Dubey and his accomplices.He said KS Pratap Kumar, additional director-general (ADG), crime, was asked to monitor the entire operation related to Dubey’s arrest.Prashant Kumar, ADG, law and order; and Amitabh Yash, inspector-general (IG), UP Special Task Force (STF), were also involved in the operation, he added.Another senior official said police chiefs of seven districts along the Indo-Nepal border were asked to intensify patrolling on each and every route that could be used to cross the international border.He said the officials were directed to coordinate with the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), which guards the 599.3-kilometre open international border that UP shares with Nepal.Bahraich, Shravasti, Balrampur, Siddharthnagar, Maharajganj, Pilibhit and Lakhimpur Kheri districts have open borders with Nepal.The official said police teams in plainclothes were also deployed around court premises amid speculations that Dubey could make an attempt to surrender.He said several lawyers were taken into confidence to give a tip-off to the police about Dubey in case he approaches them to surrender in court.Over 500 mobile phones of Dubey’s family members, relatives, and accomplices were also under electronic surveillance, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/amid-statewide-alert-manhunt-continues-for-accused-in-kanpur-shootout/story-rEPIPZnXfakYNEhsaZaXrL.html
04-07-2020||City||With Ludhiana MC facing shortage of space, stray cattle menace is here to stay||With the municipal corporation (MC) facing a shortage of space to shelter the stray cattle of the city, a solution for this menace seems to be a distant dream.The MC officials are claiming that a cow shed will be ready within two weeks at Burj Powat village, 53 km from the city, and that the process of shifting stray cattle will commence soon after that. But the shed can only accommodate around 150 animals, while hundreds of cattle roam around on city roads, posing a grave danger to the lives of commuters.One of the MC officials requesting anonymity said, “More sheds can be established at Burj Powat, but establishing a shed in a village is not a solution. The MC will also face trouble transporting the cattle as it takes around an hour to reach the village that is situated in Machhiwara area. The residents might get relief after the MC establishes a gaushala in Noorpur Bet area.”The MC had approved the building of a gaushala on 2 acre land in Noorpur Bet area, but the project has not yet started at the ground level. Only the contract has been allotted to the management of Govind Godham at Hambran road for lifting of the stray cattle.The MC officials said that now, even the Godham management is also not lifting the cattle on a daily basis due to space shortage. The Godham has already sheltered around 1,300 cattle and the MC pays around ₹13 lakh to the management for their upkeep on a monthly basis. The MC has tried to sign a pact with few other gaushala managements in the city, but to no avail.The MC had also proposed registration of dairy animals to catch offenders who leave dry cows on the roads. But that project never saw the light of day either. A resident of Tajpur road area, Ashok Verma, said, “Large number of stray cattle roam on the roads in our area and accidents take place due to the same. Apart from finding a shelter for the cattle, the MC should also come up with an idea to punish dairy owners who abandon the animals.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The MC is working to establish a gaushala in Noorpur Bet area as the civic body is facing trouble finding space. The shed at Burj Powat will also be ready within two weeks. The management of Govind Godham lifts the cattle at the time of emergency and efforts are being made to keep a check on dairy owners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-ludhiana-mc-facing-shortage-of-space-stray-cattle-menace-is-here-to-stay/story-7MPWCl4CvCS7IIxPlGwXWI.html
04-07-2020||City||48-year-old biker killed, wife injured in Ludhiana hit-and-run mishap||A 48-year-old man was killed and his wife suffered injuries after a speeding car hit their motorcycle and drove off on the Tibba Canal bridge on Friday evening. The deceased, Surjit Singh of Jamalpur, used to deliver goods at various factories in his pickup auto.His wife, Jasbir Kaur, told the police that they were on their way to a local shrine on a motorcycle. When they reached the Tibba Canal Bridge, a speeding Hyundai Creta hit their two-wheeler head-on. The impact of the collision left her husband grievously hurt, while she survived with minor injuries. Kaur rushed her husband to a local hospital with the help of onlookers, but he succumbed to his injuries during treatment.ASI Gurmeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said passers-by jotted down the car’s registration number, and efforts were on to arrest the driver.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Jamalpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/48-year-old-biker-killed-wife-injured-in-ludhiana-hit-and-run-mishap/story-lECAkMOJhrWdB1M02nePuJ.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers reduce area under paddy cultivation in Jalandhar, experts say it may help improve groundwater levels||There has been a fall in the area under paddy cultivation in Jalandhar due to the non-availability of labour amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Experts say the development may help improve the area’s groundwater levels. Farmers have transplanted paddy over 1.4 lakh hectares since June 10. Around 20-20,000 hectares will be used to grow basmati rice that needs less water, said chief agriculture officer Surinder Singh. In 2019, paddy was transplanted over 1.74 lakh hectares. Taking account of labour shortage, the Punjab government had allowed the farmers to start the paddy season from June 10. Transplantation of paddy generally begins on June 20 and lasts over 20 days. District agriculture development officer Naresh Gulati said, “As labour was expensive this season, some farmers transplanted paddy over a smaller area.”In Jalandhar, paddy was sown over 1.73 lakh hectares in 2018 and over 1.72 lakh hectares in 2017.A reduction in the area covered under paddy will help to improve the groundwater level as all ten blocks of Jalandhar have been overexploited, say officials. “The government had also directed the agriculture departments to reduce at least 3 lakh hectares from 29.3 lakh hectares, the total area under paddy cultivation in 2019 across the state, by promoting basmati and maize crop to check the depleting groundwater level,” a senior agriculture officer said.According to the Punjab Central Ground Water Board’s 2019 report, Punjab tops the country in over-exploitation of groundwater at 79% and Jalandhar is among the four worst-affected districts in the state.‘REDUCED CULTIVATION BY HALF’A farmer, Jagjit Shergill of Hoshiarpur’s Bajwara village, says that as there was no migrant labourers and local labour was expensive, he transplanted paddy over 10 acres of his land against last year’s 20 acres.Gulati said around 2,500 to 5,500 litre of water is needed to produce a kg of rice and for one hectare of paddy field 50-60 lakh litre is required, depending on the soil quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-reduce-area-under-paddy-cultivation-in-jalandhar-experts-say-it-may-help-improve-groundwater-levels/story-d4QlG6KP83r13zcVcpHI1N.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: A mousetrap for fish||Along the banks of a wetland, life thrives in all its resplendent glories and diversities. And so do hunters and illegitimate killers. Rambling along the thorny and undergrowth-lined northern banks of Mirzapur dam in the Shivalik foothills on Tuesday, I was making heavy headway with a wary eye for serpents. But something impelled me to keep moving on, lured as I was by the unexplored wilderness. Perhaps, it was something else that Nature was driving my fated footsteps towards.I stumbled upon a suspicious, basket-like contraption placed in a wedge of submerged weeds. The weeds poking out of water would twitch nervously from a submerged source. I realised it was a fish trap, an innovative contraption fashioned from riverine grasses and slim bamboos with a door of sharpened spikes that lets a fish come in but the trapdoor closes behind the fish. It works very much like a mousetrap with nine-tenths of its structure submerged in water and is normally used to nail large fish. The trap allows the poacher to fetch the trapped fish at his leisure as the fish remains alive and flesh preserved within the water even as the victim paces the aqueous trap like a tiger wandering distractedly along the perimeters of a zoo enclosure.This is the second occasion that I have come across such a mousetrap for fish, the first being while on a tour of the Harike Wildlife sanctuary in December 2015. The wildlife officials had removed the trap from Harike’s waters. I proceeded to pull out the Mirzapur trap and discovered there was no big fish but nearly a 100 very small fish or minnows, tinier than goldfish that had entered the trap and could not get out. They had been left to rot and stagnate in the trap as their size was too small to appease the taste buds of the poacher. They looked helpless with a wide-eyed innocence as human babies snatched from the comforting bosom of free waters. I liberated the little ones, who bounded away in the waters without so much as a grateful glance over their shoulder. I did not fault the fish for their lack of grace and general distrust of humanity.SPIDER HUNTS THE DRAGONFrom that fish poacher a genuine hunter was just a few steps and 24 hours away on the Mirzapur banks. The day after, on Wednesday, I again made my way to the spot where I had dismantled the fish trap. As I stood gazing at the waters and imagining the happiness of the freed ones below the gentle ripples, I observed a whitish twig that looked like a piece of driftwood that had washed ashore and had dried. But the funny thing was that a beautiful Red-veined Darter dragonfly was poking out of one end of the supposed driftwood. On closer examination, I realised it was a huge spider which had preyed upon the insect. Not only did the spider mimic a piece of natural bank litter but it was completely still. Not a twitch, as still as its dead prey. The ingestion of the dragonfly was so measured that it seemed it would take a lifetime. As I watched, another dragonfly and a damselfly hovered dangerously close to the spider. But the spider did not bother. It had its food and would not prey until it needed to do so again. Neither, like humans, would it kill many more that it needed to, just to cater to unforeseen eventualities like a frenzied over-stocking of rations for a Covid lockdown. Or, succumb to the sheer lust to kill and stack up, and assert a murderous dominance like the Chinese dragon!On verification from experts later, the Mirzapur spider was identified as a Fish Spider belonging to the genus, Nilus. It derives its name from its penchant for preying upon small fish that nibble along the shores and are deceived by this ingenious ‘bagula bhagat’. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-a-mousetrap-for-fish/story-p2AzQ0BXG4eJMQx4OsBr4J.html
04-07-2020||City||J&K Congress protests against hike in fuel prices for sixth consecutive day||The Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee on Saturday staged a protest for the sixth consecutive day across Jammu region against the hike in fuel prices by the BJP government.State Congress chief Ghulam Ahmed Mir said the week-long protest throughout the country is an attempt “to awaken the government to the hardships of people”. “The continuously rising prices of diesel and petrol, for 22 consecutive days, has increased the burden on people. The BJP government has also increased transport tariff by 30% in Jammu. No money is percolating down to the middle class or poor people. No financial relief is provided to the public. As a result, the local consumers are suffering on a daily basis.” Mir said.The high retail price of petrol and diesel continues to impact the common man even though global market has thrown enough cues for a sharp cut in the price of auto fuels, he added.He said when the BJP came to power in May 2014, excise duty on petrol was only ₹ 9.20 per litre and on diesel ₹ 3.46 per litre. In the course of six years, the BJP increased excise duty to ₹ 23.78 per litre on petrol and ₹ 28.37 per litre on diesel.Meanwhile, District Congress Committee (Jammu rural) president Hari Singh Chib and Senior party leader Mohinder Bhardwaj led a massive protest march from Tara Chowk in Bishnah to Tehsil Office and submitted a memorandum to the tehsildar against the continuous increase in the prices of petrol and diesel over the past two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-congress-protests-against-hike-in-fuel-prices-for-sixth-consecutive-day/story-JzVlUFUgsNPmjvqhWzr61J.html
04-07-2020||Patna||Indo-Nepal joint field survey team launches exercise to settle dispute||An Indo-Nepal joint field survey team has started work for an amicable resolution to a land border dispute at Dhaka block in Bihar’s East Champaran district amid strained diplomatic ties between the two neighbouring countries. A two-member survey team from Dehradun, aided by their counterparts from Nepal, has measured the disputed land at Baluwa village in Dhaka block under Sikarahana subdivision of the East Champaran district on Thursday and Friday.“The two-day survey has been conducted by a joint team from India and Nepal.There will be clarity after the report is submitted,” said Shirsat Kapil Ashok, district magistrate (DM), East Champaran.Earlier, DM Ashok had sought the help of the Geological Survey of India (GSI) officials after the Nepalese authorities last month raised objection over the fortification work being done along the embankment of the Lalbakeya river in Dhaka block in a bid to contain the flood fury.Nepalese authorities maintained that some parts of the construction fell under their territorial jurisdiction.The construction work for about 400 metres -- between pillar number 346/5 and 346/7 -- had to be suspended following Nepal’s objection.“The joint survey team has made demarcation at certain places on the Indo-Nepal border. However, we need to wait for the report,” said Babban Singh, an engineer, who works for the state’s flood control and drainage division.The demarcation has been put at 14 places, said local villagers.Located about 45 kilometres (km) north-east from Motihari town, the headquarters of East Champaran district, the embankment on the Lalbakeya river starts from a railway track and stretches up to about 4.11 km along Baluwa and Guabari villages in Dhaka block on the Indo-Nepal border.Of the 4.11-km-long embankment, 3.6 km was to be fortified before the onset of monsoon fury.The villagers are worried about the suspension of the fortification work along the embankment.Over a dozen villages, including Gubari, Baluwa, Bhawanipur, Heerapur, Mahuwaha, Phoolwariya, Chandanbara, Distiya, Barewa, Kusmahwa, Saratha, and Jamuwa among others, will be submerged by floodwater, if there is a breach in the embankment this monsoon.Lalbakeya river, which traces its source in Nepal, passes through the villages of Dhaka block before it becomes a tributary of Bagmati river. The river turns swollen during monsoon because of heavy rains in adjoining hilly Nepal.The district administration has assured all help to the panic-stricken villagers.“All necessary fortification work will be done soon in compliance with the Central government’s guidelines,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/indo-nepal-joint-field-survey-team-launches-exercise-to-settle-dispute/story-LUjKHbggmBEy7VfSCFLYBO.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||ICMR rushing for unrealistic timeline, experts say 12-18 months needed: Congress on Covid vaccine||Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan alleged on Saturday that the ICMR’s plans to launch a coronavirus vaccine by August 15 was aimed only at enabling the prime minister to make a big announcement from the Red Fort.The Indian Council of Medical Research said on Friday that it aims to launch the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine by August 15.“Why is ICMR rushing for an unrealistic timeline of August 15 for Indian corona(virus) vaccine when global experts are giving 12 to 18 months’time frame,” Chavan tweeted. The Congress leader alleged that the ICMR was in a hurry to develop a vaccine only so that Prime Minister Narendra Modi could make a major announcement from the Red Fort during the Independence Day address.The Union health minister should make a clarification in this regard, Chavan demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/icmr-rushing-for-unrealistic-timeline-experts-say-12-18-months-needed-congress-on-covid-vaccine/story-W1V2AWIpwcRTy0RMw8rBfP.html
04-07-2020||Noida||Nine lakh saplings to be planted in UP’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on July 5||Nine lakh saplings will be planted in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Sunday as part of a major afforestation drive in Uttar Pradesh, officials said on Friday. In 2018, around six lakh saplings were planted in the district, while the figures crossed 10 lakh-mark in 2019, according to official records. Preparations are underway in the district, comprising Noida and Greater Noida, to ensure success of the plantation drive two days later, the officials said. District Magistrate Suhas L Y has called on officials of all government departments to make sure that saplings are collected in time and pits are dug so that the target of nine lakh plantations could be achieved, according to an official statement. “Gautam Buddh Nagar is a sensitive district and such a large-scale plantation drive is very important in terms of environment,” Suhas said. “All officials have been told to also apprise the district forest office after completing their targeted plantations immediately so that a record could be maintained,” he said. The DM said the government officials have also been asked to raise awareness about the campaign so that citizens also plant saplings in their area on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nine-lakh-saplings-to-be-planted-in-up-s-gautam-buddh-nagar-on-july-5/story-tHgkZnDBJZ8130pDxQfenI.html
04-07-2020||Pune||Pune rural police seize illicit liquor worth Rs 2 crore; 835 held||Pune rural police seized illicit liquor estimated to be worth Rs two crore and arrested 835 persons engaged in illegal activities related to liquor trade in two months during the lockdown period.As many as 908 cases have also been registered regarding the same, said police.The action was taken under the direction of Sandip Patil, SP, Pune rural, who ordered action under the Prohibition Act after receiving complaints about illicit liquor being supplied on a large scale.“Despite lockdown wine shop owners were charging high price for liquor and indulging in black marketing,” he said.“Action was taken primarily in Baramati and Purandar talukas where maximum number of complaints were lodged,” said Patil.“Our officials raided many places during the lockdown period and carried out a drive against sale of illicit liquor and illegal liquor trade,” said Patil.“Many wine shop owners who were selling expensive foreign liquor at exorbitant prices were also arrested and booked under the relevant sections of the Maharashtra Prohibition Act,” he said.The police also continued their action against those engaged in the illegal liquor trade post lockdown and took undue advantage of the relaxations.Earlier, the rural police had sought cancellation of licenses of those establishments in under their jurisdiction who were found to be selling Indian Made Foreign (IMFL), liquor and other alcoholic drinks during the lockdown period in March, April and May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-rural-police-seize-illicit-liquor-worth-rs-2-crore-835-held/story-lPMfDgqNXFzZ0K4kuZL8WJ.html
04-07-2020||Pune||PMC to rent out underutilised auditoriums to private firms||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will rent out its underutilised auditoriums to private firms to get more revenue.According to civic officials, the civic body owns 14 auditoriums in the city among which only Balgandharva Rang Mandir, Yashwantrao Chavan, Ganesh Kala Krida and Anna Bhau Sathe auditoriums are used to full capacity.Shantanu Goyal, additional municipal commissioner, suggested the concept to the civic body officials.Goyal said, “The auditoriums which are in demand should be run by the civic body and rest should be rented out to private parties.”“The maintenance cost of these auditoriums is also high. If private professionals hire it they will increase the utilisation of these auditoriums,” said Goyal.Srinivas Kandul, head, electric department, said that the estimate committee has discussed the issue. “The estimate committee has given instructions to the cultural department to prepare the proposal to rent out the auditoriums which also include art galleries,” he said.A civic official said, “If an event management company hires the auditoriums they will approach corporates, schools and other institutes and use these auditoriums to its full capacity.”“PMC will also get revenue and will not have to bear maintenance cost, electricity bills and other expenditure,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-rent-out-underutilised-auditoriums-to-private-firms/story-3MSDiCoYRfu0km9gBPCFqN.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Not stumped by Covid-19, Chandigarh, Punjab cricketers find ways to train for season ahead||After the Board of Cricket Control in India (BCCI) indicated that the Indian Premier League (IPL) season may start in October, domestic players in Punjab and Chandigarh have started working on their improving their fitness levels.Amid Covid-19 induced restrictions, Chandigarh captain Manan Vohra, known for his strict fitness ethic, has set up a small gymnasium at his house.“For the first two months of the lockdown, I did not step out of the house. It was then that I decided to set up a small gym at home to keep up with my fitness regime.”Ask him if he faced any difficulties in training, the 26-year-old opening batsman, says, “It felt a bit odd to do everything without a trainer but I learnt a lot in the process. I would ask my domestic help to throw balls at me while I batted in the nets on the terrace. With the lockdown relaxed, I now go to the local academy for a net session.” Vohra had led the Chandigarh team in its debut domestic season last year and used to play for Punjab before that. He is in touch with his teammates through video calling and they frequently share their fitness routines with each other. Vohra, a member of the Rajasthan Royals, is looking forward to the IPL season. “Cricket will be played a little differently this season. We will have to wait for directions from UT Cricket Association (UTCA) to learn more about it,” he says . CYCLING IS THE WAY TO GO Many Chandigarh cricketers swear by the benefits of cycling. Medium-pacers Jaskaran Singh, Jagit Singh, Harmeet Singh and spinner Arpit Singh have added long-route cycling to their fitness regimen. Lanky medium-pacer Jaskaran says, “I have developed a love for cycling in the last month. We take the Morni Hills route and it is a superb experience.” Jaskaran says the lockdown gave his body time to repair any wear and tear. “There is a park near my house in Phase 9, Mohali. These days I go there for spot bowling all by myself. To keep fit, I have set up a small gym at my house. I weight train at home,” he said. In wake of the pandemic, Cricket practice is barred in Chandigarh and the administration-run cricket grounds are still not open. Currently, the Sector-16 stadium serves as a jail for curfew offenders. Last season, domestic tournaments had started in the month of September. However, this year it is learnt that the Ranji Trophy will be held after the IPL.A CHANCE TO RECUPERATE Punjab captain Mandeep Singh says the lockdown has taken him to the year 2016 when he felt the fittest. Mandeep had made his T20 and ODI India debut the same year. The Jalandhar-based cricketer was in touch with Punjab trainer Jatinder Billa throughout the lockdown and follows an advised fitness regime. “Covid-19 has put everyone in a tricky situation. Everyone had to find different ways to maintain fitness. I, too, developed a passion for cycling. Wicket-keeper Abhishek Gupta and I cycle around 40-50km on weekends. I do my weight training and cardio at home,” says Mandeep. He says his mentor Vikram Rathore kept him going during the lockdown. “I will be starting knocking in the nets soon. I keep talking to my mentor Vikram Rathore who is a great influence. I have changed my diet and sleep patterns. If one wants to become a test cricketer both diet and sleep pattern are important,” says Mandeep, who has switched to ‘desi Indian food’, including ghee and milk. “I feel confident about my fitness after four years. After my back surgery, I never thought I will feel so fit again. I hope I able to continue like this for sometime more before any camp is organised and net practice and match practices begin,” says 28-year-old Mandeep, who will be playing for Kings XI Punjab in the IPL. Other Punjab cricketers are also training hard in their home districts. Punjab speedster Siddharth Kaul and his brother Uday Kaul, who plays for Chandigarh, are training at their home in Zirakpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/not-stumped-by-covid-19-chandigarh-punjab-cricketers-find-ways-to-train-for-season-ahead/story-50FKd0OLHqipzixzb4S0dP.html
04-07-2020||Jaipur||Gold worth Rs 15.67 cr seized from passengers arriving from S Arabia, UAE at Jaipur airport||Nearly 32 kg of gold worth over Rs 15 crore was seized from 14 passengers who arrived here in two chartered flights from the UAE and Saudi Arabia, officials said on Saturday. “The gold bars/bricks were concealed in baggage and were recovered by a customs department team at the Sanganer airport on Friday,” a press release issued here said. Eleven passengers from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, were carrying gold bars weighing 22.65 kg, while three passengers from the UAE had 9.3 kg gold with them, it said. The total value of the gold is Rs 15.67 crore, the release said, adding the gold has been seized under the Customs Act and the passengers are being interrogated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/gold-worth-rs-15-67-cr-seized-from-passengers-arriving-from-s-arabia-uae-at-jaipur-airport/story-Eo1xj95FSqG2Zabhbttt9N.html
04-07-2020||Lucknow||Kanpur firing: Vikas Dubey’s house razed with earthmover used to block police team||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh Kanpur Dehat district demolished the house of gangster Vikas Dubey on Saturday, a day after eight police personnel were gunned down by his men during an attempt to arrest him.Officials said the Vikas Dubey’s house in Bikru village of the district has been demolished with the same earthmover machine he used to block access to the road to his fortified one-storey house.Two of his SUVs—a Scorpio and a Fortuner—was also destroyed, according to officials.Eight policemen, including a deputy superintendent, were killed by Vikas Dubey and his men early on Friday in a 15-minute ambush, officials have said. Seven other people, including a civilian, were also injured in the attack from the roofs of Dubey’s residence and the houses nearby.The ambush on the 13-member police team began after they reached Bikru around 1:20am on Friday, a day after Rahul Tiwari, a resident of the village, filed an attempt to murder case against Dubey.A source in the police department said the initial investigation hinted that Dubey was well aware of the police raid at his house and prepared to deal with it. Dubey was apparently tipped off by his men in the police department about the force from three police stations in Bilhaur, Bithoor and Chaubeypur moving towards his village.The killings prompted a massive hunt for 48-year-old Vikas Dubey, a hardened criminal who faces 60 cases and carries a reward of Rs 25,000, and his group after they escaped Bikru village in the dark.“To nab Vikas Dubey and his accomplices, as many as 25 teams have been formed which are conducting raids in different districts of the state and other states as well,” Mohit Agarwal, inspector general of police, Kanpur, said on Saturday, according to news agency PTI.Police said the surveillance team was scanning more than 500 mobile phones and efforts were on to retrieve information related to Dubey, who has faced about 60 criminal cases.The special task force (STF) of UP police has also been roped in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kanpur-firing-vikas-dubey-s-house-razed-with-earthmover-used-to-block-police-team/story-OVNlqocDa2QvZSratRxR0H.html
04-07-2020||Jaipur||Three more die of Covid-19 in Rajasthan; state reports 204 new cases||Three more persons died of coronavirus in Rajasthan on Saturday, as the state reported 204 fresh cases raising its infection tally to 19,256, officials said. While one person each died in Bharatpur and Jhunjhunu, a patient from another state succumbed to Covid-19 in Jaipur, according to an official release. The death toll due to Covid-19 in the state has now risen to 443. With the fresh cases, the coronavirus tally in the state has reached 19,256, as per the release. A total of 15,352 patients have recovered and 15,026 of them have been discharged. There are 3,461 active Covid-19 cases in the state as of now, it said. Among the 204 new cases, the maximum 36 were reported from Barmer. Twenty-five people tested positive for coronavirus in Bikaner, followed by 23 in Nagaur, 21 each in Dholpur and Pali, 17 in Jaipur, 13 in Dungarpur, 11 each in Jhunjhunu and Jalore, eight in Kota, four in Udaipur, three each in Bharatpur, Karauli and Dausa and one each in Rajsamand and Sawaimadhopur. Three persons from other states also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/three-more-die-of-covid-19-in-rajasthan-state-reports-204-new-cases/story-jPad66jfGReUCdQzcC8ETM.html
04-07-2020||Kolkata||Expert team finds lapses in Covid-19 management in Bengal hospitals||Two expert teams, which were set up by the West Bengal government in June, have found several lapses in the clinical management of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients admitted to various hospitals in the state and submitted a report to that effect to the authorities concerned.The damaging report comes amid over 5,000 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were being reported in the past 10 days, including 129 new deaths as the toll climbed to 717.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBengal has reported 20,488 Covid-19 positive cases until Friday.“We have sent out three advisories to both state-run and private hospitals in the last five days to adhere to recommendations made by the two expert teams after glaring gaps were pointed out in the treatment of Covid-19 cases,” said a state health department official.On June 24, the state had set up two Protocol Monitoring Teams (PMTs), each comprising three medical experts. The teams made surprise visits to hospitals, especially those that reported Covid-19 related deaths and went through their treatment records.Lapses have been found in prescribing oxygen doses and steroids; intensive care unit (ICU) management; and treatment of those Covid-19 patients suffering from comorbid conditions, etc.“It was found that while doctors have prescribed oxygen for a patient, the dosage was not mentioned. A few hospitals lacked an antibiotic policy. In some hospitals, there were high risks of hospital-acquired Covid-19 infection,” said one of the team members.Bengal has been grappling with a spike in Covid-19 positive cases and a high toll related to the viral outbreak is being reported almost every second day in the past week. On Friday, 669 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported and 18 people died – the highest single-day figure on both counts. Earlier in June, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said that a few more lives could have been saved had the private hospitals given better treatment to patients with comorbid conditions.Data showed that 533 Covid-19 related deaths in the state occurred among patients with comorbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac disease, and kidney ailments among others.The state government has directed all 78 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals to set up their own Quick Response Teams (QRTs), which would only attend to critically-ill patients in a bid to bring down the mortality rate from the raging viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/expert-team-finds-lapses-in-covid-19-management-in-bengal-hospitals/story-fQG1kiZvdCzXAtW7DHEWVN.html
04-07-2020||Noida||Security guard shoots fruit vendor over price of mangoes in Noida, held||A private security guard in Noida was arrested on Friday for allegedly shooting a fruit vendor near Khoda Colony on Friday.The accused shot the fruit seller following a heated argument over the price of mangoes, police said.The fruit seller was shot in the leg and is undergoing treatment.“The victim was shot in the leg and is undergoing treatment, while the suspect has been arrested,” said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, Ranvijay Singh said.Further investigation into the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/security-guard-shoots-fruit-vendor-over-price-of-mangoes-in-noida-held/story-X1QzztPy1wJRgLRVBjL6jP.html
04-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Barmer under lockdown for a week||Barmer district collector (DC) Visharam Meena has ordered a lockdown of Barmer town for the next seven days, which started on Friday from 7 pm onwards, because of a spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the areas under the civic body’s jurisdiction. All areas under the municipality’s jurisdictions have been directed to strictly comply with lockdown norms till July 10, the DC said.Only essential services such as ambulances, chemist shops etc are being allowed to operate during the prevailing lockdown phase and grocery stores are permitted to remain open between 10 am and 2 pm daily.Barmer has reported 392 Covid-19 positive cases, including 191 active ones and four deaths, to date.On Friday, DC Meena held a meeting with the trade association and local public representatives in a bid to assess the ground realities about the viral outbreak. He imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) after the meeting.The 1973 order empowers an executive magistrate to issue orders in urgent cases such as a healthcare emergency and bars unlawful assembly of people.However, the ongoing lockdown is not applicable to government and private offices, offices of local body departments, post offices, banks, insurance offices, hospitals, medical stores, petrol pumps, cooking gas agencies, and dairy booths.Government employees are allowed to move within Barmer civic area limits, but they need to carry their identity cards on them. While Barmer sub-division officer (SDO) has been entrusted with the responsibility to provide permission to others for any movement in the town amid the prevailing lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-barmer-under-lockdown-for-a-week/story-LdRqATLZ1FLSdm0jKtDMnI.html
04-07-2020||Dehradun||Villagers in Uttarakhand fell more than 500 trees during lockdown period||A section of residents of a remote village in Uttarakhand’s Tehri Garhwal district allegedly felled over five hundred trees in the reserved and civilian forest areas in a bid to clear land for farming, forest officials said.The residents of Gangi village cut the trees amid the lockdown restrictions, which were imposed in the hill state from March 22 to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the officials said.“A joint team, comprising forest and revenue department employees, visited the remote Gangi village on Tuesday to conduct a preliminary probe and returned two days later. Gangi is the last village before the Khatling glacier starts in the Garhwal Himalayas. The village is located at a height of over 4,600 metres,” said Coco Rose, divisional forest officer (DFO), Tehri Garhwal.“The inquiry revealed that the villagers had felled trees in the reserved and civil forest areas in a bid to clear land for farming. They tried to take advantage of the village’s remote location, which is situated about 60 kilometres away from Tehri town, and also the Covid-19 induced lockdown restrictions. But, much to their dismay, we got the information about their illegal activities,” the DFO said.A case would be registered soon against the accused villagers based on the findings of the inquiry and necessary punitive action would also be taken, Rose added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/villagers-in-uttarakhand-fell-more-than-500-trees-during-lockdown-period/story-xYT797Qcl0vjDEaggLfcZO.html
04-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand Guv, CM pay tribute to CRPF jawan killed in J-K encounter||Governor Draupadi Murmu and Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Friday night paid tribute to Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan Kuldeep Oraon, who lost his life in an encounter with terrorists in Malbagh of Srinagar in Jammu and Kashmir.A wreath-laying ceremony was carried out in honour of the soldier killed in action.On Thursday night, an unidentified terrorist was killed in an encounter with security forces in the Malbagh area of Srinagar.A CRPF soldier, who was a part of the Quick Action Team (QAT) was also injured during the encounter and later succumbed to his injuries in the hospital.“One CRPF jawan has martyred. The QAT jawan succumbed to his injuries in the hospital,” said Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-guv-cm-pay-tribute-to-crpf-jawan-killed-in-j-k-encounter/story-Hg6Y0QIwIgZoJQr5AB0M3N.html
04-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka task force recommends booth-level committees to fight Covid-19||Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the city, the Karnataka Covid-19 Task Force has decided to set up booth-level committees across the state including 8,800 here for effective monitoring and surveillance. The task force also released detailed guidelines for home isolation for asymptomatic cases including 17 days ‘home isolation’ for patients below 50 years of age. It also warned of legal action against those health workers for disrespect to the bodies. Briefing reporters after the meeting on Friday, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said the local management will be strengthened for effective monitoring and surveillance of Covid-19 cases. “There will be booth-level task force committees throughout the state right from the village to Bengaluru. These task force committees will act at the ultra local level. The task force will act as a structural and functional unit of Covid-19 dealing with monitoring, surveillance, checking of all the ILI cases, ambulances and hospitals,” he added. He also said the committees will comprise one member each from the Health department, police department, municipalities or Panchayat, volunteers, valveman. The committee will have five to six members. The principal secretary in the Village Development and Panchayat Raj department L K Ateeq has been appointed as the nodal officer to manage the task force in the rural areas whereas in the urban areas, the Urban Development secretary, the municipal administration directors and the municipal commissioner will form the local task force. “In Bengaluru alone 8,800 teams will be formed, which will be coterminous with the 8,800 booths in the city. They will provide the real-time data. They will be imparted training,” the minister added. Noting that there were about 8,800 electoral booths in Bengaluru city and each booth will have a task force committee, he said a nodal officer has been appointed to oversee this. The state level task force also came out with a slew of conditions. As far as home isolation is concerned, it would apply for patients who are below 50 years and have no symptoms of any other disease, and their homes should have a toilet and have an attendant. He also said home isolation duration has been increased from 14 to 17 days. “People should not get fever in the next three days after completing 14 days, else they will be quarantined for another seven days. If they don’t get fever then they will be freed to perform their personal activities,” Sudhakar said. Those who are above 50 years and have comorbidities, will be treated at the COVID care centres only and they will be under medical supervision and be subjected to regular tests. The state is also making arrangements for telecommunication for those who are asymptomatic but wish to speak to a doctor. It was also decided to have at least two ambulances in each of the 198 wards of Bengaluru. The minister said the additional commissioner of police (traffic) will be the nodal officer to coordinate the movement of ambulances. The task force has also appointed a nodal officer to manage the hospitals based on the availability of beds and ventilators. The officer will provide real time information about beds. “We want to make sure that no one has to run from one hospital to another,” Sudhakar said. On the cremation of the bodies, Sudhakar said guidelines have been issued on how to handle bodies at mortuaries, taking them in the ambulances, human treatment to the deceased while performing the last rites and fumigation of the bed. “Legal action will be taken against those who treat bodies in an inhuman way,” Sudhakar said. The state-level task force has also decided to arrange for test reports within 24 hours. It has also been decided to increase the testing capacity from the existing 15,000 a day to 25,000. In view of the spurt in Covid-19 cases, the task force also recommended antigen tests in crowded areas to check whether there was community spread. To a question on closing down the border, the minister said there is no question of lockdown. “We cannot hide from this disease. It is not a solution.We have to live with it now, yet maintain a distance from it,” he added. Sudhakar, who is a doctor himself, said Covid-19 is not as deadly a virus as those he had seen in the past and asked people not to be scared of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-task-force-recommends-booth-level-committees-to-fight-covid-19/story-rz0Mn29CFvP0xpAgBKJD0I.html
04-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police sub-inspector runs over woman near Mayur Vihar, arrested||A policeman has been arrested for running over a woman with his car in east Delhi on Friday, according to news agency ANI. The sub-inspector of Delhi Police, ANI reported, was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident. The woman who was injured in the accident is undergoing treatment at a hospital, the news agency said.#WATCH Delhi: A car ran over a woman near Chilla Village in Delhi yesterday. Police say, "The accused is a Sub-Inspector; he was under the influence of alcohol at the time of incident. He has been arrested. Injured is undergoing treatment at hospital." pic.twitter.com/SfJdGQ7pHaANI also tweeted footage from closed-circuit television (CCTV) showing the car hitting the woman in a narrow lane and stopping. As the woman falls near a motorcycle rider, passersby stop to help her and the driver stops and then backs up.The driver restarts the car, runs over the woman and drags her along for a short distance while speeding away. As the car goes ahead, a few men can be seen trying to stop it. The woman is seen lying on the road signalling for help as people then rush to her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-sub-inspector-runs-over-woman-near-mayur-vihar-arrested/story-N74nBN3gmozlDIQZpbDjJI.html
04-07-2020||Lucknow||Day after eight cops killed, over 25 UP Police teams formed to nab Vikas Dubey||More than 25 teams have been formed by the UP Police to nab history-sheeter Vikas Dubey who was yet to be apprehended 36 hours after eight police personnel were gunned down by criminals during an attempt to arrest him.Inspector General of Police, Kanpur, Mohit Agarwal on Saturday told PTI, “To nab Vikas Dubey and his accomplices, as many as 25 teams have been formed which are conducting raids in different districts of the state and other states as well.” Police officials also said the surveillance team was scanning over 500 mobile phones and efforts were on to retrieve information pertaining to Dubey, who has faced about 60 criminal cases.The Special Task Force of UP Police has also been roped in.Agarwal said a cash reward of Rs 50,000 has been announced for providing information about Dubey and the identity of the information provider will be kept secret.He also said seven policemen, who were injured in the encounter, have been admitted to a private hospital where their condition is stable.Police had late on Friday night raided Dubey’s house in Krishnanagar area of Lucknow. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath rushed to Kanpur on Friday to meet the family members of the slain policemen and announced financial assistance of Rs one crore each to the bereaved families.Eight police personnel, including a DSP, were gunned down in a village near the city by the henchmen of a criminal who lost two of them in a firefight later, officials said.Seven others, including a civilian, were injured in the attack from a rooftop on a police team after it entered Bikru village past Thursday midnight to arrest Dubey.The attackers fled, snatching weapons from the dead and the wounded policemen.Promising that those behind the heinous crime will not be let off, the chief minister said a government job would be given to a member of each of the bereaved families besides extraordinary pension.Stressing that the government was with the families, Adityanath said it would work to ensure that justice was done and those behind the crime were punished as per the law.“Some of the weapons which the miscreants had fled with have been recovered. None of those responsible for this heinous act will be let off and the sacrifice of the slain policemen will not be allowed to go in vain. The brave jawans were killed while they had gone for carrying out a raid as part of their duty,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/day-after-eight-cops-killed-over-25-up-police-teams-formed-to-nab-vikas-dubey/story-VHiuTNBT62bDxUg2NVWRWP.html
04-07-2020||Kolkata||Bengal’s June unemployment rate at 6.5% ‘far better’ than India’s: Mamata Banerjee||Referring to a report of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday that the state’s unemployment rate stood at 6.5 per cent in June this year, which was “far better” than that of the country at 11 per cent.She said this is due to the economic strategy adopted by her government to tackle the Covid-19 crisis and the devastation caused by cyclone Amphan.“We’ve implemented a robust economic strategy to tackle #COVID19 and the devastation caused by Amphan. Proof lies in West Bengal’s unemployment rate for the month of June 2020 which stands at 6.5 per cent, far better than that of India at 11 per cent, UP at 9.6 per cent and Haryana at 33.6 per cent, as per CMIE,” Banerjee said in a tweet.According to data released by the CMIE on Wednesday, the country’s unemployment rate fell to 11 per cent in June from 23.5 per cent in May, as economic activities resumed after the lockdown restrictions were eased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-s-unemployment-rate-at-6-5-in-june-far-better-than-that-of-india-mamata-banerjee/story-PGzoq8Svzqo2qbc6PoDjWM.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh allows inter-state movement, but registration must for Covid-19 monitoring and contact tracing||Dharamshala: The Himachal Pradesh government on Saturday opened state borders for all, relaxing the Covid e-pass condition for inter-state movement after the Centre denied it permission to continue with travel curbs.Individuals seeking entry into the state will, however, have to mandatorily register themselves on the Covid e-pass portal.The Union home ministry issuing guidelines for Unlock 2.0 on June 29, directing states to allow free inter-state movement of persons. The state government, however, wrote to the ministry, seeking permission to continue with travel restriction in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. But the Centre denied it permission.The number of Covid-19 cases has climbed to 1,033 in Himachal.According to guidelines issued by the state disaster management cell of the revenue department, tourists coming to the state with valid hotel bookings of not less than five days and equipped with a Covid-negative report issued by an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) accredited lab, not older than 72 hours, will be exempted from quarantine.Anyone can enter the state without an e-pass. All inter-state movement will be monitored through registration on the Covid e-pass software to ensure compliance of the quarantine requirements and facilitate contact tracing in case of the detection of a Covid-positive person.REGISTERING ON PORTALAny person keen to visit Himachal can enter his particulars on this software http://covid19epass.hp.gov.in and details of their arrival will be shared with the authorities for quarantine requirement.Orchardists, agriculturists, contractors and project proponents shall ensure registration of all labourers brought to the state from outside on the portal.Daily or weekend commuters such as industrialists, traders, suppliers, factory workers may enter and exit by providing details with the district authorities.TAXIS ALLOWED WITH DC PERMISSIONThe inter-state movement of public transport buses will remain prohibited. Taxis, however, can ply with permission of deputy commissioners.Educational institutions may not be used as quarantine centres as far as possible and preference will be given to community buildings, hotels and guest houses.Quarantine conditions will be waived for students and accompanying parents moving in and out of the state due to competitive exams.Religious places shall be opened only as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be issued by the department of language, art and culture after ensuring full readiness to comply with the SOPs.Tourism units will be opened and operated as per the SOPs issued by the department of tourism.Medical colleges in the state will also be opened in the state for final year students to strengthen the health system.Use of Aarogya Setu app is mandatory for all persons entering the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-allows-inter-state-movement-but-registration-must-for-covid-19-monitoring-and-contact-tracing/story-VJfWQ7SiD8PRawjHiTTppL.html
04-07-2020||Viral||Pune man gets mask made of gold worth Rs 2.89 lakh, people have thoughts||Amid the ongoing situation, wearing a mask is a necessity. From videos on how to a wear mask properly to images of designer pieces, the Internet is also filled with content related to this safety gear. Now, there is a new addition to that list and it has left people with thoughts.Shankar Kurade, a resident of Pimpri-Chinchwad of Pune district, came up with a mask that is made of a very different – and rather expensive – material. He got himself a mask made of gold – worth Rs 2.89 lakh.ANI shared a few images of Kurade wearing the mask. “It’s a thin mask with minute holes so that there’s no difficulty in breathing. I’m not sure whether this mask will be effective,” he told the news agency.Take a look at the images:Maharashtra: Shankar Kurade, a resident of Pimpri-Chinchwad of Pune district, has got himself a mask made of gold worth Rs 2.89 Lakhs. Says, "It's a thin mask with minute holes so that there's no difficulty in breathing. I'm not sure whether this mask will be effective." #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/JrbfI7iwS4Since being shared, the tweet has collected over 1,300 likes and tons of comments. While some people wondered “why,” there were a few who took the help of memes to express themselves.“It would have been very effective if there were no holes,” joked a Twitter user. This individual shared a meme from the popular TV show Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah: pic.twitter.com/qOQWhvfnYM“Spends 2.89 lakhs, says not sure if it is effective,” wrote a third. “Is this man for real?” asked another.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/pune-man-gets-mask-made-of-gold-worth-rs-2-89-lakh-people-have-thoughts/story-t55em7JcpZ3O9TE8Y9vD8M.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||IMD issues red alert for Mumbai, other places today||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for suburban Mumbai, Raigad, Satara and Ratnagiri in Maharashtra on Saturday with a prediction of extremely heavy rainfall over the next 24 hours.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has in a tweet asked people to stay away from the seashore.“@Indiametdept has forecasted extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places in Mumbai for the next 48 hours. Also, there is a high tide of 4.57 metres at 11:38 AM tomorrow. Citizens are requested to stay away from the sea shore,” it posted.The Konkan region, including Mumbai, received deficient rainfall in June, the weather bureau has forecast a normal monsoon in July for the region. Palghar, Thane, Mumbai city its suburbs, and Raigad recorded deficient rainfall between June 1 and July 1, whereas Ratangiri recorded normal rainfall.On Friday, Mumbai and it suburbs received the maximum rains this monsoon to date. The Colaba weather observatory, which covers south Mumbai, recorded 157 millimetres (mm) of rainfall between 8:30am and 11:30am on Friday after torrential downpour inundated several low-lying areas in the city.IMD classifies 20-30 mm rain per hour as an intense spell; 30-50mm per hour as a very intense spell; 50-100mm per hour as an extremely intense spell; and over 100 mm per hour as a cloud burst. Friday’s showers in south Mumbai fell in the “very intense spell” category.IMD had earlier issued an orange alert for heavy to very heavy rain for Friday and Saturday but said the intensity is likely to lessen from Sunday.KS Hosalikar, IMD’s deputy director for the western region, had predicted intense rainfall in Mumbai and its adjoining areas on Friday and Saturday.A yellow alert, which will be updated for heavy rain at isolated places, has been issued for Sunday for Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg. An orange alert for heavy to very heavy rain has been issued for Palghar, for Sunday.A red alert directs authorities to take necessary action for extremely heavy rain at isolated places in a region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-issues-red-alert-for-mumbai-other-places-today/story-zyWfg4cLKuAkp9yCX8vJ9H.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||70-year-old from Himachal’s Sujanpur dies of Covid-19; state’s coronavirus toll rises to 9||Dharamshala: A 70-year-old man from Hamirpur district died of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the coronavirus toll to nine in the state.The medical superintendent of the Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk, Mandi district, Dr Jeevanand Chauhan said that the patient was admitted to the hospital on June 28 after his condition worsened at the Covid care centre in Bhota.The patient belonged to Sujanpur town of Hamirpur. “He was diabetic and succumbed to the disease at 12.15am,” Dr Chauhan said.The first Covid death in Himachal Pradesh was reported on March 23 when a US-returned Tibetan man from McLeodganj died of the contagion.The second casualty occurred on May 5 when a 21-year-old man from Sarkaghat, who was also suffering from a kidney ailment, died of Covid-19 at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla.A 53-year-old man from Hamirpur died of severe respiratory distress caused by coronavirus on May 15.Two women died of the contagion on May 25 at hospitals in Shimla and Mandi. Both were suffering from kidney-related ailments.The sixth death took place on June 10 and seventh casualty was a man from Kangra who died on June 25.On June 30, an 80-year-old woman died of the contagion.So far, three deaths have occurred in Hamirpur and two each in Shimla, Kangra and Mandi. All patients who died due to Covid-19 had other health complications.Till date, Himachal Pradesh has recorded 1,033 Covid-19 cases of which 671 have recovered and 339 are active cases. Thirteen patients have migrated from the state.Kangra is the worst-hit district in Himachal Pradesh with 282 coronavirus cases followed by Hamirpur with 256 cases. Una district has recorded 119 cases so far, Solan 111, Chamba 54, Shimla and Bilaspur 47 each, Sirmaur 40, Mandi 34, Kinnaur 34, Kullu five and Lahaul-Spiti four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-year-old-from-himachal-s-sujanpur-dies-of-covid-19-state-s-coronavirus-toll-rises-to-9/story-xXNhg07UsvZUaKd6niV5wI.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||7 Dera Sacha Sauda followers arrested in Faridkot for theft of bir of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015||Jalandhar: The Punjab Police special investigation team, led by Jalandhar range deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra, on Saturday arrested seven Dera Sacha Sauda followers in Faridkot district in connection with a sacrilege incident that had sparked off statewide protests in 2015.Khatra said the accused stole a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara of Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015. The case was registered at Bajakhana police station in Faridkot district.The seven accused were identified as Sukhjinder Singh, Neela, Ranjit, Bhola, Nishan, Baljit Singh and Narinder Sharma, all residents of Faridkot district.Khatra said that the accused will be produced in the Faridkot court later in the day and will be taken in police remand for questioning.In 2018, the Khatra-led SIT had arrested more than 20 followers of the Sirsa-based dera, including Mohinder Pal Bittu, who was killed in the Nabha jail in 2019, in connection with the sacrilege incidents and rioting in Punjab in 2015.The Akali-BJP government, led by Parkash Singh Badal, had handed over the probe into the three sacrilege incidents to the Central Bureau of Investigation. The first case pertained to the theft of the bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village near Kotkapura in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015. The second was the putting up of a poster at Bargari village in the district on September 25, 2015; and the third was the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as torn pages of the bir were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari on October 12, 2015.The Congress government, led by Captain Amarinder Singh, however, took back the cases from the CBI and handed over the probe to the Punjab Police SIT, led by Khatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-dera-sacha-sauda-followers-arrested-in-faridkot-for-theft-of-bir-of-guru-granth-sahib-in-2015/story-PGrcWu5ML03TKdVLCfPvcL.html
04-07-2020||Lucknow||Kanpur firing: Crackdown on criminals ordered a month ago||A month ago, director general of police HC Awasthi expressed concern over attacks by criminals on police personnel.In a circular issued on June 4, the state police chief directed police of all the districts, as well as the commissioners of police of Lucknow and Noida, to crack down on criminal elements to check recurrence of such incidents. The increasing attacks on the police put a question mark on the leadership of superintendents of police and other senior officers posted in police ranges and zones, he said.Awasthi said criminal gangs attacked police teams to escape from the spot or to get criminals released from police custody.In many cases, it was observed that a delay in cases of murder, kidnapping, rape or biased action by policemen provoked criminal elements to target police personnel. Lack of strict action boosted the morale of criminals, he said. Police officers should coordinate with influential local people and people’s representatives, Awasthi said. Attacks on police personnel not only made an adverse impact on their morale but also on their image, he noted. Police officers should move with adequate force o take on the gangsters, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kanpur-firing-crackdown-on-criminals-ordered-a-month-ago/story-jIt1HTc4pe2zuDa1a4eeCO.html
04-07-2020||City||Firing from rooftop, shot point blank: How they were killed||The brutality with which Vikas Dubey and his armed band of criminals murdered the eight policemen in a well-laid ambush indicates that he had decided to kill them right at the moment they stepped onto this turf.Dubey and other criminals did not merely keep firing indiscriminately from the rooftops but also took their aim carefully and targeted the policemen by going after them and shooting them point blank in the head and the chest — to ensure their immediate death.Police officers, who managed to build sequence of events that led to this carnage, said the team came under heavy firing as soon as they crossed the JCB blockade which Dubey had laid as a part of his ambush strategy.Taken by surprise, team of cops looked for cover in the middle of village as they could not have gone back due to the JCB and their own vehicles blocking the four foot wide concrete road.Five policemen had taken shelter in small 2x5 foot toilet, just few metres away from Dubey’s house.A group of criminals kept firing at the structure not allowing the cops crammed in that small space to retaliate.Another group reached the front of the toilet and killed them.No less than four constables were shot multiple times in the back and the chest and the sub-inspector Nebulal with them who was behind them had one gun-shot, said the officials.Sub inspector Atul Singh was shot multiple times outside the Dubey’s old house in which he was trying to get in.Station officer Shivrajpur Mahesh Yadav had managed to enter the house of Prem Prakash Pandey and hid himself behind the gunny sacks. He was shot seven times in the back and chest by criminals who came off the roof tops. Dubey and few of his men cornered circle officer Mishra inside the house of Pandey. He had jumped the wall to get in the open space when Dubey arrived with an axe. He hit him with it many a times on leg and other parts of the body. As he lay on the ground Dubey shot him in the head and walked out of the house, officials said.In the village, the walls of the houses bear the testimony of vehemence with which the criminals acted and fired in all the directions.“It is clear that right from the beginning Dubey did not want anyone to leave the village alive; he wanted them dead. That is why the criminals shot the policemen not one but many times to make sure they are dead. They were brutal,” said a senior officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/firing-from-rooftop-shot-point-blank-how-they-were-killed/story-nZMyLvlK8SuFZd3YW9gSaP.html
04-07-2020||Lucknow||Kanpur firing: Ambush readiness hints at presence of mole in police dept||Was it the failure of the police leadership in planning the raid or did a mole in the police department inform Vikas Dubey and his men, helping them plan an ambush? There are many questions being raised in connection with the attack on the police team that killed eight cops, including a deputy SP and a station officer, in Kanpur early Friday morning..Local police personnel were well aware about Vikas Dubey, who has over 60 criminal cases against him since 1997 and is high headed and daring. His habit of harbouring criminals at his house in Bikru village was known to everyone and also the existing firepower with him.Some said the police team was ill-prepared despite knowing the background of Dubey and fell to bullets fired by criminals from the rooftop of his house. They said it was the failure of the local police leadership that they did not plan the raid properly leading to so many mortalities.A source in the police department, however, said the initial investigation hinted that Dubey was well aware about the police raid at his house and prepared to deal with it.“Dubey was apparently tipped off by his men in the police department about the force from three police stations Bilhaur, Bithoor and Chaubeypur moving towards his village. He and his men blocked the main entrance of the village by placing an heavy earth moving machine before the police team reached there,” he said and added, “Following this, the police personnel came out of their vehicles and walked to Dubey’s house”. He said Vikas Dubey and his accomplices, who were well prepared, opened indiscriminate fire on the police team when they tried to enter his fortress-like house in the village. Special Task Force (STF) are trying to nab Vikas Dubey and the mole who leaked the information about the police movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/july-4-ambush/story-VmboNPYTnxQk0zKmDxJyXM.html
04-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots charge sheet: Hindus incited on WhatsApp group to attack Muslims||On the second day of the riots in North East Delhi on February 25, a group of men created a WhatsApp group — Kattar Hindut Ekta — and asked all Hindu residents to attack Muslims, according to Delhi Police’s charge sheet filed in a city court on Tuesday. Police said the charge sheet is related to FIR No 102/20 registered at the Gokalpuri police station in connection with the murder of Hamza, who is referred to by a single name in the police records, who was among the nine Muslim men whose bodies were recovered from the Bhagirathi Vihar drain on February 25 and 26. Police arrested nine men, Lokesh Solanki, Pankaj Sharma, Sumit Chaudhary, Ankit Chaudhary, Prince, Jatin Sharma, Rishab Chaudhary, Vivek Panchal, and Himanshu Thakur. The nine are currently in jail. Police said that the administrator of the WhatsApp group -- initially there were 125 members -- brought together other rioters. The charge sheet also mentions that on February 26, at 11.39 pm, Solanki posted a message where he claimed that he and his “team” could come from “Ganga Vihar” and that they had “arms and ammunition.” Ganga Vihar adjoins Bagirathi Vihar. According to the charge sheet, Solanki’s second message at 11.44 pm claims that he and his team have killed “two Muslims” and thrown their bodies in the drain. The court is yet to take cognisance of the charge sheet and the arrested persons are yet to reply through the lawyer. The counsels for the accused persons will appear before the court and make the submission after the court takes cognisance.The charge sheet adds that the group murdered nine Muslims in all. The charge sheet also mentions how the men assaulted the Muslim residents.“Their modus operandi was that they used to catch the people and ascertain their religion by asking name, address and identity card. They were forcing them to call out “Jai Shri Ram’ many times.” Those with a Muslim name in the ID card, and who refused to chant the slogan were “ bluntly attacked and thrown into the Bhagirathi Vihar drain,” the charge sheet says. Delhi Police has filed at least 111 charge sheets thus far in connection with the riots, in which they have named 650 people. At least 53 persons died while around 400 were injured in the riots that broke out in parts of North East Delhi. Police in the charge sheets have alleged that the riots were planned by student activists, locals politicians, and some activists of the anti Citizenship Amendment Protests. Student leaders from Jamia Millia Islamia and JNU have been arrested in connection with the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-charge-sheet-hindus-incited-on-whatsapp-group-to-attack-muslims/story-O5FgWKrf2xAM8kIOxDqJVO.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||Submit details of incidents similar to what happened at Sion hospital: Bombay HC to BJP legislator||The Bombay high court (HC) directed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ashish Shelar to submit the details of other instances in which the bodies of Covid-19 patients were left unattended in the wards of civic and government-run hospitals.Referring to a video of Sion Hospital in which the bodies of Covid-19 victims were lying on beds or floor of the ward where patients infected with the virus were being treated, Shelar in his petition claimed that similar scenes were played out at other facilities too.As the court was informed by the state that the Supreme Court was already seized of petitions relating to management and disposal of bodies of Covid-19 victims, it posted the hearing of the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the BJP legislator to July 23, after the hearing in the Apex court was completed.On Friday, the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice NJ Jamadar was informed by the state through advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the HC did not have a propriety in the PIL as the SC was already hearing petitions related to issues similar to what was raised by Shelar in his PIL. The state also submitted that it was following the guidelines issued by the Centre over the disposal and management of bodies of Covid-19 patients. However, senior counsel Rajendra Pai, along with advocates Akshay Pai and Omkar Khanvilkar, who appeared for Shelar, submitted that as the bench widened the scope of the petition in light of the instances similar to that of Sion Hospital, they wanted to submit the same in the form of an affidavit and hence the hearing of the PIL should be deferred.After hearing the submissions, the court directed Shelar to submit videos and information of other instances in an affidavit and also directed the state to file a rejoinder, if any, before the next hearing.In the earlier hearing, the state and BMC submitted the report of the committee that was constituted to probe into the video of the Sion hospital incident. Shelar’s counsel then sought a probe by the committee into the other instances of the alleged mismanagement too that were mentioned in the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/submit-details-of-incidents-similar-to-what-happened-at-sion-hospital-bombay-hc-to-bjp-legislator/story-JbvYK44afKgXh5n7h1QfuN.html
04-07-2020||City||More people turning towards smaller cities with more green spaces: Survey||An international research survey has found that one of the impacts of the Covid-19 outbreak is that more people are thinking about living in smaller cities than metropolises, and seeking green and open spaces. The survey spoke to over 550 decision-makers, policy experts and business owners in over 45 countries, including India. Titled “Project Impact: Impact of Covid-19 on Cities and Mobility”, the survey was conducted between May 1 and June 7, via questionnaire and interviews by global think tank Cities Forum, Gujarat-based CEPT Research and Development Foundation (CDRF); GIZ, a German development agency, and Ideal Management Consultants. Subjects shared their responses via questionnaires and interviews. The survey found 89% of respondents felt cities need to invest more in cycling and walking infrastructure and 76% felt working remotely had made them question the decision to live in big cities. “There is a strong likelihood of people preferring to live in smaller cities rather than large cities,” reads the report, adding that 88% feel inclined to working and living in areas with more green and open spaces. Of the experts, 49% predicted smaller cities with lower densities will be preferable in the immediate future. Shailendra Kaushik, co-founder, Cities Forum, said, “Many experts believe that the trend of shifting to smaller cities has already begun. This will also result in land-use changes in cities where mixed-neighbourhoods will be preferred and there will be a reduction in overall mobility demand.” Respondents said public transit trips will not return to pre-Covid levels immediately and the confidence to travel in public transport will only increase gradually. PRK Murthy, director (projects), Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, has been quoted in the report saying, “I expect there would be drastic reductions in the demand for public transport. The demand for public transport would be less in the first two to five years and in the long term, after five years, the demand for public transport is expected to reach pre Covid-19 levels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-people-turning-towards-smaller-cities-with-more-green-spaces-survey/story-BfJF9N28cXBwKQps4b5txM.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government’s plan to buy homeopathic pills fails as bidders quote higher prices||The rural development department (RDD) planned to distribute the homeopathic compound Arsenicum Album 30 to 1.5 crore households in rural areas by procuring the drug at state level, but high prices quoted by bidders has derailed the plan. The bidders quoted almost three times what the government had expected. RDD has now asked district administrations to procure Arsenicum Album 30 at their level and distribute it.In June, RDD had planned to distribute Arsenicum Album 30 in rural areas and expected each bottle to be priced between Rs 8 and Rs18. RDD minister Hasan Mushrif said this decision followed the ministry for Ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homeopathy (Ayush) recommending the drug as a prophylactic. To this end, RDD had decided to use Rs 25 crore accumulated from unutilised grants given by 13th and 14th finance commissions over the last 10 years for development of rural areas. However, the two qualified bidders quoted Rs 23.92 and Rs 23.74 for a bottle of 100 pills. “The rates were higher than expectation as it involved packing and transportation of the drug across the state,” said an RDD officer on condition of anonymity.When RDD learnt some local bodies, including the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), had procured the stock at much lower prices, it decided to scrap the bidding process. “The bidding process started around three weeks ago and there was high fluctuation in price of the pills when it was underway. Instead of going into more negotiations, we decided to ask the district administration to procure and distribute,” said Arvind Kumar, principal secretary, RDD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-s-plan-to-buy-homeopathic-pills-fails-as-bidders-quote-higher-prices/story-fckj3Tn4Z7J9hYyTibEKKI.html
04-07-2020||City||Marking scheme for pending ICSE and ISC exams released||Days after the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced the cancellation of its pending ICSE (Class 10) and ISC (Class 12) exams, on Friday, the board released a marking formula for the tests on its official website. For ICSE students, an average of the marks of a candidate’s three best papers along with the percentage of marks that the student secured in the internal assessment of the respective subject will be considered while calculating the marks of the papers that were cancelled owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. For ISC students, the board will calculate the average of best three percentage marks along with the percentage obtained by the candidate in project and practical work in the subjects will be considered to score the pending papers.In the circular, the board stated that it arrived at the marking formula with the help of reputed statisticians from premiere institutes in the country.“Detailed analyses were performed on the data from the past board examinations from the years 2015 to 2019 as well as the year 2020 board examination. Extensive scenario analyses were done based on different papers. Most importantly, the weights were chosen so as to ensure fairness to all the candidates appearing in the board examination this year to the best possible extent,” the website stated.School principals said they were yet to hear from the board officially.“The formula is a very detailed one and we would need some time to understand it carefully. We will also await further guidelines from the board on this,” said Kavita Sanghvi, principal at the Chatrabhuj Narsee Memorial School in Vile Parle.On June 3, the state asked CISCE to cancel the remaining ICSE and ISC papers or postpone them further. The board agreed to cancel the exams in the state, following a petition filed by a Mumbai-based and extend the cancellation across the country while responding to a petition in the Apex court.Around 23,000 students have registered for the ICSE (Class 10) and ISC (Class 12) exams from the state this year.Meanwhile, the board also announced to reduce the syllabus for Class 9 to Class 12 owing to the significant shortening of the academic year and the loss of instruction hours. Students can find the revised syllabus on the board’s official website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/marking-scheme-for-pending-icse-and-isc-exams-released/story-dvgMl05L5syZKjViGWQcON.html
04-07-2020||City||No differences with Maharashtra CM, says NCP minister||Dismissing reports of differences between the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, state housing minister Jitendra Awhad said that the party will support the latter as per the orders of party supremo Sharad Pawar.“I do not know about any differences. All the colleagues in the cabinet are with the CM on the steps that he is taking to control the Covid -19 outbreak situation. There are always some differences in every house. As per the instructions of our leader Sharad Pawar, it is our responsibility to extend full support to CM,” Awhad said.He made the statement at Navi Mumbai on Friday, while reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the city. The minister also informed that two new testing labs will be set up in Navi Mumbai in a week’s time.“Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde informed that the testing facilities in the city need to be ramped up. So I issued instructions to increase swab and antigen testing facilities, procurement of more medicines and increase in the number of ventilator and oxygen beds. I asked NMMC civic commissioner Annasaheb Misal to ensure that at least two testing labs in the city are functional in by next week. The doubling rate is reducing and hopefully the spread of the virus will reduce in the region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-differences-with-maharashtra-cm-says-ncp-minister/story-pBYb4aml5SQAKfOHLtIw9J.html
04-07-2020||City||Maharashtra CM, Sharad Pawar meet amid talks of discontent in MVA govt||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar met chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray at the proposed Bal Thackeray memorial site in Dadar on Friday, amid reports of discontent among the three ruling partners over the decision-making process pertaining to the lockdown orders and the rising Covid-19 cases. The duo reportedly discussed on a range of issues, including the resumption of activities for the revival of the economy, containment of the virus spread and coordination between the three parties of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance.District administrations and some of the civic bodies across the state imposed a stricter lockdown soon after CM announced an extension of the ongoing lockdown on Sunday, while hinting at more relaxations. With different authorities imposing different rules, there is confusion and anger among the citizens, and the state ministers from the Congress and NCP also expressed their discontent over it, claiming that they were not taken into confidence over it. A section of the ministers from the two parties also complained about the dominance of the bureaucracy in the MVA government. The ministers cited the recent notification to extend the lockdown issued by the then chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on June 29, without keeping the leaders from two parties in the loop. “Mehta is appointed as the chief advisor to the CM after he retired as CS [chief secretary] on June 30. His appointment in the CMO [chief minister’s office] was opposed by the Congress and NCP. We fear that the dominance of the bureaucracy may only continue after this development. The Congress raised a similar complaint with the CM when some leaders met him two weeks ago. We want the ministers to be taken up into confidence while taking decisions related to larger public interest. Pawarsaheb is expected to have discussed these issues with the CM,” an NCP leader said.Pawar also reportedly discussed the rising number of cases in the state and the steps that need to be taken. Though the NCP chief is in favour of more relaxations for industrial and commercial activities to ensure the revival of the economy, he also expressed his reservations over relaxations in areas that are seeing a spike in the cases. “He, however, pressed for the need to avoid the confusion among the people over the lockdown curbs as was witnessed this week. It appeared that the political leadership and the administration were not on the same page while taking lockdown-related decisions,” the leader said. While Mumbai Police prohibited citizens from venturing beyond the 2-km radius of their homes except in the case of emergencies and to go to work, some other municipal bodies imposed a curfew-like lockdown for eight to 10 days. According to a Congress leader, the police’s 2-km rule did not go well with many in the state cabinet. The leader said that even Sena leaders are not happy with certain measures. “There are differences within the Sena leadership over the lockdown implementation in Thane and even over the bureaucratic reshuffle. However, things have been improving and it is not as bitter as it is being projected outside,” the leader said.Nashik, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, by using the power delegated to local authorities, in an order early this week also imposed stricter norms. On June 18, ministers from Congress, Balasaheb Thorat and Ashok Chavan, met CM with their grievances and demanded an equal share in decision-making. The two parties also demanded for better coordination among the ruling parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-cm-sharad-pawar-meet-amid-talks-of-discontent-in-mva/story-XitlHdmcTodxBtEvpQhdqI.html
04-07-2020||City||Thane’s Covid-19 cases inching towards the 10K-mark||Thane on Friday recorded 420 cases and 17 deaths, its highest-ever 24-hour spike, which took the total number of positive cases to 9,950 and deaths to 350. However, Thane also recorded a recovery rate of 51% on Friday. Although the recovery rate is 51% in the city, a spike in the number of cases was observed this week, owing to which the city is under a complete lockdown till July 12.“Effective measures are in place to ensure a control over the increasing number of cases in the city. We are conducting door-to-door screenings and thermal scans. The number of cases rose after we eased certain lockdown measures. Many who are a part of the essential services also travel work. If they contract the virus, then their families too are infected,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). The civic body believes that enforcing a strict lockdown will be one of the biggest measures to break the chain and control the spread of the virus. Last month, areas such as Mumbra, Lokmanya Nagar and Savarkar Nagar remained the hot spots, but on Friday, the cases showed a surge in areas such as Naupada, Kopri, Majiwada and Manpada.At neighbouring Kalyan and Dombivli, the total cases reached 8,049 cases on Friday after 564 new cases were reported from the twin cities. With three new deaths, the toll surged to 130. Like Thane, Panvel too on Friday recorded its highest single-day rise of 186 new Covid-19 cases. The total cases shot up to 2,587 with the new cases, while one person also died due to the virus, taking the total deaths to 80.A day before Navi Mumbai goes into the 10-day lockdown, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Friday reported its third highest single-day spike of 257 Covid-19 cases. A total of 7,345 cases were reported in areas under the NMMC’s jurisdiction till Friday. The eight deaths on Friday took the toll to 232.In Navi Mumbai, Kopar Khairane reported the most cases (61) on Friday, while 46 cases were seen in Airoli and 43 in Ghansoli. The recovery rate in the city is 56% now, with 152 people discharged after recovery on Friday. (Inputs from Sajana Nambiar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-s-covid-19-cases-inching-towards-the-10k-mark/story-ZxoF0w2obqfQ5Leb6GtKRN.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||HC sets aside decision of AAI’s appellate committee on maximum permissible height||The Bombay high court has set aside a 2019 decision of the appellate committee of the Airport Authority of India (AAI) wherein it restricted the maximum permissible height of buildings coming up within the two-kilometre radius of any of the two Airport Surveillance Radars (ASR) of the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport. Three developers who were developing properties beyond the two-kilometre radius of one of the ASR were aggrieved as the AAI said that the committee’s decision on height restriction would apply to them and they would not get a No Objection Certificate unless they complied with the committee’s decision. The court however held that the decision to frame rules was the prerogative of the central government and the committee had acted beyond its jurisdiction while taking the decision and hence set it aside.A division bench of justice S J Kathawalla and justice BP Colabawalla while passing judgement on the petitions filed by Kalpataru Ltd, Klassik Homes Pvt Ltd and United Industrial House Premises Cooperative Society Ltd observed that the appellate committee lacked jurisdiction to impose conditions or formulate rules as it did not have rulemaking or general administrative powers.In April 2018, the Central Government had proposed to amend the Height Restrictions for Safeguarding of Aircraft Operations) Rules, 2015 and had sought suggestions and objections. One of the proposed amendment was to make the maximum permissible height available to a plot under development, only if it is at a distance of more than or beyond two kilometres from all the ASR’s that service an airport, where there are more than one ASR’s. The appellate committee was constituted in 2019 to consider the suggestions and objections and convey the same to the central government.On April 23, 2019, the Appellate Committee, after considering the objections and suggestions received decided to adopt the said proposed amendment based on Draft 2018 rules. As a result, the maximum height permissible was reduced from what was allowed as per the 2015 Rules.The three developers had approached the AAI in May, 2019 seeking a NOC for grant of highest permissible top elevation for their projects based on the 2015 Rules which were in force at the time of making the application. However, three months after receiving the applications the AAI responded asking the developers to abide by the April 2019 decision of the committee. This implied that they would get reduced maximum height permissible. Aggrieved by this the developers moved the HC.While submitting on behalf of Kalpataru, senior counsel Virag Tulzapurkar apprised the court that the Appellate Committee decision was without any legal authority or jurisdiction. However, additional solicitor general Anil Singh for AAI and union of India opposed the submissions and said that the petitions were not maintainable as the developers had an alternative remedy available for redressal of their grievances. Singh further submitted that due to high degree of air traffic congestion and density at the Mumbai Airport, higher standards of safety need to be maintained and therefore the Appellate Committee took such a decision.After hearing all sides the bench observed, “We are of the view that said the decision is entirely without the authority of law and in excess of the jurisdiction and power of the Appellate Committee. It is clear that in taking such a decision the Appellate Committee was not acting as an appellate forum or authority exercising any quasi-judicial functions, for which purpose alone it was constituted under the 2015 Rules.” After setting aside the decision of the committee, the bench noted that it did not mean that it was issuing any directions to the AAI to grant NOC of any particular height and said that AAI can consider the applications for grant of NOC afresh within a period of four weeks as per the existing laws and regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-sets-aside-decision-of-aai-s-appellate-committee-on-maximum-permissible-height/story-iZuDs43kqIJxWVjyHVLNBP.html
04-07-2020||City||Bring back residents from Arab countries: Ludhiana MLA||Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains met returnees from different Arab countries quarantined at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Friday.The returnees apprised Bains of the problems they faced during their journey back home and demanded that the government should make efforts to bring back thousand others who are still stuck in Arab countries amid the pandemic.Bains said, “Around 115 residents returned to Ludhiana on Friday morning from Arab countries and they claim that the air ticket prices were four times higher than usual. They were denied salaries by their employers and had been in contact with me for the past few days.”“I apprised the officials in the ministry of affairs of the same and these people have returned to the country, but what about others? The state government should take up the matter with the union government and arrangements should be made to bring back stranded people from Arab countries and provide concessional air tickets to them,” he added.“ The returnees also have lists of names of stranded persons and will forward those to the state government,” said Bains.Bains alleged that chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh had failed to perform his duty and it seemed like he had isolated himself due to the pandemic.CM should appoint a deputy CM in the state so that the government can perform its duties, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bring-back-residents-from-arab-countries-ludhiana-mla/story-pB6anKeqXb7LrrfpLUN5uJ.html
04-07-2020||City||‘Saroj Khan made every dance move look classy’||MUMBAI Veteran choreographer and three-time national award winner Saroj Khan, who has more than 2,000 songs to her credit, died of cardiac arrest on Friday morning. The 71-year-old was admitted to Guru Nanak Hospital on June 17, after she complained of breathlessness. She was buried at a cemetery in Malad. Khan rose to fame in the 1980s and 90s, when she collaborated with top stars Sridevi, Madhuri Dixit and Juhi Chawla. Juhi Chawla remembers ‘Bollywood’s Masterji’I have many memories of working with her from early in my career up to a TV show, Jhalak Dikhhla Jaa 3, in 2009. Saroj ji was sheer magic, when she danced or choreographed. You couldn’t take your eyes off her when she began to dance. Her sensibilities regarding direction of a shot in a song, expressions and movements were superlative. She had a fine sense of humour and we bonded over that. She was top-notch whether it was the way she took the shot, or how she wanted an actor to perform, or guiding them on how to dress up in a song.The first time I worked with her was for the song, Lagi Aaj Saavan ki fir who jhadi hai, from Chandni. We were shooting in Chandivli studios. I was relatively new and anxious to shoot for a Yash Chopra film and with the top choreographer of the time, Saroj ji. Thankfully, every take was okayed after one or two takes. Then we shot many songs, including some of my most famous ones. I remember shooting for Hum Hain Rahi Pyaar Ke title song, Main koi aisa geet gaoon from Yes Boss, Ishq Hua from Ishq, songs in Raju Ban Gaya Gentleman and a few others.I remember she shot ‘Main teri rani tu raja mera’ in Lootere. I was coming from Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak, so from ghagra choli to just a shirt was an image makeover. When I saw how Masterji shot it and how the song turned out, I was amazed. Saroj ji could make everything look classy. That was her gift. She had the finesse to make a seductive song look good and not cheap. Another song that I remember was in Karobaar. We were shooting in South Africa with Anil Kapoor ji and Rishi Kapoor ji and Rakesh Roshanji was directing us. I remember crying and insisting that I would feel comfortable shooting the song only with Sarojji. Rakesh ji was kind and called her up. She was in India, shooting for some other film and came after a few days. In the 1990s, she was booked and overbooked at times too. Whenever I worked with her, it would take me a day or two to get into the groove and in the next two days, the song would be over, and then we would connect after six months on the next song. I loved working with her, but was always anxious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/saroj-khan-made-every-dance-move-look-classy/story-5r55ltdjRbqaFv7F2nZ1TN.html
04-07-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak: Mumbai’s recovery rate touches 63%||The recovery rate of Covid-19 in Mumbai has jumped to 63% from 55% within a week. As of Friday, of the 82,074 total Covid-19 cases, 52,392 patients have recovered and have been discharged. On Thursday, over 5000 patients were discharged in Mumbai, the highest in a single day. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner IS Chahal said on Friday morning, “Despite a cumulative figure of 80,600 positives in Mumbai today, our discharged patients are now 50,600 – a staggering 63%. We have only 9,500 patients on hospital beds, including 874 suspected walk-in patients.”Experts and doctors have posed questions about whether patients are being discharged early and need to continue with institutional quarantine or hospitalisation longer. On the other hand, they have stressed the need to keep hospital beds available at all times. Keeping mild or moderately symptomatic patients on beds in hospitals or Covid health centres longer than the present time prescribed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) may lead to Mumbai facing a shortage of beds, according to public health experts.Chahal said, “Mumbai’s discharge policy for Covid-19 patients is strictly as per ICMR guidelines, with zero exceptions.” According to the current discharge policy of the state government, mild and very mild Covid-19 patients can be discharged on the 10th day, if they have not shown any fever for three days in a row. Moderate symptomatic patients can be discharged after 10 days provided they have oxygen saturation above 95% for four days; if not, such patients can be discharged after their symptoms have resolved and oxygen saturation is maintained for three days in a row. For severely ill patients, discharge is allowed after complete recovery and a negative result on a Covid-19 test. Asymptomatic patients can opt for home quarantine, or are discharged from institutional quarantine facilities on the 7th or 8th day.According to a member of the task force of doctors appointed by the state government in April to curb rising fatality, Covid-19 patients have died after being discharged too and health workers must follow up with patients for 14 days after discharge.However, IS Chahal denied that this holds true for Mumbai.Madhav Sathe, retired professor of microbiology at Nair Hospital,, said, “It is better if a patient stays in a hospital for 14 days. After recovery, even though Covid-19 is cured, whatever immune modulation has taken place remains. Patients are hence afflicted by a phenomenon called cytokine storm that leads to formation of clots in blood vessels. This is called intra-vascular coagulation and can be fatal. In such cases, it is better to keep the patient in the hospital.” Sathe said, “When a patient is being discharged, it should be done after giving him medicines for 10 to 12 days, and follow up is needed for all patients because medicines have to be chosen with a lot of precision.” Sanjay Pattiwar, a city-based public health consultant, said, “Considering the work load and patient load, it is necessary to follow the guidelines for discharge. The criterion is whoever can manage at home with counselling for seven days can follow home quarantine. Those who do not show symptoms can be discharged, so that beds are made available for new patients.”Mumbai on Friday registered 1,338 new Covid-19 cases and 73 deaths. The total number of cases in Mumbai is now 82,074 after adding 37 cases recorded earlier; and total deaths are 4,762. The growth rate of cases in Mumbai is 1.72%, and the doubling rate is 41 days.The city has 13,422 Covid-19 beds in hospitals for serious and critical patients with other health complications, of which 3,871 were vacant as of Friday morning. Civic officials said 127 ICU beds and 67 ventilator ICU beds are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-mumbai-s-recovery-rate-touches-63/story-byu6NSQNacTpqVDYNLk5TJ.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||State BJP chief appoints new executive committee for Maharashtra||State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Chandrakant Patil on Friday announced the new executive committee for Maharashtra, even as he clarified that former minister and Other Backward Class (OBC) leader Pankaja Munde would be given a “national role” in the party. The jumbo state executive includes 12 vice-presidents, five general secretaries, 12 secretaries, a treasurer, an organisational secretary and 68 executive committee members. Besides, there are another 139 invitees and 58 special invitees.Munde, daughter of senior BJP leader, the late Gopinath Munde, who lost the state Assembly polls last year, was said to be sulking and had post results pointed to internal factionalism and centralisation of powers within the state unit. “Pankaja Munde is set to get a role at the national level soon. This was indicated to us by the Centre. She will also continue to be a part of our state core committee and work side by side with us,” said Patil, at a press conference in Mumbai. “The state executive has been formed after much deliberation and aims to ensure fair regional and community representation to all our party leaders.”Munde, who congratulated the new executive on Twitter, also thanked Patil for announcing that she would have a role to play at the national level.The new organisational announcement has been pending since Patil was appointed the state chief last July. The new state executive committee is a bid to accommodate a majority of its established leadership, including those who had been sidelined last year ahead of the polls. But the key positions like appointments of general secretaries shows that leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis continues to call the shots in the party organisation.Chandrashekhar Bawankule, a former minister from Vidarbha, who had been denied state assembly ticket and is said to have cost the party vis-a-vis seats in the region, has been rehabilitated as one of the five general secretaries. The other general secretaries include two-time Nashik legislator Devyani Farande, Sujitsigh Thakur (second stint), former state minister Ravindra Chavan and former officer on special duty to chief minister, Shrikant Bharatiya.Other sidelined senior leaders like Vinod Tawde and Eknath Khadse who were also denied tickets have been accommodated, but only as special invitees to the executive committee. Khadse’s daughter-in-law Raksha Khadse has been named the state secretary, while Munde’s sister Pritam Munde has been made a vice-president. The other vice-presidents include former ministers Ram Shinde (who lost polls), Jaykumar Rawal, former chief spokesperson Madhav Bhandari, Prasad Lad, Suresh Halwankar etc.The party has also given a leg-up to former media incharge and spokesperson Keshav Upadhayay as the chief spokesperson of the state BJP.BJP MLA from Mulund Mihir Kotecha is the new treasurer of the party, while the organisational secretary post continues to be with Vijay Puranik. “An overall assessment of the state executive shows a clear imprint of Fadnavis, who has ensured people close to him are given relevant posts. But it’s also a balancing act to not alienate anyone,’’ said a senior party leader and state functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-bjp-chief-appoints-new-executive-committee-for-maharashtra/story-xz9AF1WpcvWyshhHDV6erJ.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||4 give woman drink laced with drug, rape her; held||Officers from Mankhurd police station on Thursday arrested four people for allegedly raping a 44-year-old Dharavi resident last week.One of the accused – Abdul Jillani Sattar Sheikh, 34, – and the woman knew each other. On June 24, Sheikh called her to Rahim’s home under the pretext of attending his child’s birthday party. He then allegedly laced her drink with sedatives, following which he, along with the other three accused – Hyder Ali Sardar Sheikh alias Hira, 35; Murad Mehboob Sheikh alias Raj, 29; and Mohammed Mudashir Nabi Sheikh alias Rahim, 34, raped her when she was in a semi-conscious state, said police.The woman managed to flee and visited a civic hospital. “After the woman narrated the incident, the police was informed. Our officers visited the hospital and recorded her statement and lodged a case of gang rape,” said Lakhmi Gautam, additional commissioner of police (east region).“In her complaint, she said that after reaching Sheikh’s home, she tried to leave when she realised that there was no birthday party there. But the four convinced her to stay,” said an officer from Mankhurd police station.The woman’s preliminary medical report confirmed that she was raped by more than one person and also revealed that she had injuries all over her body.“The woman underwent treatment at the hospital for two days. We collected her clothes, and are in the process of collecting other evidence. On Wednesday, we registered a first information report under sections 376D (gang rape) and 328 (causing hurt by means of poison) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and arrested the four accused. A local court remanded them in police custody till July 8,” inspector Kishore Kharat.Sheikh, Hyder and Murad are residents of Matunga Labour Camp, while Mohammed lives at Sathe Nagar in Mankhurd. Sheikh sells spices, Mohammed runs a sewing machine unit, while Hyder and Murad do odd jobs to earn a living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-give-woman-drink-laced-with-drug-rape-her-held/story-5xSUD2ShysirKnfP8xdZHO.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||Former customs officer convicted in graft case||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Friday convicted former customs officer in a bribery case registered in 2002. The officer had absconded and was lived in Uttar Pradesh under a false identity. He was caught in March last year.CBI had registered the case against accused Abhinav Singh, then appraising officer of the customs, and Samdarshi Jaiswal along with few companies for cheating, conspiracy and corruption.Singh was found guilty and was sentenced to imprisonment for the period he has already spent in jail since his arrest. While the prime accused Jaiswal died during the trial.As per the CBI case, 18 duty entitlement pass book (DEPB) scrips from the office of joint director general of foreign trade (DGFT) in the name of four companies, forged shipping bills and forged bank realisation certificate were recovered. The scrips were sold by Jaiswal to various parties. Out of 18, 17 were dishonestly utilised for import of goods, which caused a loss of around ₹4 crores to the Government of India.As a part of the conspiracy, Singh was accused of abusing his position as appraising customs officer. He allegedly confirmed the genuineness of the past exports against few of the DEPB scrips and also corresponding documents. This, the CBI claimed, was done by Singh after accepting a bribe from Jaiswal. The agency alleged that Singh had accepted the car from the accused as a bribe.The CBI prosecutor Jitendra Kumar pointed out that the accused played a key role. However, he contended that the main accused died pending the trial. Singh was arrested in 2002 when CBI first registered the case but later absconded.It was revealed that after his escape, he shifted to Uttar Pradesh and worked as a professor in a medical college. He was arrested in March last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/former-customs-officer-convicted-in-graft-case/story-wO7MTabHFUlyd67QiNxwqL.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||Gokhale bridge collapse: Survivor continues to struggle; lockdown worsens his woes||Two years after the Gokhale bridge collapse at Andheri railway station on July 3, 2018 changed his life for the worse, the lockdown owing to Covid-19 outbreak has dealt another blow to Girdhari Singh Shikhawat, 45.Shikhawat had suffered fractures to his rib cage, shoulder and on both the hands in the incident. He remained in the civic-run Cooper Hospital for a month and moved back to his hometown in Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan. “I took very long to recover. I came back to my hometown and wanted to go back. However, my hands never healed completely. The company where I worked in Mumbai wouldn’t have taken me back,” he said.Shikhawat then started to work at a garment shop in Jhunjhunu, handling receipts and cash. “I could only do limited work because my hands were severely damaged. But owing to the lockdown, the shop too was shut. Amid the lockdown, I am struggling to even get odd jobs,” said Shikhawat.Shikhawat received ₹1 lakh compensation from the Western Railway. Shikhawat is now dependent on the family’s farm to support his wife and two children, but that income too gets divided among other members of the family. On the fateful day, two people lost their lives as a part of the bridge collapsed, while Shikhawat was among the three injured.The 45-year-old was heading to his factory in the western suburbs where he worked as a security guard. As the pathway collapsed, Shikhawat fell inside the rubble on to the railway tracks. “The incident is still fresh in my mind. I was walking on the bridge and directly collapsed onto the railway tracks. I was under the debris the next minute. People rushed to help and pulled me out of the debris.”A detailed report by the Western Railway later revealed the collapse was due to heavy corrosion and increased weight of utilities on the bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gokhale-bridge-collapse-survivor-continues-to-struggle-lockdown-worsens-his-woes/story-X6XQ3UFM4hlzj9uAc0IwhJ.html
04-07-2020||City||Shopkeeper slits woman’s throat, has sex with corpse, dumps body||The local crime branch (LCB) recently arrested a 30-year-old shopkeeper, Shiva Chowdhary, for killing a woman customer after a fight over the price of utensils. The woman’s body was found in the cargo hold of a jeep in Tulinj, last Wednesday. According to police, the victim had gone to purchase utensils and an argument ensued between the victim and Chowdhary over the price . Chowdhary, in a fit of rage, slapped her and dragged her inside the shop. He then killed her by slitting her neck with a knife, said police. Assistant police inspector, Satish Gurjar, said, “Chowdhary also confessed to having sex with the corpse. He later wrapped the body in a plastic bag and dumped it in the cargo hold of a jeep at Chandan Naka area.”“But CCTV footages from nearby shops caught him putting the body inside and Chowdhary was arrested,” he said.Chowdhary stayed alone, while his family resided in Pali, Rajasthan. “We will press rape charges against the accused and are investigating further,” said Gurjar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shopkeeper-slits-woman-s-throat-has-sex-with-corpse-dumps-body/story-IsGTk7NalosQAhy4Miox8N.html
04-07-2020||City||Badlapur rape, murder: Minor’s cousin held from UP||The police arrested a 21-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh (UP) for allegedly raping and murdering his minor cousin in Badlapur last month.On June 19, the accused sexually assaulted the 14-year-old when the duo were alone in the house.He then tried to strangle her and fled the spot. When her parents reached home, they found the girl unconscious and rushed her to a hospital, where she died during treatment.A case was registered against the accused for sexual harassment, murder and sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, after which the Badlapur police began investigations. “We tracked him to Nashik first, but before we reached he had fled the city. We then discovered that he was at Azamgarh in UP, so we sent a team there. As all the police personnel are busy with the implementation of the lockdown norms, we were short of staff and managed to nab him after five days from his relative’s home located in a small village,” police sub-inspector S Varap said.The girl’s mother has expressed her relief on the arrest. “He should get a severe sentence. We are thankful to the police for tracing and arresting him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/badlapur-rape-murder-minor-s-cousin-held-from-up/story-LMJHnxo2ptSYehgUV0lloM.html
04-07-2020||City||No funds released to contractor, construction of Ludhiana govt school building comes to standstill||The construction work of the new building for the Government School at Millerganj came to a standstill on Friday after the state education department failed to release funds to the contractor.The foundation stone of the Rs 2-crore project was laid at the site last year in June. A three-storey building consisting of 17 classrooms is slated to be constructed at the site.However, a visit to the site revealed that only the piling work was done and the contractor had spent Rs 35 lakh from his own pocket. The workers stated that earlier due to the lockdown, the construction had come to a halt. After it was resumed last month, the piling work was done.Kuldeep Sood of RS Builder and Contractor said, “We started the construction work a week before the lockdown was imposed and had to stop after that. We resumed work a month ago and have completed the piling work so far. Labour has to be paid, but the higher authorities have not released even a penny.”District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “The plan of the building has been finalised and the foundation work has started. I will check with the public works department engineer regarding the funds; the state education department sends funds for construction of new classrooms.”In 2014, 13 classrooms of the government school at Millerganj had been declared unsafe by the public works department after which the 300-odd students of classes 1 to 8 were shifted to another building and the former structure was demolished.Only last year, the state education department had decided to come up with a new government school and to utilise this land to construct a new building. In Millerganj area, there is one government senior secondary school that caters to students from nearby areas that has been running in double shifts for the last six years.The school education secretary, Krishan Kumar, could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-funds-released-to-contractor-construction-of-ludhiana-govt-school-building-comes-to-standstill/story-kS4IxpBeFH6KiRY3P9WZEK.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Unavailability of gadgets, kids’ increased screen time rising concerns among parents in Ludhiana||At a time when Covid-19 has disrupted the school academic year, teachers are focusing on e-learning methods on digital platforms to stay connected with students.With schools in the district slated to remain closed till July 31, some households are faced with an academic blackout in the absence of technology.Harmeet Kaur Waraich, principal of Nankana Sahib Public School, said, “Online classes are the best option to connect with the students, and teachers are working hard to prepare the lessons. For primary classes, sessions are conducted once a week, for others, three times a week. Recorded lectures are also being sent to the students.”Paramjit Kaur, principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, said, “With everything going digital, we need to assure efficiency in learning methods, too. Teachers are making a lot of efforts to conduct classes and sufficient breaks are being given to students after every class to relax.”For teachers, too, preparing videos and taking classes online is a challenge. A teacher of a private school, Ankita Khosla, said, “Being a mathematics teacher, I have to take three classes in a day. To conduct them, I prepare videos and gather a lot of content to bring clarity to the students regarding the topic. I follow a proper schedule and remain in touch with my students.”However, parents argue that due to the unavailability of smartphones and computers/laptops, many students are unable to attend the online classes. Besides, there is growing concern about the increasing screen time of students.A parent, Gurminder Kaur, said, “I have two kids and both of them have been asked by the school authorities to attend online classes from 8.30am to 11.30am from July 1. Earlier, the schools were sending only online material and no interactive classes were conducted. We do not have a computer or laptop at home, and my elder daughter uses my phone to attend the class, while the other one has to miss the class. I have raised this issue with the class teacher, but it is not possible for them to change the timings.”Another parent, Ishneet Sharma, said, “Online education is a boon. My daughter is studying in Sacred Heart Convent School and children need a positive direction which is being provided through online classes. In the current scenario, it’s the virtual classes that are keeping them positively engaged and helping them learn and move forward. However, the pace of moving ahead for each student could be different. Online classes have certain drawbacks: harmful effects on the eyes and health, but children if left completely free, will be at a loss.”With online classes, the screen time for children has also increased in the last three months, thereby adversely affecting their eyesight. Dr Priyanka Arora of ophthalmology at DMCH said, “We are receiving four to five children in the OPD, complaining of eye strain. Children are spending a lot of time on gadgets; even classes are being held online. There is a need for parents to engage their children in creative activities in leisure time to bring down the number of screening hours. While conducting online classes, school teachers should also give frequent breaks so children can rest for 10-15 minutes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unavailability-of-gadgets-kids-increased-screen-time-rising-concerns-among-parents/story-wwepTnYGMy5Pji7mQdo0gI.html
04-07-2020||City||Bombay HC extends pre-arrest bail of man who criticised Tablighi Jamaat||The Bombay high court (HC) has extended by eight weeks the interim protection from arrest of a man who had been booked after uploading a video in which he made allegations against Tablighi Jamaat. The man, Abuzar Shaikh, was booked under section 295 (destroying, damaging or defiling a place of worship or sacred object with intent to insult the religion of any class of persons) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).On May 4, the court had granted him protection after it was informed that the man was wrongly implicated and in fact had lodged a non-cognisable offence against members of the Tablighi Jamaat for assaulting him. The bench of justice SS Jadhav while hearing the pre-arrest plea of Shaikh through advocate Vishal Saxena was informed that his client had been critical of the Tablighi Jamaat for holding an event in New Delhi amid the coronavirus outbreak. Saxena submitted that Shaikh had to bear the brunt of his criticism and was allegedly assaulted and spat on by the members of Jamaat, about which he had uploaded a video on social media.After the video was uploaded, the members of Tablighi Jamaat filed a complaint against Shaikh at Shahunagar police station. He was also booked for criminal defamation and other penal provisions, based on the complaint made by members of the religious group. Saxena informed the court that Shaikh had also filed a complaint against the members of Tablighi Jamaat and as he was falsely implicated, he should be granted pre-arrest bail.After the police sought further time to complete investigations into the counter complaints, the court extended Shaikh interim protection from arrest for eight weeks and directed that in the event of arrest, the petitioner should be released on bail on furnishing personal bond of ₹25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bombay-hc-extends-pre-arrest-bail-of-man-who-criticised-tablighi-jamaat/story-baGcJWz8TrKDH4RRyy7UDO.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||Amid cash crunch, Maha nod to buy ₹1.37-cr cars for 4 ministers, babu, department||While the state government is facing a cash crunch owing to the shrinking revenue receipts amid Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, the state gave special permission to buy six high-end cars for four ministers, a bureaucrat and a department. The cars will cost ₹1.37 crore to the exchequer. The six Innova Crysta seven-seater cars costing ₹22.83 lakh each are meant for use of school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, her deputy (MoS) Bachchu Kadu, sports minister Sunil Kedar, his deputy Aditi Tatkare, the additional chief secretary of the school education and sports department, while the sixth car is for the office use of the department. A government resolution (GR) giving sanction for the purchase from a Mumbai-based agency was issued on Saturday.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has given special sanction for purchase as the price of the cars was exceeding the approved limit of ₹20 lakh for vehicles used by ministers. The state has sustained revenue loss of more than ₹50,000 crore in the past four months due to the lockdown announced after the outbreak of the pandemic. Officials in the finance department said exceptional sanction for the vehicles meant for the secretary and office use was unwarranted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-cash-crunch-maha-nod-to-buy-1-37-cr-cars-for-4-ministers-babu-deparment/story-KDhvQUAagVFbxcEQB4ydsJ.html
04-07-2020||Lucknow||Kanpur incident a ‘well planned conspiracy’: UP DGP||Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthi on Friday said that the Kanpur encounter incident, in which eight police personnel were killed, was a well-planned conspiracy.The DGP visited the encounter site in Bikru village and assured that the police will solve the matter soon and the accused will be brought to justice.“This is a very unfortunate incident. The criminals fled after the attack on police personnel. It was a conspiracy. An earthmover machine was put there deliberately to stop their way and in the darkness, they were attacked. This incident would not have happened without a well-planned conspiracy,” the DGP said.“Forensic team from Lucknow and the local forensic team have collected evidence to unravel the conspiracy behind this attack. Further investigations are underway,” he said.The DGP added, “The SSP is supervising various teams and the STF teams are also working in this.” A total of eight police personnel including Deputy Superintendent of Police Devendra Mishra have lost their lives after they were fired upon by criminals in the early hours of Friday.The incident took place when a police team had gone to raid history-sheeter Vikas Dubey’s house.Earlier today, the Inspector General Kanpur said that two criminals allegedly involved in the killing of eight police personnel in Kanpur have been neutralised.“During a combing operation following last night’s encounter, two police personnel were injured and two criminals have been neutralised,” Mohit Agarwal, IG Kanpur had told reporters.“We have also recovered weapons that were used in firing at the police personnel at night. A search operation is currently underway to nab other accused. Villagers have been called for the identification of the two deceased criminals,” he had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kanpur-incident-a-well-planned-conspiracy-up-dgp/story-OlDgiDCY6XphSX5nle7R0N.html
04-07-2020||City||Dowry death: Ludhiana man, five kin booked after wife ends life||The Mullanpur police have booked a man and five members of his family for dowry death after his 20-year-old wife hanged herself in Detwal village on Thursday.Besides the man, the accused are his mother, two brothers and two sisters.The deceased’s mother told the police that her son-in-law and his family members had been harassing her daughter to bring dowry since they got married three months ago.Depressed due to this treatment, she hanged herself at their apartment. Inspector Prem Singh, SHO at Mullanpur Dakha police station, said a case under Section 304B of the Indian Penal Code was registered, and they will arrest the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dowry-death-ludhiana-man-five-kin-booked-after-wife-ends-life/story-rTW9zouqdoryygdp4O3n2K.html
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Proper poultry care in summer yields good results: GADVASU expert||Summer is a challenging season for poultry farming therefore many precautions need to be taken right from the onset of rising temperatures. This was stated by APS Sethi, head of animal nutrition department, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU).He said that poultry birds do not have sweat glands and have a thick cover of feathers. During summer months they consume less feed and more water due to which their growth rate, egg production, eggshell quality, and hatchability are all adversely affected and their mortality rate is high.Disease incidence in the flocks also increases because of wet litter, immune-suppression, vaccination failures, and contamination of drinking water, he added.Sethi said that there should be a grass cover on the grounds surrounding the poultry house which will reduce the reflection of sunlight into the house and vegetation should be kept trimmed to avoid blocking air movement and to help in reducing rodent problems.He said, “Keep a reliable, clean, cool source of water available to help the birds cope with high temperatures. As the birds excrete electrolytes during periods of heat stress, electrolytes can be added to the drinking water. In the case of nipple drinkers, frequent checks of nipples should be monitored.”During summer season nutrient intake by the birds should be increased and part of the energy should be supplied through fats and oils, he added.“Feeding should be done early in the morning and late in the evening. Feed withdrawal from 9am to 4.30pm is very effective in reducing heat stress mortality. Feed intake and digestion produce nearly 7% additional heat in the body and is maximum after 4 to 5 hours of consumption. This should not coincide with the hottest part of the day (2 to 3pm),” the expert said.Sethi said that the crude protein level in the feed should not be increased and preferably vegetable protein sources should be used.Egg collection frequency at the farm should be increased and the cold room should be available for egg storage in hot summer months, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/proper-poultry-care-in-summer-yields-good-results-expert/story-tnQMlVGPYFp3aFrj1nfduJ.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||38 spots waterlogged within 2 hours of heavy rain||After two hours of heavy rain on Friday morning, waterlogging was reported in 38 parts of the city, washing away the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) claims of having completed most of its monsoon preparation. However, BMC said the waterlogging was due to rainfall coinciding with a 4.41-metre high tide at 10.49am.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), between 8.30am and 8.30pm on Friday, Colaba recorded 161.4 mm rain, while 102.7 mm rain was recorded in Santacruz. Overall, the number of waterlogging spots in Mumbai increased to 336 this year from 273 in 2019.“There was no problem with our pumps and nor was the passageway for drainage blocked anywhere, but waterlogging was reported due to high tide along with rainfall,” said Sanjay Darade, deputy municipal commissioner (stormwater drains). During high tide, BMC closes floodgates to keep the rising seawater from entering the city, which prevents rainwater draining out. Flooding was reported in areas known to be prone to waterlogging, like Hindmata in Dadar as well as parts of Sion and Milan subway in Santacruz. Slow-moving traffic was reported in both the island city, at areas like Churchgate, Worli Naka and Nana Chowk, and in the suburbs. Traffic needed to be diverted due to waterlogging in some parts of the city.Sandeep Bhajibhakre, deputy commissioner of police, (traffic, suburbs), said, “Around two feet waterlogging was reported at Andheri subway. Hence, we closed the subway and diverted traffic in the area.” Flooding was also reported in parts of Bhulabhai Desai Road, Cuffe Parade, Marine Lines, King’s Circle and Byculla. New waterlogging spots were reported in Goregaon, Andheri, Santacruz and Churchgate.Prior to the onset of the monsoon, BMC had said it had completed 95% of the desilting and cleaning of the city’s drains. In February, the civic body said drains at the low-lying Hindmata junction had been augmented so that they could handle 50mm rain per hour. Hindmata junction sees flooding whenever there is more than 25mm rain and it reported waterlogging on Friday.“We have definitely improved the flooding issue at Hindmata junction, considering earlier, water was taking a long time to drain,” said Darade. “If there had been no high tide, despite heavy rainfall, there would have been no flooding.’’ He said the new waterlogging spots were due to the high tide coinciding with heavy rain. Activist Godfrey Pimenta said, “We totally disagree with the 95% figure quoted by BMC. For instance, no cleaning and desilting of nullahs in Sahar Airport, Marol, Kurla, Worli Koliwada etc has been done. In case of heavy monsoon, the above area will face unprecedented flooding and cause untold loss and damage.”High tide (4.57m) is expected today at 11.38am and on Sunday, a 4.63m high tide is expected at 12.23am. IMD has issued a red alert (very heavy rainfall) for today and a yellow alert (heavy rainfall) for Sunday.(With inputs from Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/38-spots-waterlogged-within-2-hours-of-heavy-rain/story-8CKmK2JH5lwJLB443qaSlL.html
04-07-2020||City||Road rage: Ludhiana woman attacked with bricks dies; man, nephew booked for murder||An uncle-nephew duo are facing murder charges after a woman whom they attacked with bricks in road rage case on June 29 succumbed to her injuries on Friday. The deceased, Seema Rani, 46, lived on Kakowal Road. The accused, Sandeep Arora, 30, who lives nearby, and his nephew, who is 16 years old, and hails from Delhi, have already been apprehended.Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal, SHO, Basti Jodhewal police station, said on June 29 night, Sandeep indulged in an argument with Seema after her nephew, Sahil, accidentally hit Sandeep with his motorcycle. Though Sandeep was not hurt, he started hurling abuses at Sahil. When Seema intervened, Sandeep and his minor nephew attacked her with bricks. The woman suffered serious head injuries and was admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital, where doctors referred her to PGIMER, Chandigarh. She died during treatment on Friday evening.The SHO said the accused were earlier booked for attempt to murder, and now the murder charge had been added to the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-rage-ludhiana-woman-attacked-with-bricks-dies-man-nephew-booked-for-murder/story-FK3lAA9Taejykpk1fII6nN.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||Expect very heavy rain in Mumbai, Thane today: IMD||The island city and suburbs on Friday recorded over 100 millimetres (mm) of rain in a day. South Mumbai recorded more rain than the suburbs, with an intense rain spell of 157 mm in approximately three hours. Between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Friday, the city saw very heavy rain, with 161.4mm and 102.7mm of rain recorded at Colaba and Santacruz weather stations respectively. “Both the city and suburbs from Friday morning onwards had very intense connective clouds that had the potential to cause 30-50 mm rain per hour within three hours. Similar intense rain is expected on Saturday followed by a drop in intensity from Sunday onwards,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD).For today, IMD has issued a red alert (extremely heavy rainfall) for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. A red alert directs authorities to take necessary action for extremely heavy rain at isolated places in a region. For Sunday, a yellow alert (be updated for heavy rain at isolated places) has been issued for Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg. An orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain) has been issued for Palghar, for Sunday. “The active monsoon current is being triggered by three weather systems — a cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat at the lower and mid-tropospheric level that is likely to persist for at least two days; an offshore trough running from Maharashtra to Kerala coast; and high convergence due to strong westerly to southwesterly winds, carrying a lot of moisture from the Arabian Sea over the coast,” said Hosalikar.In addition to this, a vortex (localised low-pressure circulation) will form over the Mumbai region, said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at University of Reading.”This will lead to rain enhancement over the weekend. Intense spells are expected during Saturday afternoon, evening; and Sunday morning. Rain-related disruptions are expected with rainfall accumulation higher towards Palghar, Thane and Raigad,” said Deoras.Professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies at Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, said, “Very heavy rains can’t be ruled out with some places likely to get 200-250 mm in a 24-hour period. There will be waterlogging and possibility of localised flooding. Caution needs to be exercised in these difficult times.”IMD classifies 20-30mm rain per hour as intense spell; 30-50mm per hour as very intense rain; 50-100mm per hour as extremely intense rain spell; and over 100mm per hour as cloud burst. IMD further classifies 15.6-64.4mm as moderate rain; 64.5-115.5mm rain as heavy; 115.6-204.4mm as very heavy; and over 204.5mm as extremely heavy rain.For the first time during monsoon, IMD on Friday released an impact-based forecast that highlighted high risk due to very to extremely heavy rain. It indicated waterlogging in many parts of low lying areas, localised and short term disruption to municipal services such as water, electricity etc; major disruption of traffic flow; and also suggested the possibility of collapse of old buildings and tree fall incidents. In such circumstances, IMD has suggested action in the form of proper regulation of traffic and restrict movement of citizens in affected areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/expect-very-heavy-rain-in-mumbai-thane-today-imd/story-6r1r7IgJdzrxiO4fZnXYRI.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||BMC begins rapid antigen tests, north Mumbai will be priority||A day after receiving one lakh rapid antigen kits from a South Korean company, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started testing for Covid-19 from Friday. Considering the growing number of Covid-19 cases in the northern parts of the city, BMC will run a majority of tests in those wards. BMC procured 1 lakh kits from South Korean firm SD Biosensors , the only company approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), on Thursday night. According to the protocol, every positive report from the testing will be treated as ‘true positive’, while negative samples will have to be mandatorily re-tested by RT-PCR process. Every day, 2,000 rapid tests will be conducted, which will push the number of daily tests in the city to 7,000.Currently, BMC is conducting 3,500-5,000 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests daily. Like RT-PCR, rapid antigen kits detect the presence of molecular pathogens of the coronavirus. RT-PCR takes almost eight hours to give results, while reports of the antigen-based test that uses nasal swab samples are out within 30 minutes.In the initial stage, BMC will run tests on suspected patients and high-risk contacts in wards namely R-N (Dahisar), R-C (Borivli West), R-S (Kandivli), P-N (Malad), P-S (Goregaon), K-E (Andheri East) and K-W (Andheri West). According to BMC’s data, K-E has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases (5507). K-W is in the fourth position with over 4,706 cases, as of Thursday.“Along with this, we will start testing symptomatic patients from hospitals to get faster reports,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.BMC plans to gradually start testing high-risk contacts of infected patients from containment zones to find more patients, especially those who are asymptomatic. Almost 40,000 Covid-19 frontliners will also undergo the test, BMC officials said. “With more testing, the number of cases will also increase. But this will also ensure early treatment of patients. Expecting a surge in cases, we have also increased the bed strength in intensive care unit (ICU) to over 1,500,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Covid-19 state task force. Medical experts have welcomed the civic body’s move to begin rapid antigen testing. “In Mumbai, almost 80% patients are still not identified as asymptomatic. Although they don’t have symptoms like cough and cold, the chances of them spreading the infection is less, but they are still infectious. The more we identify and isolate them, the chain of reaction will break,” said Dr Abhijit More, co-convenor, Jan Aarogya Abhiyan.With the relaxation of the lockdown, epidemiologists said sero-survey and antigen testing will provide the real picture.“Sars-Cov-2 (the virus which causes Covid-19) is still unknown to us. We need more data and analysis to understand its demographic and geographical outspread. Rapid test is not only fast, but the kit is also pocket-friendly. It’s the need of the hour,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, city epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-begins-rapid-antigen-tests-north-mumbai-will-be-priority/story-rsDMn4J0wNqNjM1R3svT8K.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||3 cops succumb to Covid-19; state toll 65||Three policemen including an assistant police inspector died of Covid-19, taking the number of fatality in the state police force to 65. Of the three deceased, two died in the past 48 hours while the third policeman had died five days ago but his post-mortem report on Friday revealed that he was Covid-19 positive. Meanwhile, 35 police personnel from Thane Police commissionerate tested positive on Thursday.Of the three deceased, the assistant inspector, aged 52, was posted at Samtanagar police station and developed symptoms of Covid-19 a week ago. After testing positive on June 26, he was admitted to Oscar Hospital in Kandivli for treatment where he died on Friday morning, a senior police officer said.Another police officer said, “After 19 years of service in defence, he joined the Mumbai Police force as police sub-inspector in 2009.” His younger brother is also in the police force and is attached to Mumbai Police’s crime branch unit-11. A 54-year-old head constable attached to the Thane Rural police headquarters succumbed to the disease on Thursday while undergoing treatment at Vedanta Hospital, confirmed Niket Kaushik, inspector general of police (Konkan Range).“He showed symptoms on June 25 and tested positive on June 26. He was later admitted to Vedanta Hospital for treatment. He was given an aid of ₹1lakh for medical treatment,” said Shivaji Rathod, superintendent of Thane Rural police.Constable tests positive after deathA constable was found to be Covid-19 positive four days after his death. The cop’s family had refused to accept the body, following which KEM Hospital conducted a post-mortem wherein the cop, posted in the Anti Narcotics Cell (ANC), was found positive. He had suddenly fainted and collapsed at home on June 29. He was taken to KEM Hospital where he was declared dead minutes after admission.The hospital informed his family that he died of cardiac arrest and was not conducting Covid test as ICMR guidelines prohibit post-mortem only for the purpose of testing if the person was Covid positive.After the deceased’s wife tested positive, she demanded that a post-mortem be conducted of the body. Former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya, too, raised the issue with the government. The hospital was then allowed to conduct post-mortem as an exceptional case.Speaking to HT the deceased’s wife said, “My husband had raised suspicion that he may have contracted the virus and was asking me and other family members to stay away from him. We wanted to take the body to Satara where our parents stay, but to ensure everyone’s safety we insisted on post-mortem.”The state government has promised the families of deceased policemen a compensation of ₹50 lakh each. In addition, ₹10 lakh would be given from the Police welfare fund or Martyrs’ Funds and one family member of the deceased personnel will be given a government job.So far, 2,906 policemen have tested positive for Covid-19 in city police force with 42 deaths. 498 policemen are undergoing treatment while more than 2,260 have recovered. In the state police force, around 4,800 personnel have tested positive, of whom, 1,025 are undergoing treatment. The death toll in the state police force is 65 now.35 cops test positive in Thane commissionerateAs many as 34 police personnel, including a senior police inspector, from Thane Police commissionerate tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The senior police inspector has been admitted to a hospital while five of his teammates have been quarantined.The infected personnel are from different police stations including Thane Nagar, Shil-Daighar, Shrinagar and Naupada police stations. Some of the infected are also from the Quick Response Team and traffic department. Deputy police inspector B Patil said, “The number of positive cases have increased as people’s interaction with police has increased after lockdown norms were eased last month. All these are field officers who contracted Covid-19 on duty. We have ensured that they receive proper treatment while their families are taken care of.”Cyber police warns against sharing list of Covid patients on groupsThe state cyber police department on Friday said many WhatsApp groups are sharing lists of those infected with Covid-19. “Such act amounts to an offence and if any person is found indulging in such act they would face lawful action,” said inspector general (cyber) in a statement. Cyber police officers have appealed to all WhatsApp group administrators to remove those members who indulge in such unlawful act and change the setting of the group to ‘only admin’.(With input from Anamika Gharat)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-cops-succumb-to-covid-19-state-toll-65/story-gEw9M1l09xgMqWqnZkfDPO.html
04-07-2020||City||Submit daily updates on those who are critical: Thne chief instructs||With an aim to bring down the fatality rate within the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), the municipal commissioner, Dr Vipin Sharma on Friday instructed all assistant municipal commissioners to visit Covid hospitals or facilities within their ward and submit a daily report of the condition of patients, especially the old and critical. “Apart from contact tracing and testing, our aim is to decrease the fatality rate in the city. For this, we have to ensure that all patients receive timely treatment. All assistant commissioners have been asked to visit the hospitals or Covid care centres in their vicinity every morning, before reporting to work. They will ensure that if any patient is critical or facing any problems, are attended immediately,” said Sharma.TMC has so far recorded 350 Covid deaths, among them, 212 deaths were reported in June itself. “It was observed initially that family members would avoid reaching out to a doctor; this often led to a delay in the treatment. Moreover, provisions for ventilators have been made so that patients above 50 years of age can be attended to immediately in case of an emergency. Proper care and timely treatment will help reduce the fatality,” said Dr Dinkar Desai, president, Indian Medical Association, Thane chapter.Increased contact tracing, tracking patients from fever clinics and surveys in containment zones are some of the ways the civic body and the Indian Medical Association are trying to bring down the fatalities in the city.E-pass will be available onlineThane Municipal Corporation has introduced the facility to avail e-pass on the DigiThane Covid-19 dashboard. This is to ensure those in essential services are able to access the passes with ease. The facility is available on the website, on-call or even on mail. The following facilities can be accessed on, https://covidthane.org/ or digithane.contact@thanecity.gov.in or 9819170170.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/submit-daily-updates-on-those-who-are-critical-thne-chief-instructs/story-0eA3V6OoJv0cdBS1D0DOzK.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||City air 30% better in lockdown than 2024 NCAP target||The air quality in the city was around 30% better during 74 days of lockdown than its 2024 target under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP).Notified in January 2019, NCAP was proposed by the Centre in its attempt to reduce the concentration of particulate matters — PM2.5, PM10 (breathable pollutants that can easily enter the lungs and cause health ailments) — by 20-30% by 2024. Over the course of the year, 122 non-attainment cities were identified and air pollution action plans were developed and approved for 102 of them.During the lockdown from March 25 to June 8 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, researchers calculated that Mumbai witnessed a 29.5% decline in PM2.5 and 44.3% decline in PM10 levels compared to the NCAP 2024 target. While the NCAP target for PM2.5 level was 28 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m3), Mumbai recorded an average of 19.7 μg/m3 during lockdown. The target for PM10 was 105.7 μg/m3, while the city recorded 58.5 μg/m3. A similar analysis for Delhi showed a 31% decline than its NCAP target, 54% decline for Kolkata and 29% decline for Bengaluru than their respective NCAP 2024 targets for PM2.5 pollutant.The analysis — NCAP vs Lockdowns: An Assessment for Four Indian Cities — developed by Mumbai-based air quality research group Respirer Living Sciences (RLS) and Delhi-based communications initiative Climate Trends was released on Friday. Data for all cities was sourced from air quality monitors setup by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), which is recognised as official data used to track the progress of NCAP by the Centre.An overall trend established by the study showed the unprecedented lockdown measures resulted in all four cities achieving 95% of their 2024 NCAP targets.Researchers said their analysis revealed that achieving clean air targets was possible much earlier than 2024 if restrictions were imposed on human-induced pollution sources in a phase-wise manner. “The lockdown period helped us understand the effects from anthropogenic (human-generated) emissions. This period is a marker for policy makers on how they can achieve what has been planned in the coming four years, in a relatively shorter period,” said Ronak Sutaria, chief executive officer, RLS.SN Tripathi, NCAP apex committee member and professor of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, said, “The lockdown air quality data is being carefully studied by us and it is providing crucial information on baseline or background levels. This would help us to consider revisiting existing air quality safe standards for the country.”The annual safe standard for PM2.5 as per the World Health Organization (WHO) is 10 μg/m3 while the national standard is 40 μg/m3.According to Sagnik Dey, a professor at IIT-Delhi, of the eight primary polluting sources in India, four sources — construction, industries, brick kilns and vehicles — were inactive during lockdown while household emissions, open burning, diesel generators and dust were active. “Background levels for PM2.5 concentration during lockdown range between 20 μg/m3 and 49 μg/m3 across Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Kolkata; which means that in the best case scenario we cannot go below that,” said Dey.Meanwhile, the latest analysis also assessed PM2.5, PM10 levels in four cities across 2017, 2018 and 2019 to highlight the effectiveness of NCAP in bringing down air pollution over the years, taking 2017 levels as the base year. While PM levels fell short of NCAP targets for all four cities in 2019 compared to previous years, Kolkata witnessed a 24% improvement followed by Bengaluru at 19.8%, Mumbai at 16%, and Delhi at 6.4%.“Lessons from the lockdown make it clear that city action plans need to be much more comprehensive in their strategy and approach to air pollution management,” said Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends.Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) chairman Sudhir Srivastava said that reduction in transport pollution and work from home policy during lockdown had built an avenue to implement Mumbai’s action plan target for ‘staggered work hours’ for areas such as BKC and Parel. “Baseline data (from the lockdown) for a densely-populated city like Mumbai will tremendously help in source apportionment, especially for anthropogenic ones. This also expedites the process for obtaining necessary pollutant reduction as per our action plan through a more refined and enhanced approach,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-air-30-better-in-lockdown-than-2024-ncap-target/story-qBUt0SKLtnQBYd4wqRWpfN.html
04-07-2020||City||KDMC headquarters remain shut for day as deputy commissioner, peon test positive||Sajana.nambiar@hindustantimes.comThe headquarters of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) was shut for the day on Friday after a deputy commissioner and a peon tested positive for Covid-19.On Friday, the KDMC building at the Shivaji Chowk, Kalyan (West), was sanitised.Confirming this, a health department official at KDMC, said, “A deputy commissioner and his peon tested positive for the virus. The deputy commissioner is admitted at the Holy Cross Hospital in Kalyan and the peon has been admitted to Tata Amantra quarantine centre.”As per the KDMC health department, more than 50 officials and staffs of the civic body have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.Meanwhile, on Friday the civic body introduced five new helplines numbers for booking ambulances for Covid patients. “The five new helpline numbers will function for 24X7. Anyone who wants to book an ambulance can call on these numbers, “said the officer.The number are 0251-2211373, 0251-2201168, 0251-2211862 ,0251-2211863, 0251-2211864, 0251-2211865, 0251-2211866||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-headquarters-remain-shut-for-day-as-deputy-commissioner-peon-test-positive/story-g6H7YlWhrynMTzOKRVmPfL.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay alumni raise ₹2.3 crore to help 500 UG students with laptops, broadband||A week after the management of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) announced their decision to conduct the next semester online, the IIT-B Heritage Foundation (IITBHF) has decided to help address the issue of necessary infrastructure needed to implement the decision.On Friday, IITBHF announced a grant of ₹2.35 crore to the institute. “This fund will be used to purchase 500 laptops and to support broadband for 500 needy undergraduate students,” said Raj Mashruwala, chairman of the foundation.According to a statement released by the institute, IITBHF collected $301,000 from its US-based alumni, pursuant to extended fund-raising drives. “Given the need for up to 1,000 laptops, IITBHF is requesting other India-based alumni and the institute’s corporate sponsors to provide matching funds to meet the needs of the other 500 students,” said Mashruwala.In the last week of June, the institute’s senate decided that the autumn semester would be conducted online in the interest of students’ safety. The institute’s director Subhasis Chaudhuri had said the senate’s decision to conduct online classes is applicable only for the autumn semester. The institute has remained shut since March 14 and an early summer vacation was announced from April 1 to May 31. While classes for the spring semester of 2020 concluded prior to the shutdown, exams were pending. On May 17, the administration announced an elaborate scheme to do away with spring semester exams and promote students based on their scores in the previous semester.“At this pressing time, when many of our students need help, we are thankful to our alumni in the United States for opening their hearts in supporting their alma mater’s students. Since we are still at 50% of this specific fund, we hope many others will come forward to help our students in need,” said Chaudhuri.IITBHF was established as a non-profit organisation to assist IIT-B and received its status as a tax-exempt organisation from the Indian Revenue Service on July 5, 1996.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-alumni-raise-2-3-crore-to-help-500-ug-students-with-laptops-broadband/story-2FjbdXVQA4QIwSdc01tdDK.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police deny claims of assault during lockdown||In an affidavit filed in the Bombay high court (HC), the Mumbai Police have refuted the allegations that a porter was stopped and assaulted by police while enforcing lockdown in south Mumbai. The said porter allegedly succumbed to the injuries.Iqbal Gani Avalkar, an inspector attached to JJ Marg police station, filed the affidavit in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Firdause Irani, who claimed that he himself, his wife and two sons were badly beaten up by local police personnel and civic officials outside his residence at Goregaon (West).Claiming that there have been several instances of police excesses under the guise of enforcing lockdown, Irani had cited report of a human rights organisation claiming that at least 15 persons have died due police high handedness during Covid-19 lockdown, and those include two from Mumbai.The two persons were identified in the report as 47-year-old Sameer Jamal Khan, who was allegedly assaulted by policemen in south Mumbai, and Raju Velu Devendra, who was allegedly beaten to death by personnel attached to Juhu police station.Avalkar has refuted the claim and said Khan, who was carrying a refrigerator and two cloth bundles on a handcart to Null Bazaar locality, was not even stopped by police anywhere, which was corroborated by CCTV footages.In the case of Devendra, assistant commissioner of police Dattatray Bhargude filed an affidavit stating that the investigation into his death has not proceeded further as the family members of the deceased did not come forward to record their statements despite repeated requests. He further added that he could not summon any witness as the spot of incidence lies in a containment zone.The bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice NJ Jamadar adjourned Irani’s petition for two weeks to enable the police to file affidavit in reply to his allegations about him and his family members being beaten up.Irani, a lawyer and human rights activist, alleged that on April 16, 2020, he, his wife and two sons were assaulted by sticks by policemen and civic officials for no apparent reason. On Tuesday, Irani pointed out to the court that after the incident he has received hundreds of complaints from people having faced police excesses during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-deny-claims-of-assault-during-lockdown/story-8INGywU80OTierldyOCb2L.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||Government’s decision to cap air fares hurting air travel: CAPA||The government’s decision to temporarily fix a cap on air fares following the resumption of domestic passenger flight services in a graded manner is impacting air travel demand as airlines are unable to offer tickets at lower prices to customers, observed aviation think tank Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA).CAPA, a consultancy and advisory firm specialising in aviation sector, said adopting such a mechanism takes away an airline’s flexibility to charge fares at a lower rate when demand is on the lower side. “The temporary fare caps by the regulator are impacting demand. The pricing restrictions mean that the airlines have less flexibility to offer lower fare to stimulate demand,” CAPA said in a report on Friday. Airlines fix ticket prices based on the prevailing demand and also roll out various low fare offers and schemes to stimulate demand, particularly in low travel seasons. The period between January and March as well as July and September are considered to have low travel demand. At the time of resumption of domestic commercial flights after a break of two months on May 25, the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) had categorised all domestic routes into sectors (bands A to G) based on flight durations. This system will remain valid till August 24. The move to put an upper and lower threshold to ticket prices for domestic flights was aimed at preventing any sharp rise in fares due to pent-up demand while ensuring that finances of airlines are not crippled amid high costs. In addition to fixing the band prices, airlines are also supposed to sell at least 40% tickets at the mid-level of the upper and lower band.“The impact (of the fare cap) may be greater in the second quarter of this financial year as demand is historically weak during this period (July-September). Continuing with price control beyond August would be a strategic mistake by the regulator which could further harm the financials of airlines,” CAPA added.A senior airline executive, however, did not agree with CAPA’s report while another executive said the report seems to be partially true. The senior airline executive said, “The government caps are fair and reasonable. Airlines otherwise will go down to ridiculous low level of fares to get passengers.” The official said that going forward the potential for domestic travel is looking good and added that the fare caps would help the market be stable in terms of pricing. Another executive of a low-cost airline said, “Though the report is partially correct, demand for travel is currently low due to fear of Covid-19 and the mandatory quarantine days imposed by different states. Hence, even if the airlines are able to lower the cost of tickets, it is unlikely to attract travellers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/government-s-decision-to-cap-air-fares-hurting-air-travel-capa/story-kQ7ahDYzQxQrTOuygRLV7M.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||You can take e-bikes, e-autos from outside CR stations soon||With the increase in use of bicycles to maintain social distancing during the coronavirus pandemic, the Central Railway (CR) will soon be introducing electric bicycles outside its railway stations in the city. To provide the last-mile connectivity and reduce carbon emissions, electric autorickshaws will also be introduced outside the suburban railway stations.“Electric vehicles are a step forward in reducing carbon emissions. Along with e-autorickshaws, we will also be introducing the electric bicycles in order to promote social distancing,” a CR spokesperson said. The e-bikes will be introduced outside Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kurla railway stations, whereas, the electric autorickshaws will be introduced outside Ghatkopar and Kurla railway stations. Later the autorickshaws will also be introduced outside Bhandup, Mulund and Thane railway stations.Electric bicycles, also known as e-bikes, are battery-powered. Electric autorickshaw is also battery-operated and is used as an alternative to compressed natural gas (CNG), operated autorickshaws.Passengers will be able to book the cycles and autorickshaws in advance through a mobile application before reaching the railway station. The zonal railway has floated tender for the mobile application. However, the fares and payment mode for e-bikes and e-autorickshaws have not been finalised yet.The zonal railway has also floated tenders for electric bicycles for a period of one year. Tenders for electric autorickshaws outside Kurla and Ghatkopar railway stations have been allotted. The service is likely to be introduced soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/you-can-take-e-bikes-e-autos-from-outside-cr-stations-soon/story-4ebx5Dbaa3BatSg6MmftPN.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||BMC collects 6,000 blood samples for sero-survey||Over the past five days, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has tested more than 6,000 people in Mumbai under sero-survey to monitor the trend of the prevalence of Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. The civic-body expects to complete the survey within the next two to three days. Under the national sero-survey of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), BMC has been collecting blood serum samples through door-to-door examination in the three wards— M/W (Tilaknagar and Chembur), F/N (Matunga, Sion and Wadala) and R/N (Dahisar and Mandapeshwar). Sero-survey is being undertaken in collaboration between the civic body, Niti Aayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research.In sero-survey, a group of individuals undergo blood tests to detect the presence of IgG antibodies that are produced against Sars-Cov-2. This is done to identify the individuals who were previously infected with the virus and have now recovered. A total of 10,000 blood samples from individuals aged above 12 will be collected as random samples from slum and non-slum areas in the city.“The Central government has given us the task to collect 10,000 samples. Within the next two to three days, we will be able to collect the remaining 4,000 samples unless rain hinders the survey,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “We will get the report of the survey after a week.”R-North is one of the wards with fewest Covid cases in the city with 1,759 cases, while M-West has 2,464 cases and F-North had 3,499 cases among wards with higher number of cases.“The survey will help us gauge the spread of the virus. It will also help to detect hidden carriers among people. Overall, it will give us a perspective on the pandemic and our preparations,” said Kakani. In the first phase, ICMR conducted the first sero-survey in the last week of May where more than 60 districts across the country were covered. It also included 10 hotspots in Mumbai including slums of Kandivli, Deonar, Dharavi and Kurla-Sakinaka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-collects-6-000-blood-samples-for-sero-survey/story-oUGvRpFjZ8BBYBg7GNrV9H.html
04-07-2020||Mumbai||FDA minister warns Patanjali: No false claims||State food and drug administration (FDA) minister Rajendra Shingne has warned Patanjali of strict action if it misled people saying its newly launched Coronil cures Covid-19. Shingne, in a press statement issued on Saturday, said the medicine launched by Patanjali does not cure Covid-19, though the company was claiming so.“The advertisements are misleading and spreading misconceptions among the people. The tablets launched by the company are, in fact, useful in boosting immunity as it contains ashwagandha, tulsi and giloy. Such tablets do not cure coronavirus. If the company continues to mislead through its advertisements, action would be initiated against it under Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act,” he said.Citing that the name of the tablet Coronil and its advertisements are misleading and build up confusion about the drug among the people, the minister said people should understand that it is only an immunity booster and not a cure for Covid-19. He further added that FDA would initiate an action against the company with the help of the home department. SK Tijarawala, spokesperson, Patanajli Ayurveda, said, “We have neither been making any advertising or propaganda nor we need it. We have launched our product with due permissions and registration from the government authorities concerned. Even Ayush ministry, in its letter to us, has praised us for the Covid-19 management Patanjali has done with its drug. We have launched the product for not any profit but in the service of the society. I do not know what action the Maharashtra government is talking about.”State home minister Anil Deshmukh had last week warned that the government would not allow Coronil’s sale in Maharashtra. According to section 4 of the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, “If the advertisement of any drug contains false impression about the true characters of the drug or makes false claims for the drug the company manufacturing the drug is liable for the action.”Patanjali launched Coronil on June 23 by saying that it has shown 100% favourable results during the trials on Covid-19 patients. Taking cognisance of the advertisement, Ayush ministry on June 24 said the company’s claims were not known to the ministry and added that Patanjali can sell Coronil only as an immunity booster. Patanjali, on Wednesday (July 1), said that it never claimed that Coronil could cure Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fda-minister-warns-patanjali-no-false-claims/story-aNenL51q2L4HGmEZuIJgnK.html
04-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally nears 2,700; 63 new cases recorded||Sixty-three more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 2,697, a government bulletin said. There are 681 active cases while 2,001 people have recovered from the disease, including 13 during the day, and 15 patients have died so far, it said. The recovery rate in the state stands at 74.19 per cent while the mortality rate is 0.55 per cent, the bulletin said. Among the total number of cases, 2,060 are migrants, it said. The 15 fatalities were reported from Ranchi (four), Hazaribag (three), two each in Bokaro and Giridih and one each in Gumla, Koderma, Simdega and Sahibganj, the bulletin said. Of the 1,52,511 samples collected so far, 1,51,699 have been tested for Covid-19, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-nears-2-700-63-new-cases-recorded/story-a5im7FqFPqSvxubRWte5KL.html
04-07-2020||Delhi||Centre first opposed, then copied Delhi’s isolation rules: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday alleged that the new home isolation guidelines issued by the Union Central government were “a word-to-word copy” of the Delhi government’s guidelines on the same topic.AAP’s national spokesperson and MLA Raghav Chadha said the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre has advised implementation of telephonic consultancy to Covid-19 patients under home isolation, which will now be implemented across India. “Significantly, the same BJP government scrapped the same telephonic consultancy provisions for home isolation patients in Delhi. Now the question arises, that if this system of the Kejriwal government can be applicable for the whole country, then why did the BJP government scrap it in the Capital?” Chadha asked. The Union health ministry did not comment on the matter.Chadha said without any proper framework, the BJP-ruled Central government had passed arbitrary politically motivated orders through lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal. “I believe the BJP government has only one goal, which is to create trouble for the citizens of Delhi by passing orders through the L-G, who reports to the Union home ministry. The BJP government neither had any plan nor any kind of framework to pass these orders. But, it did so only to create hurdles for the people,” he said. The L-G office did not comment on his charges.Last week, the L-G restored the Delhi government’s old module of home isolation where teams of district surveillance officers (DSO) visit the homes of new Covid-19 patients for their medical assessment and to inspect if their homes are fit for isolation.The Delhi government had appointed a private firm to do the follow-up process with patients under home isolation through tele-consulting. But the contract of the company was cancelled by the L-G. The Delhi government opposed this, saying it was hampering patient care.“I request the Union government to cooperate, and not create chaos in Delhi,” Chadha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-first-opposed-then-copied-delhi-s-isolation-rules-aap/story-nOzHV0F41TMK8K4zSv0XWN.html
04-07-2020||Delhi||Rapid testing moves out of Covid-19 containment zones to other areas||All 11 districts in Delhi have started conducting rapid antigen tests beyond the containment zones, as part of the city-state government’s plans to scale up Covid-19 testing across the city.District administrations have set up testing centres in government schools, dispensaries, community centres as well as in medical vans, senior government officials said on Friday.Delhi government had last month procured 600,000 rapid antigen test kits, which were distributed among all 11 revenue districts in the city, with the foremost priority to test residents in Delhi’s containment zones, a senior government official said.As of Friday, the national capital had 445 containment zones.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday told HT, “We have scaled up tests across all districts in the city and rapid antigen tests are a major part of that strategy. Antigen tests help reduce time of the suspect period [the time taken between sample collection and results to arrive] of a person. So, rapid action can be taken in every positive case.”So far, under the rapid antigen test initiative, district administrations have covered around between 60% and 70% of the containment zones in their jurisdictions, with over 150,000 people tested till Friday. After the progress in these areas, around 40 antigen test centres were set up on Friday in localities outside containment zones, including in Greater Kailash, Kalkaji, Shahpur Jat, Mehrauli, Saket, Hauz Rani and Rajouri Garden, among others. These exclude the 167 antigen testing centres that were previously operational inside or close to containment zones.The government is yet to summarise data on the total number of people outside containment zones who went through antigen tests and how many among them tested positive.According to the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin, 24,165 were tested across the city on Friday, of which 13,588 were tested via the antigen method.The government earlier this week placed orders for another 500,000 antigen test kits, which are likely to arrive by Monday, following which they will be distributed among all district authorities.Rapid antigen tests are non-confirmatory tests for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, using a nasal swab, where the results take less than 30 minutes to come. While every positive is considered an accurate positive, individuals with negative results may have to undergo an RT-PCR test for reconfirmation. Chief secretary Vijay Dev said: “Currently, we are conducting antigen tests both within and outside containment zones, under ICMR protocols. Such tests not only help identify people infected earlier, but also provide a sense of the burden of the disease. It also helps in early detection and surveillance of positive cases which assists in controlling the pandemic.”WHO CAN GET TESTEDIn a standard operating procedure issued last week, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had given district administrations a free hand to decide who can be tested under the rapid testing initiative.HT on Friday spoke to several officials and found that three districts have prioritised health care workers, sanitation staff, police personnel, civil defence volunteers and others engaged in the management of containment zones. Another two districts had prepared a list of “high-risk” individuals that mostly comprised fruit and vegetable sellers, milk vendors, grocery shop owners, pharmacists and other essential goods and services providers who worked in full capacity when the city was recording around 3,000 new daily cases of Covid-19 regularly. Most other districts on Friday, however, tested anyone who walked in, on a first-come-first-served basis.A senior official in the revenue department said a uniform strategy for all districts is likely to be ready by Monday. By then, all districts are also expected to set aside some portion of the test kits in their quota for government hospitals under their jurisdiction.Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, said: “It is a good strategy to expand the ambit of the antigen test initiative. When it comes to prioritising, the first category of persons who should be tested is contacts of Covid cases who haven’t got themselves tested so far, health care workers and individuals who interacted directly with covid patients in hospitals, covid centres or their residences.” “Second should be elderly citizens with severe acute respiratory infections and influenza-like illnesses. The third category should be individuals with ailments related to heart, kidneys, liver, etc. And the fourth category should be people who worked outside when the cases peaked. The last category may include the police, civil defence volunteers, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rapid-testing-moves-out-of-containment-zones-to-other-areas/story-lrmhRSjBxFOoP5Rn5lspAM.html
04-07-2020||Delhi||Charak Palika Hospital to be converted to Covid-only facility soon||The Delhi government is likely to convert Charak Palika Hospital in Moti Bagh, run by the New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), into a Covid-19 dedicated facility soon. The New Delhi district administration has convened meetings with NDMC officials to work out a plan to declare the hospital a Covid-only facility. The district administration has also sought details from the municipality about the health infrastructure available at the hospital.Officials from the government and NDMC confirmed that talks are on to covert the Charak Palika Hospital in south Delhi into a dedicated Covid hospital. “We have held several meetings with the health department officials of NDMC and Charak Palika Hospital regarding its conversion into a Covid-19 dedicated facility. We have asked them to submit information about health infrastructure available at the hospital so we have an idea about additional logistical support required before converting it into a Covid-only facility. They are yet to submit details. We will make the declaration in a few days after completing the due process,” a senior official of the New Delhi district, who is engaged in the procedure, said on the condition of anonymity.Civic body officials confirmed the development. “The process is on. Even after a formal declaration, it takes 4-5 days to turn a hospital into a Covid-19 dedicated facility. So we hope that by next week, the hospital functions as a Covid-19 dedicated facility,” an NDMC official said.Charak Palika Hospital is NDMC’s largest healthcare facility in Moti Bagh area. The total bed strength of the hospital is 156. It has six ICU beds and three ventilators. It caters to the medical requirements of people, mostly government employees, living in neighbourhoods such as RK Puram, Moti Bagh, Sarojini Nagar, Laxmibai Nagar and parts of Chanakyapuri.Another official of the district administration said that since the number of Covid-19 cases is exploding, there is a need to create more healthcare facilities, apart from setting up beds in schools and community centres. “In such a scenario, hospitals being run by municipalities can play a vital role as they have basic health infrastructure which can be augmented further for special treatment. Even though there is a less number of ICU beds, we are not worried because we can create temporary ICU units on simple beds with the help of additional machinery,” he said.The official added that once a hospital is declared Covid-only facility then the state, as well as central government, provide it with logistical support.A senior official of NDMC’s health department said that the hospital has around 27 doctors and provides around-the-clock emergency services. “We have already created an isolation ward of six beds for any emergency. The condition of NDMC hospitals and dispensaries is better than other municipal hospitals in the city. The nearest hospitals treating Covid patients in the area are AIIMS and Safdarjung hospitals, and both remain crowded. If Charak Palika Hospital is converted into a Covid-19 dedicated facility, it will be of great service in the pandemic,” the NDMC official mentioned above said.At present, only two municipal hospitals have been declared Covid-only facilities—Hindu Rao Hospital of North Delhi Municipal Corporation and Tilak Nagar Super Speciality Hospital of South Delhi Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/charak-palika-hospital-to-be-converted-to-covid-only-facility-soon/story-B9IniBmO43IwhLFql0WFGJ.html
04-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi revises home isolation guidelines to include asymptomatic patients||The Delhi government on Friday revised its guidelines to allow asymptomatic coronavirus disease (Covd-19) patients to remain in home isolation in line with the union health ministry revised guidelines a day ago. “In supersession to the guidelines issued earlier on home isolation of very mild/ per-symptomatic Covid-19 cases, revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild/ pre-symptomatic/ asymptomatic Covid-19 cases, is enclosed,” read the order from Delhi’s Director General of Health Services Dr Nutan Mundeja.The guidelines also state that the city’s districts have to ensure that every Covid-19 patient who is under home isolation receives a pulse-oximeter. “The records pertaining to the indent and distribution of pulse-oximeter is to be maintained by each and every district. The same is to be shared with the concerned authorities on a daily basis,” the order read.The guidelines specify that immunocompromised patients – such as persons with HIV, those who have undergone a transplant, or are receiving cancer therapy – will not be eligible for home isolation. People over the age of 60 and those with co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, chronic lung, kidney and liver disease will also not be eligible.The revised Delhi guidelines also mention that mechanisms will have to be put in place to shift anyone who needs hospital-based treatment or violates isolation.Patients will be discharged after ten days.The union health ministry guidelines from a day ago read, “In view of large number of asymptomatic cases being detected, the current guidelines have been extended to asymptomatic positive cases also besides very mild and pre-symptomatic cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-revises-home-isolation-guidelines-to-include-asymptomatic-patients/story-PdceHzpQpGw9GYQl0aBA5M.html
04-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi cop has heart surgery, tests positive, dies five days later||A 58-year-old Delhi Police sub-inspector (SI), who had undergone heart surgery at a private hospital in Noida on June 22, died early Friday morning, five days after testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the hospital itself, senior Delhi Police officers said.Sub-inspector Dharamvir Singh’s family members suspect that he contracted the virus from someone at the hospital itself. They said that the result of his first test at the hospital after admission on June 12 was negative. The SI was posted to the district commissioner of police (north-west district) office at Ashok Vihar.He was admitted to Kailash super speciality hospital in Noida for bypass surgery. At the time of admission, he tested negative for Covid-19. On June 22, he had bypass surgery and since then he had been in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), DCP (north-west) Vijayanta Arya said.“On Thursday, the hospital authorities informed Singh’s family that he was Covid-19 positive and today (Friday) early morning, they informed his family that he had passed away,” DCP Arya said.Singh’s son Rohit Khatri said, “My father’s death certificate, issued by the hospital, mentions that Covid-19 is also among the causes of death. He must have contracted the virus from someone in the hospital, as he was there since his admission on June 12.”Kailash hospital authorities could not be contacted for their comment on the SI’s death; calls and text messages sent to them remained unanswered.Joint commissioner of police (northern range) Manish Kumar Aggarwal said, “We have lost a member of the Delhi Police family. His family is entitled to compensation as per the protocol regarding the death of any police officer during service.”Before Singh, 10 personnel from the city police, including a gallantry award winner Inspector Sanjeev Kumar Yadav, lost their lives to Covid-19. More than 2,000 personnel have been tested and nearly 1,300 of them have recovered and resumed their duties so far.According to Khatri, his father joined the Delhi Police in 1984 as a constable. Singh is survived by his wife and two children—a son (Khatri) and a daughter. The family lives in outer Delhi’s Narela.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cop-has-heart-surgery-tests-positive-dies-five-days-later/story-djw9cCdgCMfDXMBFmVTLMM.html
04-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram man held for conspiring to murder father-in-law||A man was arrested for allegedly planning the murder of his father-in-law, and offering Rs1 crore for it. Two other men were also arrested on Thursday by a team of crime branch, Palam Vihar.According to the police, on January 26 last year, 48-year-old Harpal (identified only by his first name) was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne assailants when he was walking in Badshahpur. He was rushed to a private hospital, where he was declared dead-on-arrival. Police on Friday said Harpal’s son-in-law, 30-year-old Naresh (also identified by a single name), was arrested for possession of an illegal weapon. In jail he met a man named Vikas Yadav (32), also accused of illegal possession of a weapon .In June 2018 Naresh got bail and had an argument with his wife when she refused to come to his grandmother’s funeral. In the incident, Harpal along with some villagers had allegedly beaten up Naresh. Police claimed Naresh also held a grudge against Harpal for interfering in his divorce.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “Naresh vowed revenge and offered Vikas Yadav Rs1 crore in cash or property to carry out the murder. He told Yadav that he had some ancestral property and he would usurp more land registered under his father-in-law’s name after his death. Yadav then roped in two associates, Rahul and Jaiveer, who shot Harpal.”Police said that after the shooting, Naresh was unable to arrange the Rs1 crore and instead tried to transfer his family’s property to Yadav. There was a dispute between the two over the issue.During the course of the investigation, police said they arrested Naresh, Vikas Yadav and Jaiveer were arrested from Pachgaon near Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway on Thursday and their questioning revealed the sequence of events. The fourth suspect, Rahul, is yet to be arrested.A case was registered against the suspects under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and The Arms Act at Badshahpur police station, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-held-for-conspiring-to-murder-father-in-law/story-trIF2ua50cmdKHWUwThOqJ.html
04-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to begin e-ticketing system for its buses to minimise contact||The Delhi government will launch an e-ticketing system for its buses to ensure minimal contact between passengers and conductors, in an effort to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in public transport, state transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Friday.To this effect, the state transport department on Thursday started a trial run of the contactless ticketing system in a few Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) cluster buses. The model being trialled involves upgrading the operational ‘One Delhi’ mobile application with an e-ticketing system for purchasing bus tickets either in advance or in buses. The government is also working on expanding the ticket-issuing service to other, privately-run firms.“Even though we are allowing only 20 passengers per bus, there is a huge demand for buses these days because the Delhi Metro is still not operational. Our aim is to use technology to ensure minimum or zero contact between people inside buses,” Gahlot said.“We are hopeful of rolling out the contactless ticketing system in a month or two,” a transport department official.Rajan Girsa, a research associate at the Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Delhi, who is working on the project, said that in the upgraded app, passengers will have an option to pay either based on the fare or by the destination. DTC and cluster bus fares in Delhi range from ₹5, ₹10, ₹15 and (for AC buses) ₹25.“One will also have to enter the bus and bus route numbers, which will be available in a drop-box format. In our first trial on Thursday, we faced some teething issues, but it was very promising overall. A few more trials will be conducted in the coming days. Our system is an API (application interface) which can be integrated with any app — for example PayTM, Flipkart, Ola or Uber. To make this fully successful, we will also have to feed in data of every bus number and route in the app, as well as enable maximum GPS tracking of each bus,” Girsa said. At present, all cluster buses have GPS trackers, but a majority of DTC buses do not.Delhi has a total of 6,487 buses, including DTC and cluster buses.On Thursday, a field trial was conducted in an air-conditioned DTC bus at the Indraprastha bus depot. It was done on a 30-km route (number 763), plying from Nizamuddin railway station to the Uttam Nagar bus terminal. The next trials will be conducted in DTC buses, Girsa said.Gahlot has also constituted a special task force to conduct these trials. An order issued by the minister on Thursday stated that the task force, led by deputy commissioner (cluster), has been constituted “for timely coordination and implementation of exploring the options of contactless mobile ticketing inside DTC and cluster buses so that no physical contact between the conductor and commuter takes place due to exchange of cash or ticket”.The task force has officials from the DTC and the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transport System Limited (DIMTS). It also has researchers from IIIT Delhi and experts from World Resources Institute, India.Officials in the DTC said they are currently plying over 1,000 buses for public transport across the city, while around 1,600 are deployed for transportation of health workers and to maintain law and order. The cluster is plying another 1,000 buses for public transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-to-begin-e-ticketing-system-for-its-buses-to-minimise-contact/story-zSGvCfxZzMIyT2mtec1vUN.html
04-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: All districts to start surveillance and tele-medicine hubs||The Delhi government has asked all district magistrates in the city to start surveillance and tele-medicine hubs, so medical officials can check on all Covid-19 patients in home isolation as soon as they receive a call, and set up a centralised grievance redressal mechanism, Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said.Dev inaugurated the first such surveillance and tele-medicine hub in central Delhi on Friday. He later told HT that all districts have been asked to start one in their jurisdiction.Medical officials, who can attend to patients in home isolation at any time and save them from sinking into a severe or critical state, will be available at the surveillance hubs. It is a well-streamlined version of a system already in place, a senior government official said, requesting anonymity.The official further said that the hub will always have adequate staff to entertain calls related to medical help, sanitisation, the removal of biomedical waste, the delivery of essential commodities, and experts to help with mental health issues.The centralised system will help districts’ real-time management of Covid-19 databases, better their surveillance, tracking, tracing and monitoring of cases, and patient care, said another official in the revenue department, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/all-districts-to-start-surveillance-and-tele-medicine-hubs/story-phmGIvQ08CQirwjSADjwZN.html
04-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Dilli Haat among five tourist spots to open from Saturday||After being closed for more than months, three centres of Dilli Haat, Nature Bazaar, Garden of Five Senses, Azad Hind Gram, and GTB Memorial – these five tourist destinations in the Capital will be open to the public from Saturday, said the Delhi tourism department in a statement issued on Friday.For the first 15 days of their opening, the statement further said, entry to these spots will be free in order to encourage high footfall. However, all visitors will have to wear masks and maintain social distancing, and will be screened on entry. Provisions for frequent hand wash will be made available, and all the premises will be sanitised periodically.Also read: All monuments can be opened from July 4, says Union Tourism Minister All these tourists centres were closed in March when the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was imposed. The move to open them will also bring respite to artisans and craftsmen who have shops in these centres, senior government officials said.Also read: Taj Mahal to reopen on July 6 amid relaxations in coronavirus lockdown“These tourist spots have evolved as an integral part of the city…They offer ecological and artistic richness and give visitors a chance to take home the pleasant experience of handmade good. While people can again relish these spaces, we urge them to adhere to the safety measures and protocols that the government have set,” said Sanjay Goel, chief executive officer of the Delhi tourism department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dilli-haats-among-five-tourist-spots-to-open-from-saturday/story-dzuG1jHZyF17ULOqvq8qgL.html
04-07-2020||Noida||Noida authority frees up 3,000 square metres of encroached land worth ₹15 crore||NOIDA: At a time when the Noida authority and other government agencies are busy handling coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic-related duties, illegal construction is going unchecked in the city.To free government land from encroachment and contain the illegal construction activity, the authority on Friday in a major drive freed 3,000 square metres (sqm) of government land in Basai village near Sector 70. The land, meant for industrial use, is worth at least Rs 15 crore, as per the estimate of the authority. Officials said action was taken after they received complaints about it.“We have been receiving complaints about illegal construction on village land during Covid-19 pandemic, as our staff is engaged in Covid-19 related duties. But we are acting tough on complaints after issuance of notices to those who are engaged in such illegal activities,” said Santosh Upadhyay, officer on special duty of the Noida authority, who is handling the land department.As per rules, no person can carry out construction on land outside the village boundary without having the building map sanctioned from the Noida authority. However, as per complaints received by the authority, many people in several villages have been carrying out illegal construction, thereby damaging the planned city character of this industrial town.Upadhyay led the demolition drive that was started at 9am in Basai village. With the help of an earth mover machine, the authority’s team demolished four shops and iron structures built on 3,000 sqm of land. The team was accompanied by the police personnel led by inspector DP Singh to maintain law and order. Officials said the authority will continue its action against such activities.“We will keep addressing complaints and carry out demolition to free up land and stop illegal construction,” said Upadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-authority-frees-up-3-000-square-metres-of-encroached-land-worth-15-crore/story-g8klWrnPKbqA0ZJUs6ZP7H.html
04-07-2020||Ranchi||Severe lightning strikes likely in Jharkhand on July 4, 5: State govt||Jharkhand government said that there is possibility of severe lightning strike in the state on July 4 and 5.The State Disaster Management department is on alert and has given special instructions to the Deputy Commissioners and Disaster Management Officers of all the districts.“There is a possibility of severe lightning strikes in the state on July 4 and 5, therefore, State Disaster Management Department is on alert and has given special instructions to the Deputy Commissioners and Disaster Management Officers of all the districts,” stated Government of Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/severe-lightning-strikes-likely-in-jharkhand-on-july-4-5-state-govt/story-u3k2fiv1Q5C01JdHNckDGN.html
04-07-2020||Pune||City reports nine deaths and 807 new cases||The city reported nine deaths taking the death toll to 685 and 807 new positive Covid-19 cases on Friday taking the progressive count of positive cases to 19,849. A total of 619 were discharged within 24 hours taking the count of such people to 12,290. Among the 6,874 patients who are currently admitted at various hospitals, 389 are critical, with 59 on ventilators and 330 in the ICU. The sample collection in 24 hours was 4,250 with over 128,448 samples collected for Covid-19 till date in the city. The deaths include three from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital including a 74-year old male who was a resident of Kothrud. The patient was also suffering from bilateral fronto temporal parietal subdural hematoma. A 67-year old male who was a resident of Warje Malwadi, was declared dead on Thursday. The patient also suffered from acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). The third death was of an 85-year old male who was a resident of Wadgaon Budruk, he was also suffering from diabetes, ARDS, hypertension and psoriasis. Two deaths from Sassoon General Hospital were reported including that of a 70-year old male from Hadapsar who was brought dead to the hospital on Thursday. The second death was of a 62-year old female from Dandekar bridge who was declared dead on Friday and was suffering from septic shock with sepsis and ARDS, hypertension and ischemic heart disease (IHD).One death was reported from Noble Hospital of a 66-year old male residing at Dhayari phata. He was suffering from hypertension, ARDS and multi-organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS).A 70-year old female from Lohiya nagar was declared dead at Rao Nursing Home on Thursday. The patient was also suffering from ARDS and hypoxic respiratory failure. A 65-year old male from Bopodi was declared dead at District hospital, Aundh on Friday and was also suffering from hypothyroidism. Two deaths were reported from Jehangir hospital including that of a 73-year old male residing at Tingre Nagar on Friday. The male was suffering from COPD, acute kidney injury and hypertension. One death of a 21-year-old female who was a resident of rural Pune was also reported. She was also suffering diabetes and ARDS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-reports-nine-deaths-and-807-new-cases/story-FgooMsygNLNSxu0Ln3pl7I.html
04-07-2020||Dehradun||In a first, Rajaji Tiger Reserve sets up ‘elephant gym’ to de-stress captive elephants||In a first, Rajaji Tiger Reserve Park has set up an elephant gym in the reserve’s Chilla range to de-stress captive elephants that are used for patrolling and monitoring in the reserve, said forest officials.Amit Verma, field director Rajaji Tiger Reserve said the gym has been set up to ensure that the six captive elephants, who don’t move much compared to their wild cousins, get some good exercise, remain healthy and cheerful.“In this gym, we have started many activities. We have kept big pipes with holes in it. We keep food like bananas in these big pipes and elephants have to search for the food in them. We have also kept tyres hanging from ropes, big hanging balls and small balls on the ground for three baby elephants,” Verma said. Watch | Elephants enjoy mud bath, play with balls in Uttarakhand’s ‘elephant gym’ He added that the elephants like to play with these hanging tyres and balls. “We have also set up a mud bath heap for these elephants, which they enjoy a lot. Through these activities, we want to ensure that these captive elephants remain active and get some good exercise,” Verma said.“Such playful activities will ensure that these elephants don’t feel boredom and don’t have to live a sedentary life compared to wild elephants in their natural habitats,” he saidDr Aditi Sharma, veterinarian at the reserve said, of the six elephants, three are baby elephants who love playful activities like mud baths and playing with balls.“Separated from their herds, these captive elephants feel boredom and stress in captivity. Because of this, many captive elephants starting moving their heads a lot while standing. With these activities, we want to ensure they move a lot and remain cheerful and active,” Dr Sharma said. “We have started activities like keeping fruits or fodder in baskets and keep them high on the tree branches. Also, elephants love mud bath heaps, especially in summers. So we have also developed a mud bath heap for them in this gym,” she said.Dr Sharma added that plans to introduce more activities like wooden toys for the elephants are also in the works. “We will get them prepared from Saharanpur area in Uttar Pradesh, which is known for good woodwork,” she saidWildlife expert Ritesh Joshi, who is a scientist at conservation and survey division of union ministry of environment and forests and author of ‘Secret Life of Elephants’ said elephants live in matriarchal groups where they take care of each other, especially their young ones.“When elephants are taken captive and get separated from their matriarchal families, they definitely get affected and stressed in varying degrees. Against this backdrop, I think it is a good experiment that has been started by the management of Rajaji National Park. I hope providing such spaces and introducing them to playful activities helps these gentle giants to get de-stressed”, said Joshi, who has spent many years as a researcher in Rajaji landscape studying elephants. There are two main elephant bastions in the state-Rajaji and Corbett landscape. According to the latest elephant census released a few days back, there are 2026 elephants in the state, a 29.9% increase since 2012 when there were 1559 elephants in the state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/in-a-first-gym-to-distress-captive-elephants-in-uttarakhand/story-qHb9d7mqIutwdE5RQgxgyK.html
04-07-2020||Pune||Appoint a dedicated IAS officer to monitor Covid-19 testing, Ajit Pawar says||Maharashtra deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar on Friday instructed to appoint a dedicated Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer only to monitor the Covid-19 testing facilities and deliver results quickly.Pawar chaired the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad’s Covid-19 review meeting at the council hall.The chief minister’s advisor Ajoy Mehta, public health department’s principal secretary Pradip Kumar Vyas, food and drug administration department secretary Sanjay Mukherjee, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and all the IAS and IPS officers from Pune were present for the meeting.Pawar expressed a sign of worry at the rapidly increased Covid-19 positive cases in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.Pawar said, “It’s a worrisome condition in Pune. The administration needs to act effectively; police and local administration need to execute all guidelines in containment zones. An effective drive needs to start against those who don’t wear a mask.”Pawar instructed an immediate appointment of a dedicated IAS officer for monitoring only testing and test facility.Pawar also raised concern over increasing Covid-19 cases in rural areas. He said that after unlocking many citizens from urban areas are visiting the rural area. The administration must take care of rural areas too and if necessary they can take help of local citizens. Police must ensure that unnecessary travel is avoided.Mehta said, “The administration needs to take help of community leaders in rural areas, and also conduct awareness among villagers about Covid-19 and precautions they should take. The administration should concentrate to increase testing facilities for early detection. Police and local administration should concentrate on containment zones.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/appoint-a-dedicated-ias-officer-to-monitor-covid-19-testing-ajit-pawar-says/story-DrWkUaXH2ANHPBnTDqTLCL.html
04-07-2020||Pune||PMC, district health office to procure 50 more ambulances to meet projected rise in Covid cases||The requirement of ambulances and hearses are rising with an influx in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) currently has 112 ambulances and is likely to request 50 more from the divisional commissioner as the need arises.The district health office is also proposing to buy new ambulances for the rural areas to ensure that the patient reaches the hospital on time thereby saving precious lifesaving hours. As of July 2, the city has 6,695 active cases out of which 56 are on ventilators and 288 are on ICU beds. As the civic body plans to ramp up testing, the number of positives are also likely to rise and so are the number of critical patients who will need an ambulance. The estimated projection of the number of active cases by July end is likely to cross 19,500. Currently, the civic body has 54 PMC ambulances and 58 from the collector’s office and so, a total of 112 ambulances are available for Covid-19 services.The civic body also has six vehicles for Covid-19 cremation and two non-Covid cremation vehicles.The civic body has provided ambulances for the transfer of dead bodies to Sassoon general hospital which has seen the maximum deaths due to Covid-19.Two ambulances have been provided to the police department, one emergency response vehicle with oxygen and a first-aid facility is provided to the fire brigade.The PMC has also pooled in PMPML buses for Covid-19 services. There are 85 four-wheelers and 36 PMPML buses which are put into Covid-19 services.Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC commissioner said, “We have asked for 50 more ambulances from the divisional commissioner possibly with oxygen supply. We could also use oxygen cylinders in case we get regular ambulances. We have also converted a few of our PMPML mini buses into hearse. There would be no shortage of ambulances in future and we will ensure it. Also with regards to manpower, we have over 9,000 PMPML drivers who are sitting idle and can be used for these extra vehicles.” As the number of cases keeps rising in rural areas, the district administration is trying to increase the ambulance capacity for rural areas.Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer said, “We have about 96 ambulances for primary health services which are used for routine services and we are in the process of procuring more ambulances for the rural areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-district-health-office-to-procure-50-more-ambulances-to-meet-projected-rise-in-covid-cases/story-zLW0dmhYbnpHDIHFpOozFL.html
04-07-2020||Pune||Source of Covid-19 infection undetected in 21.35% of cases||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) identified over 3,866 Covid-19 positive persons through random testing in the one-kilometre radius from where a positive person was traced who were not the first contact of the person but were either living in a nearby area or had come voluntarily to the flu clinic upon experiencing Covid-19 symptoms.As the number of cases kept rising, the civic body could not exactly trace the source of infection in these cases. However, despite repeated incidents wherein the source of infection could not be traced, the state insists that there is no community transmission in the state.Among the 18,105 positive Covid-19 cases reported as of July 1, a major chunk which is 78.45 per cent or 14,204 cases were first contact or index cases while 35 positive were foreign travellers. In these cases, it is confirmed that the source of infection could be foreign traveller or a high-risk contact of the positive case. While in the case of the remaining 3,866 cases, the positives could be detected only through random testing or when they voluntarily showed upon witnessing Covid-19 symptoms. PMC additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal who is in charge of the health department said, “It is not that the source of infection is not known in these cases. Most of the cases detected through home survey, mobile ambulances or flu clinics are those who come from containment zone. So they are most likely to have come in touch with any positive case. The essential services workers too or the PMC staff which was infected was either living in the containment zone or working in the containment zones. The health workers, policemen and such other categories are also included who interact with multiple people on a daily basis and so they might have come in contact with any positive person.” In the 1,261 cases that were detected through mobile ambulances, 541 were detected by home surveys and 82 through flu clinics. While 194 were PMC employees and 254 were essential service providers working in essential services. In 1,534 cases, there were other reasons. While community transmission means that the exact source of infection is not known and is the third stage of the pandemic, the government is still maintaining that there is no community transmission in the country yet. The state health minister, Rajesh Tope while talking to the media on Thursday reiterated that there is no community transmission in the state and in most cases the source of infection for Covid-19 could be found. The PMC is currently tracing over eight close contacts for per positive patient, which were only three contacts at the beginning of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/source-of-covid-19-infection-undetected-in-21-35-of-cases/story-BO4wquDDvg5x4ouLYHSa0I.html
04-07-2020||Pune||PCMC police facilitated the return of 52,805 migrant workers||The Pimpri-Chinchwad commissionerate has facilitated the return of 52,805 migrant labourers by railways and buses to their respective states during the lockdown period. The Pimpri-Chinchwad police ensured that their travel was hassle-free and provided them with ration kits, food, water and other essentials. Also, the commissionerate ranks amongst the least infected commissionerates in the state of Maharashtra as currently only three of its employees are infected and undergoing treatment.Earlier, 14 staffers were infected with Covid-19 and all have been cured during the lockdown period. Also, the police seized a maximum number of vehicles during lockdown period to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the area.PCMC police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi said that the police did their level best to facilitate the return of the migrant labourers to their hometowns and help them board special trains and obtain e-passes for those who opted to go by buses.According to Bishnoi, the labourers scattered across the length and breadth of the city were brought to the railway station and bus embarkation points under the assigned officers through meticulous planning and coordination for their smooth movement. A major chunk of them were from Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal and Uttar PradeshThe migrant workers at different labour camps and construction sites were registered online after completion and verification of their documents. The special planning took place under the direct supervision of commissioner Bishnoi and nodal officers were assigned to execute the task with precision and in a time-bound manner. Buses were provided by the PCMC and police personnel escorted the labourers from their spot of residence to the railway station and bus stop.The police officials listed each of the passengers for each of the train and their details according to the official format.Explaining the details behind the few infections in the PCMC police force, Bishnoi said “We ensured that all the policemen were tested and screened in the very beginning which led us to get a grip over the situation. Special focus was given to policemen who were over fifty years in age and those with ailments like hypertension. Our infection rate is very low and PCMC police rank amongst the least infected police force in the state of Maharashtra,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcmc-police-facilitated-the-return-of-52-805-migrant-workers/story-bp95fMlQBoyAAGkvNgJc2J.html
04-07-2020||Pune||RTE admissions: Parents in Pune complain of delay in verification process, lack of response from schools||As the Right to Education (RTE) admission process has started from June 24 for the academic year parents are facing difficulties like delay in verification of documents and lack of proper response from schools.Some parents claim that the officials point out minor mistakes in application forms like spelling mistake and printing error which delays the verification process.Dinesh Khapre, a parent from Sinhgad road area said, “I had applied for my daughter’s admission in Class 1 and got selected. When we approached the school for admission process in the last week they didn’t respond well. I had to go to school repeatedly, get the documents verified in which they pointed minor mistakes and delayed the process.””Two days back after a lot of efforts I got the admission. It is not right to trouble parents who are already tensed due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic crisis,” said Khapre.This year in Pune district a total of 16,949 RTE seats were declared in 972 schools and 62,919 applications were received. Out of these applications in the first lottery declared in March 16,617 admissions were confirmed.“This year the document verification process is done at the school level due to the lockdown restrictions. Earlier there were separate verification centres where education department officials would check the documents,” said Prof Sharad Jawadekar, national convenor, Akhil Bharatiya Samajwadi Education Rights Sabha.“While the procedure is underway staffers are pointing out small mistakes like incorrect spelling of name, printing mistake in the form, incomplete information or scratched information written in the form among others. And this is resulting into denial of admission by the schools,” said Jawadekar.“We are daily getting complaints regarding the issue where parents who normally come from a below poverty line are worried about their children admissions. We have requested the primary education department to look into this matter immediately and help the parents” said Jawadekar.“The RTE admissions lottery was declared in March but due to countrywide lockdown the admission process got delayed. As per the guidelines issued by the education department schools were supposed to call the parents on a given date, verify the documents and on that basis give admission to the students. But schools are not calling the parents for admission process, when parents themselves go to school the staff points out mistakes in documents,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rte-admissions-parents-complain-of-delay-in-verification-process-lack-of-response-from-schools/story-l5j8BcAwbcCnFDwCdpcHxN.html
04-07-2020||Pune||People flout pollution norms at Pavana river, PCMC warns of strict action||People from Punawale and Ravet continue to flout water pollution norms at Pavana river despite orders from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation ( PCMC) to ban activities like washing clothes, bathing cattle, and swimming among others.On Friday morning when HT reporter visited the spot at least 20 people were seen washing clothes and vehicles, swimming, taking a bath on the banks of the river.“We have put up notices near the river bank and warned people not to continue with activities which will pollute the water in the river. But as people continued to flout norms we have also issued a circular that strict action will be taken against violators,” said Ramdas Tambe, joint city engineer (civil), water supply and drainage department, PCMC.The municipal corporation pumps water daily from the river and the purification process takes place in a water treatment plant at sector 23, Nigdi Pradhikaran. The same water is provided for drinking purposes in Pimpri and Chinchwad, according to civic officials.“If people don’t follow rules regarding water pollution at Pavana river we will be forced to take strict action,” said Tambe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-flout-pollution-norms-at-pavana-river-pcmc-warns-of-strict-action/story-RtCwxVRA7pllcy3jx3LTQI.html
04-07-2020||Pune||PMC proposes hike in entry fees to 13 public gardens||The garden department of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Friday proposed to increase the entry fee for 13 public gardens in the city.Ashok Ghorpade, head, PMC garden department, said, “The garden department has proposed Rs 5 entry fee for kids and Rs10 for adults. Currently, the entry fee for kids is Rs1 and Rs5 for adults.”Monthly pass charges has been proposed at Rs200 per month, currently it is Rs100 per month.“The proposal is kept in front of the standing committee and the elected members will decide on it on July 7,” said Ghordape.Meanwhile, the PMC garden department has proposed a price hike in renting out flower pots. Many organisations are hiring flower pots from the garden department daily. Currently, Rs1 is charged per pot, per day, but now the PMC had proposed Rs100 rent for each flower pot per day.These gardens include Tathwade garden (Karvengar), Raja Mantri garden (Erandwana), Jayantrao Tilak rose garden (Sahakarnagar), Sant Gajanana Maharaj Garden (Maharshinagar), Dhondiba Sutar Garden (Kothrud), Vithabai Pujari Garden, Damodhar Galande Garden (Kalyaninagar), Firodiya Garden (Model Colony), Pu La Deshpande Garden (Sinhgad Road), Model Colony lake garden and Limka Jogging Park (Band garden).Ajit Pawar approves Rs13 crore for Taljai development projectsDeputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday took a review meeting for proposed development projects at Taljai. Pawar approved Rs13 crore for the developments proposed by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and forest department. PMC had already planned various activities at Taljai and developed the 108-acre area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-proposes-hike-in-entry-fees-to-13-public-gardens/story-3QSW6pOfLUwC73nO1O4jtO.html
04-07-2020||Pune||Amid cash crunch, PCB to start ICU centre at Sardar Vallabhai Patel Hospital on July 10||The intensive care unit (ICU) at the Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) Sardar Vallabhai Patel Hospital, will open on July 10, PCB chief executive officer (CEO) Amit Kumar said on Friday.Given the Covid situation in the Cantonment area (see box), the cash-strapped PCB is taking what it cites as a “Rs 30-lakh per month decision”, to get the ICU going.CEO Amit Kumar said, “Despite the unprecedented financial crisis affecting the Cantonment board, we have ensured that the ICU will start operations from July 10 and we will fund the monthly salaries and other expenses, budgeted at Rs 30 lakh per month, to run the ICU from our budget.”The ICU was constructed in April after the district administration made Rs 2.30 crore available, aimed at ensuring the facility was ready to combat the Covid situation in the Cantonment area.However, it has remained non-functional since due to a lack of funds to hire the necessary staff – full-time doctors, nurses, ward boys, security and intensivists. The PCB is in a financial crisis has been fund deficient since 2019.Requests have also been made for medical staff to the state government and the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) here in Pune.Kumar said, “Nobody was ready to work for the project during the lockdown. We even approached the AFMC for their assistance and are awaiting their response. No intensivist was ready to come at the salary proposed by us as they are in demand, and get higher salaries at other hospitals. Moreover, we wanted full manpower in place before we began. We cannot play with the lives of the people. We can sustain the running of the ICU expenses now for three months only; our financial condition is such.”The Maharashtra government will provide 16 armed security personnel for the ICU facility, Kumar said, adding that the board would pay Rs 3.50 lakh per month as salaries to the staff.As of June 2020, the PCB has a bank balance of Rs 5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-cash-crunch-pcb-to-start-icu-centre-on-july-10/story-N30qPbn28hrA22rIry91sJ.html
04-07-2020||Patna||FIR lodged in connection with Bihar’s biggest Covid-19 infection chain||The father of a man who recently died here after showing coronavirus-like symptoms has been booked for violating guidelines issued in the wake of the pandemic at the wedding ceremony, which had set off the biggest infection chain in Bihar, the district administration said on Friday.The FIR was lodged late Thursday against Ambika Chaudhary, whose son died on June 17, two days after he tied the knot while running a high fever, it said in a statement.The body was cremated by family members before the authorities could get wind of the episode. But, testing camps were set up at the Deehpali village falling under Paliganj block and out of 259 samples that were collected, 95 tested positive. Subsequently, all those found infected were sent to isolation centres while an inquiry was ordered by District Magistrate Kumar Ravi to look into any violation of norms at the wedding ceremony. “It was found that more than 50 people had attended the ceremony and social distancing and wearing of masks was not ensured. Accordingly, BDO Chiranjeev Pandey has lodged an FIR against Chaudhary at Paliganj police station under relevant provisions,” the statement added.The deceased groom was a software engineer based in Gurugram who had returned home in the last week of May to get married. He started showing symptoms a few days before June 15, the scheduled date of marriage.The family is said to have refused to put off the wedding despite requests by the ailing groom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/fir-lodged-in-connection-with-bihar-s-biggest-covid-19-infection-chain/story-82WB9Xb2uNw24IGWfy1ZVI.html
04-07-2020||Patna||PNB loot case: 5 held, Rs 33 lakh recovered||The police said Friday they had cracked the sensational bank robbery on June 27, in which Rs 52 lakh was looted from the Anisabad branch of PNB in Patna, with the arrest of five persons.The central range IG of Patna, Sanjay Singh, had constituted an SIT under the supervision of city SP (West) Ashok Mishra who led the team and recovered Rs 33.13 lakh. Police said they also recovered five pistols, 16 live cartridges, three bikes, gold ornaments and Rs 22.64 lakh from their possession.The city SP said the five arrested suspects included a coaching institute teacher, karate teacher and compounder. Those arrested were identified as Aman alias Satyam Sukla alias Amit (Nalanda), compounder Praful Kumar (Sitamarhi), Sonelal (Vaishali), Ganesh Kumar Vishwakarma alias Nanhki and Harinarayan (Samastipur).Senior SP Upendra Sharma said the city SP got a tip-off that a gang of robbers were coming to Bank Colony area of Jakkanpur after which his team laid a trap near the spot and arrested the five.“During interrogation, the accused confessed to have committed more than 10 dacoities and robberies in the state capital,” Sharma said.According to SSP, Aman, who runs a coaching institute and resides in Jakkanpur locality, is the mastermind of the gang. The three vehicles used in the crime, including a scooty, were also recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pnb-loot-case-5-held-rs-33-lakh-recovered/story-nnBrygOOsRNxx2WeoND5HL.html
