07-07-2020||Chandigarh||HC restrains Haryana from effecting promotion of principals||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday restrained the Haryana government from effecting promotion of teachers to the posts of principal. The high court bench of Justice AG Masih said that promotion, if any, without reframing of the seniority list as per the Supreme Court direction would be subject to the outcome of the present case. It also directed that further promotion be not made till reframing of the such seniority list in case the factual position is as projected by the petitioners.The three promotions effected in January and February this year were challenged by 10 teachers who had told the court that there is a direction by the apex court in 2018 with regard to the reframing of the seniority list within a period of three months. However, without complying with the orders, government has effected three promotions and is not revising the seniority list of lecturers. Petitioners have been approaching the respondents authorities by way of representation and personal meetings on various dates. However, the requests of the petitioners remained as a dead letter, they claimed. The court has fixed next date of hearing for September 22. STAY ON RECOVERY OF EXCESS AMOUNT PAID FROM EX-HC JUDGE’S PENSION The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed the recovery of excess payment being effected by State bank of India from former high court judge Justice SK Jain.The high court bench of Justice SN Satyanarayana has sought response from the bank, Haryana government and high court administration by September 9. The court acted on the plea of Jain, who was elevated in March 1992 as HC judge from a judicial officer and transferred to Allahabad high court. He retired in 1995. He had raised a dispute about computing his 10-year service period and disposing of that matter in 2015, the Supreme Court had said that whatever amount already paid to him would not be recovered. However, in May 2020, the bank started recovery of ₹3.26 lakh paid as excess fixed medical allowance with monthly pension from 2006 to February 2020. He had told the court that bank has acted in violation of the SC order and effected recovery of first instalment without intimating him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-restrains-haryana-from-effecting-promotion-of-principals/story-mFK3YnxSq59fJmjxlHGc6L.html
07-07-2020||Gurugram||Nuh Police seizes cannabis worth ₹1 crore from a vegetable truck||The Nuh Police, on Tuesday, seized 823 kilograms of cannabis (locally known as ganja), worth ₹1 crore in the international market, from a moving vegetable truck in Pinagwan, Nuh. According to the police, there has been a spurt in drug smuggling since lockdown and the police so far have recovered drugs worth ₹2 crore in the last three months across the district.According to the police, the cannabis was being transported in a truck from Odisha and was on its way to Alwar in Rajasthan. Truck driver Sahil, a resident of Rajasthan, has been arrested and is presently being interrogated by the police.During interrogation, he allegedly told the police that he has been working as a driver with a transport company for the last two years. Three months ago, he came in contact with some people of his village who used to sell ganja and used to smuggle it to states such as Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana. They lured him to smuggle it from Odisha to different parts of Rajasthan, by promising him ₹40,000 per trip.Last week, he was given advance of ₹20,000 and was asked to drive a vegetable truck, with cannabis hidden in it, to Alwar. He was told to deliver the consignment to a drug peddler in Alwar, after which he would drive back the empty truck to another location in Nuh, from where he would load spices.“The contraband substance was to be handed over to a peddler in Alwar but the crime investigation agency (CIA) team intercepted the truck at Pinagwan after receiving a tip-off, The police recovered the cannabis from 26 sacks. There were two drivers out of which one fled from the spot,” Narender Bijarnia, the superintendent of police, Nuh, said.An FIR has been registered at the Pinagwan police station under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the accused have been remanded to judicial custody, the police said.Bijarnia said, “We have adopted a zero-tolerance policy towards drug trafficking in the district. The main reason behind the spurt in the drug peddling cases is the rise in demand. After the relaxations in the lockdown norms, the demand has increased and therefore drug peddlers are more active nowadays. However, crime units and police teams are working very hard to nab the peddlers and the middlemen involved in the trade.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nuh-police-seizes-cannabis-worth-1-crore-from-a-vegetable-truck/story-YEdtxyLCG0DVbtWEYLiB8K.html
07-07-2020||Gurugram||Realtors welcome moratorium on payments, want rebate on stamp duty||Realtors based in Gurugram on Tuesday said that the decision of the Haryana government to grant a moratorium on payment of fees related to change of land use (CLU), licence renewal fees and other interest payments is a positive step that will give a breather to the real estate industry, which has been hit hard during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. To boost the confidence of buyers, the developers want the stamp duty on registration of properties to be reduced for the interim period. Further, a one-time settlement for previous dues of external development charges (EDC) or infrastructure development charges (IDC) can also help boost sales, said city-based realtors. The Haryana government on Monday had decided to consider the period from March 1 to September 30 as “zero period” during which there will be a moratorium on compliance rules and interest payments for all realty projects. A government spokesperson said that this moratorium shall apply to CLU, renewal of licences, the extension of CLU, fees payment and charges as per the Haryana Apartment Ownership Act, 1983. Presently, the registration fee for a property in the state is between 5 and 7% depending on the category of buyers. Parveen Jain, chairman, national real estate development corporation (Naredco), Haryana, said that the government has taken a positive step by announcing these measures as it would ease the pressure on builders to pay large amounts of money as fees. “It was becoming difficult for the developers to get bank guarantees for EDC. It is a good step that the government has agreed to change this condition. The government also needs to bring in more clarity regarding quarantine of labourers who wish to return to work,” he said. The realtors also said that they want the government to allow them to cancel a registered agreement to sell a property after the allottee has repeatedly defaulted on payments. “The decision announced on Monday will give some space to the real estate companies to survive through tough times. The money which can be paid to the government later can now be utilised to complete projects. If the government lessens registration fees then more buyers will come forward to buy properties,” said Prashant Solomon, spokesperson, The Confederation of Real Estate Developer’s Association of India (CREDAI), NCR and Haryana. The developers of affordable housing also welcomed the government decision but want the government to consider a revision in the rate fixed for this category. “The rate for affordable housing was fixed in 2013 and it has remained the same at ₹4,000 for the last seven years. Meanwhile, the prices of construction material and labour have multiplied during this period and affordable projects have become commercially unviable,” said Surender Singh, director, GLS Developers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/realtors-welcome-moratorium-on-payments-want-rebate-on-stamp-duty/story-AcXZZu0hMaOlxpkOBxVJ5L.html
07-07-2020||Gurugram||MCG hires two ambulances to ferry Covid-19 victims for last rites||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has hired two ambulances to transport the bodies of Covid-19 patients to crematoriums and burial grounds, officials said on Tuesday. As per MCG officials, these ambulances were hired from a private firm, after multiple complaints were received about the shortage of ambulances for ferrying bodies for cremation/burial.Civic body officials said they too have witnessed cases first-hand, where hospitals refused to transport Covid-19 bodies, or did so only after charging a hefty sum from the Covid victim’s relatives.Officials said that from now onwards, all Covid-19 bodies will be transported in MCG ambulances, free of cost. Prior to the hiring of these two vehicles, the civic body had no ambulances. “Quick burial or cremation of Covid-19 bodies is extremely vital as it limits the chances of spread of the infection. In many instances, we ourselves witnessed private hospitals refusing to take Covid-19 bodies to the crematorium or burial grounds. In a few instances, we also received complaints from relatives of the deceased that they had to pay as much as ₹40,000 to the hospital staff to get bodies transported. Hence, we hired our own ambulances to put an end to this alleged exploitation,” a senior MCG official said.Till June 8, Gurugram had recorded four Covid-19 fatalities. Almost a month later, on Tuesday, the number of people who had succumbed to the virus stands at 102.“We have hired these ambulances to ensure the spread of infection is minimised and there is no delay in transporting Covid-19 bodies to the nearest crematorium or burial ground. We are undertaking all measures across the city to limit the spread of Covid-19,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.The health branch of the MCG will oversee the operations of the two ambulances. Officials from the MCG’s health department said that last week, after the ambulances were hired, a communication was sent to all private and public hospitals in the city directing them to inform the MCG immediately in case of a coronavirus-related fatality, so that their ambulances could immediately be sent to the hospital to transport the body to the nearest crematorium or burial ground.The MCG has seven crematoriums in the city located at Sukhrali Village near Atul Kataria Chowk, Tigra Village, Palam Vihar, Sector 32, DLF Phase 3 and Madan Puri. The crematorium at Madan Puri is LPG-equipped. On the directions of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the MCG is in the process of making all the remaining crematoriums CNG-equipped by the end of this month.In addition to its crematoriums, the MCG has also earmarked three grounds for the burial of people who succumb to Covid-19. These are located in Sector 58 Power House, Ghata village, and Badshahpur village.MCG has also formed a seven-member team — five medical officers and two junior engineers — who are responsible for cremating or burying all Covid-19 bodies.Officials said that after a body is transported, the ambulance is thoroughly disinfected with isopropyl alcohol hydrochloride upon returning to the MCG’s health branch office in Sector 39, where the vehicles are stationed. In addition, to ensure there is no contact with the driver or co-passenger, each ambulance has been divided into two compartments separating the space where the body is kept from the rest of the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-hires-two-ambulances-to-ferry-covid-19-victims-for-last-rites/story-u10BIRoh4ttEbE8i53xl3N.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||Can lawyers travel on trains, HC asks state govt to respond||The Bombay high court (HC) directed the state on Tuesday to respond to a public interest litigation (PIL), which sought directions to permit lawyers to travel by suburban local trains, as they provide essential services. The PIL also claimed that as many lawyers do not own a private vehicle, it becomes difficult for them to commute to the court. Only government employees and essential service providers are currently allowed to travel by locals after services resumed last month.A division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice MS Karnik, while hearing the PIL filed by Chirag Chanani and other lawyers through videoconferencing, was informed by advocates Shyam Dewani and Bhoomi Katira that their client sought a declaration that services rendered by lawyers are essential services. The plea sought to direct the state and Centre, through the railways, to include lawyers in the list of essential service providers who are permitted to travel by suburban local trains.While making submissions, Dewani said that lawyers were restricted from commuting by special local trains and were not included in the circular issued by the divisional railway manager, enumerating the categories of essential services staff who can be permitted to board the trains.Dewani also submitted that though the Supreme Court and the Delhi high court considered services provided by lawyers as essential, lawyers in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region were deprived of the right to travel.Referring to the petition, Dewani said that as the courts started functioning since last month, the lawyers who are residing in the suburbs go through tremendous inconvenience to travel to the courts and their offices located in south Mumbai.The petition further added, “This problem is faced by hundreds of lawyers who do not have their own vehicles and are not in the bus zone or are required to change three-four buses to reach court, which is also a problem as time constraint for legal profession are of utmost importance.”In the light of these submissions, Dewani sought directions from the court to allow lawyers to board the special local trains by declaring them essential staff.After hearing the submissions, the bench issued notices to the respondent authorities and directed them to clarify their positions through affidavits in reply and posted the case for further hearing after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/can-lawyers-travel-on-trains-hc-asks-state-govt-to-respond/story-5OgIogSsBGSGARxCvpA8YK.html
07-07-2020||City||Property registrations witness a drastic fall in Noida due to Covid 19 pandemic||Noida The Covid-19 pandemic has taken a heavy toll on registration of property in the Gautam Budh Nagar district. Officials of the stamps and registration department said that only 3,000 such registrations were done across the district in the months of May and June this year as compared to 24,000 done in the corresponding period last year -- a decline of whopping 88%. The officials attributed the drastic fall in registrations to fear of infection, restrictions on movement and closure of government offices, among others. The registration of property resumed in the district on May 4, after a gap of almost 40 days when the nationwide lockdown was implemented on March 25 to prevent the Covid-19 spread. “In May and June, total 3,000 registrations were executed, which is almost 88% less than registrations that took place in the two months in 2019,” said SK Tripathi, assistant inspector general, UP stamps and registration department, Gautam Budh Nagar.The department, however, hopes that the revenue loss of these months will be compensated once the pandemic gets over and the movement becomes normal.According to the officials, the department earned Rs10 crore and Rs 50 crore revenue from the registrations in May and June, respectively. The department charges 5% as stamp fee for a registration of properties that include flat or plot, said the officials.It hopes to earn Rs 80 crore in July as the number of registrations is rising. “When things were normal, our department used to earn from Rs150 crore to Rs180 crore revenue in a month. We hope that in January next year, registration will rise exponentially when the pandemic fear goes away,” said Tripathi.Meanwhile, real estate developers said that there is a sense of fear among property buyers due to coronavirus pandemic. “Even government offices are not functioning normally. We hope once the pandemic is over, real estate market will witness better days and registration also pick up,” said Prashant Tiwari, president of Western UP wing of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), a developers’ group.In 2018-19, the department earned Rs 1,880 crore revenue from the registrations. However, in 2019-20, it earned Rs 1,856 crore. As per the estimates done by the Noida authority, there are at least 30,000 flats, which are ready for registrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/property-registrations-witness-a-drastic-fall-in-noida-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-C7UYfHV5lHVCKfJcuROPKO.html
07-07-2020||City||No dedicated mechanism in place for collection of bio-medical waste in Greater Noida, allege residents||Residents in the city have alleged that more than three months after pandemic broke, the Greater Noida authority is yet to implement any mechanism on the ground for the separate collection and treatment of biomedical waste produced from households including those where cases of coronavirus disease (Covdid-19) have been reported.“Biomedical waste— including personnel protection equipment (PPE) kits, masks, and gloves —which can be hazardous is not collected in separate bags or bins by the authority—which is responsible for waste collection and management,” said Amit Sharma, a resident of Gaur City, Greater Noida. “ Earlier, our society had three cases of Covid-19 and they recovered last month, and now two more people from our society are undergoing treatment for the infection.However, the Greater Noida authority has put no proper methodology in place to collect and treat the waste from these houses with confirmed cases.” Officials of the Greater Noida authority, however, said they had passed directives for separate collection of bio-medical waste, but if any discrepancy is reported from an areas is because of non-cooperation from residents. “We had issued an official order a month back asking a private agency to collect used masks, gloves, or other waste in separate bags from residents under home quarantine living in residential sectors and housing societies. We have made it clear that hazardous bio-medical waste should be collected properly, and should be handed over to another agency that then treats it scientifically. Residents should cooperate with us in handling this waste. If it is not being done in any society then it may be because of non-cooperation by residents,” said Narendra Bhooshan chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.Residents, however, alleged that bio-medical waste from households from where Covid -19 cases were reported and the other occupants are under home quarantine was not being collected separately. “At least 15 positive cases were detected in our society after which the administration sealed our block. However, the waste collection staff collected waste from other houses in the same bag they used for collecting waste such as masks, gloves, and other waste from the patients’ houses. This is shocking and we had even complained to the Greater Noida authority officials asking them to collect waste from households with Covid-19 cases separately, but nothing has happened so far,” said Harinder Bhati, former residents’ welfare association president of Sector Beta1.The authority also does not have any record of data on bio-medical waste collected from residential areas daily.City residents said that there is no separate system to collect hazardous waste multi-storey housing societies as well. “I have not seen any difference in collection and handling of the hazardous medical waste being produced amid the pandemic. The worker who collects waste from our flat also collects waste from the patient’s house and in the same bag. I do not think this is the right way to handle waste as it can expose so many people to risk,” said Sunil Sachdeva, a resident of Cherry County society, sector Tech Zone4 in Greater Noida West.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-dedicated-mechanism-in-place-for-collection-of-bio-medical-waste-in-greater-noida-allege-residents/story-O7ZeKAfJyNmFmQmlKz436I.html
07-07-2020||City||Three persons done to death in 24 hours in 3 Haryana districts||Three murders were reported in Mahendergarh, Sirsa and Rohtak districts in the last 24 hours, police said on Tuesday. In the first case, a 20-year-old youth was stabbed to death by unidentified accused in Mahendergarh. The victim is a resident of Sainipura village, who was enrolled in BSc second year programme. Narnaul DSP Kushal Kumar said they have arrested his father, uncle and two others for his murder, reportedly a result of a family dispute.“The victim’s father and his uncle had given ₹4 lakh to two men for killing him,” a cop, on the condition of anonymity said.“His body was spotted by a passerby on Tuesday morning on the outskirts of the Narnaul,” the DSP added.The victim’s family members had initially refused to let the doctors conduct an autopsy until the culprits were arrested. In the second case, a 44-year-old man, Shrawan Kumar, was beaten to death by his younger brother in Sirsa’s Madho Singhana village. A spokesperson of Sirsa police said that Mahipal thrashed his brother Shrawan to death over a domestic issue. “We have booked Mahipal, who is at large, under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” he added. In the third incident, a woman’s body was found on railway tracks in Rohtak city on Tuesday. Police said the woman was hacked to death before her body was thrown on tracks. The woman had reportedly left her house on Monday to visit the market, but did not return. The government railway police have registered an FIR against unidentified person(s) and sent the victim’s body to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences for postmortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-persons-done-to-death-in-24-hours-in-3-haryana-districts/story-uzFqI39RWCoD0HgGESVu2M.html
07-07-2020||Noida||Noida’s district surveillance officer tests positive for Covid-19||Three days after the Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the district surveillance officer (DSO) on Tuesday was found positive for the infection.District magistrate Suhas LY said DSO Dr Sunil Dohre and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday after developing influenza-like symptoms. “They have been admitted to Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida,” he said. In the absence of Dr Dohre, Dr Manoj Kushwaha will be officiating as the DSO, the DM said.Dr Dohre is the fourth official in the Gautam Budh Nagar administration to test positive for the highly contagious infection within a week. CMO Dr Deepak Ohri and Sadar sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Prasoon Dwivedi had tested positive on Saturday, while Jewar SDM Gunja Singh was confirmed positive for Covid-19 on JUne 29.“The DSO is doing fine and is in isolation. His office premises have been sanitised and the officials who had come in contact with him are being tested for coronavirus,” said DM Suhas. Two doctors, Dr Chandan Soni and Dr Ajay Kumar, from the district health department, also tested positive for coronavirus. Both of them have been admitted to a private hospital in the district,” said Dr Nepal Singh, acting CMO.Meanwhile, another Covid-19 positive patient succumbed to the disease on Tuesday taking the death toll in the district to 29. According to the daily health bulletin released by the state control room, as many as 115 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the overall count of confirmed cases to 2,935. A total of 1,785 people have been cured and discharged, including 23 on Tuesday, in the district so far. The district now has total 1,121 active cases,” the bulletin stated.An inmate at the Luksar jail (Greater Noida) also tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. This is the first case to be reported from the Luksar prison. An inmate from Dasna jail in Ghaziabad was also found positive for the infection on Tuesday. Vipin Kumar Mishra, superintendent of both jails, said both inmates have been admitted to the Noida Institute of Medical Science (NIMS) for treatment.The Gautam Budh Nagar achieved over 70% of its target of collecting 4,000 samples in a day for coronavirus testing on the fifth day of the 10-day massive surveillance drive.Dr Kushwaha, active DSO, said a total of 2,804 samples were collected by different teams in the district on Tuesday using different methods, including on-site rapid antigen kits, TrueNat machines, and lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. “Out of 1,954 samples collected through rapid antigen kits, 44 samples tested positive. Our teams have also collected 831 samples through RT-PCR tests and their results will come in a few days. Apart from this, 19 samples have been taken through TrueNat machines, of which none tested positive,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-district-surveillance-officer-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-gx6O5TpJM6Yd5xQqjjodGP.html
07-07-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 115 new cases on Tuesday||Navi Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 115 Covid-19 cases and eight deaths. The total number of positive cases in Navi Mumbai is 8,072, while the death toll is 260.Navi Mumbai went into ten-day lockdown since the midnight of July 3. The cases have reduced in the last two days.On Tuesday, Nerul reported 30 cases, whereas Airoli and Kopar Khairane reported 21 and 19 cases respectively.An official from NMMC said, “Around 4,433 people have so far recovered. The active cases are 3,067, while 30,491 people have been home-quarantined. Out of those tested positive on Tuesday, nine are children including a one-year-old girl from Sector 13 in Nerul. The recovery percentage has increased to 59%.”Meanwhile, Panvel recorded 90 new cases on Tuesday, along with one death. The total number of cases in Panvel has reached 3,072 while 85 people have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-115-new-cases-on-tuesday/story-cCxqq6xaNRyJ749SuRMziP.html
07-07-2020||City||3-member team to find missing 72-year-old covid patient||After a 72-year-old Covid-19 patient from Kalwa was reported missing from Thane’s Covid hospital, Thane municipal commissioner, Dr Vipin Sharma on Tuesday set up a three-member enquiry team.On Monday, a missing person complaint was filed at Kapurbawdi police station after relatives of a 72-year-old paralytic Covid patient could not trace him. He was admitted in Global Hub Hospital on June 29, however, no updates were shared with the family members. When the family approached the hospital on Sunday, the authorities informed that they could not find the patient.Meanwhile, another family from Kopri whose 67-year-old relative was tested positive and admitted at Global Hub Hospital was declared dead on July 3. However, they were later informed that the deceased is alive. The family were also allowed to meet him after wearing PPE kits.“We had completed the last rites of our father last week after a body was handed over to us. However, on Monday the hospital informed us that our father is alive. We visited the hospital on Tuesday, wearing PPE kits and we saw that our father is alive and he was undergoing treatment,” said his 42-year-old son.The Bharatiya Janata Party has now alleged that the body given to this family might be that of the 72-year-old Covid patient.Niranjan Dawkhare, member of legislative Council, Thane said, “We suspect that there could have been a mix up between these two patients, hence we have approached the Kapurbawdi police station to file a case of negligence. There are no tags given to the patient at the hospital nor does the hospital inform the relatives about the admitted patient’s condition. There needs to be transparency,” said Niranjan Davkhare, MLC, Thane.A probe has now been initiated by the civic commissioner. “The commissioner has ordered a three-member committee under IAS Ranjit Kumar on Tuesday,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation.Kumar said, “Our inquiry is still under process and we shall share details in our final report soon.”Anil Deshmukh, senior police inspector, Kapurbawdi police station, said, “We are close to completing the investigation and shall share the details on Wednesday after we have all the information in place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-member-team-to-find-missing-72-year-old-covid-patient/story-8wmhIs3bVfeFK5188ZIL7L.html
07-07-2020||Noida||Stay positive, don’t panic, advise people who beat Covid in Noida||Don’t panic, divert your mind, try and focus on the positive aspects of life — these are the three mantras that residents who battled and beat Covid-19 from Noida suggest, as the virus continues to spread rapidly in the district.Urging people to take precautions to stay safe, and to immediately get tested if they start showing symptoms, both asymptomatic and symptomatic patients who successfully beat Covid stated that the doctors will do their job. It is the mental health of patients that needs to be paid attention to.“When I tested positive and was admitted to the hospital on June 18, the only symptoms I had was a sore throat and some mild fever. I was scared to my core, while I was leaving for the hospital, where I was admitted for 10 days. I felt no discomfort, like breathlessness. While in the hospital, a feeling of panic gripped me every time I thought about my family,” said SS Shukla, 50, a government employee who lives in Noida. Recalling his experiences, Shukla insists that it was his spiritualism that helped him deal with panic and restlessness.“I pray that no one gets infected. But if you do get infected then turn to spiritualism. Try to look at the positive side of life. If you are not spiritual, then try to be practical. Know you cannot control the situation and fearing it will only make things worse. More than the virus, one has to deal with the fear that comes with it to win the battle,” Shukla says, adding that he only informed his parents in UP about the whole incident, after being discharged from the hospital.Another patient, who recently returned home after treatment, said that while his doctor helped him a lot and told him not to panic, it took some time for him to cope.“If infected, try to look at the positive side of life and be strong. The overall negativity surrounding Covid-19 — like there is no cure and you might end up dying — made me slip into a depression after I tested positive. My family even started consulting astrologers. I have been hospitalised earlier, but a Covid-ward is different. You see the staff covered in PPE kits and are allowed no visitors, which immediately makes you realise the gravity of the situation. I felt breathless day one but it improved soon. My understanding is that you will show signs of recovery only after getting rid of stress or fear. The doctors made me realise that this pandemic might get worse, but I am likely to become immune to it, once I get treated successfully,” said the resident.Recalling their restlessness and fear upon knowing that they had tested positive, another Noida family — who returned home on July 3 after being hospitalised for 21 days —said a positive outlook goes a long way in helping you beat the virus.“I believe that if you continue to panic, you will never recover. We were terrorised when we came to know that our entire family— my sister, my niece, mother, father and I — had all tested positive. We first went to the government hospital, but shifted to a private hospital in Delhi. While my niece was asymptomatic and seemed okay, everyone else was struggling and showing different symptoms of the virus. My parents suffered from breathlessness and were administered oxygen, I suffered from tastelessness for almost a week. This was all so depressing. But the doctors and staff helped us a lot in defeating the fear, the depression and the virus. You need to pull yourself out of anxiety to show signs of recovery. Try to look at the positive aspects of life, avoid everything that makes you negative. Above all don’t panic,” said another Noida resident who did not wanted to be named.He also pointed a t the lax attitude among a large number of people regarding Covid-19.“Now that we are back home and recovering from the constant fatigue, I see that a lot of people in our society are still not wearing masks. All it takes is a few precautions are a few precautions,” he adds.Noida has recorded 2,935 Covid cases – highest in the state – of which 1,121 are the active. At least 29 people had succumbed to the virus so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/stay-positive-don-t-panic-advise-people-who-beat-covid-in-noida/story-GWD8QJmL7qRosjPy2sAZvM.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two more held in Sonepat cops’ murder case||Police on Tuesday arrested two men for their involvement in the murder of two policemen in Sonepat’s Butana village on June 29. The accused, Vikas Kumar of Bhiwani and Neeraj of Jind, were produced in a court in Gohana, which sent them in five-day police remand.Sonepat superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa said two men, who were accompanying four criminals, were arrested for their involvement in the murder of two cops near Butana checkpost. “We had earlier arrested Sandeep Kumar and two women, while main accused Amit Kumar was shot dead in an encounter. These two were absconding since June 29. We will extract more information from the duo during their remand,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-more-held-in-sonepat-cops-murder-case/story-eZuh5eOn6tkGrq2ucCWRLO.html
07-07-2020||Noida||Recovered police personnel to donate plasma in fight against Covid-19||Police personnel in Noida who had contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) earlier and have now made full recoveries will donate their plasma to help others fight off the infection.In the district, a total of 50 police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus so far. Of these, 30 police personnel have recovered and 19 are currently going treatment for the infection. On June 27, a 57-year-old police constable with comorbidities had succumbed to the deadly virus.“We have spoken to our recovered personnel and they are ready to donate their plasma which will be used for the convalescent plasma therapy. Based on the ICMR (Indian Medical Council of Medical Research) guidelines, plasma from a recovered patient can be used after 28 days for treating other patients. Personnel who have completed this period will start donating their plasma in a day or two,” Ankur Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police (zone 2) and the nodal officer to handle Covid-related issues, said. The convalescent plasma therapy, which is still in the experimental stage, entails taking plasma carrying carry virus-fighting antibodies from cured Covid-19 patients and injecting them in the blood of active coronavirus patients to boost the immune system’s response to the infection. Three facilities in the district—Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI), and Sharda Hospital—are currently administering the therapy to Covid-19 patients.Among the front runners for plasma donation from Noida police is the 42-year-old station house officer (SHO) of Sector 49 police station, Dharmendra Kumar Sharma. Sharma has tested positive for the disease on May 12 and after being cured of the infection, he was discharged on May 22.“A total of nine personnel from our police station (Sector 49) had tested positive for Covid-19. We have all now recovered and have resumed our work. As soon as the 28-day period gets over, all police personnel will donate their plasma. Those who have completed the period will donate their plasma in a couple of days,” the SHO said. The first case of Covid-19 in the Noida police was reported on May 5 when a sub-inspector with Dial 112 had tested positive. Aggarwal said most of the newer cases in the force who have tested positive are asymptomatic and are undergoing treatment at various facilities including the new L1 facility set up at Sector 125.The police department’s resources have been stretched thin with nearly 30% of the force engaged with sealing work in over 300 containment zones in the district. The Noida police have also been actively taking action against violators of the lockdown and section 144 in the district. So far nearly 10,000 people have been booked for lockdown violations in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/recovered-police-personnel-to-donate-plasma-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-mqhYNurPah2XXaSbE0q8zM.html
07-07-2020||City||Modinagar factory fire: Toll rises to nine, SHO suspended||Ghaziabad The death count in the Modinagar factory fire incident went up to nine on Tuesday after a 40-year-old woman succumbed to injuries at a private hospital in Meerut on Tuesday. The police said that condition of one more woman is critical as the two had suffered more than 70% burns in the incident. The station house officer of Modinagar police station has been suspended on account of “lax supervision”, the police said.The fire had taken place at the illegal party pooper manufacturing factory at Bakharwa village in Modinagar town on Sunday evening. Eight people, including seven women, had died on Sunday in the incident and officials said that all the victims sustained about 100% burns.The cops identified the ninth deceased as Jago Devi who was one of the women who worked at the factory operated by prime suspect Nitin Chaudhary. Chaudhary was arrested by the police on Monday, while a hunt is on for other suspects, including Mohammad Waseem, who is stated to be a fireworks’ manufacturer from Farrukhnagar near Sahibabad and allegedly supplied raw material to Chaudhary for manufacturing of party poopers.“The ninth victim and one other woman, Laxmi Devi, were admitted at a private hospital in Meerut. Jago succumbed while Laxmi is still critical with over 70% burns. In connection with the incident, the senior superintendent of police on late Monday night suspended the station house officer of Modinagar police station on account of lax supervision,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).“Many villagers told us that operation of the factory was in knowledge of the local police, but they showed laxity and did not inform senior officers. That is why the local police post in-charge was also suspended soon after the incident. A magisterial inquiry is going on, and I am also conducting another inquiry into the alleged laxity by the police. Once both the inquiries get complete, legal action will be decided,” Jadaun added.In connection with the incident, sub divisional magistrate of Loni and police officers on Tuesday afternoon conducted raids at different places in Farrukhnagar to nab Waseem and his other aides. Raids were also conducted at fireworks manufacturing units in Farrukhnagar, the police said.“Ever since the raids started on Tuesday afternoon, we have seized large quantities of chemicals and explosive material used for manufacturing fireworks, along with finished material, from Farrukhnagar. Till Tuesday evening, we had seized more than 200 quintals of such material. More checks are being conducted. Waseem and his aides are on the run, but they will be arrested as teams are tracking them,” said Keshav Kumar, assistant superintendent of police (Sahibabad).“Despite the ban on manufacturing and storage of conventional fireworks, the manufacturers here are still engaged in such activities. We also found party poopers at Farrukhnagar. Strict legal action will now be initiated against the erring persons,” Kumar added.The manufacturing of crackers in Farukknagar had completely stopped in October 2018 after the Supreme Court imposed a ban on the sale of non-green crackers in the wake of rising pollution levels in the national capital region.Meanwhile, the police on Tuesday evening said that they also arrested a fireworks’ manufacturer, Mohammad Saleem, who is a close aide of Mohammad Waseem. They both were supplying material from Farrukhnagar to the prime suspect at Modinagar, the police said.On Monday, the National Human Rights Commission had issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary and the director general of police (DGP) calling for a detailed report into the fire incident. The notice gave a four-week deadline for the filing of the report which should include “action taken against the factory owner and the delinquent officers/officials, status of the medical treatment being provided to the injured and relief/rehabilitation provided to the aggrieved by the state.”Soon after the tragedy, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of the deceased and sought a report from Ghaziabad officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/modinagar-factory-fire-toll-rises-to-nine-sho-suspended/story-GGz2vFuYsvZHjQ1MxVtAPL.html
07-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad gets nod for 15 more ambulances to ferry Covid-19 patients||Ghaziabad The health department has received an approval for 15 more ambulances for the district from the state government for ferrying Covid-19 patients to the dedicated Covid hospitals, officials said on Tuesday. The department is presently operating 14 ambulances for transporting such patients to different hospitals in the district.According to the figures issued by the state control room, Ghaziabad has the highest number of active cases at 1,251 till July 6 among all 75 districts in the state. The total positive cases stood at 2,283 and the numbers are rising since Unlock 1 was implemented from June 1.“After the surge in number of positive cases in June, we had to open up two L1 hospitals, one each at Niwari and Modinagar, which are on the outskirts of the city. So, ferrying patients are taking time for our 14 ambulances which are being used for Covid-19 duty. This is why we sought 15 more ambulances so that timely transfer of patients becomes possible. The state officials have given clearance and 15 ambulances operated under ‘102 service’ will be given to us shortly,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.At present, the patients are ferried to Covid hospitals through 12 ambulances under 102 service and two other advanced life-support ambulances.“There was proposal that we use the ‘108 service’ ambulances for Covid-19 patients. But we refused as these ambulances are exclusively meant for ferrying pregnant women and children,” Dr Gupta added.According to official records, the 102 service ambulances made about 40 to 50 trips per day for ferrying Covid patients in June, while the number of per day trips has gone up to about 90-100 in the current month.“This is because we have an average of 100 patients who are turning positive daily this July. For better management, we have also resorted to pooling of patients from a family or a locality in order to reduce number of trips. It takes us about two hours to reach a patient’s house in Indirapuram/Vaishali and ferry him/her to the L1 hospital at Niwari,” said an officer attached to the operation of ambulance service.At present, the district has five Covid hospitals in operation. These include three L1 category facilities -- ESIC Hospital at Sahibabad, Divyajyoti Hospital at Niwari and SRM Hospital at Modinagar -- one L2 hospital at Sanjay Nagar and one L3 hospital near old bus stand.“On average, an ambulance is running about 150 to 200km per day for ferrying Covid patients to hospitals. To reduce the burden, we have also stopped the home drop of patients who get discharged from hospitals,” the officer said.In the last week of June, the state government had issued directions that no ambulance will be provided to the patients for home drop after they get discharged from Covid hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-gets-nod-for-15-more-ambulances-to-ferry-covid-19-patients/story-oSKGr0WHm95jbNzrKPlTzH.html
07-07-2020||City||Despite SEBI ban, builders continue to offer assured returns scheme in Mohali||Even though the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) in November 2018 declared that luring people to invest in residential and commercial projects in lieu of assured returns was “fraud and illegal”, several builders in Mohali district, especially in Zirakpur, are still offering the scheme in the absence of supervision.At present, there are around 10 builders in the district who offer the scheme of assured 10% to 12% per month returns on investment. SEBI’s guidelines deem these schemes illegal and warn investors against falling prey to them, encouraging them to report such incidents to the designated authority.After a rift developed among the partners of Chandigarh Citi Center (CCC), the biggest commercial property project in Zirakpur, it had come to light that they had been offering 12% monthly return to the investors. Later, the builders promised the investors physical possession of the properties and stopped paying them returns, after which the investors accused them of cheating and not fulfilling promises made at the time of investment.BUILDERS SAY SCHEME STOPPED DUE TO LOCKDOWNCCC managing director Tejpal Gupta said, “We are still giving what we promised them, but could not give them since past four months as we don’t have funds due to lockdown due to Covid-19.” On being questioned about the SEBI ban, he refused to comment on the issue.Another popular builder in Zirakpur, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Since we have promised it to the investors, we are trying to provide (returns), but for the past several months, we could not pay them due to financial crisis.”Pramod Kumar Sharma, general secretary, Aero Homes Residents Welfare Association, Zirakpur, said, “Our builder also cheated around 245 allottees in the name of assured returns. The project was launched in 2011 and he assured returns of 12% every month, but stopped after he offered possession of the incomplete project (which is incomplete). Now, the builder is absconding after more than 50 cases were registered against him.”A senior official of the Zirakpur civic body said, “It is a well-oiled nexus. Some builders launch the project, assure allottees they will be paid returns till they get possession, and without completing the project, take completion certificates in connivance with the MC officials and issue them to the allottees.”The chairperson of Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Navreet Singh Kang, said, “SEBI has banned [the practice] and RERA has no specific provision regarding allowing or not allowing it. Our Act specifically does not bar it and our violations are clearly defined in the Act.”Deputy general manager (DGM) of SEBI said, “We have not received any complaint yet, but once we do, action will be taken accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-sebi-ban-builders-continue-to-offer-assured-returns-scheme-in-mohali/story-rL8XT9NALfPNlZf2z8iqMK.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||Two WR staff die after being hit by train||Two Western Railway employees were run over by a local train, between Khar and Bandra railway stations, on Monday midnight. The two employees, a permanent way inspector (PWI) Rajkumar Sharma and trackman Nagesh Sawant were run over while trying to cross the railway tracks. Railway officials believe that it was an error of judgment on the part of the railway employees. “They thought they were sitting adjacent to the railway tracks. As it was raining heavily and with low visibility, they could not judge that they were sitting on the tracks. The injured were taken to Bhabha Hospital,” said a Western Railway official.The motorman, Jeevan Kanojia, in his statement, said that he tried to alert the victims who were crossing the tracks by honking. “The local train was on the fast railway line and was running at the speed of 75-80 kmph. As it was raining heavily, I was constantly blowing the whistle. However, later, I saw them sitting on the tracks. I had applied emergency brakes too, but they continued sitting on the tracks. I alerted the guard of the train and immediately moved the injured to the hospital,” said Kanojia, in his statement.The Western Railway stated that both had head injuries and were declared dead at the hospital. “They had sustained severe head injuries. The unfortunate incident will be dealt as run over on duty and suitable compensation and other benefits will be provided to their families as per the law,” read a statement by Western Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-wr-staff-die-after-being-hit-by-train/story-mn1oupzwUCYFfDEpI76NVI.html
07-07-2020||City||Vashi’s Covid facility to gets piped oxygen supply||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) will provide oxygen supply to Covid patients through gas pipelines at a Covid hospital set up at CIDCO exhibition centre in Vashi. The piped oxygen gas supply plant is ready and will be commissioned on Wednesday.The centre is a 1,183-bed facility and the pipe supply will ensure that all the patients get continuous and uniform supply.Annasaheb Misal, municipal commissioner, NMMC said, “NMMC had set up the 1,183-bed Covid facility in a record time of 20 days. At the time, we had provided 483 oxygen-equipped beds, that supplied oxygen using cylinders. This was a temporary step to provide immediate facility. However, it is important to maintain a constant oxygen gas pressure, hence copper pipelines have been installed at the facility.”Misal said that the oxygen facility will start from July 8. At present around 400 patients are admitted to the exhibition centre. The corporation also has plans for 150 additional ICU beds.Misal said, “Two ICU wards of a total of 75 beds are being set up at the facility. Another 75 bed ICU facility is being set up at MGM Hospital in Sanpada. Work is in progress and we should have them ready in the next two weeks. Our focus is to reduce the fatality rate by setting up efficient healthcare facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vashi-s-covid-facility-to-gets-piped-oxygen-supply/story-sAs0N7QI0Z5DB5fmnomXCP.html
07-07-2020||City||As cases rise, Navi Mumbai goes under complete lockdown till Monday||Four days after going into ten-day lockdown, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has now issued orders to enforce a complete lockdown from Tuesday, wherein supermarkets and departmental stores will also remain shut and only home delivery will be permitted. Earlier essential services were permitted.As per the revised order by NMMC commissioner Annasaheb Misal, for the stricter lockdown, only health services and essential services are allowed to operate till July 13.Misal said, “The supermarkets will remain shut, while only home delivery will be permitted. All gardens, parks, open gyms shall remain closed. Swimming pools, gymkhana, etc within society premises shall also remain close.” The NMMC has warned of action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, Indian Penal Code and Disaster Management Act against anyone found violating the order.Sameera Shaikh, 36, homemaker from Sarsode village in Nerul said, “We have stocked up on basic essentials. Home delivery will be a problem due to heavy rains. But we will abide by the orders and not step out.”Meanwhile, Navi Mumbai police, on Monday, registered 928 cases against persons who stepped out without essential or medical emergency reasons. Around 2,709 cases were registered against motorists and bikers for taking their vehicles out with no valid reasons, violating the lockdown orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-cases-rise-navi-mumbai-goes-under-complete-lockdown-till-monday/story-kun9lhcblS3GhYj22GukdK.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Cancel licences of contractors delaying Panchkula projects: Haryana speaker||Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta recommended cancellation of licences of contractors deliberately delaying development work in Panchkula district, an official spokesperson said on Tuesday.Gupta, who represents the Panchkula assembly segment, held a meeting with senior officers of the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) to review the progress of various projects.“A number of loopholes were noticed when the progress report of construction of entrance gates of villages was scrutinised,” an official spokesperson for the speaker said in a release.The speaker issued directions for issuance of tenders of road-lanes and clearing of storm water drains for the monsoon to prevent waterlogging. He also issued directions to expedite sewerage work in eight villages which fall under Panchkula MC. Sewerage treatment plants will be set up at Saketri and Ramgarh. The speaker also reviewed the progress of works announced by the chief minister.Progress of construction work in the community centres of Sector 7 and 10, Panchkula, was checked.MC authorities were also asked to complete shelters for unclaimed dogs being built at Sudarshanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cancel-licences-of-contractors-delaying-panchkula-projects-haryana-speaker/story-D3wnwwSvspGZ2LHNjEJ0RO.html
07-07-2020||City||Pending salaries: Kasturba nurses call off strike after assurance but docs threaten mass resignations||New Delhi: Agitating nursing staff of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Kasturba Hospital on Tuesday decided to call off their protest over the non-payment of salaries for three months, after mayor Jai Prakash promised to disburse the dues within a week. Resident doctors of the hospital also raised the issue of their pending salaries for two months and said they would consider mass resignations after July 10 if the dues were not cleared.The nursing staff had staged a protest on Tuesday morning, assembling in the hospital premises and suspending work for two hours in the morning. They had been staging a similar protest for the last few days.“We decided to call off our protest after assurance from the mayor to give us our pending salaries in a week. We will start our agitation if our demands are not met in the given time,” Alka Kaushik, a representative of Kasturba Hospital Nurses’ Union, said. She said nurses had been working without salaries since April and risking their lives in the time of the coronavirus pandemic. They were unable to pay for even basic facilities due to their financial problem, she said.“For how long we can keep working without salaries? The role of doctors and nurses along with paramedical staff becomes more important at a time when a pandemic is sweeping through the globe. They should pay us at the earliest,” Kaushik said.The 450-bedded Kasturba Hospital is a maternity and child specialty hospital of the north corporation located near Jama Masjid. The mayor said the nurses had ended their protest after assurances from the corporation.“All employees are being paid in a phased manner and salaries to nurses will be released in a week’s time. Revenue collection of the civic body has been drastically hit due to Covid-19. We are arranging funds and releasing salaries of our employees,” Prakash said. The mayor said every month, the corporation needs Rs 350 crore to pay its 58,000 employees.The nurses’ union found support from the doctors’ body of the hospital, who are also demanding payment of their pending salaries for two months. Dr Sunil Kumar, president of the Kasturba Hospital Resident Doctors Association, said salaries of May and June months are pending and should be cleared soon.“A compensation of Rs 1 crore has been announced on the death of corona warriors, which includes doctors and nurses, then why do authorities not pay salaries to these corona warriors on time while they are alive and serving. Our salaries are pending for two months and we will consider tendering mass resignations after July 10 if our dues are not cleared,” Kumar said. Last month, resident doctors of Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals had threatened mass resignations but took back their decision after the Supreme Court asked the civic body to pay their pending salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pending-salaries-kasturba-nurses-call-off-strike-after-assurance-but-docs-threaten-mass-resignations/story-mV25UpZCedoNWPIvBUL2IL.html
07-07-2020||City||Sanitation worker dies of Covid||New DelhiA 53-year old female sanitation employee of North Delhi Municipal Corporation has died of Covid-19, civic officials said.The officials said the worker was deployed in Timarpur ward of the Civil Lines zone.“She was Covid-19 positive and was admitted at Sant Parmanand Hospital in Civil Lines on June 21. She was a resident of Wazirabad area. She had died five days back,” a north corporation official said.Till now, at least two sanitation employees have died due to Covid-19 in the municipality. Sanitation employees are one of the front line workers in the fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sanitation-worker-dies-of-covid/story-S364yQssMxCbqJL5srk3RN.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||HC asks DU for its final decision on holding exams||The Delhi high court Tuesday told the Delhi University to apprise the court on whether it would conduct examinations for final-year students after the court was informed that a high-level meeting was taking place in the wake of a notification issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) on conducting exams.On Monday, the UGC had brought out a notification asking universities and colleges to “compulsorily” hold final-year exams by the end of September 2020 on offline/online/blended mode.Justice Pratibha M Singh also directed the varsity to adhere to the examination schedule if the exams are going to be conducted and also issued a notice to the university on a plea by several students who sought cancellation of the examinations.The DU exams are scheduled to start from July 10 and the evaluation would be done by mid- September. About 2.45 lakh students would participate in the exams.On Monday, the court had asked DU to give a state-wise data of final-year students who will take the exams. It had also asked the UGC committee to give its report on conducting exams in universities across the country.At the outset of the hearing, the court was informed by professor Vinay Gupta, dean of examinations, that a high-level meeting of officials of the university, UGC and HRD ministry was underway. He said the meeting was being held to decide the further course of action on examinations in the wake of the notifications issued by the UGC and the ministry of home affairs (MHA). The MHA, in a letter to the Union higher education secretary, on Monday, permitted the conduct of examinations by universities and institutions across the country.“There is a possibility that we will have to postpone examinations. The meeting is still underway, the position would be clear only after two or three hours,” Gupta said. He said the date sheets have already been uploaded on the DU website.Terming it “unpredictable”, the court sought to know the reason for the postponement, if et al, the exams are called of. “Look at the state of students who will have to appear for the exams. There is no certainty,” the judge remarked.Prof Gupta told the court that the examination portal is robust and can allow 80,000 students at one time to take the exams. He said 2.45 lakh final-year students would be appearing for the examination of whom 59,000 students were from other states. He also said 4.86 lakh question papers have been downloaded and attempted in the last few days as a mock drill to check if the preparedness of DU. During the hearing, the judge sought to know as to whether more time would be granted to students in case there is a delay in downloading the paper due to poor connectivity or other issues. The time allotted for each exam is three hours, including the downloading of question paper and uploading of answer sheets. He also said a delay in emailing answer sheets cannot be allowed as it would give rise to malpractices. He also said that only in a few places such as Jammu and Kashmir, where the internet connectivity is low, would students be allowed a little more time.During the hearing, advocate Shivankar Sharma, the counsel appearing for another five students, told the court that many students from SAARC countries such as Bangladesh and Nepal were facing problems in downloading the question papers.After arguments on the preparedness of DU for conducting the exams, the court posted the matter for further hearing to July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-asks-du-for-its-final-decision-on-holding-exams/story-2v7V9aBsEElWoaOhfGf8AJ.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||Andhra man cheats Delhi nurse of ₹34 lakh on promise of marriage, held||The Delhi Police Tuesday said they had arrested a 40-year-old man from Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh for allegedly cheating a 32-year-old nurse of a government hospital of around ₹34 lakh after befriending her on social media and promising to marry her.The man, identified as Mohammad Sadiq Imran, had tricked the woman into transferring the money into his bank accounts by telling her that he wanted to start a hotel business before their wedding. He started the hotel business using the money. But when the business incurred losses, he backtracked on his marriage promise, stopped all communications with the woman and never returned her money, police officers associate with the case said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the woman approached the Mehrauli police station on March 17 and filed a complaint of cheating against the man.“Identifying himself as a businessman in Vijayawada, Imran befriended the woman in 2018. They exchanged their phone numbers and started talking. After sometime, he proposed to her,” said DCP Thakur“Once he had her trust, Imran told her about his hotel business plan and tricked her into transferring around ₹34 lakh to him. But when his business failed, he started avoiding her calls. When the woman realised that she was cheated, she filed a case,” said an investigator.During the probe, the officer said the investigating team identified the suspect and his address through technical surveillance. A team went to Vijayawada and arrested Imran last week. No recovery has been made from Imran since he invested the money in the business, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/andhra-man-cheats-delhi-nurse-of-34-lakh-on-promise-of-marriage-held/story-gKgqDwxnEIjckhVCM7CAkN.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||Sisodia asks govt schools to involve guest teachers for online classes||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday asked all the 1,030 government schools in the city to employ the services of guest or contractual teachers “in the ongoing online teaching-learning process”. Around 20,000 guest teachers, employed in Delhi government schools contractually, were rendered jobless after their contracts lapsed in May.On July 2, Sisodia had announced that the guest teachers would be engaged in the online teaching process underway in all government schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In a letter to the Directorate of Education (DoE) on Tuesday, Sisodia said, “It has come to my notice that despite very clear instructions on July 2, 2020, many schools are not involving guest and contractual teachers in implementing the new teaching-learning plan. Our plan will not be effective unless all teachers, including guest and contractual teachers, who have had a direct role in taking classes with children in the pre-lockdown phase, are not involved once again.”Sisodia said that the new plan does not just involve sending worksheets or conducting online classes, but also staying connected with every child via regular follow-ups. “It’s possible only when all teachers of the schools take individual responsibility for a certain number of children. Therefore, all teachers must be engaged to ensure that all children take part in teaching-learning activities and to keep track of their well-being,” the education minister wrote.He directed the DoE to instruct all heads of schools (HoS) to take the services of the guest teachers. “Please instruct all the HoS to call all willing guest and contractual teachers who rendered their services before the summer vacation in May 2020 and continue employing their services in teaching-learning and any other function assigned to the school,” Sisodia said.The All India Guest Teachers Association welcomed the move. Shoeb Rana, a guest teacher at a government school in Sunder Nagri and a member of the association, said, “This is a big relief for the guest teachers since many schools were not calling them back to work citing the fact that there was no official confirmation by the government. The education minister’s letter has made things clear now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sisodia-asks-govt-schools-to-involve-guest-teachers-for-online-classes/story-8MKYIdHBI276GuvYEJVHhL.html
07-07-2020||City||Two positive cases in JNU, three hostels residents asked to stay put in rooms||New Delhi: Jawaharlal Nehru University’s Periyar Hostel was sealed on Tuesday after two students tested positive for Covid-19, university officials said. Around 50 students have been isolated in the hostel for 14 days.“Two students tested positive for coronavirus and they were sent to quarantine facilities outside campus. The other residents have been asked to confine themselves to designated rooms and food will be provided to them,” said Buddha Singh, warden of Periyar Hostel.Since Periyar Hostel was sharing mess facilities with Godavari Hostel and Kaveri Hostel, the two hostels have also been put in self-isolation for seven days as a precautionary measure. Around 60 students reside in these two hostels, officials said.“The students have been shifted to the hospital. We have been asked not to go out and are staying in our allotted rooms. Students are anxious about contracting the disease since it happened in such close proximity. Residents have become more serious about social distancing measures. The administration has already sanitised the rooms that were open,” said Venkat Choubey, a third-year PhD student and a resident of the hostel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-positive-cases-in-jnu-three-hostels-residents-asked-to-stay-put-in-rooms/story-oERz4V6tCgh8ndn516Rx0L.html
07-07-2020||Ranchi||With 141 new Covid-19 cases, Jharkhand’s tally goes past 3,000-mark||Jharkhand reported 141 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, pushing the state tally past the 3,000-mark. The new cases included a JMM lawmaker and 18 journalists. Two Covid-19 deaths were also reported from the state.“I have developed some symptoms of Covid-19 including fever. I got myself tested for the disease and the report came today. I have been shifted to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital,” the MLA told HT over phone.Tuesday’s cases also included 18 Dhanbad-based journalists. The district administration had collected samples of 70 journalists on Sunday after two members of the fraternity were found infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus.“Altogether 18 journalists were found infected with this respiratory disease. All have been staying in quarantine centres. They are being shifted to the district’s dedicated Covid-19 hospital,” said Dhanbad deputy commissioner Amit Kumar.The two deaths reported on Tuesday were from Dhanbad district – an 80-year-old woman and a 58-year-old man . The death toll from the disease in the state has now risen to 22.The man, who had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Dhanbad, was referred to RIMS in capital Ranchi on Monday.“The patient was admitted in a moribund state in Covid-19 ward between 10 pm-11pm on Monday. He was put on a ventilator but could survive for only two hours. He had multiple ailments including hypertension, diabetes, chronic kidney disease and chest infection,” said Dr Pradeep Bhattacharya, in-charge of RIMS Covid-19 ward.He added, “The man’s wife, who is also infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus, has been undergoing treatment here.”With Tuesday’s infections, Jharkhand’s total count has gone up to 3,018.Of the new cases, maximum 44 cases were reported from East Singhbhum district. In all, 36 people recovered from the infection during the day, taking the total number of people cured of Covid-19 to 2,104 in the state, according to a state government bulletin. The state has 892 active Covid-19 cases, reports PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/with-141-new-covid-19-cases-jharkhand-s-tally-goes-past-3-000-mark/story-EsowUbAeOanPAv0HysGmVL.html
07-07-2020||City||Ludhiana textile industry cautions against China imports ban||Amid rising anti-China sentiment in the country, the textile and dyeing industry has urged the Union government not to ban the import of raw material for dyes and spare parts of machinery from China by stating that it ‘would prove a disaster for the Indian industry’.The industrialists said that around 80% of the textile machinery and its parts are imported from China, while the raw material for dyes also comes from there. The industrialists said that the government can impose a ban on the import of finished products, but a ban on the import of raw material would be a bane for the industry.General secretary of Punjab Fabric Association, Bobby Jindal said, “The dyes are manufactured in India, but its raw material is imported from China. Similarly, the textile machinery and its parts are imported from China. The government has stopped the clearance of material that is stuck at ports. The textile and dyeing industry would not be able to survive if the imports of raw material are banned.”The industrialists rued that the jacket manufacturing sector and the hosiery industry in the industrial hub would also be badly affected if the imports are banned from China. President of Knitwear and Textile Club, Vinod Thapar said, “All the material for the hosiery industry including buttons, zips, etc are presently imported from China. Around 90% of the fabric used for manufacturing jackets and machinery is imported from China. If the imports are banned from China, then the Union government should provide a financial package to the industry for commencing manufacturing of these items in the country. Otherwise, the industry would collapse.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-textile-industry-cautions-against-china-imports-ban/story-zjEuDteBDOxEm63DUkMm3K.html
07-07-2020||City||SAD workers protest over fuel price hike, cancellation of blue cards in Ludhiana||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) workers staged a protest against the cancellation of blue cards and hike in fuel prices near Mini Secretariat here on Tuesday. The protest was staged on the call of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal.The workers formed a human chain to register their protest and raised slogans against the Congress government and submitted a memorandum to Ludhiana deputy commissioner.Maheshinder Singh Grewal said that the Congress government has imposed various taxes on petrol and diesel and demanded that both the Centre and the Punjab government should reduce fuel prices.The government has cancelled blue cards of people below poverty line and there is a massive bungling in the distribution of ration, said Grewal. SAD district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon said that being the opposition party they will raise the issues concerning the public and force the government to cut taxes on fuel.Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha said that they will continue their agitation against the state government till they withdraw the hike in fuel prices.Police have booked SAD leaders and workers for violating social distancing norms during their protest on Tuesday. Assistant commissioner of police (Civil Lines) Jatinder Singh said that the party workers did not seek permission for holding agitation from the police, following which an FIR was registered against the protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-workers-protest-over-fuel-price-hike-cancellation-of-blue-cards-in-ludhiana/story-JM3UtbfDetAG3msHgt9snM.html
07-07-2020||City||Three test positive for Covid-19 in Haryana’s Panchkula; district count climbs to 127||A six-year-old girl, who is the daughter of a Sector-18 woman who had tested positive on Monday, is among three people who were found infected for Covid-19 in Panchkula on Tuesday.She has been kept in home quarantine with her mother.A 60-year-old woman from a rehabilitation housing project in Sector 26, who was suffering from hypertension and undergoing treatment at the civil hospital, has also tested positive.“It is a congested locality. The patient’s contacts have been quarantined and their samples will be collected on Wednesday,” said an official.The third patient is a 28-year-old woman from Kalka.As many as 186 people have tested positive in the district so far, 127 of whom were locals and 59 from outside.While 105 locals have recovered, one has succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-haryana-s-panchkula-district-count-climbs-to-127/story-LpfHQJ9VlkAkrGLCLjLaUO.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University students express dismay over UGC’s decision to hold final exams||The University Grants Commission’s (UGC) decision to hold final year exams has not gone down well with the Panjab University(PU) students. The students on Tuesday expressed their dismay over the UGC’s latest guidelines.According to the guidelines issued by the UGC on Monday, universities are to conduct final year or end semester examinations in offline, online, or blended(offline and online) mode, by September.The members of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) started a chain hunger strike at Sector 35 to express their outrage against the decision and demanded that the UGC should not ask universities to conduct examinations amid the pandemic.While on hunger strike, Rahul Kumar, who was elected as vice-president of Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) last year, said, “The UGC should not put the students’ lives at risk by conducting examinations. We demand that examinations should be cancelled and students should be promoted based on the previous semester’s assessment.”Many other student organisations at PU have demanded the scrapping of examinations amid pandemic.PU’s Students For Society (SFS) said, “UGC has issued vague guidelines with no real assurance to students. No classes have been conducted since the lockdown was imposed and students have insufficient study material with them. We demand that examinations for all semesters should be cancelled unconditionally and equivalent credit should be given for assignments and other projects.”Another student organisation, Youth For Swaraj, also submitted a memorandum to the varsity and demanded that PU should follow the guidelines issued by the Punjab government instead of the UGC.FINAL DECISION YET TO BE ANNOUNCEDPU is yet to make an announcement regarding the examinations. The officials had earlier stated that they were waiting for the UGC’s new guidelines. It was also learnt that a meeting was held on Tuesday at the university but no decision was taken. However, an official said, “The university is preparing a plan for the implementation of the UGC guidelines keeping in mind the interest of the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-express-dismay-over-ugc-s-decision-to-hold-final-exams/story-PPtpcko1azHrnEz5EOTUEN.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon strengthens with 52mm rain in 1.5 hours in Chandigarh||Even as India Meteorological Department had predicted just light rain for Chandigarh on Tuesday, monsoon picked up in intensity, showering 52.4mm rain within just an hour and a half in the evening.According to data available till 8:30pm, the city has recorded 110mm rain in the first week of July.While it started raining in western sectors around 7pm, eastern parts of the city received the showers by around 7:30pm. Power outages were reported in parts of the city, while traffic congestion was reported at busy intersections, such as the Sector 34/35/43/44 roundabout, Sector 18/19 light point, Hallomajra Chowk, Tribune Chowk and GMCH Chowk. In Sectors 38-West and 40B, residents complained of waterlogging outside their houses due to blocked road gullies. According to IMD officials, chances of light rain will continue on Wednesday, and it will again pick up in intensity from Thursday.“Due to a cloud mass forming over the city, we received rain on Tuesday. The monsoon system is strengthening and moving northwards from central India. Moderate rain up to 60mm can be expected from Thursday onwards with a slight chance for heavy rain along with a dip in temperature,” said the weatherman.Monsoon was declared in Chandigarh on June 24. However, by the end of June, only 35.3mm was recorded. IMD regional director Surender Paul said: “Monsoon is going on expected lines. We are expecting 107% of the normal monsoon rain this year, as it started before the normal date. “Meanwhile, maximum temperature went up from 35.4°C on Monday to 35.5°C on Tuesday. Minimum temperature went up from 26.2°C to 27.7°C on Tuesday. In the next three days, maximum temperature is likely to remain between 32 and 35 degrees while minimum will remain around 24 to 25 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/monsoon-strengthens-with-52mm-rain-in-1-5-hours-in-chandigarh/story-n7ltWXZrFpA9OqiJLjHntO.html
07-07-2020||City||In-person classes or no visa: Punjab students feel dejected as US modifies rules for fall session||As the US government has declared that it won’t allow the stay or entry of foreign students who fail to find schools teaching in-person, Indian students are in a state of panic. Majority of them have deferred their plans of studying in the US this year.In its recent statement, US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) warned that students who don’t comply with the new rules could be removed from the country.Students said though in-person teaching has better impact than online classes, finding colleges offering such modules in the time of Covid-19 pandemic would be nearly impossible.Reacting to the decision, a student from Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology said the US authorities had earlier targeted work visas and now their moves were posing threats to students’ immigration. “It is unfair to threaten students to leave the country and declining visas over such hard conditions,” said Guarang Sharma, fourth year electrical engineering student. He has been preparing for his GRE exam to pursue higher studies in the US.Students pay exorbitant fee for international exposure in these colleges, thus only online classes won’t help them, he argued.Another student Amitesh, who is in the final year of BTech in computer sciences, said posing restrictions on student immigration is uncalled for.“Covid-19 outbreak has already dampened the aspirations of students hoping to get admissions in foreign colleges this year. There should not be any more restrictions on visas on based on the mode of classes being conducted in colleges,” he said.Disappointed to defer his education plans, Shaurya Gulati, a BTech final year student of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC), Ludhiana, said, “To pursue my master’s degree in mechanical engineering, I had applied at the University of Michigan, USA in January this year and was so excited to be there for classes by September. But now the US government has decided they will not issue visas to students whose colleges are offering fully online courses.”Stating that decision would impact the dreams of thousands of students who were presently studying in America, Manpreet Singh said any international student in the US or entering the country for Fall-2020 must be enrolled in nine credits to get a legal stay here. “Most of the universities here are currently offering online classes and only fewer have in-person courses. As there are two more months before the session begins, students must enroll into the courses being offered in the offline mode,” said Singh, who is a PhD research scholar in mechanical engineering department of University of Maryland Baltimore County, USA.Another final year student of GNDEC Sidak Singh said, “I was planning to study in the US this year, but I have to drop the idea now. I feel dejected, but I have decided to come up with new innovations in machinery in India itself.”MOVE WON’T AFFECT PUNJAB MUCH: EXPERTSMeanwhile, immigration experts from the region believe that the US move will have less impact in Punjab.A Chandigarh-based immigration consultant said, “The extent of the decision’s impact will not be more in Punjab region as students here prefer Canada and Australia for studies and work rather than the US.”“Though a handful of students seek higher education in renowned US universities, they will now explore options in other countries,” opined Anuj Kalra, an immigration expert from Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-person-classes-or-no-visa-punjab-students-feel-dejected-as-us-modifies-rules-for-fall-session/story-avQwx7NnVC42Nb3c0K8YEK.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two Punjab residents killed in Vancouver car crash||Two youth from Punjab died in a road mishap in Vancouver, Canada, on Monday. One of the deceased was identified as Gian Singh, 21, the son of Gurbhagat Singh Namdhari who is a trustee of Garden Valley International School, Machhiwara. He was pursuing his mechanical engineering degree in Canada. The other deceased was a native of Mohali. Gian Singh’s family said that he and his friend had gone for an outing on Monday and were returning home when their car collided with a truck.Both of them died on the spot. The Vancouver police identified them by their ID cards and sounded their local guardians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-punjab-residents-killed-in-vancouver-car-crash/story-VA2gxZ8wnpLtLSfv84Y7bL.html
07-07-2020||City||Teens bludgeon 16-year-old friend to death with bricks in Ludhiana, held||Two 18-year-old boys were arrested for kidnapping their 16-year-old friend and bludgeoning him to death with bricks in Husainpura village, Salem Tabri, on Tuesday. After murdering the victim, Preet of Jassiyan village, the accused duo made a call to his father using his mobile phone and demanded Rs 50,000 as ransom.The Salem Tabri police traced the call after being sounded by the victim’s father and arrested the accused, Vijay Kumar and his unidentified accomplice.“Dashrath Lal, a hosiery worker, had approached the police on Monday after his son Preet did not return home. Preet had left home after a phone call, saying he will return in a few minutes, but never came back,” said Gurbinder Singh, assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North).On Tuesday afternoon, Dashrath received a call from Preet’s mobile phone, with the caller claiming that the boy was in his custody, and demanded Rs 50,000 to release him. However, on tracking down the accused using the mobile phone location, police realised Preet had been killed.Police are questioning the accused to establish the reason behind the murder. They have not ruled out the involvement of more people in the crime.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the two accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teens-bludgeon-16-year-old-friend-to-death-with-bricks-in-ludhiana-held/story-rJjr9MEc18RvWrH8C3PBKM.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Madhu Sharma elected as president of GGDSD’s teachers’ union||Madhu Sharma was elected as the president of the teachers’ union of Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma (GGDSD) College, Sector 32, on Tuesday.The polling for the election was held over two days.Sharma was contesting against Navneet Batra and won with 60 votes. Diksha secured 62 votes and got elected as the secretary while Rinkey Priya Bali secured 55 votes and was declared the vice-president.Sharma said, “We are happy to have been able to complete the democratic process against all odds, including the attempts of sabotage from various quarters. This success stands as a testimony to the fact that value-based fight for rightful demands of teachers and commitment towards their cause ensures collective validity and endorsement.”A few teachers had earlier written to the president of PCCTU against the conduct of elections during the pandemic but PCCTU had allowed the elections to be held after appointing an observer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/madhu-sharma-elected-as-president-of-ggdsd-s-teachers-union/story-zniYRz3ib46v7HGr8qi3WM.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Gym found running in Ludhiana, owner held||The Salem Tabri police on Monday lodged an FIR against a gym owner and arrested him for violating the state directive to shut down operations amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The accused has been identified as Mukesh Anand of Shivpuri.Assistant sub-inspector of police (ASI) Prem Singh, Salem Tabri police station, said that he had come to know that a gym near Shivpuri was functioning despite ban orders while he was on patrolling duty. Gym members had gathered there to exercise, he added.They fled when the police reached the spot, but the owner was arrested. The ASI added that the accused was aware of the ban on operating gyms, but had not taken the orders seriously.A case under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act has been registered against the accused, who has been released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gym-found-running-in-ludhiana-owner-held/story-5ukARN49jChGCRyu5edvlK.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC panel mulls measures to generate revenue||Imposition of green and entry tax on commercial vehicles, introducing municipal cess on purchase of vehicles and sale deed of properties were some revenue generation options discussed in the first meeting of the seven-member committee set up to enhance MC’s revenue sources, held here on Tuesday.The meeting, chaired by city BJP chief and councillor Arun Sood, also discussed regularisation of water connections to all residents out of lal dora limit, amendment in water bylaws and one-time settlement for defaulters.The meeting was attended by councillors Anil Kumar Dubey, Mahesh Inder Singh Siddhu, Satish Kumar Kainth, and MC officials Ajay Dutta and Anil Kumar Garg.The committee sought details of MC properties in all rural and urban areas and details of initiatives taken by the estate branch to enhance its revenue and recover outstanding dues against defaulters, besides auction of idle properties.Functioning on a deficit budget, MC will not be able to carry out any new development works due to paucity of funds this fiscal. With establishment costs of more than Rs 400 crore and fuel bills running over Rs 150 crore, MC is facing a deficit of Rs 16 crore this fiscal, leaving no funds for new developmental works.Consequently, in the General House meet of the municipal corporation held on June 29, the committee was set up to examine the civic body’s financial situation.Sood, said, “The committee discussed measures like cutting on establishment costs, conducting an energy audit to lower the spending on fuel, better use of MC’s commercial properties to raise revenue, among others.”The committee will meet again on July 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-panel-mulls-measures-to-generate-revenue/story-TXoFO1MViWh12THXsAtqrK.html
07-07-2020||City||SAD holds statewide protests, Sukhbir demands CBI probe into ration embezzlement||The opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday held statewide protests against the hike in fuel prices, alleged scam in ration meant for the poor, illegal mining and increase in power tariff in Punjab.Leading a protest at Zirakpur in Mohali district, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal demanded that the Punjab government slash fuel prices by ₹10 a litre. “Once the Punjab government reduces fuel prices by ₹10 per litre, we will ask the Centre to do the same,” said Badal, while demanding a CBI probe into the “ration embezzlement”.He said he had already written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reduce central excise on petrol and diesel. He also demanded the government ensure that no student of any private school in the state was victimised solely because his parents were not able to afford the fee due to reduced income during Covid-19 pandemic. He said Punjab should compensate the private schools by submitting six months school fee of students in advance to them.Leading a dharna here, Badal said a large number of Punjabis came out in thousands over the SAD’s ‘Punjab Bachao’ call and displayed their seething anger against the Congress government and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for leaving them in the lurch at the time of a pandemic. “People today hold the Congress government responsible for the hike fuel prices as well as increase of power tariff and other taxes because Congressmen have looted the state treasury through a series of scams be it the ₹5,600-crore liquor scam, the ₹4,000-crore seed scam or illegal mining or even the latest insurance scam,” he said.Badal thanked the people for coming out to show solidarity with the SAD and force the Congress government and the chief minister who is “busy making gimmickry videos while locked up in his farmhouse. “Today every village and town in the state has passed a vote of no-confidence against chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the days of Congress government are numbered,” he said in Zirakpur in the presence of Derabassi legislator N K Sharma, who thanked him for the development of Mohali during the SAD-BJP tenure and disclosed how every work had come to a stop during the Congress rule.Senior leader and MP Balwinder Singh Bhundur said the people of Punjab had been left to their own fate amid the pandemic even as Congress leaders were resorting to open loot by indulging in manufacturing and bottling illicit liquor besides cross-border liquor smuggling.Senior party leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia, who was in Amritsar, said diesel is the costliest in Punjab as compared to neighbouring states. He demanded a central probe into the “embezzlement and wrongful distribution” of ration by the Congress government.In Jalandhar, the SAD organised protests at various places against the alleged anti-people policies of the government. Similar protests were organised in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Kapurthala districts. The SAD workers also staged a protest against the cancellation of blue cards and hike in fuel prices near the Mini Secretariat in Ludhiana. The workers formed a human chain to register their protest and raised slogans against the Congress government and submitted a memorandum to Ludhiana deputy commissioner.Akali Dal leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal said the Congress government has imposed various taxes on petrol and diesel and demanded that both the Centre and the Punjab government should reduce fuel prices.“The government has cancelled blue cards of the people living below the poverty line and there is a massive bungling in the distribution of ration,” said Grewal. Party’s district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon said they will keep raising the issues of public concern and force the government to cut taxes on fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-holds-statewide-protests-sukhbir-demands-cbi-probe-into-ration-embezzlement/story-SnAdhkcDKJs7JfSPihJxSP.html
07-07-2020||City||CM okayed appointment of bureaucrats: Pawar||Pune: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar, on Tuesday, said that appointments of IPS and IAS officers have been done with the approval of the chief minister, bringing closure to the current controversy over the transfer of 10 deputy commissioners.Pawar, along with Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, on Monday, had called on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, a day after the state government revoked the home department’s order to transfer 10 DCPs of Mumbai Police.The hour-long meeting took place at Thackeray’’s private residence ‘Matoshree’’ in suburban Bandra, fuelling talks about differences over the transfer.When asked if there are differences between the NCP and the Shiv Sena over the issue, Pawar said, “There is no truth in this. The appointment of IAS and IPS officers is done with CM’s approval.”Pawar held a meeting with the Pune traders’ body and discussed various demands put forward by them.“During the meeting, there was a demand put forward for the decentralisation of trades on the outskirts of Pune after the Covid crisis. The traders have demanded that the state government provide 1,000 acres of land near Pune, saying the businesses which are currently centralised in Pune can be migrated to these places. I have told them that I will discuss this issue with state government,” said Pawar.Pawar said that his meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was related to issues of the state and clarified that there were no differences in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state.“There are no differences in the (MVA). The discussions with CM were related to issues that are before the state and there were no other issues,” Pawar clarified.Pawar also backed the CM over not venturing out in public, despite criticism by the opposition. “If a person with key responsibilities comes out, then people tend to gather and this is not expected in the current times,” said the NCP president.Asked if he is satisfied with the performance of CM, he said, “After taking the reins of the state, CM Thackeray had plans to work on several issues, but due to Covid-19, all the priorities got changed. All other works had to be stopped and the state is concentrating on Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-okayed-appointment-of-bureaucrats-pawar/story-UXUmKqTzYBaDT6BOY1qwrI.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Centre assures Punjab of full support in ensuring food security||Union minister Raosaheb Patil Danve on Tuesday assured the Punjab government of the Centre’s full support in ensuring food security and supply to residents of the state during the ongoing pandemic.Danve said the central and state governments have set an excellent example of rising above politics and working for the betterment of the people. Punjab has lifted its complete allocation of food grains made by the Centre under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Ann Yojana and Atma Nirbhar Bharat Yojana, said the Union minister of state for consumer affairs, food and public distribution.Appreciated the state government for the steps undertaken by it, Danve said, “While, it is commendable that the Punjab government has lifted the entire allocated food grains under the central government schemes, I urge the state agencies to equally focus on the distribution of the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-assures-punjab-of-full-support-in-ensuring-food-security/story-2Z6kEdMGEZeVOGfyvfwvoO.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rains cause waterlogging in Navi Mumbai||Heavy rainfall on Tuesday caused water logging in Navi Mumbai’s Juinagar area. Heavily water-logged streets posed trouble for commuters here. Mumbai was battered with rains even on Sunday resulting in waterlogging in several parts of the city.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places over Madhya Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa for today. “Strong Wind (speed reaching 50-60 kmph) very likely over Southwest, Westcentral and Northeast Arabian Sea and along and off Gujarat coast; (speed reaching 45-55 kmph) likely over East-central Arabian Sea; Squally Weather (speed reaching 40-50 kmph) along and off Maharashtra-Karnataka coasts. Fishermen are advised not to venture into sea over these areas,” said IMD. Meanwhile, Rainfall lashed Delhi on Tuesday afternoon as predicted by IMD. IMD stated, moderate to intense thunderstorm and lightning very likely over Uttrakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Coastal Karnataka, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal and during next 12 hours.“Isolated extremely heavy rainfall are also very likely over Assam & Meghalaya during 8th to 11th, Arunachal Pradesh on 9th & 10th, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim and East Uttar Pradesh on 10th & 11th and over Bihar on 10th July,” said IMD. “Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over northeastern states, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim, Bihar and East Uttar Pradesh from 8 July,” IMD added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rains-cause-waterlogging-in-navi-mumbai/story-sD8sZnxulmEouPQBSOMqcK.html
07-07-2020||City||CBSE ties up with Facebook to provide free digital training to students, teachers||The increasing use of internet among students for online classes amid the Covid-19 pandemic poses a threat of online abuse, bullying, misinformation, fake news and internet addiction among them. Thus, CBSE has partnered with Facebook India to provide student training on digital safety and online well being and teacher training on augmented/virtual reality. The programme for teachers will be launched on August 10 while the students’ training will begin from August 6.The registration process began on Monday. The last date to apply for teacher training is July 20 and selected students will receive an email to attend the session by July 30. To participate in the training programmes, board affiliated schools can nominate their teachers and students at http://www.cbseacademic.nic.in/fb/facebookforeducation.htmlPrincipal of BCM School, Dugri, Vandna Shahi said, “This is an interesting programme and our school teachers and students will participate in the training sessions. Students will be trained on how to identify and respond to online threats and harassment. Teachers will learn new online teaching software and methods.” For teachers, the augmented reality training programme will give them an opportunity and platform to learn how to conceptualise, create and brand their own AR experiences. They will learn how to use Spark AR Studio and publish experiences on Facebook thereby becoming a part of the Spark AR ecosystem. On completion of the programme, successful candidates will receive an online certification from CBSE and Facebook. Ritu Sharma, an English teacher at a private school, said, “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, teachers are conducting online classes and there is a need to enhance our knowledge to provide the best material to the students to clear their concepts.” The training is intended to support students to reflect on their Instagram usage, with the goal of ensuring that the time they spend on Instagram is positive, inspiring, and balanced. It encourages participants to talk openly about their time spent online, its impact on their socio-emotional well-being, and learn more about safe and effective ways to manage online interactions. The training will also include understanding the use of Instagram features such as being able to limit certain pieces of content to a small group of close friends or being able to turn off comments on certain posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-ties-up-with-facebook-to-provide-free-digital-training-to-students-teachers/story-PnJNYtxfyWBvxZjCu7nXXK.html
07-07-2020||City||Diving in Sutlej costs two teenagers their lives||Two teenagers drowned after they dived in the Sutlej river to take a dip on Tuesday.The victims, Samar, 17, and Deepak, 18, were residents of Valmiki Mohalla. The friends went to the river banks on Sunday and jumped into the river to take a bath. However, both lost their balance and drowned. The duo had gone with three friends who initially did not reveal the incident to their families. On Monday, the police initiated an investigation after Samar’s father lodged a missing complaint at Daresi police station. During the course of the investigation, the police questioned the victims’ friends who narrated the incident to them. The police have started a search operation to fish out bodies of the teenagers from the river, said ASI Omprakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/diving-in-sutlej-costs-two-teenagers-their-lives/story-FcEssh5ZMWTwXjdNqoXxDL.html
07-07-2020||City||Two women held for drug peddling in Ludhiana||Two women have been arrested for drug peddling by the Special Task Force and 1.2kg heroin was recovered from their possession on Monday late evening.The women stated to be sisters, were going to deliver the drug consignment when the STF arrested them. The STF produced the accused before a court on Tuesday that sent them to one-day police custody.The police have also recovered an electronic weighing machine from the accused identified as Kiran Bala alias Manna, 37, and Suman Bala, 45, both residents of Haibowal.STF AIG Snehdeep Sharma said that acting on a tip-off, a police team arrested the women from Durgapuri. During questioning the accused told the police that they procured heroin from Delhi and Amritsar.A case under Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered at STF Mohali.The women are facing trial in 12 cases, the police said adding that Kiran Bala is declared proclaimed offender in a drug peddling case, while Suman Bala is declared proclaimed offender in two drug peddling cases.The AIG added that the women are daughters of notorious drug peddler Birju, who died sometime back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-women-held-for-drug-peddling-in-ludhiana/story-zd5I8KUFkbtKDrUaAuml6N.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Truckers want ease of traffic movement at Ludhiana’s Transport Nagar||Transporters have demanded removal of diversions leading to traffic jams at Transport Nagar and asked for an elevated entry from the area to the Jalandhar-Panipat highway (NH-44). They also want the highway exit near Focal Point – closed by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) – to be opened. Balkar Sandhu, mayor, and MPS Kalra, adviser to NHAI for Punjab, visited Transport Nagar on Tuesday and deliberated over measures to ease traffic there.Opening of the cut on Link Road at the Transport Nagar entry point blocked by the police and administration has also been sought. Didar Singh, president, Ludhiana Goods Transport Association, said, “The truckers have to move through Samrala Chowk for entry to the highway and take a detour as the exit at Focal Point has been blocked. This also results in traffic jams and more consumption of fuel. As the entry point to Transport Nagar has also been blocked at Link Road, the truckers have to move till Samrala Chowk and take a u-turn to reach Transport Nagar. We have apprised the mayor of the problem and he has assured us of a solution. We have also sought repair of roads in the area.”Commenting on the matter, Kalra said that the NHAI was working to provide an entry and exit point near Sherpur Chowk and rules would have to be looked into to check if another entry point could be opened near Transport Nagar.Mayor Sandhu said, “I and MPS Kalra will take up the concerns of transporters with NHAI for providing relief to the transporters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/truckers-want-ease-of-traffic-movement-at-ludhiana-s-transport-nagar/story-tq16qpgCJptkTxpIvtQ4xL.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||500 Punjab and Haryana high court employees, relatives quarantined since Covid-19 outbreak||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday said that as many as 500 employees and their relative have been quarantined since Covid-19 outbreak in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Apart from this, two additional district and sessions judges were tested positive and are under treatment, it said.The reason for quarantine, the HC said was that some accused were produced in courts after their arrest and were subsequently tested positive for the disease. “The HC is functioning in a restrictive manner to prevent spread of the virus. However, due to constant representations from different quarters, the functioning is being increased. As a result, more staff is required which seems to be the reason for the outbreak in different offices of the HC. All preventive measures are being taken,” the official said. The official was referring to partial closure of seven sections at the HC after an employee’s husband was found positive for the virus on Tuesday.The high court is working in a restrictive manner since March 16. Similar is the condition in trial courts. However, a section of lawyers has constantly been demanding physical hearing of cases and increase in number of benches which take up cases through video conferencing so that more and more cases could be taken up.Physical hearing is yet to start in the high court as well as in trial courts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The courts are mostly taking up only those cases where ‘urgency’ is required. In pending cases, lawyers have to file an application for listing in case of some urgency. However, a few categories such as bail petitions are being taken up without any prior permission for listing. The hearings in old cases listed in July have been deferred between August 1 and October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/500-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-employees-relatives-quarantined-since-covid-19-outbreak/story-WfpIvO4b4dz75jvlbL7eIJ.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Nadda diverting attention from failure in Galwan, says Amarinder||Taking exception to BJP president J P Nadda’s jibe on Rahul Gandhi over the India-China standoff, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday termed it a “brazen attempt to distract public attention” from the central government’s failure in the Galwan Valley.Amarinder said having failed to respond to his persistent and relevant questions on the Galwan Valley issue, the BJP-led central government was trying desperately to distract the people with its personal attack on Rahul. “Not just Rahul, but the entire country wants answers to those questions, which touch upon not only our soldiers, but every Indian who wants to know what went wrong in Galwan on June 15,” he said.The chief minister said Rahul had been discussing the China issue with him for a long time, and had been concerned about the matter even while the central government was vehemently denying any stand-off in Galwan. Pointing to the latest statements from the Prime Minister on no intrusion having taken place in the region, he asked how the Chinese were now backing off without having entered Indian territory in the first place. “These are the kind of questions being raised by Rahul. Instead of answering them, the BJP-led government continues to be in denial even now,” he added.Reacting to Nadda’s criticism of Rahul for not attending a single meeting of the standing committee on defence, Amarinder questioned the relevance of this to the Galwan Valley stand-off. The committee does not take on-ground decisions relating to the battle field, he remarked, adding that it was not the standing committee which decided on sending soldiers to the borders with either no or inadequate arms and ammunition. Nor does it make policy decisions on conditions in which the soldiers should or should not open fire, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nadda-diverting-attention-from-failure-in-galwan-says-amarinder/story-2bBlhwUWdGSSe0xMatzQxI.html
07-07-2020||City||Father, step-mother held for minor girl’s murder in Sultanpur Lodhi||Sultanpur Lodhi police on Tuesday arrested the father and step-mother of a 15-year-old girl for murdering her by feeding poison in Dalla village here on June 26.A case has been registered after medical examination revealed that the girl was given poison and strangulated to death by her parents.The accused have been identified as Saroop Singh and his wife Mandeep Kaur. The police have also named a relative Amandeep Kaur of the same village in the FIR for reportedly assisting the couple in executing the crime. However, she is yet to be arrested.Sultanpur Lodhi deputy superintendent of police Sarwan Singh said a case was registered on Monday on the basis of a complaint filed by deceased’s uncle Gurbaz Singh and the autopsy report.“The couple had been torturing the girl for the past several years and she was in depression. They both first gave her some poison and then strangulated her to death,” the DSP said.A case under sections 302 (murder), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 203 (giving false information respecting an offence committed and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC has been registered against the trio.The DSP said the couple have a 13-year-old son from the marriage and the accused’s first wife had died 15 years ago. The role of third accused is being verified and the arrest would be made after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/father-step-mother-held-for-minor-girl-s-murder-in-sultanpur-lodhi/story-cwaZLbW7xQByKl3E9Fcm5N.html
07-07-2020||City||Sikhs being harassed for minor offences: Akal Takht jathedar||AMRITSAR Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Tuesday said that Sikhs were being harassed for minor offences such as sharing posts on social media while the ones who were accused of bomb blasts have reached parliament.Addressing devotees at Takht Damdama Sahib, Talwandi Sabo, a video of which has been making rounds on the social media, he said, “It seems that the Sikhs are being eliminated from India gradually just like what was done to the followers of Buddhism. For the last few days, Sikh youths have been tortured and harassed mentally in police stations. When asked about the reason behind, the cops said their mobile phones are being examined. They say these persons have shared posts on the social media.”“In the country, where accused of bomb blasts have reached parliament, you are not tolerating even this minor offence of the Sikhs. This is a deliberate attempt to harass Sikhs,” said the head of the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs.The jathedar had a few days ago asked the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to pursue the cases of pro-Khalistan operatives and provide them legal aid.Expressing concern over the Christianity expanding its base in Punjab, he said, “Followers of every religion have the right to spread their religion but doing so by giving bribes to the people is not fair. The Sikhs should be conscious of this.”The jathedar also raised the issue of slide in the number of Punjabis in government jobs. “This is happening because our religious leaders are fighting with each other. So, all the Sikhs should unite under the platform of Akal Takht Sahib.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikhs-being-harassed-for-minor-offences-akal-takht-jathedar/story-Y7tySOAH9wyFOBgFMvoiZI.html
07-07-2020||City||Kotkapura firing: Fearing arrest, ex-Kotkapura DSP seek anticipatory bail||The then Kotkapura DSP Baljit Singh on Tuesday approached the court of Faridkot duty magistrate seeking anticipatory bail in the Kotkapura firing case.The court of duty magistrate Rajesh Kumar has summoned records and the matter is listed for July 13.The SIT probing the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing incidents had summoned the then Faridkot SSP Sukhmander Singh Mann and Baljit for questioning back to back two days last week, but they had failed to appear.The SIT wanted to cross question them and the then Kotkapura SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher.The SIT arrested Pandher on June 25 by adding Sections 409 and 467 of the IPC in FIR 192, which was registered on Pandher’s complaint on October 14, 2015.However, Baljit was named as an accused in another FIR registered in 2018 in connection with the Kotkapura firing case, he was granted bail in that case.FIR 129 was registered on August 7, 2018, under Sections 307, 323, 341 of the IPC and the Arms Act against unidentified cops. Later, the SIT had added more Sections in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kotkapura-firing-fearing-arrest-ex-kotkapura-dsp-seek-anticipatory-bail/story-2bVvTJ2718b5VwIpGkURxM.html
07-07-2020||City||Blamed for wife’s death, Ludhiana man, elderly mother end life; 15 persons booked||Upset due to the blame for his wife’s death, a 35-year-old man and his elderly mother ended their lives by hanging themselves at their rented accommodation in Satguru Nagar.The matter came to fore when neighbours felt foul smell emitting from their house and notified the house owner, who found the mother-son duo’s bodies and alerted the police on Monday.As neighbours said they last saw the duo on Sunday, police suspect they may have taken the extreme step the same day.On Tuesday, during investigation, police recovered a four-page suicide note, wherein the man, who was a labourer, accused his in-laws of humiliating and manhandling him and his mother. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the man’s wife had died 10 days ago following prolonged illness, at her parents’ house in Panchkula. When he and his mother visited the city to attend her cremation, his in-laws assaulted them, accusing them of not taking care of her treatment and held them responsible for her death.“Blaming his father-in-law, mother-in-law, sister-in-law, six brothers-in-law and their wives, the man wrote that they were committing suicide as they were feeling humiliated,” the ADCP said, adding that the deceased was out of work since the Covid-19 lockdown began.A case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against 15 people. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blamed-for-wife-s-death-ludhiana-man-elderly-mother-end-life-15-persons-booked/story-NMCOVe1j6UY2Kusne6qfyM.html
07-07-2020||City||Biker killed in collision with Haryana ADGP’s vehicle in Mohali||A 38-year-old man died after a Haryana Police vehicle hit his motorcycle at the Phase 3/7 traffic lights on Monday night.Police said Baljeet Singh, a Phase-4 resident and employee of Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib, was going towards the Phase 7 market from his house, when the vehicle of Haryana ADGP, telecom and IT staff, coming from Chandigarh, hit his bike.Car driver Hanumant Singh shifted him to a nearby private hospital, where doctors referred him to PGIMER, Chandigarh. But, he succumbed to his injuries during treatment.Mataur police registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the car driver. No arrest has been made so far.Man killed, son injured in Sector 68 hit-and-runIn another accident, a sanitation worker of Municipal Bhawan, Mohali, was killed and his son got injured after a speeding Maruti Alto hit their Honda Activa scooter near the Kumbra T-point at the Sector 68-69 traffic lights.The car driver sped away as Kishan Chand, 55, a resident of Kharar, suffered severe head injuries. His son, Raj Kumar, 33, escaped with minor injuries.Chand was rushed to PGIMER, where he died during treatment.The unidentified car driver was booked under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC at the Phase 8 police station.The bodies were handed over to the family members after post-mortem examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-adgp-s-vehicle-claims-biker-s-life-in-mohali/story-BElSayEbTv6Acn1HI0rESK.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid expert panels setup in 2 govt medical colleges of Punjab||To further augment its covid management and care strategy, the Punjab government on Tuesday constituted two expert advisory committees under the guidance of adviser (health, medical education and research) Dr KK Talwar.The committees have been setup to ensure better management and handling of covid care-related matters in Government Medical Colleges at Patiala and Amritsar. Dr Talwar said the objective is to guide the administration to adopt good scientific practices for ensuring better covid care, while reducing complications and mortality.Both the expert committees have been mandated to chalk out strategies to ensure that non-covid patients are not ignored. The committees will make recommendations to the state government on financial and other support needed for upgrade of facilities and equipment for covid care.The committee for GMC Patiala, has cardiologist Dr Sudhir Verma, HoD cardiology (retd), Dr Manmohan Singh and HoD ENT (retd), and Dr BS Sohal as its members, and GMC Patiala principal Dr Harjinder Singh as the convener.The committee for GMC Amritsar has professor Emeritus and retd director of Dr Vidya Sagar Institute of Mental Hospital Dr BL Goyal, HoD surgery (retd) Dr. Bhola Singh, HoD pathology (retd) Dr Sukhmandar Kaur Kahlon, and professor of medicine (retd) Dr Narotam Bhalla as its members, and GMC Amritsar principal Dr Rajiv Devgan as its convener.DK Tiwari said that these committees will meet at least once a week through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-expert-panels-setup-in-2-govt-medical-colleges-of-punjab/story-SJlRUjiofLbZMGWxCGOBJI.html
07-07-2020||City||Patiala village army jawan killed in encounter with terrorists||Army jawan Rajwinder Singh, 29, of Dodra village in Samana subdivision, was killed during an encounter of security forces with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama on Tuesday.A pall of gloom descended in the area after the family came to know about the death. Rajwinder’s father Avtar Singh said, “He was the sole breadwinner of the family. He had called me up on Monday and inquired about preparations regarding construction of the new house. He was to visit us on July 18.”He is survived by his parents and an elder brother.Police and civil administration reached the spot to oversee arrangements for Rajwinder’s last rites, whose mortal remains are expected to reach by Wednesday.Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh announced ex-gratia compensation of Rs 50 lakh, along with government job to a family member in the 53 Rashtriya Rifles.The CM said the state government will provide all possible support to the bereaved family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-village-army-jawan-killed-in-encounter-with-terrorists/story-GlwwDcja8b5XmYaClV2RZJ.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||2,008 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, death toll at 3,165: 10 important things you need to know||Delhi on Tuesday recorded 2,008 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative tally of infected cases in the city to over 1.02 lakh. The death toll from contracting Covid-19 disease in the national capital rose to 3,165 after 50 new casualties were recorded on Tuesday. Here are ten things about the disease outbreak in Delhi you need to know:1. A total of 74,217 people have recovered from coronavirus disease in Delhi, out of which 2,129 have recovered, discharged and migrated in the last 24 hours. 2. In terms of tracing and testing people, the authorities have tested a total of 6,79,831 people so far, out of which 22,448 people have been tested in the last 24 hours under RTPCR tests and Rapid antigen tests. 3. The city had reported highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases on June 23. The cases recorded have been on a decline since then.4. Total containment zones in Delhi as of July 7 are 454, after one zone was de-contained in the last 24 hours. 5. Delhi recorded a sharp decrease in the positivity rate for tests, currently at 6.73 per cent, over the past three weeks. This could be a sign that testing may have been adequately scaled up in the national capital.6. Test done per million in Delhi — which represents the total number of people tested out of a million — is at 35,780. 7. At present, Delhi has a total of 16,608 infected people under home isolation. 8. As of July 7, Delhi has 16,881 beds available to treat people infected by Covid-19, indicating preparedness on the part of authorities who had expected the tally to go past a lakh by June end. However, Delhi’s number crossed a lakh in July first week. 9. Delhi is currently the third worst-hit state in the country, contributing nearly 14 per cent of the cases, after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.  10. Delhi’s recovery rate on July 7 remained over 70 per cent for third day in a row at 72.17 per cent, indicating a better chance of recovery in the disease outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-008-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-death-toll-at-3-165-10-important-things-you-need-to-know/story-JWwcQhZ52O2sUSZtGP9yuO.html
07-07-2020||Patna||Lightning kills 7 people in Bihar||Seven persons died due to lightning in Bihar on Tuesday, state Disaster Management Department said.Three persons died in Begusarai and one each in Bhagalpur, Munger, Kaimur and Jamui.Heavy rainfall, thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and gusty winds have been predicted for Bihar by Indian Meteorological Department for the next few days.IMD said in its evening bulletin that moderate to intense thunderstorm and lightning is “very likely” to occur over Uttrakhand, Uttar Pradesh, coastal Karnataka, north coastal Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Andaman and Nicobar Islands during the next 12 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/lightning-kills-7-in-bihar/story-QtmP9G1SYhs7LjDG077UpN.html
07-07-2020||City||ARAI, COEP extend MoU for MTech in Automotive Technology||Pune: The Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) and College of Engineering Pune (COEP) have extended their memorandum of understanding on July 3 for another five years to continue the Master of Technology MTech course in Automotive Technology that was started in 2010. The MoU aims to continue the post graduate programme addressing the growing need of resurgent automotive and allied industries.The course is approved by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and admission details will be announced soon on www.mahacet.org. Students would be inducted at COEP and classes would be conducted at COEP and ARAI in the first two semesters. In the second year, students would have an option to continue or go to a University abroad by transfer of credits. Students need to be GATE qualified and eligible for scholarship.NV Marathe, officiating director, ARAI, who signed the MoU on behalf of ARAI said, “As per Automotive Mission Plan, ARAI has taken up the task to develop human resources for automotive industry. COEP is one of the first and premier educational institutes in India and ARAI is proud to be associated with it. Dedicated automotive research and education will provide perfect impetus for the next generation of automotive professionals which will fuel the growth of automotive industry”.Prof BBAhuja, director, COEP said, “Automotive industry is growing phenomenally in India since last decade and will continue to grow further. Hence, education related to automotive sector is extremely important, which will help in facing new challenges of automotive industry. COEP, with its strong academic background, and ARAI with its excellent testing and research facilities will play a vital role in meeting the challenges”.As both the organisations are Pune based, students will undergo course work at COEP, learning the fundamentals of automotive technology and some course work at ARAI Academy learning latest technologies and hands-on practical training. The second year will be devoted to project work, which is generally sponsored by automotive industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arai-coep-extend-mou-for-mtech-in-automotive-technology/story-krIPp5zAUaDHHUsfWdQsII.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sales dipping after end of odd-even rule, say Chandigarh shopkeepers||Shopkeepers in the city are reporting a dip in sales a week after the administration allowed shops in congested markets here to open without the odd-even rule set before.“Since all shops remain open now there is competition among shopkeepers to get more customers, because of which footfall is going down. Opening shops on all days and not on odd and even days is not bringing in more money. My sales are down 50%,” says Sanjeev Kumar, president of Patel Market in Sector 15. Earlier, the shopkeepers had sent numerous pleas to UT adviser Manoj Parida asking that the odd-even rule be removed. Expenses are piling up to add to the problem, says Narinder Singh, president of the Sector 19 Sadar Bazar. “After the odd-even rule we have been handed power bills and have to pay taxes, so things have not looked up for us. Around 20 shops rented out in Sadar Bazar have closed, and others will be shut down too if the government doesn’t provide any stimulus to traders.”Garments business hitJaswinder Nagpal, president of Shastri Market in Sector 22, says products are being marked down to attract more customers. “We kept a margin of around 15% to 20% but now we are happy if we make a 10% profit as we rarely get any customers. Most traders here sell garments but there is no demand as people choose to buy groceries. People stay home all day and many of them are also out of jobs, so buying new clothes isn’t a priority.”Meanwhile, Rajinder Singh, president of Manimajra Motor Market, remains hopeful of things improving soon. “It is important that all shops in the market stay open as different shops deal with different motor parts. The odd-even rule was causing customers some hassles. Business will pick up soon.”Echoing this sentiment, Charanjiv Singh, chairman of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, adds, “Not just in congested markets, all markets in the city have been hit in July as the number of Covid-19 cases are rising. With only a 25% demand in the market, shops must stay open while observing safety measures so that normalcy is restored in the markets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sales-dipping-after-end-of-odd-even-rule-say-chandigarh-shopkeepers/story-zPWKEcV2RpZCzdKydvnLVP.html
07-07-2020||Dehradun||Masks, sanitisation, no prasad: Char Dham pilgrimage in times of Covid-19||Pilgirms to the Char Dham shrines in Uttarakhand have been strictly following the Standard Operating Procedure, including wearing of masks and observing social distancing, to curb the spread of Covid-19 disease in the state.The Uttarakhand government allowed people from the state to visit the four shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri from July 1. Since then, 5,000 e-passes have been issued to pilgrims from the state. The number of e-passes has increased for Kedarnath and Gangotri shrines as the Hindu month of Savan began.Pilgrims have to undergo thermal scanning and sanitisation before they are allowed to enter the shrines. Wearing of masks has also been made compulsory at all the shrines. Bhuwan Chandra Uniyal, dharmadhikari or senior priest at Badrinath shrine in Chamoli district of the state said that none of the pilgrims have violated any of the norms till now.“Pilgrims are strictly following all the rules. They are not allowed to touch the idols, enter the sanctum sanctorum, there is also no distribution of Prasad nor any kind of offerings to the deity are being allowed. Earlier, we used to apply tika or tie the holy thread on pilgrims’ wrists. But none of that is being done this time. Despite all these rules, the devotion by pilgrims is the same and that is the only thing matters, especially in such tough times,” he added.Deepak Semwal, the secretary of Gangotri Dham Committee said even though ritualistic prayers are not being offered this time, it is important to follow all the norms so that priests’ and locals remain safe.“For Gangotri, 15-16 priests are appointed every year before the portals of the shrine opens. These priests are the only ones allowed to perform prayers and other rituals for the next one year; so all the norms need to be strictly followed to keep the priests and the locals safe. If a priest gets infected then the whole ritual of offering prayers can get affected,” said Semwal.Pradeep Uniyal, priest at Yamunotri shrine, said that around four to five devotees are reaching the shrine on a daily basis.“Pilgrims who come to the shrine are only being allowed to worship from outside. No one is allowed to enter inside and there is no system of offering prayers inside the shrine this time,” Uniyal said.Harish Gaur, media in-charge of the Board, said that there is great enthusiasm among pilgrims for visiting the shrines and the organisation’s portal is constantly flooded with requests for generation of e-passes.The Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board has also opened guest houses situated along the routes to the shrines so that pilgrims can stay at the nearest lodging facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/masks-sanitisation-no-prasad-char-dham-pilgrimage-in-times-of-covid-19/story-CfuqitdaPrO5eAokVVRm0M.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Muslims, Christians get graveyards in Mohali after two-decade wait||A graveyard with separate sections for Muslims and Christians was inaugurated at Sector 73 here on Tuesday by Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in the presence of leaders of both communities.Following demands made for over two decades for a burial place in the city, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had earmarked around 5 acres of land for it, which was handed over later to the municipal corporation (MC) for further development.The work took a decade to be completed, giving Mohali a burial ground of its own, saving locals the bother of performing the last rites of their loved ones at the Sector 25 graveyard in Chandigarh.Mohali, which has nearly 15,000 Christians and 10,000 Muslims, has had plans pending for the last 20 years to develop a graveyard.Earlier in the day, Sidhu also laid the foundation stone for renovation of the Sector 73 cremation ground, which will cost the state exchequer around ₹50 lakh.Sidhu said the government will also spend ₹15 lakh on building the boundary wall around the Muslim section in the graveyard.Father Ambrose D’Souza, parish priest of the Infant Jesus Church in Phase-11, who was also present during the inauguration of the graveyard said “We are thankful to the state government and MC commissioner of Mohali for handing over the land to us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/muslims-christians-get-graveyards-in-mohali-after-two-decade-wait/story-vJO7wvM2fBPNjC1lLVM7pM.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fee collection: Tell us how Covid-19 affected your income, with bank details: HC to parents||A section of parents, who had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking their impleadment in the dispute between parents and private schools over collection of fee, have been told by the court to file affidavits explaining how they suffered loss of income due to the Covid-19 situation. They have been asked to explain their income as per tax returns for the previous years, along with complete details of their bank accounts, fixed deposits and income from rent, etc.The parents had sought their impleadment in the petition by Independent Schools’ Association of Chandigarh, a body of 78-odd private schools in the city, which on June 22 had approached the court seeking quashing of the notification issued on June 3 under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The notification had directed educational institutions to collect only tuition fee from students till further orders.The parents filed the application for “impleadment as party to the petition” on the grounds that they were important stakeholders in the education of their children and were also aggrieved by the action of the schools in charging fee.PROVISION TO SHIFT FROM PVT TO GOVT SCHOOLSThe high court bench of justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has also asked principal secretary, department of education, UT, to file an affidavit regarding alternative arrangements, if any, made by the administration for the students, who want to leave private schools on account of their parents being unable to pay their school fee and to ensure that UT will get such students admitted in government schools. The court took note of the fact that similar arrangements had been made by the Haryana government. However, UT had not given any option to parents to withdraw their wards from private schools on account of their financial hardships, and no assurance was given that such students will be given admission in government schools in the city to ensure their right to education.Responding to the petition by schools, UT had submitted that schools can’t be allowed to feed on human misery, and UT’s notification was in response to the Covid-19 outbreak crippling the financial condition of parents. UT stated that the plea did not mention how much fee was collected by schools earlier or how many parents had already deposited the fee. Schools had also not mentioned any shortfall due to UT’s move. It further argued that majority of the schools had always propagated themselves as “smart schools”, and they did not have to spend anything extra for online classes in view of the fact that technology platforms like WhatsApp and Zoom were free and no special training was required to be imparted to teachers. The matter will now come up for further hearing on July 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fee-collection-tell-us-how-covid-19-affected-your-income-with-bank-details-hc-to-parents/story-x6UOcMyIFMlxofrWh8FJLM.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration reverts to 50% staff on rotation at UT secretariat||Only a month after it allowed 100% staff at the UT secretariat in Sector 9, the Chandigarh administration on Tuesday reintroduced rotational duties.Now, only 50% staff will be allowed at the secretariat on any given day. Employees have been asked to come to office on alternate days, and work from home on the remaining days.The decision comes after nine employees of the education department working in the additional deluxe building of the secretariat tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few days. The office of the education department was closed and staff was asked to work from home and stay in home quarantine.The administration has also been facing flak for its failure to ensure social distancing among its staff posted in the secretariat. Employees have complained that it is impossible to maintain social distance norms in the crowded office rooms.In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the administration on March 20 had mandated only 50% employees to attend office on rotational basis. However, on June 8, under the Centre’s Unlock plan, government departments were allowed to call 100% staff to office. As per the fresh order issued by the UT personnel department to all departmental heads in the secretariat: “In order to maintain social distancing to contain the spread of Covid-19, the officers/officials will attend the office of UT secretariat, alternatively on the dates (sic).”A monthly roster of duty for Group B, C and D staff has been prepared and circulated along with the order. The order specifies the dates on which different sets of officials will come, and others work from home.The officials working from home on a particularly day as per the roster have to be available on telephone and electronic means of communication at all times. They will have to attend office, if called for any exigency of work.RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC DEALING IN UT OFFICES ON THE CARDSThe UT administration is actively considering reducing and restricting public dealing hours in its offices. The decision will particularly impact offices such as the Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA), where a large number of people visit on a daily basis.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said: “Even though people have been asked to come after taking appointment, they throng the offices without it. A final decision on restricting public dealing hours will be taken on Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-reverts-to-50-staff-on-rotation-at-ut-secretariat/story-XJ2MMvnxDNn1lPkqDFF1qK.html
07-07-2020||City||SGPC to give Rs 1 lakh each to families of Sikh pilgrims killed in Pak mishap||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday announced give Rs 1 lakh each to the families of 29 Sikh pilgrims killed when a mini-bus carrying them rammed into a train at an unmanned crossing in Pakistan’s Punjab province on July 3. Besides, the injured will get Rs 50,000 each.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the entire community sympathises with the families of those killed in the accident.“The loss of lives cannot be overcome but on sympathetic grounds, the SGPC gives them this money as help. Besides, we appeal to the Pakistan government to extend help to the victims’ families. The Indian government should also take action against the railway personnel whose negligence caused this tragedy,” said Longowal.He said that the SGPC will write to Pak PM Imran Khan in this regard. He said the SGPC will also conduct Akhand Path at the Golden Temple in memory of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-to-give-rs-1-lakh-each-to-families-of-sikh-pilgrims-killed-in-pak-mishap/story-ilFKloGyBt7N0FLMMZCz0L.html
07-07-2020||Pune||Covid-19 vaccine by year end, but not rushing in: Serum CEO, Adar Poonawalla||Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Serum Institute of India, India’s largest vaccine producer by volume, said, “We are hopeful that our Covid-19 vaccine candidate will be ready by the year-end and we do not want to rush in.”Poonawalla’s remarks came on Tuesday, after the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) announcement about launching a Coronavirus vaccine by August 15 has been met with much scepticism by the scientific and medical community in the country. The Serum Institute has currently joined hands with the university of Oxford in the UK and US-based firm Codagenix, to produce a vaccine for Covid-19.“Once the third phase is over we can give an update. Another Covid-19 vaccine candidate was rushed into the process and it was declared that the vaccine will come in earlier than anticipated, but we will make declarations only once the efficacy of the vaccine is ensured,” said Poonawalla.He also added that Serum Institute could not rush into production of vaccines which have multiple phases that need to be followed to determine the efficacy.Poonawalla was speaking at the launch of a testing machine manufactured by Mylab Discovery Solutions in Pune.The compact XL-lab-in-a-box can perform tests, including the one for Covid-19 test, which are otherwise conducted in laboratories. “The machine also seeks to minimise human intervention, thereby not only reducing human error, but also avoiding any exposure of technicians performing the procedure. The machine can test 32 samples and within one hour and prepare the PCR (polymerase chain reaction)-ready tube, which is further tested for the presence of the virus,” said Poonawalla.Mylab recently partnered with Serum institute to scale production of Covid-19 test kits which take between three-to-four hours to deliver the results.Although rapid antigen detection kits are used widely for instant results, the Rt-PCR tests are considered the standard when it comes to testing for any virus. The cost for the tests will remain at Rs 2,500 for each sample.Redraw testing guidelines: PoonawallaAdar Poonawalla called on the ICMR and the central government to come up with fresh guidelines for Covid-19 testing.“If I want to test my entire staff of 500 people, I cannot do that because of the current restrictions of testing only symptomatic people, or the need for a doctor’s prescription. Indian manufacturers have come up with multiple testing kits. Mylab alone can produce two million testing kits a week, but currently not even half of them are being used because of the demand which is only as per the current ICMR guidelines. It is true that we are not testing enough. Many companies are reporting multiple cases within their units, but they cannot conduct tests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-vaccine-by-year-end-but-not-rushing-in-serum-ceo-adar-poonawalla/story-2BuUywS7I4mHpJt2frmDlK.html
07-07-2020||City||One person tests positive in Himachal’s Kangra district, pushing Covid-count to 1,078||One more Covid-19 case was reported in Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district on Tuesday, pushing the state count to 1,078 cases. A 30-year-old paramilitary personnel, a resident of Garli village in Rakkar tehsil, tested positive. He had returned from Kerala on July 4. He has been shifted to the district Covid-Care Centre (DCCC) Dadh, said deputy commissioner Kangra Rakesh Prajapati. As many as eight patients were discharged from Kangra district on Tuesday.The active cases in the state now stand at 290 as 14 more patients have recovered.So far, nine people have succumbed to the disease in the state. As many as 764 patients have recovered while 13 have migrated out of the state.With 291 positive cases, Kangra is the worst-hit district followed by Hamirpur at 267, Una at 127 cases, Solan at 119, Chamba at 58, Bilaspur at 48, Shimla and Bilaspur at 47, Sirmaur at 40, Mandi at 36, Kinnaur at 34, Kullu at seven and Lahaul-Spiti at four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-person-tests-positive-in-himachal-s-kangra-district-pushing-covid-count-to-1-078/story-6RPZEtb7pno1bsEAP3sNTP.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Man dies by suicide in Shimla’s Rampur Bushahr; his wife consumes poison, survives||A man hung himself while his wife consumed poison in Rampur Bushahr sub-division of Shimla on Monday. The incident took place in Bathara village of Rampur Bushahr on Monday around 9:15pm when the man hung himself in his room. After seeing her husband dead, his wife also consumed poison. The neighbours immediately informed the police, who rushed them to the Sarahan civil hospital, where the husband was declared brought dead. The wife was discharged on Tuesday. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Abhimaniyou Verma said no suicide note was found from the spot. The statements of witnesses have been recorded and proceedings are being carried out under Section 174 of the CRPC Act.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. You can reach Mental Health and Rehabilitation Centre, Boileauganj, Shimla, at 0177-2633601 or visit www.hhmhrshimla.org.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/couple-attempts-suicide-in-shimla-s-rampur-bushahr-man-dies-wife-survives/story-mnNIAxx40C43zlLPNC74PK.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal CM lays foundation stones, inaugurates projects worth Rs 45 crore in Mandi||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday laid foundation stones and inaugurated multiple development projects amounting to Rs 45 crore in Mandi’s Sundernagar constituency over video-conference on Tuesday.The CM laid the foundation stone of the Sundernagar-Bina Road, which will be constructed for Rs 7.18 crore and the Horticulture Rest House at Harabag that will be built for Rs 2.85 crore. Around Rs 4 crore has been allotted to additional accommodation at the PWD Rest House and Rs 22.24 crore for augmentation of the Lift Irrigation Scheme in Sundernagar. The scheme will benefit around 21,000 people in 11 wards.Thakur inaugurated a 19.75m span bridge over Bella Khud that cost Rs 1.02 crore, the new building of the horticulture department that was built at a cost of Rs 1.04 crore and improvement and expansion of the Lift Drinking Water Scheme, Kalauhad, that cost Rs 3 crore. The scheme will benefit around 5,000 people.Addressing the virtual rally, the CM said that development projects worth Rs 500 crore were being executed in Sundernagar’s Vidhan Sabha area. “These projects include Rs 200-crore schemes of the Jal Shakti department and Rs 100 crore projects of the PWD. An indoor stadium is also being constructed in Sundernagar. The stadium will cost Rs 12 crore. Work on the Rs 12-crore Mother Child Hospital building is also in progress.” Thakur said all projects should be completed within a stipulated time period. He said the state government has opened an ITI at Nehri besides opening a PWD sub-division at Salapar in Kangoo. He said paucity of funds will not come in the way of development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-cm-lays-foundation-stones-inaugurates-projects-worth-rs-45-crore-in-mandi/story-U48bZJ6SMHk18U0HrnQU1N.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||Man arrested for duping AIIMS nursing officer of Rs 34 lakh on pretext of marriage||A 36-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly duping a nursing officer at AIIMS of Rs 34 lakh on the pretext of marriage, police said on Tuesday.The accused, identified as Mohammad Sadik Imran, was nabbed from Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh on Monday with the help of mobile phone and technical surveillance, they said.Police said the matter was reported to them by the woman at the Mehrauli police station in South Delhi on March 3.The woman, who works as a nursing officer at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, stated in her complaint that she received a friend request from the accused on Facebook in 2018.After verifying his friend list, she accepted his request, police said.According to the complainant, during the course of their friendship, he also promised to marry her and even took her to Leh, Ladakh on a vacation. After winning her confidence, he induced her that he wanted to start a hotel business before their marriage and asked her to transfer Rs 34 lakh in his bank account.After she transferred the amount, he started avoiding her calls and when she realised that she had been cheated by him, she reported the matter to police, they said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said based on her complaint, a case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property). During investigation, it was established that the accused was in Vijayawada and a police team was sent there to arrest him, he said.He was produced before the concerned court in Vijayawada and brought to Delhi on transit remand and produced before the Saket court on Monday, the DCP added.The accused disclosed that he was unemployed. Hence, he hatched the conspiracy to fulfil his needs and all the money that he received from the woman had been spent by him in opening a hotel business, which was started by him but he ran into losses, Thakur said.His bank account details, documents, passbooks have been recovered from his house in Vijayawada, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-arrested-for-duping-aiims-nursing-officer-of-rs-34-lakh-on-pretext-of-marriage/story-s5HIxMGZwH4J6wQLC3694K.html
07-07-2020||City||70-year-old man becomes 6th Covid-19 fatality in Punjab’s Mohali||A 70-year-old man from Kharar died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, becoming the sixth fatality related to the disease in Mohali district and third within the past eight days. The elderly man was first admitted to a private hospital in Sector 68 to undergo surgery for a chronic disease, and was later shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital in Patiala, where he breathed his last while undergoing treatment. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said his body has been kept in the mortuary at the Patiala hospital and his cremation will take place in Mohali on Wednesday under the observation of health officials.“We will collect samples of his family members and trace all his contacts,” he said.Five more test +veFour men suffering from influenza like illness besides a woman also tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Tuesday, taking the tally to 323. As many as 80 cases remain active in the district.Aged 38, 40, 48 and 50, the men belong to Nayagaon, Zirakpur, Jawaharpur in Dera Bassi, and Baltana, respectively. The 28-year-old woman is from Mundi Kharar is a contact of a previous case.“All patients have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. We will take samples of their family members on Wednesday,” said the civil surgeon.Meanwhile, eight more patients were discharged from hospital after being cured of the disease, pushing up the number of recoveries to 247.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-year-old-man-becomes-6th-covid-19-fatality-in-punjab-s-mohali/story-ReW8vbcV6mxIDmxNppcpWO.html
07-07-2020||Kolkata||Cop succumbs to Covid-19 in West Bengal||A police personnel posted at the Howrah Commissionerate succumbed to Covid-19 at a hospital here on Tuesday, a senior health department official said.The man was initially admitted to a hospital in Howrah as he was running a fever, he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAfter his condition deteriorated, he was moved to a private hospital here, the official said.“He had tested negative for the disease at the Howrah hospital. As his condition did not improve, he was then moved to a private hospital. There, he tested positive for Covid-19. This morning, he succumbed to the disease,” the official said.So far, at least two policemen in West Bengal have died due to Covid-19, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cop-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-west-bengal/story-6QRVnANOXEASO1pr8wUTrI.html
07-07-2020||Dehradun||Vikas Dubey sighted in Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnor; Uttarakhand police on alert||Police in Uttarakhand has asked its personnel in the state, especially in the border districts, to be on alert after reports of absconding Uttar Pradesh history sheeter Vikas Dubey, seen in a car with his men in Bijnor surfaced. The gangster is on the run after his men killed at least eight cops during a police raid on Thursday last week. Uttarakhand police headquarters alarmed its personnel in the state, especially in the border districts, to be on alert after the latest lead on whereabouts of Dubey. The dreaded criminal was allegedly seen in a car with his men in Bijnor on Monday night, a senior police officer requesting anonymity said. Also read: 3 more cops suspended on suspicion of links to Vikas Dubey“The report had raised suspicions that he might try to enter Uttarakhand in order to escape UP police. Following this, the state police has alerted its men across the state especially UP bordering districts of Dehradun, Haridwar and US Nagar,” said the officer.Ashok Kumar, director general of law and order in Uttarakhand said, “Following the Kanpur incident, we have asked our personnel to be on vigil so as to nab Dubey if he tries to enter Uttarakhand.”Kumar has denied the reports of Dubey entering in the state and said, “So far, we have no inputs that he has entered Uttarakhand.”Uttar Pradesh police on Tuesday had said 40 police teams and a special task force was hunting for dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey, on the run after ambushing eight policemen with the help of his accomplices in Kanpur city last Thursday night. The state police chief added that the force will not rest until Dubey is nabbed.Also read: 25 cops, all eyewitnesses to 2001 murder, turned hostile during Dubey’s trialOfficials believe that Dubey, an influential gangster whose criminal records date back to 1993, had supporters in the police force and that they helped him and his gang have a free run despite cases of murder, attempted murder and abduction against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/vikas-dubey-sighted-in-uttar-pradesh-s-bijnor-uttarakhand-police-on-alert/story-PvTqPW1ALVzJ9YycEccEBJ.html
07-07-2020||City||Kerala HC rejects ex-bishop Mulakkal’s plea to stay trial in rape case||Thiruvananthapuram The Kerala High Court on Tuesday rejected former Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal’s plea to quash the rape case against him and directed him to face the trial. In March, the trial court in Kottayam had dismissed his discharge plea and he later moved the high court.While hearing his plea, the prosecution contended that there was strong evidence against him and he was moving petitions frequently to delay the trial. Later, justice V Shircy rejected his plea and directed him to stand trial in the case.Last month, the trial court had asked him to appear before it on July 1 but he failed, saying his house was in a containment zone in Jalandhar so he could not move out. Sister Anupama, one of the five nuns who staged a sit-in in Kochi seeking the bishop’s arrest, said she is happy with the latest development, adding she has full faith in the judicial system of the country.The case surfaced two years ago after a 43-year-old nun had complained to the police in Kottayam in central Kerala that Mulakkal had raped her several times between 2014 and 2016. The nun is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab. But Mulakkal denied it saying he was implicated after he took action against her for financial irregularities in the convent.Later a special investigation team was formed and it arrested him in September 2018. After spending 40 days in jail, he was granted bail. He was removed from the post of the bishop later.The SIT had filed the charge sheet against him last year. There were many allegations that the accused took different tactics to delay the trial. The petitioner had also complained that some of the witnesses were threatened by the followers of Mulakkal. A special court is hearing the case in Kottayam. His counsel said he will move the Supreme Court soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-hc-rejects-ex-bishop-mulakkal-s-plea-to-stay-trial-in-rape-case/story-WEaKAiQpba0H5HZrWF84bK.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||Fire breaks out in social justice ministry office at Shastri Bhawan||A fire broke out at an office of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment at the Shastri Bhawan here on Tuesday, a Delhi Fire Services official said.No casualty was reported in the incident and the fire was brought under control within 25 minutes, he said.The call about the fire was received around 1.30 pm and five fire tenders were rushed to the spot, the official said.It is suspected that the fire started in a split air-conditioner and then engulfed a sofa in room number 253 of the ministry. The office is located on the second floor of the Shastri Bhawan, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-in-social-justice-ministry-office-at-shastri-bhawan/story-AfJC1C934Mb2RyV5EbreHP.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||No funds for water conservation as demand peaks in paddy sowing season||With demand for water peaking in paddy sowing season, groundwater levels in Punjab are showing signs of depletion even as no progress is being reported in sustainable water management schemes because the Centre and states have not released funds.No district has this year been able to implement water conservation measures as part of Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY), Rural Infrastructure Development Funds ( RIDF-20) and Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY).Sources who wish to remain anonymous say neither the state nor the Centre have released funds under any soil and water conservation scheme this year. Therefore, districts which are receiving applications from farmers and others to adopt water saving measures cannot keep up with the demand.To popularise such schemes the government had announced subsidies on water conservation measures such as installing rain gun, setting up systems for drip irrigation, sprinkler irrigation, micro sprinkler, mini sprinkler and water pipeline.According to the soil and water conservation department, Punjab, the centre has 60 share in PMKSY and RKVY while RIDF-20 is sponsored by the state government under a National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development project.An official of the department said paddy was considered to be the most water consuming crop but the districts were struggling to provide benefit to farmers.Pleading anonymity, he said, “The Centre and state governments already had low budgets for implementation of the conservation schemes. For example, last year a district demanded Rs 1 crore after taking into account farmers’ demands, but it was sanctioned Rs 20 lakh. However this year, no district has received any funds.”Dharminder Sharma, chief conservator, soils, Punjab, said, “No scheme has been scrapped. Funds have just been deferred because of the Covid-19 situation. It’s just a delay,”Kahan Singh Pannu, secretary, agriculture department, said, “I am not aware of it. I will speak to officials concerned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-funds-for-water-conservation-as-demand-peaks-in-paddy-sowing-season/story-bZLDcREaQLIw6jeyYIXOdN.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two brothers among three dead in SUV accident in Himachal’s Sirmaur district||Shimla: Two brothers were among three persons killed when their Bolero fell into a gorge in Himachal Pradesh’s Sirmaur district, police said on Tuesday.Rakesh Kumar, 34, and his brother Rajesh, 40, and Haribhalab Sharma, 40, all residents of Bajnashra in Theog sub division of Shimla district were returning from Solan when the accident took place on Monday evening. The driver lost control of the vehicle on the Yashvantnagar-Neripul road near Shilabag village in Sirmaur district.The vehicle was noticed by local residents who informed the police. The bodies were taken to the civil hospital at Rajgarh, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Bhisham Thakur said, adding investigation was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-brothers-among-three-dead-in-suv-accident-in-himachal-s-sirmaur-district/story-xm6S2wxBdbynav85SV0thK.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||HPU extends last date of submitting online application for BEd entrance exam to July 25||The Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) on Tuesday extended the last date to submit the online application form for bachelors of education (B.Ed) entrance test to July 25. The application can be submitted through the university’s website www.admissions.hpushimla.in. Earlier, HPU had also extended the last date for submitting entrance-based and merit-based postgraduate (PG) admission forms for the session 2020-21 to July 18 due to ongoing pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hpu-extends-last-date-of-submitting-online-application-for-bed-entrance-exam-to-july-25/story-oc9Z5sqANiJzD2U7KbveLP.html
07-07-2020||Dehradun||Watch: Indian Air Force lands IAF’s Mi17 chopper, AN-32 aircraft near Indo-China border in Uttarakhand||Indian Air Force choppers were spotted flying at Chinyalisaur airstrip of Uttarkashi district near Sino-India border in a round of security inspection exercise a day after India and China showed first signs of de-escalation of tension by withdrawl of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The sorties were held on Monday evening amid tight security arrangements by Indian Army personnel near the airstrip which is used as the advance landing ground by IAF. WATCH | IAF’s Mi17 chopper, AN-32 aircraft at Uttarakhand’s Chinyalisaur airstrip According to the officials in the district, two IAF’s Mi17 helicopters were seen flying at the Advance Landing Ground in Chinyalisaur airstrip.“The helicopters landed and took-off at least five times. They also flew near the border for inspecting security,” said an official of the district administration not wishing to be named. Superintendent of police (SP) Uttarkashi Pankaj Bhatt confirmed the air force’s activity and said that two IAF choppers landed at the spot. Earlier in June, AN-32 aircraft of the air force had also landed there as part of an exercise. Security has been tightened near the Indo-China border in Uttarakhand by the armed forces after the clash in Galwan Valley. Border Roads Organisation has also sped up its various projects in the area. On Tuesday, defence minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the progress of BRO projects near LAC and LOC in which he also sought the progress report of those in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/indian-air-force-lands-choppers-near-indo-china-border-in-uttarakhand/story-ZuONP7l4Vp7NjyC3sM9LfM.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Akalis protesting fuel price hike booked for violating Covid-19 social distancing norms in Punjab CM’s hometown||Patiala: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) members protesting the fuel price hike were booked in chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s hometown of Patiala for violating social distancing norms in Covid-19 times.Police named 10 local Akali leaders in the FIR registered under Sections 188, 283, 269, 270 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Prevention of Cruelty Act as they led a protest and took out a procession against the central and Congress-led Punjab governments despite appeals to call off the unlawful dharna.“They were apprised of the district administration’s guidelines regarding the Covid-19 pandemic to wear masks and maintain social distancing. But to no avail, they carried on with the dharna by violating guidelines. Thereafter, they held a march on mule carts. The carts were overburdened with motorcycles mounted on the carriages and people sitting on them, thus causing torture and cruelty to the animals,” the FIR read.The police said the Akali members obstructed traffic and caused inconvenience to the public and were booked for their irresponsible act.Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal and his supporters, including Dera Bassi legislator NK Sharma, held a dharna against the skyrocketing fuel prices and electricity rates besides the poor distribution of ration to the needy in Covid-19 times.Those named in the Patiala FIR include Harpal Juneja, Ravinder Pal Singh, Jaswinder Singh Chadha, Sukhbir Singh Sanour, Jaideep Goel, Gobind Badungar and Gurbaksh Singh Chahal.701 FIRs FOR VIOLATING COVID-19 NORMS IN SANGRURSangrur: Six unemployed diploma primary education (DPE) teachers were booked in Sangrur on Tuesday under the Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code for violating government guidelines during the Covid-19 pandemic. With this, a total of 701 cases have been registered against violators in the district.Sangrur police chief Sandeep Garg said that 655 FIRs were registered under the IPC and 46 FIRs under the Disaster Management Act for holding gatherings and not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing either.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akalis-protesting-fuel-price-hike-booked-for-violating-covid-19-social-distancing-norms-in-punjab-cm-s-hometown/story-hUBaPimRjSMtnZAPW3qlvK.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||Intermittent intense rain likely in Mumbai: IMD||Mumbai and its neighbouring areas received moderate to heavy rains in the last 24 hours, the IMD said on Tuesday and predicted intermittent intense showers over the next day.The Matheran hill station in neighbouring Raigad district received 93.4 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 8.30 am on Tuesday, while the Thane-Belapur Industries Association observatory recorded 74 mm rainfall during the period, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The Santacruz weather station, representative of Mumbai’s suburbs, reported 30.2 mm rainfall, while the Colaba bureau, representative of the island city, recorded 13.4 mm rainfall during the same period.Mumbai and around received moderate to heavy rains in last 24 hours at 8.30 am of 7 July. Next 24 hours intermittent intense showers likely, IMD Mumbai’s Deputy Director General K S Hosalikar tweeted.According to the IMD, Alibaug in Raigad district recorded 54 mm rainfall during the same period while the Dahanu observatory in neighbouring Palghar district reported 34.7 mm rainfall.The Harnai weather bureau in coastal Ratnagiri district in Konkan region reported 30.2 mm rainfall during the period.Besides, the Nashik district recorded 25.2 mm rainfall and Kolhapur district reported 7.4 mm rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/intermittent-intense-rain-likely-in-mumbai-imd/story-UnAgMzmsvHjJgv6EvJwQbL.html
07-07-2020||Pune||Bajaj Auto workers’ union demand temporary closure of Waluj plant to break Covid cycle||Workers’ union of the Bajaj Auto plant at Waluj are demanding a temporary shut down for eight-10 days, in order to curb the spread of the Covid-19 infection there. At least 400 workers at the plant have tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 infection and seven have even succumbed to the infection till now.The factory, which is located 12km from Aurangabad, is still operational as the company management said all the necessary safety precautions at the manufacturing plant are being followed. However, unions demand a temporary closure of the plant to break the cycle of the spread of the infection.Bajaj Auto did not respond to HT’s queries about the demand for the temporary closure of the plant despite repeated attempts via the phone and email, until the time of going to print.The plant, which has approximately 8,000 workers and a total of 3,000 permanent workers, manufactures motorcycles and autorickshaws.“The number of Covid patients is on the rise at our company since last month. Work at the plant started work in mid-May. When the Unlock process started, workers who were coming to the factory also moved around the city and caught the infection. This in turn spread amongst other workers at the factory. In the beginning, there was not a single positive case at our company, but with restrictions eased, our workers held birthday programmes and participated in some social gatherings. It resulted in an increase in the number of Covid positive workers inside the plant,” said Bajirao Thengade, president of the Bajaj Auto workers’ union.As per the information given by Thegade, there are 11 departments at the plant and each department has workers who tested positive. In the motorcycle final assembly department there are 54 cases, motorcycle engine assembly has 62 cases, autorickshaw engine assembly has 36 cases, autorickshaw final assembly has 110 cases, tent shop has 29 cases, autorickshaw and four-wheeler final together has 28 cases, machine shop (two departments) has 33 positives and 23 cases respectively, among other departments.“Currently, there are 400 confirmed positive cases at our company. The company management has been providing all necessary help to the workers, taking safety precautions, but our demand is that they should find a solution to stop the spread of disease amongst the workers. Hence, we have asked the company management to close down the plant for eight to 10 days, so that the cycle breaks. We had a meeting with the management officials and conveyed our demands to them,” added Thengade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bajaj-auto-workers-union-demand-temporary-closure-of-waluj-plant-to-break-covid-cycle/story-pOMO7TNIIeRU9j6sSOPOKI.html
07-07-2020||Patna||Bihar students to get ration, money under mid-day meal scheme||Bihar Education Department has instructed senior district education officers to provide eight kg ration and Rs 358 to children studying in Class 1-5 and 12 kg ration and Rs 536 to students of Class 6-8 under mid-day meal scheme for May, June and July.The state Education Department said the decision has been taken in view of the situation created by Covid-19 pandemic.The ration will be provided to the parents of the students and the amount will be deposited into students/parents’ accounts through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT).The release said the state government has already transferred Rs 378 crore into the accounts of students under mid-day meal scheme.A total of 276 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Bihar on Monday taking the total number of reported cases to 12,410.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-students-to-get-ration-money-under-mid-day-meal-scheme/story-gnR6cFN0MGzjLs5v3YUzbL.html
07-07-2020||Lucknow||Even on home turf Sonam Malik training hard for mission success||Sonam Malik jogs a few kilometers every morning from her home to the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Academy in Madina village (Sonepat) where her training partner Anshu Malik and coach Ajmer Malik wait as a matter of routine.A gruelling session lasting around three hours begins soon after as Sonam, Anshu and two male wrestlers in their weight category train on the muddy surface inside the academy.“You try and evolve different techniques when you compete with boys. This allows me to learn new techniques and it will benefit me when I face my rivals in the Asian Olympic Qualifiers next year,” said Sonam, who has beaten Rio Olympics bronze medallist Sakshi Malik twice in the 62kg category trials.Learning leg defense has been the main focus of the two-time World Cadet Championships gold-medallist Sonam and the best one to practice this technique is none other than World Championship bronze-medallist Anshu Malik, who had a 3-1 win record against former Pooja Dhanda in the trials here in February, mostly using leg defense.“We have been practicing together here, but still missing the national camp at Lucknow,” said Sonam, who aims to win a medal at the 2021 Tokyo Olympics. “I wish to win an Olympic medal for my father Rajender, who always wanted to do something big in the sport. “Leg defense is what I need to perfect as I have seen most of the Asian wrestlers making most of this attack in their bouts.”For Sonam, things were on right track as she was getting good training at the Sports Authority of India centre here in Lucknow before the nationwide lockdown was announced due to the COVID-19.“It was really quite boring at the start of the lockdown as in absence of a rival or opponent I didn’t feel that kind of fire in me while training with a few young wrestlers at home. How long can you keep yourself motivated with only physical workouts, but as soon as unlock 1.0 came into effect I started rigorous training.”“I am now focused on my mission of qualifying for the Olympics. Uncertainty is there about the schedule of the event at Bishkek (Kyrgyzstan) even when things are heading towards normalcy, and I am happy that the postponement of the qualifying event as well as Olympics has given me additional opportunity to get myself ready in a better manner,’ said Sonam, who has now been enjoying the Bollywood movies on TV at home.“During the lockdown, I watched Ajay Devgn starrer Golmaal Returns, and many more such films. Other than the physical training, watching films had been my routine now as I had no other option but to spend time at home with family members and close friends. Yes, got to eat so many home-cooked eatables like samosas.”Sonam, who had consecutive wins against Sakshi at two different trials in two months this year, knows that how much training is important for her mission Tokyo as the finalists in the qualifying events will get tickets for the Games. “It’s a situation where no one can do anything, expect staying calm and composed as you don’t know about the schedule of the qualifying event. Though I am at home, taking all precautions to maintain my food habit as a change in weight due to over-eating would make a big difference,” she said.Her father Rajender Malik, who acts as co-coach of her at all the trials and event, besides her coach Ajmer, said that staying confident for a ticket to Olympics while practicing in home conditions wasn’t easy. “I was so much worried about Sonam in the lockdown, but now it’s much relief to me as she is enjoying her training.”Rajender, who works as a store helper in a sugar mill in Gohana, said that winning a medal at Olympics has been the only dream of her daughter Sonam and his family. “It was God who brought Sonam back to the mat after she sustained injury in 2017 and kept away from sport for the six months, and I still believe that God would help her too in winning a medal at Olympics once this corona crisis is over.”Along with Sonam, four others Indian women wrestlers like Nirmala Devi (50 kg), Anshu Malik (57kg), Divya Kakran (68 kg) and Kiran (76 kg) would also be aiming for a ticket to the Tokyo Olympics at the Asian Qualifying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/even-on-home-turf-sonam-malik-training-hard-for-mission-success/story-HVQu1Br0qrhSqOsL6eCthI.html
07-07-2020||Patna||Bihar govt not bothered about Covid-19, only polls, says Tejashwi Yadav||Former Bihar deputy chief minister and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Tuesday accused the Nitish Kumar-led government in the state of ignoring the rapidly rising coronavirus cases as it remains focused on preparing for the upcoming state elections.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The coronavirus cases are increasing at a very high rate in Bihar. But the government is neither worried about tests, nor about treatment. The entire government machinery is busy with the upcoming elections. It is hiding figures. If the government does not watch out, then the situation may become more explosive by August-September”, Yadav tweeted.Currently, Bihar has 12,125 confirmed Covid-19 cases, 8,997 patients have recovered, while 97 have lost their lives.The state elections are slated to be held later this year for 243 Assembly seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-govt-not-bothered-about-covid-19-only-polls-says-tejashwi-yadav/story-AhonwEua89UaFU5RMvLg8J.html
07-07-2020||Pune||Covid-19 positive patient kills self in Pune||A 60-year-old man allegedly died by suicide at a quarantine centre in Pune.Both he and his son were tested positive for Covid-19 recently. The incident took place at around 10 am on Monday.“A 60-year-old man killed himself at quarantine centre of Pune Municipal Corporation in the city’s Kondhwa yesterday. He and his son were tested positive for Covid-19 earlier and both were put in quarantine centre (hostel) in Pune’s Kondhwa,” the Pune Police said.“The incident took place at about 10 am in the morning when the man hanged himself in the quarantine centre. The reason for the suicide is not clear yet,” police added.Maharashtra currently has the highest number of cases in the country. As per the latest figures, there are 2,11,987 confirmed cases. Out of them, 1,15,262 have recovered, while 9,026 have lost their lives, according to the Union Health Ministry.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-positive-patient-kills-self-in-pune/story-9cmASrUTHToyFRpsIBKDPJ.html
07-07-2020||Lucknow||Why is Agra not descending from the Covid-19 peak?||‘Tero naash ho jaye corona, toone chhino Brijwasi se kachaudi aur jalebi ko dona’ (Let you be cursed corona for having snatched jalebi and kachaudi from Braj residents). Thus go the lyrics of a popular song in the Braj area in Mathura (in Agra division), which to a great extent indicate the careless attitude of the people of the region.Agra and region may be reeling under the attack of the Covid-19 pandemic but all the locals care about is their breakfast of jalebi and kachaudi. Even in containment zones, compliance of disease-prevention norms is neglected.In the unlock phase, the freedom to violate norms has become the order of the day in Agra city which has seen 88 deaths due to Covid-19 infection.Despite sweetmeat shops being allowed to open in the unlock phase, the rider attached to them is that no one be allowed to eat at these shops. They have to get the eatables packed and carry it back home. Those violating the norms are facing action but many shops in suburban areas and in the inner lanes easily serve customers who wish to eat right there.The logic food lovers gave for thronging the stalls of Agra’s famous chat and other delicacies is that freshly prepared eatables are hot and the heat kills the germs.“The awareness level in the city is not at the level required in a city which has the leading number of Covid-19 cases. Shops are asked only to pack eatables and not allow anyone to eat at the shop but those purchasing the packed item, walk a few steps and open it to have it standing in a group,” said Agra physician N K Singh.“Masks are a must when we interact but the reverse is seen. People have a mask on when they are alone but remove it once they are interacting with others. The whole purpose of a mask gets defeated. Social distancing, if considered, is simplest and the most effective weapon against Covid-19 spread but it is violated openly.“It is well established that virus spreads through droplets yet masks are not worn by many. Masks stops the droplets spreading through sneezing, coughing and while speaking, and the simple solution is wearing a mask and social distancing but even our leaders are seen violating social distancing when getting photographs clicked,” the doctor added, and asked for a strict penalty to be imposed on those violation norms.But it isn’t smooth sailing for these outlets selling the famous Braj breakfast of kachaudi and jalebi in Mathura and Aligarh, and bedain (another form of kachaudi) and jalebi in Agra.The famous Oma Kachaudi Wale at Holi Gate area in Mathura had submitted a memorandum to officials in Mathura to have shops opened for kachaudi and jalebi and are prepared to follow all unlock rules, provided shops are allowed to open at ‘proper’ breakfast timings.“We have met the city magistrate and are being assured that we will be allowed to open from 7 am which is perfect timing for having kachaudi. We are hopeful that those who relish the taste of our kachauris will return to savour their favourite breakfast,” said Oma Kachaudi Wale owner Triloki Nath Agarwal.Dauji Mishthan Bhandar (Agra) owner Jay Agarwal counts timing of opening and closing of shops as the major issue hitting sales. “We are allowed to open shops from 10 am to 8 pm. The bedain and jalebi are prepared early in the morning. If we open at 10 am, the time for breakfast has already passed,” said Agarwal.“The common man is not that inclined to take risks and this is reflected in our sales falling. We have three outlets in the city but we prepare breakfast only at Bhagwan Talkies and Nunhai. Our third outlet is in Kamla Nagar. The locality is a posh area where people are aware about safety precautions and prefer to give bedain and jalebi a miss for the sake of safety. Thus, we dropped the idea there,” Agarwal said.Bhagat Halwai (MG Road, Agra) owner Shishir Bhagat said that customer footfall is gradually increasing. “In the first 15 days after lockdown, we recorded only 15% sale but it increased to 40% after a fortnight. We do not allow anybody to eat at our shop and follow all guidelines, including wearing of aprons, head covers, and follow sanitisation procedures,” Bhagat said. The sales percentages he quoted were in comparison to pre-lockdown sales figures.“The fear of Covid-19 is fading steadily and now the administration should allow shops to close later, as the present timings of 10 am to 8 pm are not fit for summer. People usually like to move out of the house after 8 pm in summer. Further, permission should be granted to eat at shops with seating arrangements made being mindful of social distancing,” said Bhagat, who hopes for better business around Rakasha Bandhan, when shops sell ‘ghevar’ during the month of Sawan.Lokswar (a socio-cultural organisation) convenor Rajeev Gupta said, “There is much Covid-19-related fear because of which the sensible are not going out to have their favourite bedain and jalebi. There is a section which seems to be careless and is happy consuming the breakfast right at the shop, but strict action should be taken against them.“Largely, there is a lot of carelessness regarding social distancing and with markets open, violations are rampant. In Agra, Covid-19 has spread to rural areas too, but there too, masks are not a must for most villagers and such lapses are leading to the disease raging on,” Gupta said.In the last two days of June, there were about 600 marriages in Agra, and at these functions, food lovers far outnumbered those sensible enough to refuse to eat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-is-agra-not-descending-from-the-covid-19-peak/story-R0VqXyKPzeBaT4gndlDdFL.html
07-07-2020||City||Burglars wearing PPE kits flee with 780 gm gold in Maharashtra||Burglars wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits broke into a jewellery shop in Satara district and walked away with 780 gm gold, police said on Tuesday.CCTV footage from the shop, located in Phaltan area, shows the burglars taking hold of the gold jewellery from the showcases and cupboards within, police said.The footage of the 2-day-old incident during the coronavirus-induced lockdown shows the burglars wearing caps, masks, plastic jackets and hand-gloves taking the jewellery from the display cases.A case has been registered at the Phaltan police station after a complaint by the jewellery shop owner, who said the burglars took away 78 ‘tola’ (one tola is 10 gm) gold, police said.The shop owner said the burglars broke in through the shop wall, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/burglars-wearing-ppe-kits-flee-with-780-gm-gold-in-maharashtra/story-2bRxFbrFCoUzWo88vObdoO.html
07-07-2020||Ranchi||Devotees made to return from Deoghar borders; rituals streamed online||Devotees turning up from Bihar and different parts of Jharkhand to offer prayers at Baba Baidyanath Dham temple in the religious town of Deoghar on the first day of the holy month of Shravan were stopped on the Deoghar border, police said on Monday.However, devotees watched the morning ritual at Dwadas Jyotirlingam in Deoghar live on JharGov TV and various social medial platforms on Monday.In a bid to check the entry of devotees, Deoghar district administration recently set up check posts at 12 entry points. Many devotees on the Bihar-Jharkhand border and Giridih-Deoghar border were made to return on Monday after being denied permission to enter the religious town. Several devotees, who carried Gangajal from Sultanganj in Bihar were found offering the holy water at a pillar in Dumma on the Jharkhand-Bihar border after they were not allowed to cross the border.The administration tightened security measures after the Jharkhand high court last week denied permission for holding the annual month-long Shravani fair and opening of two temples at Deoghar and Dumka during the month of Shravan.“Devotees are turning up but there is no rush, as the message has been conveyed. Some devotees who came on Monday were not allowed to enter Deoghar,” said superintendent of police (SP) Piyush Pandey.He said they are in touch with the Bhagalpur SP, who is also making efforts to make devotees aware about the restrictions. “We are also making announcements on the Jharkhand-Bihar border, urging devotees to return, as they will not be allowed to enter Deoghar,” he said.Pandey said they have deployed security personnel at 12 entry points on the inter-state and the inter-district borders. “Five private vehicles carrying devotees were coming from Giridih district’s Bengabad area but they were made to return from the border,” he said.In the main temple premises, only priests were allowed to enter on Monday morning. Security personnel were also around the temple area.Meanwhile, Dumka administration has also sealed its border with West Bengal in a bid to stop the devotees to enter the town for offering prayers at the Basukinath temple.However, Deoghar and Dumka administrations offered virtual ‘darshan’ of Lord Shiva to devotees.Officials ensured live streaming of morning prayers and worship on both the administrations’ websites and various social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/devotees-made-to-return-from-deoghar-borders-on-day-1-of-shravan-rituals-stream-online/story-CQZOrfJrn2gx6mtzU1pJvK.html
07-07-2020||Noida||14-year-old boy held for raping minor in Greater Noida||A 14-year-old boy was apprehended after allegedly raping a 12-year-old girl at a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Greater Noida, police said on Monday.According to the police, the accused and the victim were known to each other.“The incident took place on July 4 when the minor girl and the accused had gone to the forest,” Vranda Shukla, Deputy Commissioner of police, women cell said.A case has been registered and further legal proceedings are underway, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/14-year-old-boy-held-for-raping-minor-in-greater-noida/story-np4DiHZZ3i0qFS5zuS9GzI.html
07-07-2020||Pune||1,245 new Covid-19 cases detected in Pune; 21 more die||Pune district reported 1,245 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the count to 29,844 on Monday, while 21 more patients succumbed to the infection, a health official said.He said the death toll increased to 890 with 21 more patients succumbing to the infection during the same period.Also, 630 patients were discharged from hospitals, he said.“Of the 1,245 cases, 886 were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation limits, which now has 22,277 patients,” the official said.As many as 258 cases were detected in Pimpri-Chinchwad where the Covid-19 count now stands at 5,052, he said.The number of positive cases in rural and Pune Cantonment Board areas increased to 2,515, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/1-245-new-covid-19-cases-detected-in-pune-21-more-die/story-ul66JTXldQ9RLZnsL2NO0O.html
07-07-2020||Pune||As Covid-19 continues to spread, Pune collector warns of stricter restrictions||The Pune district administration on Monday warned of imposition of stricter restrictions if people continue to flout social distancing norms amid rising Covid-19 cases.Pune district has reported 29,844 Covid-19 cases and 890 deaths so far.“People are seen stepping out of their houses without wearing masks and are violating social distancing norms. If this continues, the district administration will have to take some stringent steps which include imposing stricter restrictions,” said district collector Naval Kishore Ram.He said cases have also spiked in rural parts of the district.“We have decided to form flying squads in the district to check whether lockdown guidelines are followed or not,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/as-covid-19-continues-to-spread-pune-collector-warns-of-stricter-restrictions/story-ksWroVGpZk7JxyEr8QAQSL.html
07-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM stresses on raising covid awareness among people||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday laid stress on spreading awareness among people about covid-19, saying this is an important weapon in the battle against the deadly virus. He said experts have expressed fear about further spread of the disease in the coming days, and therefore, people should be aware of it. Chairing a review meeting, Gehlot said the state government is focusing on efforts to reduce the mortality rate due to covid-19 in the state. He said the state’s health infrastructure was strong and all arrangements were well in place for the management of the disease. Rajasthan reported five more covid-19 deaths on Monday, taking their number to 461 as 524 fresh cases of the infection surfaced in the state.With this, the number of confirmed cases in the state rises to 20,688.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-cm-stresses-on-raising-covid-awareness-among-people/story-o9kVpKfZLnXjhBekZoFUvM.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||Will it be safe to use public washrooms post Covid-19?||Most public washrooms can leave us with a very messy and unclean experience because of long crowded queues and dirty floors and sinks. The Covid-19 pandemic has made everyone prioritise hygiene and social distancing. People feel that using public washrooms can be unhygienic as most of them do not follow proper sanitation rules. From carrying own soaps to using tissues for touching handles, many of us have changed our ways for using a public washroom.Ruhamita Banerjee, a resident of Noida, believes that one should avoid the use of public washrooms as much as they can.“Using washrooms post Covid will be very difficult. I think products like urination devices which help women stand while urinating or disinfectant sprays will come in handy. However, I would personally try and avoid it as much as possible because we can never be sure about these things,” says Banerjee.Many have switched to carrying their own tissue papers and soap to workplace as hygiene is the major concern while using the office washroom. Aliya Kulsum, a resident of Jamia Nagar, who recently started travelling to her workplace, says, “The scenario is very different now. I cannot avoid using a washroom at my workplace but I try to take necessary precautions while using it. I always open the door using a tissue paper on the handle and I have started carrying my paper soap to avoid public soap dispensers.”Read: ‘Chasing the virus’: How Mumbai’s Dharavi beat back a pandemicPeople working at public washrooms are ensuring that full safety and precautions are taken for the general public with strict rules.Devesh Kumar Gupta, sanitary inspector, SDMC, ward number 63 Malviya Nagar, says, “We firstly sanitise the workers who come in the morning for their duties. The washrooms are sanitised properly and then washed before public use. Only two to three people are allowed inside the washroom and circles are made outside the washroom to ensure social distancing. No one is allowed to use the washroom without a mask. In case, someone is caught doing the same, there is a challan ranging from ₹100 to ₹1000. One worker is employed outside the washroom to make sure that all precautions are being taken.”Sanitary workers at various public washrooms are also following the safety protocol. “Spitting inside or outside the washroom is strictly prohibited. Even if the person is using the washroom, he is supposed to wear the mask all the time. We keep sanitising the washroom at regular intervals for safety purposes. We are also not allowed inside the washroom without gloves and mask and one person stands outside the washroom to sanitise the people who are coming to use it,” says Sachin Kumar, who is working as a sanitation worker near Malviya Nagar Market.Read: One metre or two? How social distancing affects Covid-19 riskExperts believe that there is nothing to fear about if proper precautions are taken. Diabetologist Dr Rachit Bhushan has shared tips and precautions that we can take while using public washrooms.“The precautions for using public washrooms are fairly similar to those that we would normally take. With Unlock 2.0, people have started travelling to their workplaces and it is important to take these precautions,” says Dr Bhushan.• Wash your hands: One should wash their hands thoroughly with soap and water and try not to touch the door on your way in or out. Instead, should use paper towels to open a door.• Carry your own sanitizer: It is very essential to carry your own bottle of sanitizer, even if it is available in the washrooms.• Avoid touching surfaces: Things like washing hands and touching as few surfaces as possible are considered standard hygienic practices and can help prevent contracting any sort of infection.• Close the lid before flushing: Make sure to close the lid of the toilet before flushing. If the toilet does not have a lid, we should keep our face away from the toilet while flushing and should exit as quickly as possible.• Social distancing: Standing in a queue with no social distancing may increase your risk of contracting the infection and then transmitting it to others. It is very important to maintain a distance while standing in a queue• Clean surfaces: One should use disinfecting wipes to clean any surfaces that small children may touch in a public washroom. Also, don’t put your things on the restroom floor.Follow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/will-it-be-safe-to-use-public-washrooms-post-covid-19/story-M2iZTOg6jwLYLR7fRT2GGO.html
07-07-2020||Kolkata||Total shutdown in parts of Bengal’s Malda for a week as Covid-19 cases rise||Total shutdown would be imposed in English Bazar and Old Malda towns for a week, starting Wednesday in the wake of the rising cases of Covid- 19, officials said.All shops will remain shut during this period, except those selling essential items, they said.Pharmacies have also been excluded from the purview of the shutdown, officials said.Private vehicles will not be allowed on the roads, they said, adding that state-run buses after leaving the Gour Kanya terminal will stop only at a single point in any of these two towns.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Cycle-rickshaws and e-rickshaws will also be not allowed, officials said.However, some rickshaws would be made available at three designated locations for emergency purposes.The vegetable market in English Bazar, the district headquarters, will remain open till 11 am.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Malda, the home to lakhs of migrant workers from West Bengal, has so far reported 859 cases. Of them, 331 are currently undergoing treatment while 524 people have been discharged after recovery.Four deaths have been reported from the district, which is on the India-Bangladesh border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/total-shutdown-in-parts-of-bengal-s-malda-for-a-week-as-covid-19-cases-rise/story-zpjSIItmZWBCqJXAjlRZ6I.html
07-07-2020||Ranchi||FJCCI opposes Jharkhand-owned power discom’s tariff||The Federation of Jharkhand Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) on Monday opposed the proposed power tariff by the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) for the year 2020-21 on the ground of the audit report attached with the tariff proposals.Addressing the media, FJCCI energy sub-committee chairman Binod Kumar Tulsyan and sub-committee member Ajay Bhandari said the audit report of JBVNL accounts has mentioned that it cannot be relied upon.Earlier, the state-owned power discom submitted its proposals in February to the Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC).The power regulator has uploaded the tariffs on its website for public view and seeking suggestions as well.However, the JSERC could not hold the mandatory public hearings before announcing the new tariff due to the Covid-19 pandemic .The FJCCI was of the view that the JBVNL has failed to provide reliable power to its customers and now their accounts were also not reliable.Tulsyan said the industrial units were getting about 20 hours of electricity supply but the fixed charges were being calculated on the basis of power supply of 24 hours.“Why we should not demand uninterrupted power then,” he questioned.He said the JBVNL has proposed Re one per unit hike in domestic category and 75 paisa per unit hike for commercial users.Pointing out the its lack of efficiency, the FJCCI energy sub-committee chairman said open conductors connected with the transmission grids often cause power cuts, resulting in interruptions in productions of industrial units.The two FJCCI members also questioned how the energy dues of JBVNL on Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) against power purchases that was nil in 2015 rose up to Rs 5,760 crore in the past five years.The FJCCI was of the view that the power distribution and supply in Jharkhand should be handed over to a competent authority having a professional approach and accountability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/fjcci-opposes-jbvnl-s-new-tariff/story-eMSFCDukEFAzTmvfoqR4sI.html
07-07-2020||City||Rajasthan: Locusts destroy crops in Dholpur||Locust swarms on Monday attacked Sarmathura area of Dholpur district in Rajasthan, creating panic among farmers.“A group of 10-15 locust swarms were seen in the area earlier as well. This time, they entered again through Madhya Pradesh. From here, the locusts moved to nearby areas. At one point of time, we were getting information about these insects from seven to eight villages simultaneously,” a spokesperson of the state’s agriculture department said.Pointing out that guidelines have already been issued to local farmers, he added, “The agriculture team was alert and they continued to trace these locusts with help of locals. We also suggested farmers on how to save their agriculture fields in case of such attacks. They have started banging utensils and making noises to scare these insects away.”In recent times, swarms of locust have created menace across the country, destroying crops.Recently, helicopters were deployed in Jaisalmer to spray pesticides on large scale. Swarms of locust were also seen in different parts of the country, including in Punjab and Haryana, where they have destroyed a large number of crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajasthan-locusts-destroy-crops-in-dholpur/story-OWtCoz9SAD2HURf581hURJ.html
07-07-2020||Patna||NTPC says private hospitals in Bihar not treating its Covid-19 staff, kin||The NTPC has shot off a letter to the Bihar government complaining about the reluctance of private hospitals in state capital to admit patients testing positive or showing symptoms of Covid-19 and sought intervention in the matter.The letter mentions, among others, the leading private hospital of Patna, Paras-HMRI, an empanelled health facility, over its refusal to treat its employees and their dependents infected with Covid-19 in Bihar.The hospital Monday discharged the second patient in the last 10 days, both of whom were covered under the NTPC’s corporate empanelment with the Paras-HMRI, immediately after they tested positive for Covid-19.The latest case is of a 69-year-old hypertensive, diabetic male, with known case of chronic kidney disease stage V, who was discharged on Monday, after being admitted to the hospital on July 3.“The hospital had planned hemodialysis on Tuesday, but discharged him after he tested positive for Covid-19,” said NTPC spokesman Vishwanath Chandan.The patient is the father of a deputy general manager-rank officer posted in Patna.“The patient is yet to get admission in any of the government health facilities either, after PMCH and the NMCH said they did not have beds, while the AIIMS-Patna denied admission, saying it did not have facility for hemodialysis,” said Chandan.“Previously, wife of a senior manager, who was suffering from heart ailment, was also discharged from the Paras-HMRI hospital on June 27, after she tested positive for Covid-19.,” said Chandan.The senior manager’s wife, his father-in-law, mother-in-law and brother-in-law have tested positive and are undergoing treatment at the AIIMS-Patna.NTPC regional executive director (East II) Asit Kumar Mukherjee had on July 3 written to Bihar’s principal secretary (health), saying altogether “15,000 people”, including NTPC employees, their dependent family members and CISF personnel deployed for security requirements, were provided health cover by the company which has empanelled all the leading private hospitals in Patna and other districts.“At present, private hospitals in Patna are not providing treatment to patients having Covid-19 symptoms, though those in other states have been doing so.” the letter reads.In April, the then principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar had issued a circular warning private health care facilities of penal action if found shut or refusing admission to patients. The state government, however, has not acted after that. Principal secretary (health) Uday Singh Kumawat did not respond to phone calls and text messages.A communique from Paras-HMRI, quoting its unit head Dr Ajay Singh said, “In total compliance with government orders, the hospital tries to save lives. As per government orders, any Covid case is immediately reported to the government. The Panchkula (Haryana) and Paras HEC Ranchi have been authorised to treat Covid patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pvt-hospitals-refusing-to-treat-covid-ve-staff-kin-ntpc-tells-bihar-govt/story-8lHBgvKNchLN5L1MPJ1r0H.html
07-07-2020||Bangalore||Former CEO of Raghavendra bank found dead in his car in Bengaluru||Vasudeva Maiah, former CEO of Sri Guru Raghavendra Co-operative Bank was found dead inside his car in Bengaluru on Monday.An investigation into the case is underway.On June 18, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) raided five of his locations in Bengaluru over alleged financial irregularities in the bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/former-ceo-of-raghavendra-bank-found-dead-in-his-car-in-bengaluru/story-QQvA2Hk9iJ5PYnlX4o37iL.html
07-07-2020||City||Leopard kills one-and-a-half-year-old child in Uttarakhand’s Almora||A leopard killed a one-and-a-half-year-old child in Uttarakhand’s Almora district on Monday evening, in the fourth such attack by big cats in the state since April end, said forest officials.Sanchita Verma, range officer of Almora forest range, said the child was attacked by the leopard outside his house in Udal village in Almora district.“The boy Harshit was playing in the ground near his house when the leopard suddenly pounced on him and dragged him towards the forest area. His body was later recovered from the nearby bushes 800 meters away from the house,” Verma said.“We rushed to the spot on getting information from the villagers about the incident. We are now planning to set up cages and camera traps near the place where the incident took place to catch the leopard,” she said.Verma said the body of the boy was handed over to his relatives later in the evening. “The victim’s family will be sanctioned Rs 3 lakh as ex gratia from the state forest department. So far a cheque of Rs 50,000 has been provided to his family members,” said Praveen Kumar, conservator of forest, northern circle Kumaon.On June 29, a 12-year-old girl in Chamoli district was killed in a leopard attack while she was working with her mother on the local farm. On June 23, a 54-year-old woman was mauled to death by a leopard in Nainital district. A teenage girl, who was listening to music on her headphones, was attacked and mauled to death by a leopard in Ramnagar area of Nainital district on June 7. On April 29, a 42-year-old man was killed by a leopard in Almora district.Meanwhile, state forest officials arrested one person in Sitarganj area of US Nagar district on Monday and recovered 1.5 kg turtle meat from his possession.“We received a tip-off that wildlife smugglers were selling turtle meat. Later we came to know that turtle meat was being cooked at a house in Ratan Farm area in Sitarganj under Terai East forest division,” Shivraj Singh, the sub-divisional forest officer, said.“A forest team raided Manoj Mandal’s house in Ratan Farm area in Sitarganj and recovered 1.5 kg turtle meat from the house,” he said.Singh said during the preliminary investigation they found that Manoj had allegedly hunted the turtle from forest adjoining in his village.“We have booked him under Section 9, (no person shall hunt any wildlife listed in the schedule 1,2,3,4) and other relevant sections of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leopard-kills-one-and-a-half-year-old-child-in-uttarakhand-s-almora/story-cqdojCVG2onabsBEdLiCUO.html
07-07-2020||City||Covid-19: Total lockdown in Assam’s Jorhat from July 9-15||In order to contain the spread of Covid-19, ‘total lockdown’ to be imposed in areas under the Jorhat Municipal Board from 7 pm of July 9 to July 15.According to the order of the District Magistrate and Chairperson, DDMA, Jorhat, all the weekly huts/markets will remain closed in the entire district by this order.As many as 786 new coronavirus cases were reported in Assam on Monday, with 598 cases from Guwahati city, State Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.The total number of cases has risen to 12,522 including 7,882 discharged cases, 4,623 active cases and 14 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-total-lockdown-in-assam-s-jorhat-from-july-9-15/story-WNu9euAJCvXMwHAWbMm0YK.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 cases top 100,000; India death toll hits 20k||India has now lost more than 20,000 lives to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and total infections soared past 700,000, data from across the country showed on Monday, posing as a fresh reminder of the relentless nature of the outbreak and the challenge the country of over 1.3 billion people faces in maintaining the precarious control it has not established.India’s case fatality rate is approximately 2.8% and the number of active cases a little over a third of the total, suggesting the country’s health care system is able to keep up with the outbreak. In the national capital, the number of cumulative infections inched above 100,000 after the city added 1,379 cases on Monday, the lowest increase since June 9. Overall, the country added 22,310 cases and 472 deaths on Monday. The country has now had 719,594 infections and 20,172 deaths.Also read: Coronavirus pandemic hit HIV treatment: UN reportAccording to HT’s dashboard of case numbers released by states, while Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu continue to add the highest number of cases, among all Indian states, states such as Karnataka, Telangana and Assam have recorded an acceleration in the number of new cases compared to a week before. Across the world, total cases rose to 11,652, 634 and 538,513 fatalities were recorded due to Covid-19. “India’s death rate is not high, especially if you compare with countries such as Italy or even the US; and main reason for that is the level of care that we have been able to provide to our serious patients because of early preparedness,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences.“People may say lockdown was imposed prematurely because the number of cases wasn’t that high in March, but that is what gave us time to prepare. We could ramp up our health infrastructure so that serious cases got timely hospitalisation and oxygen support,” he added.Also read: US to force out foreign students whose classes move online due to CovidAccording to the Union government, the positivity rate for tests — the proportion of samples from among all tests that are positive — was 6.73%, and Delhi recorded a sharp decrease in this number over the past three weeks, a sign that testing may have been adequately scaled up.  The positivity rate in Delhi dropped from 30% to 10% in this period, the government added. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the testing in India crossed the 10 million milestone on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-cases-top-100-000-india-death-toll-hits-20k/story-aZBweXsaYNmPURcn9LPpmN.html
07-07-2020||City||Jammu and Kashmir to reopen for tourists soon: Officials||Authorities in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday decided to reopen the tourism sector, which has been shut since August last year when the government scrapped the former state’s special status.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Lieutenant Governor GC Murmu, who issued directions to reopen the tourism sector, considered the backbone of J-K’s economy.“J&K to reopen for tourism soon. Govt to issue detailed guidelines and SoP shortly. LG issues directions in high level meeting in Srinagar today,” Rohit Kansal, J&K’s spokesperson and principal secretary, tweeted late on Monday night.Very few tourists have visited the Union territory in the last year after Article 370 was revoked and the coronavirus pandemic broke.Authorities had banned the entry of foreign tourists into the region as a precautionary measure in view of the outbreak of coronavirus disease around the world.The district administration in Srinagar, which houses many of Kashmir’s prominent tourist places, ordered the closure of parks and gardens, including tourist places like Mughal Gardens, as a precautionary measure soon after the lockdown. The Srinagar Tulip Garden, one of the largest tulip gardens in Asia where over 1.3 million flowers grow, was also kept closed.Hotels, restaurants and community kitchens were also closed and there was a ban on home delivery of food. Tour operators and travel agencies were asked to share details of bookings of national as well as international air travel. They were asked to share details of all residents travelling outside India and planning to return to Srinagar through their agencies.The outbreak of disease and the subsequent measures put further burden on Kashmir’s tourism industry, which had been witnessing a downturn since August last year.Tourism nosedived last year after the government issued a travel advisory asking tourists and pilgrims to leave the Kashmir Valley, a few days before the central government revoked the special status under Article 370 and split the region into two Union territories on August 5.For months, restrictions remained in place with no internet as the region remained shut. Though the restrictions were later removed, low-speed internet was restored and the travel advisory revoked, there were hardly any tourists visiting the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-and-kashmir-to-reopen-for-tourists-soon-officials/story-2394l3Eju1mPj3ZTdBs8eL.html
07-07-2020||Lucknow||25 cops, all eyewitnesses to 2001 murder, turned hostile during Dubey’s trial||Four months after murdering BJP leader Santosh Shukla inside Kanpur Dehat’s Shivli police station in 2001, fugitive gangster Vikas Dubey surrendered in court with several politicians accompanying him, recalled Santosh’s brother Manoj Shukla.“Politicians accompanied him in court at the time of surrender. Their gesture was to ensure he did not get caught by the police,” he said.That was the first of many shocks for the Shukla family, he said. What is more, 25 policemen, all eyewitnesses to the killing, turned hostile one after another. In an apparent first, the investigating officer turned hostile in court. Dubey was acquitted.“Had they taken a stand then, what happened now at Bikru village could have been prevented. Their testimonies would have put Vikas Dubey in jail. Unfortunately, this did not happen,” he said.Manoj Shukla, who had pursued the case, met the then Kanpur Dehat district magistrate, the then special prosecuting officer (SPO) officers and police officials many a times during those days. “No help was extended at any stage,” Shukla alleged. The prosecution wing functions under the DM.But Manoj Shukla said he had immense faith in chief minister Yogi Adityanath and police officials who are now out to nab Vikas Dubey for killing eight policemen in cold blood. “The year 2001 was different and 2020 is different. This time, I am absolutely sure the police will get him,” he said.Additional director general, Kanpur, Jai Narayan Singh has sought all the documents related to the Santosh Shukla murder case, which is likely to be reopened. He has asked superintendent of police, Kanpur Dehat, Anurag Vats to look into Vikas Dubey’s old cases. Similarly, he asked for all files related to murders of Kaushal Kishore Tripathi and Shri Krishna Mishra in 2002, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-cops-turned-hostile-to-let-vikas-off-the-hook-in-2001-murder-case/story-hsLVFwlkEDwkxdSbQ49xMI.html
07-07-2020||Bangalore||Community transmission of coronavirus in Karnataka, says minister Madhuswamy||Coronavirus is spreading at the community level in Karnataka, said minister, JC Madhuswamy on Monday.“Medical condition of eight infected with coronavirus admitted in Tumkur Covid Hospital is critical. There is no guarantee of their lives as per the information. We somewhere feel we are worried that coronavirus is spreading at the community level,” Madhuswamy, Tumakuru district-in-charge minister, told reporters here.“We have reached a point where it is difficult for the district authorities to restrain it, even though we are trying to restrain it. Somewhere the situation is going out of hand,” he said.The minister confirmed that the cumulative toll in the district due to Covid-19 rises to 9.Earlier, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan, Medical Education Minister Dr Sudhakar have denied of community transmission of coronavirus in Karnataka.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, there are 23,474 coronavirus cases in Karnataka including 13,255 and 372 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/community-transmission-of-coronavirus-in-karnataka-says-minister-madhuswamy/story-3jTYsRoep2vkumXuyNhBTM.html
07-07-2020||City||Rift between Sena and NCP? Sharad Pawar visits Matoshree||Amid reports of differences between the two ruling partners in the state – Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) – over the transfer of 10 IPS officers and the poaching of five Sena corporators by the latter, Sharad Pawar visited Matoshree on Monday evening to mediate on the issues. Shiv Sena insiders said the CM was upset over the two issues that created the differences and believed it would send a “wrong message” about the coalition government. Earlier in the day, Sena also decided to ditch its ruling partner for the Kalyan Panchayat Samiti and joined hands with former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) . The BJP and Sena have shared the chairman post in the panchayat samiti for one-and-a-half years each. The Sena had four members, while the BJP had five members, and NCP had three members.“Earlier, there was an arrangement between us (Sena-NCP) since the MVA [Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi] government is in power. But the decision was changed later,” a Sena functionary from the Bhiwandi-Kalyan region said.Home minister Anil Deshmukh, too, was a part of the Monday evening meeting to clear the air over the transfers of the IPS officers, which was later stayed by the CM. Deshmukh is expected to meet Thackeray again on Tuesday over the issue, a senior functionary said. Sena leaders and ministers Subhash Desai and Eknath Shinde were also present at Matoshree.“Uddhav ji felt that poaching corporators was wrong. At least, the NCP should have brought the discontentment of the Sena corporators to the notice of the party chief. But Ajit Pawar chose to induct them. Such things give out a wrong message. Milind Narvekar has conveyed to Ajit Pawar on getting the corporators back to Sena,” said a Shiv Sena insider. This was the second meeting since Friday between Pawar and Thackeray to clear differences over the lack of coordination among the ruling allies.The CM already expressed his displeasure after Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh decided to transfer the 10 IPS officers. Though Singh has the transfer powers, the norm of consulting the CM was not followed, according to Sena insiders. The home department is with the NCP and Singh had kept home minister Anil Deshmukh in the loop. The transfer order was not only cancelled by the chief minister on Sunday but all the DCP’s were also asked to resume their previous postings immediately.“The chief minister has confined himself to his residence most of the times. This has led to communication gap between him and the other ministers. This needs to be resolved,” said a senior NCP minister.CM is also unhappy after five of his party corporators from Parner Nagar Panchayat in Ahmednagar district joined NCP in the presence of deputy CM Ajit Pawar. As per Sena insiders, Milind Narvekar, a close aide of Thackeray, spoke to Ajit Pawar on behalf of the CM to get the five corporators back in the Sena fold.There was a buzz that Ajit Pawar will also visit Matoshree. “It is unlikely that Ajit dada will go to Matoshree as Pawar saheb already visited the CM,” said a close aide of Ajit Pawar.Political experts opine that Thackeray’s style of functioning could become a bone of contention in the government. “The CM is trying to run the government the way he has been running his political party and this is the main reason for friction between the three parties. He is surrounded by a group of people and most of them are his family members. Also he has no previous experience of running a government . He doesn’t want do consult people in his cabinet ,” Prakash Bal, political expert, said, adding the government can be saved only by the NCP chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rift-between-sena-and-ncp-sharad-pawar-visits-matoshree/story-VKxXdK3Ix2QAlSo0SgjNCP.html
07-07-2020||City||Majority fliers likely to plan their travel in six months: Vistara survey||Around 65% of the 6,000 travellers who took part in a survey by Vistara said they felt comfortable planning their travel within the next six months. However, the respondents also highlighted that they feared contracting Covid-19 during the travel, flouting of protocols by fellow passengers and high air fares in the survey.The airline’s survey, which included Club Vistara members from all tier levels as well as non-members, revealed that more people (35%) will undertake travel for business instead of visiting friends, relatives 25%) or for leisure.Vistara highlighted that 57% of the Club Vistara elite (platinum and gold tier) members said they would fly in the next one month. The survey recorded that 68% respondents on the domestic sector and 74% on the international sector indicated that they are either likely to maintain the frequency of their business travel as they did in the previous year or take more flights, while the remaining said they will reduce the trips as compared to 2019.For leisure travel or visiting friends and relatives, 60% respondents said they will either maintain or increase the frequency in the domestic sector, while the same applied to 65% in the international sector - the rest are likely to reduce as against 2019.Officials at Vistara said 20% respondents planned to take their next flight to a destination outside of India. Singapore, United Kingdom and Dubai were most preferred on the list for international travel followed by the United States and Thailand.“Three of these five international destinations are already part of Vistara’s international network, which the airline plans to expand to other countries in and outside the continent as it inducts new narrow-body and wide-body aircraft,” said Vinod Kannan, chief technical officer, Vistara.A recent survey by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), a trade association of world’s airlines in 11 countries, including India, had revealed that while more than 50% air travellers said they would resume air travel only after waiting for at least six months, 95% respondents said that they would return to air travel in a year.Kapil Kaul,chief executive officer of Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA) said, “As per CAPA research, we will see a gradual but slow recovery beginning from third quarter of the year in domestic sector but international sector will be seen possibly by December- subject to infection curve is flattened by September. CAPA expects continuing work from home leading later to a hybrid resumption.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/majority-fliers-likely-to-plan-their-travel-in-six-months-vistara-survey/story-ZiW8t893ApjK3oT78CCnLL.html
07-07-2020||City||Cut costs, reduce staff: Pilots to Air India||Air India pilots in a letter on Monday to the national carrier’s chairman and managing director Rajiv Bansal, on the financial health of the airline. The pilots have requested to resort to measures undertaken by private airlines, such as cutting costs and mandatory leave without pay, to cope with the current situation.When HT contacted the airline, an Air India spokesperson said, “We would not like to comment on our internal matter.” In the letter, the Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA), comprising Airbus (narrow body) pilots, and Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) comprising Boeing (wide body) pilots asked the airline to exempt class IV employees from the 10% cut on allowances as they are being affected more severely than other employees.‘..The financial burden must be fairly distributed between all employees based on their job functions and emoluments..’ the letter read.Air India currently has 1600 pilots. The pilots also asked Air India to follow private airlines in cutting costs and reducing staff from various departments at the backend that the pilots have termed as “non- relevant to the aviation business”. They pointed out that the airline has more than 1,600 staff members in its human resource and finance department for a fleet size of 125 aircraft.“This is nowhere in-line with market standards and since operations have been scaled back, their work has reduced drastically. It is prudent for Air India and MoCA [Ministry of Civil Aviation] to take cognisance of this excess manpower to trim costs as our aircraft stand under- utilised,” the letter read.They also suggested that since Air India is in financial distress, the employee strength should be brought at par with other market players through measures such as mandatory leave without pay till normal operations resume.“We request you to innovate and spare no efforts to secure the survival and financial health of the airline,” concluded the pilots.An Air India pilot said, “We are willing to take pay cuts as we want the management to deduct salaries according to the earnings of an employee (barring the class IV employees). The airline has majority of the employees in backend who not only dont report to office but are also not working. Moreover, at times when the airline is struggling to survive, there are departments that have outdoor expenses that run into crores, shouldn’t the airline cut down on such expenses in this phase? “A senior pilot of the airline said, “ We have a total of 125 aircaft of which half of them are not flying, then why do we need full strength of ground staff, engineers, pilots and cabin crew? Why is the airline paying all of us? Like other private airlines, Air India can also send employees on leave without pay for few days over and above the 10% cut that should be according to respective salary slabs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cut-costs-reduce-staff-pilots-to-air-india/story-zXqgVXkA1VFgZW3AyqzgVP.html
07-07-2020||City||Need more testing, faster results: Devendra Fadnavis in Thane||Former Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis on Monday visited the quarantine centres and the 1,000-bed facility at Balkum to review the preparations in the city to fight the outbreak, even as the total number of cases crossed the 10,000-mark.The Opposition leader also met Thane municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma and recommended an increase in the number of tests and said the results must be provided within 24 hours.“The number of tests conducted everyday should be increased. We will get clarity on the situation if there are more tests conducted and accordingly, solutions can be planned. No administration should hide the figures, as it will hamper the measures to handle the outbreak,” said the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader.He also asked the state government to pay attention to civic bodies that are financially weaker and in need of infrastructure and manpower.“Although the state has allotted funds to the municipal corporations, not all civic bodies are in a stable condition. The state should provide them with proper infrastructure and manpower, as the civic bodies are currently relying on private hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients,” said Fadnavis.When asked about the recent transfer orders of 10 deputy police commissioners which had been stayed by the chief minister’s office and the home minister, Fadnavis said, “Ideally, the decision related to transfer police personnel is taken by the home minister and the CM needs to be in the loop. However, in this case, it is evident that the chief minister was not aware of the police transfers. Hence the stay was announced at the eleventh hour.”Mumbai by police commissioner Param Bir Singh had recently transferred the police personnel within Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-more-testing-faster-results-devendra-fadnavis-in-thane/story-zd3Pe1Am8MMb34H7zorNhO.html
07-07-2020||City||Thane guardian minister asks non-Covid hospitals, clinics to provide basic treatment to patients before they reach Covid facilities||In a special webinar with over 1,000 doctors on Monday, Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde asked all private hospitals to admit symptomatic patients and provide necessary treatment before shifting them to Covid Hospitals to reduce the number of deaths. Thane has been witnessing a spike from the past two weeks. On Monday, the total number of cases in the city surged to 10,602, after 268 more cases were reported, while the death toll went up to 397 after 14 more people died of Covid in Thane. “As part of our initiative to provide better facilities, the Indian Medical Association’s Thane chapter provided us with 50 physicians and seven intensivists. We request all practitioners to start their clinics, as this will help in reducing the load on Covid-19 hospitals,” said Shinde, who is also the urban development minister of Maharashtra. He also assured that doctors will be provided with all the necessary care if they contract the virus.The webinar was also attended by housing minister Jitendra Awhad and Kalyan Member of Parliament (MP) Shrikant Shinde. “The hot spots in Mumbra and Kalwa have noticed a decrease in the number of cases. We can adopt the Malegaon or Dharavi model to bring down the number of cases in other areas,” said Awhad during the webinar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-guardian-minister-asks-non-covid-hospitals-clinics-to-provide-basic-treatment-to-patients-before-they-reach-covid-facilities/story-BKYE1NM3iah3phgFep12lK.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||Rs 630 crore spent on Covid-19, Mumbai civic corporation may have to rework budget||After spending more than Rs 630 crore on its fight against the Covid-19 outbreak, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) might have to rework on its 2020-21 budgetary allocations to meet any more expenses which are likely to incur while combating the virus spread. The civic body may, thus divert funds that were allocated for certain projects in the budget to meet Covid-related expenses.Currently, the country’s richest civic body is utilising money from the ₹850-crore contingency fund created for ‘unexpected expenditure’.“As of now, we have around Rs 220 crore of contingency funds left. A majority of the money was utilised for the creation of health facilities. If the need arises, we will start doing the internal exercise soon,” additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said.However, BMC said it has not decided how to raise more money if the contingency fund amount runs out to meet Covid-19 expenses. It informed that a decision will be taken in the coming days, if such a need arises.As per the civic body, in the past two months, the expenditure shot up drastically owing to the rising cases. Till April, the BMC spent around ₹100 crore, which surged to around Rs 480 crore by the first week of June. By the first week of July, it further surged to a total of Rs 630.Apart from the health infrastructure, the BMC spent on hotel bills for accommodation of frontline staff, recruitment of new staff on contract basis, food distribution, procuring medical equipment such as personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N95 masks, 3-ply masks, gloves, face shields, hydroxychloroquine, thermometers, body-bags, protective eye-wear, sanitisers etc. Some of these items were also received as donations in the form of corporate social responsibility (CSR) or from organisations. However, the exact quantum of the donated items is not yet known.Meanwhile, Congress corporator and leader of Opposition in the BMC, Ravi Raja, said, “We cannot comment on how the BMC can raise money for future Covid-19 expenses, considering it has not informed the elected representatives about the expenditures made yet. I have personally sought details from the officials, but they are not sharing it. We expect transparency over the expenses, and the information pertaining to it should be made available to elected representatives.”The BMC presented a budget of Rs 33,441.02 crore in February, of which ₹2 crore was allocated to upgrade the medical facilities at Kasturba Hospital. At the time, there was no Covid-19 outbreak in the city, and the capital expenditure was pegged at Rs 14,637 crore for financial year 2020-2021.A major allocation (Rs 1,600 crore) was made for the roads department, followed by the bridges department (Rs 799 crore). The civic body had to dip into its reserved funds of Rs 79,829 crore by withdrawing from it for infrastructure projects and has decided to draw out Rs 4,380 crore from it this year.The other major allocations were made for development plan 2034 (₹3,248 crore), health (₹4,260 crore) and education (₹2,944 crore). For the coastal road project, an allocation of around ₹2,000 crore was made, while for the proposed Goregaon-Mulund Link Road, the civic body reserved ₹300 crore. The budget made allocations worth ₹506 crore for the proposed Gargai Dam in Palghar district.In a first, the civic body also opened a tourism department and allocated funds worth ₹183 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/630-crore-spent-on-covid-19-mumbai-civic-corporation-may-have-to-rework-budget/story-BMFKN7B1D6C88sqVyyfVpM.html
07-07-2020||City||3 cops, an accused test positive for Covid-19 in Vasai police station near Mumbai||An inspector and two constables from Manickpur police station in Vasai as well as an accused were tested positive for Covid-19, Vijaykant Sagar, additional superintendent of police, Vasai, said.The inspector and the two constables are admitted to an isolation ward of a Vasai government hospital, while the accused is undergoing treatment at the prisoners’ ward of the Palghar Rural Hospital. According to the police, the accused was held for firing at a butcher with a toy gun to scare him. On Saturday, the accused’s report came positive. The inspector contracted the virus when he went to arrest the accused.The two constables are said to have contracted the virus while they were at Suncity Ground, Vasai, where migrants had assembled to board trains to their native homes. Twenty-five high-risk personnel from the police station are home quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-cops-an-accused-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-vasai-police-station-near-mumbai/story-jLKX0p459MypaM3eu3EbcO.html
07-07-2020||City||Maharashtra’s exchequer earns ₹16K-crore in June||After tax revenue losses of more than ₹45,000 crore between March and May owing to the Covid-19 lockdown, the state earned ₹16,000 crore in June, reducing the deficit to 20% from 40-50% of the target. The improvement is attributed to pending activities carried out in the real estate and commercial sectors, after they were opened up from late May.The state government had sustained a loss of ₹26,000 crore in March, ₹10,100 crore in April and around ₹12,000 crore in May against the estimated revenue from various sectors, including goods and services tax (GST), stamp duty and registration, excise on liquor, among others. Although the estimated monthly revenue from tax is ₹22,000 crore, it goes over ₹45,000 crore in March, as it is the last month of the financial year. The revenue was ₹10,261 crore and ₹11,000 crore in April and May, respectively. “The revenue for June was 20% less than the projected revenue for the month. The losses were less because of the relaxations of lockdown and mainly because piled up activities in various sectors were carried out in June. Many had purchased houses and vehicles, but registrations were stuck due to the sudden lockdown in March. These formalities were completed as soon as the offices opened. Similarly, the shops and establishment department cleared their inventory leading to GST payments. This may not be witnessed in of July unless more industrial-commercial activities are allowed immediately,” said an official from the finance department.The monthly bill of the mandatory expenses is around ₹20,000 crore, including salary, establishment cost, interest on loans and incidental expenditure. The state has borrowed more than ₹25,000 crore in April, May and June to meet the fixed expenditure owing to the drop in revenue. Besides the fixed expenditure, the spending on Covid-19 pandemic and relief package for Cyclone Nisarga-hit districts too contributed to high borrowings. The budgeted estimated annual borrowings were ₹56,697 crore.According to the officials, they have received most of the dues from the Centre towards devolution of Central taxes, grants and GST compensation. The state government has already initiated a 67% cut on spending on development and social schemes worth about ₹70,000 crore, which is the amount equivalent to the expected revenue losses. The budgetary estimates for the tax revenue receipts for 2020-21 were ₹2.73 lakh crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-s-exchequer-earns-16k-crore-in-june/story-ccQzAXaBjzMo6Aphsf5IiL.html
07-07-2020||City||Chembur tops Mumbai’s Covid-19 fatality rate||At 8.3%, M-West ward, which covers the city’s eastern suburb of Chembur with localities namely Mahul and Tilak Nagar, reported the highest Covid-19 fatality rate among all 24 administrative wards, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data as of July 4. Fatality rate is the percentage of deaths due to Covid-19 compared to the total cases. The city’s average fatality rate is 5.5% and the state’s average is 4.3%.M-West ward has recorded 2,526 coronavirus cases and 212 deaths so far. It is followed by H-East ward, which covers areas of Bandra East and Khar, including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s residence Matoshree. The ward has a fatality rate of 8.2%, with 3, 587 cases and 297 deaths. Fatality rate of Kurla-Sakinaka and Govandi Mankhurd wards is also high at 8.1% each. While Kurla has reported 4,257 cases and 349 deaths; Govandi-Mankhurd have recorded 3,273 Covid cases and 266 deaths. A fatality rate of 8% indicates eight deaths for every 100 cases in those wards. Other wards with high fatality rate are G-North (Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim) with 7.3%, K-East ward (Andheri and Jogeshwari) with 6.2%. G-North ward has recorded 379 deaths, the highest number of deaths, followed by K-East ward with 351 deaths. Meanwhile, areas with lower fatality rates are A ward (Churchgate-Nariman Point) with 2.5%, R-South ward (Kandivli) with 2.7% and T ward (Mulund) with 2.9%.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “A major cause for concern is the delay in reporting of symptoms to the health centres. The first 24 hours after the start of symptoms are critical and immediate medical attention has proved to be helpful. However, there are many cases where patients do not tell their family members or do not seek medical treatment in time which should not be the case.”Kakani said the ‘Save Lives’ strategy is in place to ensure a decrease in the overall fatality rate. “Firstly, categorisation of critical, moderate and mild patients is important. Treatment protocol includes more detailed monitoring and supervision of critical patients, including video surveillance by the head of the unit and head of the hospital. The protocol has been conveyed to all health units.”On June 30, BMC launched ‘Save Lives’ to reduce the fatality rate. BMC had noted that several deaths occurred between 1am and 5am, often when serious and critical patients disconnect oxygen support and leave their beds to go to the toilet. They end up straining themselves and collapse. As part of the Save Lives strategy, the civic body decided to keep a bedpan for every bed and a commode near every four beds and instructed all healthcare staff to cooperate with patients who want to use the toilet at night. Several other such measures were introduced as part of the strategy for all health centres.On Monday, Mumbai reported 1,200 cases, bringing the total case count to 85,724. The city saw 39 deaths, taking the toll to 4, 938. According to state’s data, a total of 57, 152 patients have been treated so far. The recovery rate is 67% and the doubling rate is 44 days. A total of 3.59 lakh tests have been done till Sunday. Meanwhile, Dharavi reported 11 new cases on Monday, taking the total to 2, 334.Meanwhile, CM Uddhav Thackeray will inaugurate 3,520 beds at Covid care centres on Tuesday. The CCCs are at Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg in Mulund, an initiative of CIDCO with a bed capacity of 1700; a 900-bed dedicated Corona Health Center (DCHC) at Dahisar East in collaboration with Mumbai Metro; a dedicated Corona Hospital at Dahisar West with 108 intensive care units (ICU) beds, a dedicated Corona Health Center (DCHC) at Mahalaxmi Race Course with 700 beds, and the second phase of the Covid health centre at Bandra-Kurla Complex, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, with 112 ICU beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chembur-tops-mumbai-s-covid-19-fatality-rate/story-wbD2XP1r0gNAT38WyNydmK.html
07-07-2020||City||Rebel SAD leader Dhindsa set to float new party today||More than a year after upping the ante against the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa is set to announce a new political outfit on Tuesday.The party is likely to be named ‘Shiromani Panthik Dal’, it is learnt.“Had Sukhbir (Badal) owned up the responsibility for the Akali Dal’s defeat in the 2017 election assembly polls and protected the Panth by punishing the guilty of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, I would have not taken this step. For me, Panth and Punjabiat are the foremost. Under Sukhbir’s leadership, the SAD has forgotten its original agenda and lost its base. The Punjabis need a platform to save the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and other institutions,” said Dhindsa, who was in Patiala for joining of Congress leader Tajinderpal Singh Sandhu his camp.He said SAD patriarch and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal in the know of every misdeed in the party and the SGPC, but he kept his eyes closed to protect Sukhbir.Dhindsa, who had quit all party posts in September 2018 in the wake of a revolt in the SAD, said the same mafia which was ruling the roost during the SAD-BJP regime by exploiting mining resources besides dominating the liquor trade etc, is flourishing under the Congress now. There is the need to replace both the Congress and the SAD to usher in a new era of development in Punjab, he added.Last week, Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali) chief Brahmpura had offered Dhindsa to take over the party, but the latter declined to do so.“My fight is to liberate the SGPC from the clutches of wrong people. Everyone who saw the Badal family as a threat to the Panth should support us. The party workers will decide our future tie-ups,” said Dhindsa.He said that Badals have exploited the SGPC for their personal benefits. On the langar scam, he said there should be stringent punishment for misuse of the offerings of devotees by making forged bills.“The SGPC should dismiss all those guilty,” he said.On Khalistan, the Rajya Sabha MP said he did not support any such demand. “We will fight for rights of Punjabis, but will not go against the country,” he added.UNFOLDING OF REBELLION Sept 29, 2018: Dhindsa quits all party posts, including that of general secretary and member of the core committee, in the wake of a revolt against SAD leadership by veteran Akali leaders.Oct 19, 2019: The Rajya Sabha MP resigns as the leader of SAD in the Upper House of Parliament.Jan 3, 2020: His son and former Punjab minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa resigns as SAD legislative party leaderJan 12, 2020: SAD suspends Dhindsa, his son Parminder for anti-party activitiesFeb 3, 2020: SAD expels the father-son duo for rebellion against party||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rebel-sad-leader-dhindsa-set-to-float-new-party-today/story-P3nyVXAGvmkThL5s65FBnO.html
07-07-2020||City||One killed, 3 injured in firing as nihangs clash over dera control||One person was killed and three were injured in firing during a clash between two groups of nihangs over the possession of a dera at Baba Bakala town of the Amritsar district in the wee hours of Monday.Police said the clash took place at 3.30am when a group of 40 nihangs led by Ranjit Singh Rania attacked the Dera Nihang Ajit Singh Poohla and tried to take possession of it.The Rania faction has identified the deceased as Sukhraj Singh of Lohar village while the injured are Tejpal Singh and Satnam Singh of Baba Bakala town, and Harjit Singh of Basrawa village in Gurdaspur district.A police team, which was there at the dera, had a close shave in the firing, a senior official said, adding that 50 rounds were fired from both sides.“The police team had a close shave as firing was indiscriminate. Another team led by Baba Bakala deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Harkrishan Singh reached the spot and arrested 10 nihangs of the Rania group. Rania along with his supporters, all armed to the teeth, reached the dera and started firing. The dera men opened fire in retaliation,” superintendent of police (operations) Shailendra Singh said. Three rifles were recovered from them.Currently the dera, which was the residence of Ajit Poohla, is in the possession of Poohla’s octogenarian mother Surinder Kaur, sister Paramjit Kaur and her son Dilpreet Singh Dimpy.“A mob of nihangs raeched outside the dera and started indiscriminate firing. A team of police was also present in the dera apprehending the attack as we had already lodged a complaint against Rania. The police team also retaliated,” Dimpy said.About the dera men’s role in the firing, as claimed by the police, Dimpy said, “We have weapons, but we didn’t open fire as the police personnel were there for our protection.”He said, “Rania was a rival of Poohla and now he has been claiming to be his successor. Rania had once filed a complaint against Poohla for issuing him life threat. A property dispute between Rania and Poohla’s mother is already pending in a revenue court in Chandigarh.”Gurcharan Singh, a member of the Rania faction, said, “The dera belongs to Rania who is the successor of Poohla. Our nihangs had gone to the dera on Monday morning when those present inside the dera opened firing on us. No one from our side opened firing. Of the four of our nihangs injured in the firing, one succumbed due to excessive bleeding.”He alleged that police have not been taking action against those who opened fire in which one Nihang Sikh was killed.DSP Harkrishan said as per the initial reports, three persons were injured in the incident, but they have not got “any written information” from the health department in this regard.Rania claims himself to be the chief of Nihang Tarna Dal (Missal Bhai Taru Singh) after the death of Ajit Singh Poohla. The self-proclaimed leader of Tarna Dal, Poohla, was notorious for alleged brutal killing of family members of Sikh militants besides rape of women. In 2008, he was burnt alive in the Amritsar jail.The police have registered a case against Rania and his supporters under Sections 307 (murder attempt) 452 (house trespass), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty), 458 (housebreaking by night after preparation for hurt), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 188 (disobedience to order) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.SP Shailendra said no one from the Rania group had lodged a complaint against the rival faction so far. “We haven’t received any information about the injured and the dead from any health official,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-killed-3-injured-in-firing-as-nihangs-clash-over-dera-control/story-Jw9oM8jrTcieJPKjP63uFJ.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana freezes dearness allowance at current rate for one year||Haryana government on Monday decided to freeze the dearness allowance (DA) of its employees and dearness relief (DR) of the pensioners at the current rates till July 2021.Though the state government will continue to pay DA and DR at the current rate of 17%, the employees and the pensioners will not be paid arrears of these allowances from January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021. Confronting an acute financial crisis while battling Covid-19, freezing employees’ DA at the current rate that was due from January 1, 2020, is yet another desperate step of the Manohar Lal Khattar government to squeeze its expenditure. There are about 3.5 lakh employees across 38 departments, boards and corporations of the state . The salary bill of the employees is about Rs 1,870 crore per month and pension bill is about Rs 770 crore per month.Before the lockdown was imposed in March, Haryana was a revenue-surplus state. After that, the state has been struggling to meet the committed liabilities and releasing salary and pension in a staggered manner.The financial crisis has forced the government to impose a ban on the purchase of new vehicles, besides deferring all new recruitments for government jobs for a year. On Monday, the finance department sent a letter to the heads of department, divisions and deputy commissioners, informing them about the freezing of DA and DR at current rates. “In view of the crisis arising out of Covid-19, it has been decided that additional instalment of DA payable to Haryana government employees and dearness relief to Haryana government pensioners, due from January 1, 2020, will not be paid,” the department said.“However, DA and DR at the current rate of 17% will continue to be paid,” the finance department added. When the decision to release the future instalment of DA and DR due from July 1, 2021 is taken, the rates of DA and DR as effective from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021 will be restored ‘prospectively’ and will be subsumed in the cumulative revised rate effective from July 1, 2021. After the Covid-19 outbreak, Haryana has been heavily relying on market borrowings. An official said the revenue shortfall in March was about Rs 2,400 crore and it went past Rs 4,100 crore in April. Such is the financial crisis that recently, chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora urged all administrative secretaries to explore austerity measures, saying the economy of the state was enduring an ‘enormous setback’ due to the lockdown and the state was facing an ‘unprecedented resource crunch’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-freezes-dearness-allowance-at-current-rate-for-one-year/story-A0pofy295aocIwoWWlhAJN.html
07-07-2020||City||Assets, cash worth Rs 47 lakh of nabbed Kapurthala smuggler seized||Police have started the process of seizing the assets and other properties of Sarabjit Singh Logha, a notorious drug smuggler, who was arrested with 1kg heroin on Saturday.On Monday, the police seized 250 gram gold worth Rs 12 lakh from a bank locker, two insurance policies worth Rs 30 lakh and one fixed deposit of Rs 5.50 lakh in the name of Logha and his wife.He made these from the drug money, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said.Logha, a resident of Mehtabghar in Kapurthala, has been involved in inter-state drug smuggling for a decade and faced at least 10 criminal cases, the police said.Earlier, police had seized gold worth Rs 9 lakh, Rs 7.20 lakh in cash and a swift car after accused Logha was arrested by the district police with 1 kg heroin on Saturday, Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh said.The SSP said the process of seizing his other properties, including one on his friend’s name, which he made with drug money was also initiated. “We have also arrested Bharat Bhushan alias Sonu, a Kapurthala resident, under the Prevention of Corruption Act for taking money from him on the assurance that he will remove his name from the FIR in this case by bribing police officials,” he added.Also, the police have identified 100 convicted peddlers and gangsters, whose properties and assets will be attached over the next few weeks. The majority of these properties include agricultural land and residential buildings, besides expensive vehicles and bank accounts.This year, properties worth Rs 18 crore of arrested peddlers and gangsters have been seized against the corresponding figure for 2019, which was only Rs 2 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assets-cash-worth-rs-47-lakh-of-nabbed-kapurthala-smuggler-seized/story-xMnPcdumwPeXPgmLCI7ChK.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court dismisses self-styled godman’s bail plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday dismissed the bail plea of Rampal, a self-styled godman from Haryana, who had sought the same to attend the wedding ceremony of his granddaughter on July 22. This is the second case in which his bail plea has been dismissed. Earlier, one bail plea in another FIR was dismissed on Friday.The Satlok Ashram head has been awarded life imprisonment without ‘remission’ by a Hisar trial court in murder cases registered against him in Hisar in 2014. The FIRs were registered after large-scale violence was witnessed at his Hisar ashram during the November 2014 operation launched by multiple agencies to nab him as he refused to appear before the high court. In the entire operation, six lives were lost and 110 police personnel and 70 civilians had sustained injuries. He was convicted in October 2018 in two cases. There are four more FIRs registered against him in which trial is underway. The fresh order was passed by a bench presided over by Justice Rajiv Sharma after state government told the court that in view of nature of his conviction in heinous crimes and large following the godman has in the state, it would be very difficult for the state agencies to make arrangements for his security amid pandemic. The plea which was dismissed on Monday was taken up by the bench of Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan on Friday, which had sought state’s response whether security arrangements could be made, if granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-dismisses-self-styled-godman-s-bail-plea/story-OPhH3Wgmrno2n1XGoo9WIP.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||11 more lives lost in Haryana, patient tally reaches 17,504||Eleven people lost their lives to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday in Haryana with four patients succumbing to the disease in Rohtak, while Nuh reported its first fatality, pushing the state’s death toll to 276, said the health department. As many as 499 fresh cases were also detected in the past 24 hours, which took the patient tally to 17,504. While three patients died in Faridabad, one death was registered in Gurugram and two in Sonepat. Since the Covid outbreak, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Rohtak have been the worst-hit NCR districts accounting for about 83% of the fatalities. Gurugram has seen 101 deaths, followed by Faridabad (95), Sonepat (20) and Rohtak (12). As the state is increasing testing, 8,694 samples were taken on Monday. Of the 17,504 corona patients, 11,757 are men, 5,745 women and two transgenders. While 13,335 patients have been discharged, there are 3,893 active cases. As many as 391 patients recovered on Monday in the state, including Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha. The recovery rate on Monday further rose to 76.18%, while the tests per million increased to 12,460. The doubling rate in Haryana is now 19 days. As per the bulletin, new infections were recorded in 15 districts with maximum 123 in Faridabad. Gurugram saw 109 fresh cases, Sonepat 82, Rohtak 104, Ambala 4, Palwal 12, Karnal 16, Jhajjar 8, Nuh 13, Panipat 2, Panchkula 3, Sirsa 7, Yamunanagar 5, Kaithal 9 and Fatehabad 2. Hisar mayor tests +veHisar mayor Gautam Sardana tested positive for the virus on Monday, officials said. He had undergone a test after Hisar MP Brijendra Singh was found infected. Meanwhile, the Kurukshetra administration said 17 people were found infected with Covid-19 in the district on Monday. Similarly, authorities in Panipat said 21 corona cases were detected in the district, though the health bulletin mentioned only two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-more-lives-lost-in-haryana-patient-tally-reaches-17-504/story-ibEO09VNylsXzKA1xrwjnN.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet okays drafting of ordinance on pvt sector job quota||For the second time in the past five months, the Haryana cabinet on Monday deliberated on a piece of draft legislation to provide reservation in private-sector jobs and gave a go-ahead for drafting an ordinance in this regard after fresh vetting by the law secretary.The move to introduce reservation for local youth in private-sector jobs is on the lines of a law enacted by the YS Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh, which has been challenged on the question of constitutional validity in the Andhra Pradesh high court.While the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the coalition partner of the BJP in Haryana, had made a commitment to provide 75% quota in private-sector jobs to Haryana youth in its poll manifesto, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had sounded non-committal on the prospect of enacting a law to provide such reservation. Though Khattar has been emphatic that the government will go ahead with the proposed quota in private jobs, sources close to him say the proposed bill in this regard might be watered down to ensure there is no pressure on the industry.On February 7, the chief minister had made a reference to hiring unskilled workers by the industry, thus indicating that the proposed reservation could only be for the unskilled workers.“It will not be mandatory for the industry and enterprises to implement the quota. Also, if the industry is not able to get 75% workers from Haryana, they will be at liberty to hire from outside the state,” the CM had said in February. CONSTITUTIONAL VALIDITY ISSUEHaryana’s law secretary, while examining the draft bill sent for vetting by the cabinet on January 31, had raised objections on the constitutional validity of the proposed law.The issues primarily pertaining to Article 14 and 19 (1)(g) of the Constitution were deliberated upon by the cabinet on Monday and the draft was yet again sent to the law secretary for vetting. Article 14 pertained to equality before law and Article 19 (1)(g) provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.The proposed ordinance titled Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020, will provide 75% of the new employment to local candidates for jobs having salary less than Rs 50,000 per month in private companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms and partnership firms situated in the state.However, employers will have the option to recruit local candidates from one district to the extent of only 10%. The proposed law will also contain an exemption clause if suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category of industry. PASSAGE NOT TO BE SMOOTHEven after the proposed legislation receives the assent of the governor, it will have to be sent to the Presidential assent as the labour-related matters are in the concurrent list of the Constitution. “The Government of India may not be keen on the enactment of such a legislation,” said an official. The BJP government at the Centre has a very different view on the issue.In response to an unstarred question on whether the government proposes to formulate any scheme to implement reservation in appointment in private companies, the then Union minister of state for commerce and industry, CR Chaudhary, had told the Lok Sabha in March 2018 that a coordination committee for affirmative action for scheduled castes and tribes in the private sector was set up in 2016 by the department of industrial policy and promotion of the central government. In accordance with the decisions of the committee, apex industry associations — Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) — prepared a voluntary code of conduct for member companies centered on education, employability, entrepreneurship and employment to achieve inclusion. Former Union MoS for social justice and empowerment Vijay Sampla had in response to an unstarred question on whether the government intends to provide reservation in jobs to persons belonging to the SC/ST category in the private sector had told the Rajya Sabha in May 2016 that there was no such proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cabinet-okays-drafting-of-ordinance-on-pvt-sector-job-quota/story-yJJlpIjoXdy8Yms6DBEisM.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||Apparel firm tells HC it will not use ‘Iskcon’ in name or trademark||The Bombay high court (HC) on July 3 put to rest a dispute between ‘Iskcon’ (the International Society for Krishna Consciousness) and an apparel company which had purportedly sold its products online using the name Iskcon. The issue came to rest after a director of the firm informed HC that they have changed the name of the apparel company to Alcis Sports Private Limited from Iskcon Apparel Pvt. Ltd, and also issued an undertaking stating that they will not use the term “Iskcon” anywhere in its trade name or trade mark.The court also declared that Iskcon is a “well-known trademark”, which enjoys considerable protection under provisions of the Trade Marks Act, 1999.Iskcon had moved HC permanent injunction against Iskcon Apparel Pvt Ltd from infringing its registered trade mark. Iskcon’s lawyers submitted that apart from being its abbreviated name, they have got the term “Iskcon” registered as a trademark and other marks containing “Iskcon” as one of their leading, essential, distinctive and prominent feature in respect of various goods or services.It was further submitted that there are more than 600 Iskcon temples, 65 eco-farm communities, 110 vegetarian restaurants all over the world, including in India. Its counsel added that the organisation has taken efforts and spent substantially on publicity and advertisement to promote and popularise the mark, “Iskcon”, and this fulfils all the requirements of a well-known trademark under the Trade Marks Act, 1999.Justice BP Colabawalla accepted the claims. “Since it is a coined trademark which is associated exclusively with the plaintiff, it undoubtedly deserves the highest degree of protection,” said the judge, adding that the material submitted by the petitioner body evidently showed that the mark Iskcon has acquired immense and long-standing reputation and goodwill throughout India and abroad, and therefore deserved to be declared a well-known trademark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/apparel-firm-tells-hc-it-will-not-use-iskcon-in-name-or-trademark/story-ffJnvPjRuWVjORBVqTxfHO.html
07-07-2020||City||Signage board falls on parked car, no one injured||Rainfall and heavy winds led to several incidents of tree fall and hoarding collapse in Kalyan, Dombivli and Navi Mumbai on Monday.A massive signage board located at the Jakat Naka on Kalyan-Shilphata road fell on a car parked below on Monday noon. No one was injured in the incident. The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) fire brigade officials have cleared the road for traffic.“There was strong wind since morning, which led to the collapse of the board, along with the iron support to which it was attached. No one was inside the car when the incident took place,” said an official at the spot. The city has received 126mm rainfall since Sunday evening to Monday morning.“There were fewer vehicles because of the lockdown. Otherwise, this stretch has continuous traffic flow,” added the official.In Kalyan-Dombivli, a total of 27 tree fall incidents were also reported, out of which, three trees fell over houses in Chikanghar and Manda-Titwala in Kalyan (West). No injuries or casualties were reported in these incidents.Meanwhile, in Navi Mumbai, a man sustained minor injuries after a tree collapsed in Airoli on Monday at around 11.45am. The incident took place near Abhyudaya Bank in Sector 17 and the passers-by rushed the victim to a nearby hospital, said a fire official.However, the disaster management cell of the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) and Rabale police said that they were not able to trace the person injured in the mishap.“As per the fire brigade, the Rabale police sent the victim home as he only sustained minor injuries. The tree was weak and collapsed during heavy rains,” said KT Rathod, office superintendent at the NMMC disaster management cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/signage-board-falls-on-parked-car-no-one-injured/story-4iQfxX5duSqW8XZnPn6Z4J.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha police death toll rises to 70; 43 from city||The number of personnel in the Mumbai Police who tested positive for Covid-19 continued to rise on Monday, with the total now at 2,975. Of the total cases, 535 personnel are currently undergoing treatment, while 2,397 have recovered. The number of fatalities in the city police force stands at 43, while the toll for the state police force has reached 70 after three more personnel from Mumbai, Thane and Amravati died.Among the new cases in the Mumbai Police, a senior inspector from Bandra police station and two assistant inspectors of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) tested positive for Covid-19.According to Bandra police officers, the senior inspector’s driver had fever and tested positive for the virus, following which the senior inspector also got tested. His result arrived on Saturday. “The senior police inspector is asymptomatic and is in home quarantine,” said an officer.In another case, a 57-year-old police head constable’s son has complained to Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Twitter, alleging that his father, who is due for retirement in 10 months, contracted the virus due to negligence of the department. He also claimed that five other members of his family also got infected because of it. He said that though his father was aged above 55 and was exempted from duty, he was called on duty by the police station in-charge and deputed in containment zones.However, senior police officers denied the allegation stating that a departmental inquiry was already conducted into the case and the allegations are baseless. “The government resolution issued in June asked all government employees to come on duty at least once a week. The senior police inspector followed this and called the head constable to be on duty. The head constable was never assigned duty in any risky area. He is suspected to have contracted the virus from the building he was staying in which had infected people. The building has been sealed now. All rules were followed properly and the allegations are baseless. The police station in-charge did not flout any rule,” said Ravindra Patil, assistant commissioner of police (Kurla division), who conducted the inquiry in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-police-death-toll-rises-to-70-43-from-city/story-2jv0sTiieoJeUTfrwEwdJP.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||HC allows termination of unborn child with defects, asks state to bring up child if born||The Bombay high court after permitting a couple to terminate a pregnancy in the 28th week due to defects in the child on a condition that they would take care of the child if it was born alive, has relaxed the condition and put the onus of taking care of the child on the government, if the couple was unable to do so or afford its treatment.The HC modified its order after the couple brought to the notice of the bench that an earlier order had asked the government to take care of children born with defects, if the parents did not want to take care of it or afford its expenses. A division bench of justice KK Tated and justice Milind Jadhav on June 30 had permitted a couple to medically terminate a 28-week pregnancy after the report from the medical board confirmed that the neurological anomalies would be a threat for the child after it was born, and hence the termination should be permitted. The petitioning couple through advocate Ruchita Padwal had said that despite the advanced stage of pregnancy they wanted to go for the termination, as it would cause mental agony and trauma for the mother after the child was born.Additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan for the state submitted that as the medical board had given a nod for the termination, the state did not have any objection.After hearing the submission, the court had passed an order permitting the termination. The court had, however, put a condition that if the child survived after termination, the couple would have to take responsibility for the child.However, on July 3, Padwal approached the court again and submitted that the condition stipulated by the court in the June 30 order could not be complied with by the couple. She also drew the attention of the bench to an earlier order of justice AS Oka wherein he had put the onus of taking care of children born with defects after a termination procedure on the state government and hence the current order should be modified.After hearing the submissions, while speaking to minutes the court directed the deletion of the paragraph which put the responsibility of the child on the parents and said, “In case, if the child is born alive and if the petitioner and her husband are not willing or are not in a position to take responsibility of such a child then the state and its agencies will have to assume full responsibility for such a child.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-allows-termination-of-unborn-child-with-defects-asks-state-to-bring-up-child-if-born/story-m16LgXGbvgMdAowraIrbPP.html
07-07-2020||City||72-year-old paralysed Covid patient goes missing from hospital||A 72-year-old paralysed Covid-19 patient has gone missing from the recently inaugurated Global Hub Corona Hospital in Thane city. A missing person complaint was filed by Kapurbawdi police on Monday, after the missing person’s family approached the police. The missing person, a Kalwa resident, requires a walker or support to walk.“We have filed a missing complaint after the relatives of the person approached us with their complaint on Monday evening. We have set out teams to search for the individual,” said Sanjay Nimbalkar, inspector, Kapurbawdi police station. According to the complaint, the authorities on Sunday informed the person’s family members that they could not find him. However, officials of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) refused to comment on the matter.“My father-in-law tested positive on June 29 and was admitted to Global Hub Corona Hospital. All the other family members were quarantined. The next day we were told that he was feeling better, but we did not receive any calls from the hospital after that. Upon calling the reception, we were told that he was fine and they told us his bed number and floor. However, after a few days they started giving vague answers, following which we contacted a doctor who visits the hospital. The doctor said she could not find him in the hospital,” said his daughter-in-law.The family then approached a local resident organisation, Thane Matdata Jagran Abhiyaan. “After they approached us, we tried to get in touch with the authorities and the hospital. However, no one knew about the whereabouts of this patient. After getting permission, one family member was allowed to enter the hospital wearing PPE kits to search for the patient. They looked everywhere but he was nowhere to be found. This is when we approached the police station and filed a complaint,” said Chetana Dixit, secretary of the organisation.Global Hub Corona Hospital is a 1,024-bed facility which was recently inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/72-year-old-paralysed-covid-patient-goes-missing-from-hospital/story-YcBtVnDCNtVNNoanmE9NXN.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||472 smart cameras to keep an eye on traffic, criminals in Karnal||As many as 472 smart surveillance cameras will be installed in Karnal under the smart city project to monitor traffic movement and keep tabs on criminal activities. The infrared cameras will be fixed at 29 spots in the city, including five main chowks on NH-44. The cameras will be installed under the integrated command and control centre (ICCC) project and the contract has been given to Madras Security Printer Private Limited Company under the automated traffic control system. The work on this project is expected to be completed by the end of November this year.Nishant Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner-cum-CEO Karnal smart city project said the project is worth around ₹158 crore, which will also include smart water supply and streetlight system. “These cameras will be linked with the automatic control system at the command centre being set up at the local municipal office,” he added. He said 42 cameras will be installed on all chowks on NH-44, including 360-degree rotator cameras which would keep a close vigil on activities and movement of people at the sensitive locations of the city.A red light violation detection system and adaptive traffic control system will be installed at all these locations to regulate traffic. This system will calibrate itself on the basis of the coming traffic and adjust signals accordingly, he added. The red light violation detection and automatic number plate reader (ANPR) features will be able to distinguish violators from 600 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/472-smart-cameras-to-keep-an-eye-on-traffic-criminals-in-karnal/story-o6qQ7ZT4Lhs7RgwhXDzfXJ.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||Mithibai College allows students to pay hiked fees in instalments||Mithibai College in Vile Parle has allowed some of its students to pay their fees in instalments after students and political parties raised complaints over a hike in fees despite orders from the University Grants Commission (UGC) and University of Mumbai (MU).On June 29, HT had reported that the college run by Shri Vile Parle Kelavani Mandal (SVKM) charitable trust had hiked its fees for second- and third-year students. Following the announcement, student bodies of political parties such as Yuva Sena of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena and Student Islamic Organisation had taken the matter up with the management of the institute and the state Fee Regulatory Authority, respectively.While Mithibai College has increased the fees by up to 30%, students had sought an option to pay their fees in instalments as the income of their families had been affected owing to the lockdown. On Monday, students were informed that those with genuine reasons for inability to pay fees will be allowed to pay in parts. “Students have to write to the heads of their departments and the principal stating reasons if they are unable to pay their fees. The college will then verify the claim and approve it on a case-to-case basis,” said a third-year student on the condition of anonymity. “All decisions in the college are taken by the principal. I cannot comment on the same,” said Asoke Basak, chief executive officer of SVKM. Rajpal Hande, principal of the college, did not respond to calls and messages.The college had given a four-day window to students for making payments between June 27 and 30, which was later extended till July 6. However, students said that this was against the letter issued by UGC, the apex governing body of all higher educational institutes, on May 27 wherein it had asked all universities and colleges to be sympathetic towards students while asking them to pay tuition and other fees. Subsequently, MU instructed all colleges, including autonomous ones, to not hike fees for the academic year 2020-21 and allow students to pay fees in instalments. Meanwhile, Yuva Sena has written to state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant to issue a circular to all colleges and universities in the state to provide the option of part payment of fees and consider reduction of fees in view of the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mithibai-college-allows-students-to-pay-hiked-fees-in-instalments/story-0atxgkM7AOk3kEsPU1V40L.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||HC restrains Emami from taking legal recourse against HUL without serving notice||In an interim relief to Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL), the Bombay high court has restrained Emami Limited from initiating any legal proceedings against HUL without prior written notice of seven days. On Monday, HUL which recently announced that it was rebranding its fairness cream ‘Fair & Lovely’ to ‘Glow & Lovely’ and the same product for men would be called ‘Glow & Handsome’ approached the HC seeking a limited ad-interim relief against the statements by Emami that it would take legal recourse as it claimed to have trademark rights over the rebranded name used by HUL.A bench of justice B P Colabawalla, while hearing the commercial intellectual property suit filed by HUL against Emami, was informed by advocate Hiren Kamod that HUL sought urgent hearing of the matter for the limited purpose that ‘the defendant (Emami) should give at least 7 clear days prior written notice to the plaintiff (HUL) before initiating any legal proceedings in any court or claiming any interim or ad-interim reliefs against the plaintiff as threatened in the statements issued/made on behalf of the defendant (Emami) against the plaintiff’s (HULs) use of the trade mark ‘Glow & Handsome’.Kamod submitted that HUL had adopted the trademark ‘Fair & Lovely’ in 1975 and in 2006 adopted the trademark ‘Fair & Lovely, Men’ which was later changed to ‘Men’s Fair & Lovely’. HUL acquired the requisite trademarks too.Kamod further stated that in September 2018 after thorough research in the Register of Trade Marks, HUL coined and adopted the trademarks ‘Glow & Lovely’ and ‘Glow & Handsome’. Multiclass applications for the same were filed with the Registrar of Trade Marks. After the Registrar raised an objection, HUL filed an appeal before the Intellectual Property Appellate Board. Kamod stated that the appeal is pending.In June 2020, Kamod submitted that another fresh set of applications were made by HUL with the Registrar of Trade Marks to register the trademark labels ‘Glow & Lovely’ and ‘Glow & Handsome’ in classes 3 and 5 on proposed to be used basis. Following this, HUL on July 2 announced its decision to rebrand ‘Fair & Lovely’ to ‘Glow & Lovely’ and the men’s skin care range to ‘Glow & Handsome’.Kamod stated that after the announcement was made, Emami issued statements threatening to adopt legal action against the plaintiff for violating the defendant’s alleged rights in its mark ‘Emami Glow and Handsome’. He further submitted that the statements issued by Emami are unjustifiable and groundless within the meaning of section 142 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and that their claim is false and misconceived.In light of these submissions, Kamod said HUL was seeking limited ad interim relief that Emami should issue them seven days prior notice for any legal proceedings it was initiating against HUL.After hearing the submissions, justice Colabawalla allowed the relief and directed Emami to serve seven days prior notice to HUL about any legal proceedings it intended to take with regards to the marks in dispute and posted the hearing of the suit on July 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-restrains-emami-from-taking-legal-recourse-against-hul-without-serving-notice/story-C3EhrdjNS8Q5rKhc09jaTM.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||City lake levels rise by 3% in two days||Almost a month after the onset of monsoon, the water stock in the seven lakes in the city finally saw a significant increase in water levels by 3% in past two days. The rise in lake levels was witnessed after heavy downpour in catchment areas between July 5 and 6. The total water in the seven lakes has gone up to 1.60 lakh million litre, which is 11.10% of the required water stock, from 1.15 lakh million litre (7.98%) two days ago. The total storage capacity is 14.47 lakh million litre. Last year, the water stock in the seven lakes — Upper Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tansa, Bhatsa, Vihar, and Tulsi — collectively was 2.16 lakh million litres (14.96%) during the same time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-lake-levels-rise-by-3-in-two-days/story-Y8h5Dr0jXjw9AJxncSxxTK.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||DISAPPEARANCE CASE: Ex-Punjab DGP Saini’s interim bail extended till July 8||MOHALI The court additional district and sessions judge Sanjay Agnihotri on Monday extended the interim bail of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini till July 8 in the case pertaining to the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991. The case was registered against Saini on May 6 this year.The hearing was held in the duty court of Agnihotri as the main judge, Rajnish Garg, was on leave. Citing that the case hearing was transferred to the court of Garg and as the court was not functioning today, the case was heard in the court of duty magistrate, so by the consent of counsels of defence and prosecution, the case hearing be put forth the transferee court of ADJ Garg and the interim bail orders may continue till July 8. Upholding the arguments given by the special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula, the district and sessions judge Rajinder Singh Rai on July 4 allowed the application seeking transfer of the case from additional district and sessions judge Monika Goyal’s court and assigned to the court of ADJ Rajnish Garg.The decision on quashing the anticipatory bail under Section 302 of the IPC will also come up for hearing in the court of ADJ Rajnish Garg. In the previous hearing, Narula had argued that the ADJ’s court had ignored the facts and gravity of the offense while discussing the merits of the case and the interim bail has been granted in a blanket manner. Narula said that prosecution has been pressing that in the enthusiasm to grant the anticipatory bail to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, the court of ADJ unduly diluted the considerations that were required to imminently be considered. “Now, we will present the statement of eyewitness Gursharan Kaur Mann, which she recorded under Section 161 of the CrPC corroborating illegal detention and inhuman torture of Balwant Singh Mulatani at the hands of Saini while seeking cancelation of interim bail granted in anticipation of involving 320 of the IPC,” said Narula.Multani was allegedly picked up by two officers in 1991 after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then Chandigarh SSP, in which four policemen in his security posse were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of the Qadian police.Former DSP Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Satvir Singh, sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh were also named in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/disappearance-case-ex-punjab-dgp-saini-s-interim-bail-extended-till-july-8/story-QmURwHwfWHqNZH9KRXIOeN.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||4 city students are IB exam toppers||The International Baccalaureate (IB) declared the results for its diploma programme (Class 12 equivalent) on Sunday evening. Several students from the city got near perfect scores in the exams this year with a large number of students scoring 40 points and above out of the total 45 points. The average score at Dhirubhai Ambani International School in Bandra-Kurla Complex was recorded at 39.1 points with 4 students from the school — Niharika Ghoshal, Ishita Gupta, Aman Ladia and Maya Singapuri — emerging as world toppers with a perfect score of 45 points.At Jamnabai Narsee International School in Vile Parle, 12 of the 99 students, who had appeared for the exam, scored over 40 points. Neeha Gupta topped the school with 43 points. “During this extraordinary pandemic, the result is a testimony of students’ consistent performance over the two years, teachers’ commitment and parents’ support,” said Jasmine Madhani, head of the school.Owing to the Covid-19 global pandemic, IB this year cancelled its written exams scheduled for May and evaluated students on the basis of scores in internal assessments that were submitted to the board from the respective schools, previous exam sessions, individual school data and subject data.At the SVKM JV Parekh International School in Vile Parle, of the 35 students registered for the diploma, 6 students secured 37 points and more. School toppers Mukti Bari and Ayati Kele secured 40 points. “Our school’s subject-wise averages have improved substantially compared to previous years. We have also achieved 100% placement of students in top international universities like University of British Columbia, Kings College London, etc,” said Dr G Swaminathan, principal of the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-city-students-are-ib-exam-toppers/story-YYNoz91si1FaZLKrtlqfWL.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: Bandra police record Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s statement||Bollywood filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali on Monday recorded his statement with Bandra police in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. On June 14, the actor was found dead in his Bandra apartment, following which a detailed probe was ordered to find the cause.The Mumbai Police till now has recorded statements of 28 people including Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh, house help Keshav Bachner, manager Deepesh Sawant, creative manager Siddharth Ramnathmurti Pithani, sisters Neetu and Meetu Singh, father KK Singh, television actor Mahesh Shetty, casting director Mukesh Chhabra, business manager Shruti Modi, PR manager Ankita Tehlani, actor Rhea Chakraborty, employees of Yash Raj Films among others.Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police of zone 9, said,” We have called Sanjay Leela Bhansali to record his statement, in connection with ongoing investigation of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-bandra-police-record-sanjay-leela-bhansali-s-statement/story-u7rTqw07KUwcMkeUhPMwHN.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three deaths, 208 new Covid-19 cases in Punjab||Amritsar/Patiala/Sangrur/Jalandhar/Bathinda Punjab reported 208 new cases of coronavirus besides three deaths, taking the state’s case tally to 6,491, according to the media bulletin released by the state government on Monday. The death toll now stands at 169.“A 42-year old man, resident of Gali Jassa Singh near Golden Temple, died of covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Monday, civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said.“The patent was admitted to GMCH when he showed symptoms of Covid-19. He was also suffering from liver disease and he passed away during treatment.”The district also reported 12 fresh cases on Monday, of which nine are fresh community transmission cases and three are close contacts of the Covid-19 patients. The positive cases include a Punjab Police sub-Inspector,” he added.Gurdaspur district reported 11 fresh cases. Patiala reported 30 fresh infections. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said of total cases, 15 are reported from Patiala city, six from Rajpura, three from Nabha and six others from different villages across district.A 53-year-old resident of Mandi Gobindgarh in Fatehgarh Sahib district died at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. A 65-year-old resident of Malerkotla died due to coronavirus, while 13 others tested positive of the virus in Sangrur district. Nineteen patients are from Malerkotla, eght from Sunam, four each from Longowal and Moonak, two from Dhuri and three from Sangrur.Twenty-eight persons tested positive for covid-19 in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district. Besides 17 people tested positive for the virus in Jalandhar.Seven persons, including four army jawans from cantonment, tested positive in Bathinda. The jawans had recently returned to Bathinda cantonment from training. Muktsar’s nodal officer for Covid Paramjit Sandhu said six family members from Mann Singh Wala village were tested positive on Monday.A six-month child and four women are among those tested positive.Five people contracted the infection in Kapurthala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-deaths-208-new-covid-19-cases-in-punjab/story-ODznFwA8EA8kmn1mpERJBO.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||4,457 beds in government medical colleges across Maharashtra||With rising number of cases from districts outside Mumbai, the medical education department has increased the bed strength in all 19 government-run medical colleges across the state to 4,457 as of July 5, from around 2,000 as of May 1. Districts namely Nagpur and Aurangabad have the highest number of Covid-19 beds in medical colleges. Health activists, however, said the number is not enough.On June 11, the state recorded over 1 lakh patients and crossed the 2-lakh mark in less than a month later on July 2. Till Sunday, Mumbai recorded a total of 84,524 Covid-19 patients, while the remaining 60% of the state’s total of 2,06,619 came from other districts. As cases have plateaued in Mumbai, the state is now focusing on Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Jalgaon, among others, which are recording a gradual surge. The state medical education department has 19 medical colleges across 16 districts in the state—Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Nanded, Solapur, Akola, Aurangabad, Gondia, Jalgaon,Sangli, Kolhapur, Dhule, Yavatmal, Beed, Latur and Chandrapur. Of the 4,557 beds, 741 are for patients in intensive care units (ICU), 385 with ventilator support and remaining 3,331 are oxygen-supported beds for moderately ill patients. “We have observed that only 5% of the patients require a ventilator. Almost 80% of the patients with breathing difficulties recover with oxygen support. So, we have over 3,000 beds with oxygen facilities,” Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD). “On a daily basis, we try to expand the number of beds to accommodate more patients.”Mumbai has 400 beds at government-run St George and GT hospitals that come under Grant Medical College (GMC), Mumbai, which is also called JJ Hospital. Pune has 266 beds in BJ Medical College and GMC in Baramati. At Nagpur, where cases have surged from 139 on May 1 to 1,719 till July 5, there are 1,124 beds at the Government Medical College (GMC) and Indira Gandhi Medical College. Aurangabad, with 6,568 cases as of July 5, has 566 beds at the GMC. On May 1, Latur recorded only 12 cases which till July 5 surged to 388. To treat patients at the district, the Vilasrao Deshmukh Institute of Medical Science has set up 388 beds. The medical education has installed 285 beds at the GMC-Miraj in Sangli, where 315 Covid-19 cases have been recorded. Since April, the medical education department has been setting up beds in all government colleges, even in districts like Beed, Chandrapur and Gondia which didn’t have any Covid-19 patients then. “In May, the Central team criticised us for investing resources in districts which had minimal cases. But as we had kept the health infrastructure ready in our colleges, we could conduct tests and provide immediate treatment to migrants,” said a senior officer from Directorate of Medical Education (DMER). “It also helped control the fatality rate.”Dr Abhijit More, co-convenor of NGO Jan Aarogya Abhiyan, said Jalgaon has only 205 beds, despite 4,000 cases and 278 deaths till Sunday. “Jalgaon district has turned out to be the epicentre for Covid-19, with a fatality rate of almost 6.5%. In districts like Latur and Beed, if the cases increase, the fatality rate might rise further, owing to other factors such as malnutrition,” said Dr More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-457-beds-in-government-medical-colleges-across-maharashtra/story-8ggY5R8TYMUHRll7i6630O.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC refuses to stay dental students’ exam||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday refused to stay the examinations of graduate and postgraduate dental courses to be conducted by Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, scheduled to commence on Tuesday.The plea challenging the move was filed by the Dental Surgeons Association of India, demanding that the exams should not be held in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.Dismissing the plea, the high court bench of justice Arvind Sangwan observed that that varsity has followed the guidelines issued by different agencies from time to time for the conduct of exam. It also took note of the submission that there are only 189 students appearing in the MDS exam, out of which, 69 students have to appear in only one exam. Similarly, in BDS exam, there are 14 exam centres, divided into two shifts and only 100 students have to appear in each shift. It also took note of the fact that varsity has already conducted MD/MS examination in June, 2020 and also it is in the process of conducting recruitment examination for doctors and paramedical staff for the state government.It also found that varsity had on June 14 directed the students to join the hostel by June 20 so that they may undergo 14-day self quarantine in the hostel itself. The varsity had also told the court that majority of the students had reported back and have undergone 14 days self-quarantine in the hostel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-refuses-to-stay-dental-students-exam/story-m50pdRM9ETiOHWFpOR7DTN.html
07-07-2020||City||Pandemic brings AIR’s Urdu shows to halt, border listeners disappointed||Strategically important due to its location close to the international border with Pakistan, All India Radio’s Gharinda tower near Attari integrated check post (ICP) is currently non-functional as the staff in Delhi is unable to record programmes due to the Covid-19 outbreak.This has left listeners on both sides of the border, especially those in Pakistan’s Lahore located about 25 kms from the Attari-Wagah border, disappointed as they are no longer able to tune into Urdu programming relayed from here.“This is disappointing. The shows were very popular among Amritsar residents and also the intelligentsia of Lahore. Pakistan is covering Amritsar through a number of FM and medium-wave transmitters but India is unable to cover Lahore now. This is a wakeup call for Prasar Bharati,” said Harjap Singh Aujla, a retired engineer in Amritsar.Kulwant Singh Ankhi, patron of Amritsar Vikas Manch, an NGO, said, “Earlier, the problem was that the original 1,000-ft high tower, through which a larger audience could be reached, was not being commissioned. Now, the suspension of Urdu programming has created a new problem.”Aujla adds that the non-commissioning of the high-tower is a waste of resources as AIR is able to reach only 25% of the population it is supposed to cover in the area on both sides. He says that officials cite a slight bend in the upper portion of tower for its disuse.Santosh Rishi of the All-India Radio, Jalandhar, who manages the Gharinda tower, says, “The Urdu programming, which was relayed by the Delhi office, has gone off air temporarily due to the pandemic outbreak. The staff is currently unable to rejoin office. We have written to the Delhi office to resume the service, but we cannot say anything on when it will be resumed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pandemic-brings-air-s-urdu-shows-to-halt-border-listeners-disappointed/story-6RrtbDrmQPz29JSg3icgKN.html
07-07-2020||City||Three end lives in separate incidents in Chandigarh’s Nayagaon||Three persons, including two women, all residents of Nayagaon committed suicide in the last 24 hours in separate cases.In the first incident, a 20-year-old woman committed suicide on Monday by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her residence in Kansal, Nayagaon over ‘domestic dispute with her husband’. In the second incident, a 29-year-old woman committed suicide on Sunday after hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Shivalik Vihar, Nayagaon. In his complaint, the victim’s brother said that his sister was depressed as her husband was facing huge losses in his business.No suicide note was recovered from the spot and the police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC in both the incidents.In another incident, a 35-year-old man allegedly committed suicide after jumping from a commercial building in Nayagaon. The victim’s wife said that her husband who worked as a carpenter had lent ₹2 lakh to his friend who failed to return his money following which he was upset.She said that earlier that day some persons assaulted her husband. The victim was taken to GMSH, Sector 16, Chandigarh, where doctors declared him brought dead.A suicide note was recovered from the spot where the man had said that his friend failed to return the borrowed money from the past two years that lead him to take the extreme step.The Nayagaon police have booked his friend Ajay along with four unidentified persons under Sections 306 (abutment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-end-lives-in-separate-incidents-in-chandigarh-s-nayagaon/story-WLFpSGRZdvB202hMRCOZsI.html
07-07-2020||City||Five persons die in four separate road mishaps in Khanna||Five persons, including a woman, lost their lives in four separate road mishaps in Khanna on Monday.Two youth – identified as Pargat Singh, 18, and Gurpreet Singh, 22, - both residents of Zeera, Ferozepur, died after their SUV crashed into a truck near Libra village on Monday morning. They were travelling to Ferozepur from Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. According to the police, the impact of the collision was so strong that both of them died on the spot. In the second incident, a woman died after a car crashed into a stationary truck near Beeja of Khanna, while five of her family members suffered severe injuries. The deceased has been identified as Sanjeet, 42, and the injured as Sonu, Dishan, Pehrana, Alishan, and Samreen of Ludhiana. Sub-inspector Akash Dutt, in charge, Kotan police post, said that all victims were stuck in the mangled car and they had to toil hard to rescue them. They were rushed to the civil hospital, he added. After the incident, the truck driver fled the spot. The police have lodged an FIR against the accused.Meanwhile, Gagandeep Singh, 32, of Chapda village of Payal died after an over-speeding car hit his motorcycle at Payal-Dhamot road. The driver fled the spot, leaving the car there. ASI Mahinderpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said, “Gagandeep Singh was an accountant with a commission agent. He was the lone son of his parents. He was returning home on Sunday late on his motorcycle after finishing up with the day when a car hit his motorcycle from the front.” Gagandeep died on the spot. The police seized the car and lodged an FIR against the unidentified driver.In another incident, a 70-year-old man died after falling from a motorcycle at Kaddon road near Payal. The victim was identified as Nirmal Singh of Aloona Palla village. Singh was going to Doraha on his motorcycle when he lost control over the vehicle and fell. He died on the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-persons-die-in-four-separate-road-mishaps-in-khanna/story-mlqlFgr8cUSinUYNNOvXjO.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown blues: Psychological counselling being provided to all, Chandigarh admn tells HC||The Chandigarh administration has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that along with those directly affected by the coronavirus disease, all residents are being provided the option of getting counselling to deal with mental health issues induced by the pandemic situation.The administration was responding to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by an advocate, Sumati Jund, seeking clarification on access to adequate and affordable mental health care services, proactive mental health initiatives, and extensive training for mental health care by professionals to address the issues being faced by people during the lockdown.The petitioner said before the court that since the country was in the middle of a mental health crisis, programmes generating positivity, hope and motivation at all levels, ranging from social narrative to personal helplines, counselling sessions etc., needed to be initiated. Otherwise we will move from one epidemic to another, the petitioner added.In response, UT stated that Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, had a dedicated psychiatry department and was well-equipped in dealing with the issues concerning mental health. The psychiatric OPD services had to be temporarily suspended, but those had been substituted with telemedicine facilities. Counsellors were also deputed at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, to assist persons coming for Covid testing, the representatives of the UT said.The UT said that till June 19, as many as 1,451 calls regarding anxiety and mental health-related issues had been attended. The court was further informed that counselling was provided to affected areas such as Bapu Dham Colony, and to migrant workers as well.The states of Punjab and Haryana, who were made party in the matter on the petitioner’s seeking, listed out the steps being taken by them in this regard. Satisfied, the high court disposed of the petition, asking states and the UT to take note of suggestions made by the lawyer.HELPLINEHelp is just a call awayLandline: 01722501005Mobile: 9517771742WhatsApp: 951777174624X7 number: 1800-180- 2063 Email: consult.psychiatry.gmch@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-blues-psychological-counselling-being-provided-to-all-chandigarh-admn-tells-hc/story-dcItUoyNTsLxus04lRaAgI.html
07-07-2020||Gurugram||Employers feel reservation in private sector could hamper Gurugram’s economic recovery||Private employers in Gurugram expressed their dismay at the Haryana government’s plan of reserving 75 percent jobs in private sector for youth domiciled in the state (excluding jobs paying more than Rs 50,000 per month) and said that the move might gravely hamper the region’s economic recovery in a post-Covid worldThe move can also fundamentally change the economic landscape of the city, which employs people from across Haryana, Delhi-NCR, India and even the world, stakeholders said. The proposed ordinance — Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020 — was cleared for drafting on Monday by the Haryana cabinet, and will be tabled before the council of minister during its next meeting. The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), coalition partner of the BJP in the state, had made a commitment to provide 75 percent quota in private sector jobs to Haryana youths in its election manifesto last year.Manas Fuloria, founder of a city-based IT-firm and spokesperson for NASSCOM, Haryana, said, “At present, there is not much clarity on the specific terms of the ordinance. We are ourselves trying to ascertain whether it applies only to unskilled labour, or skilled jobs as well. If the ordinance is passed as a blanket reservation, many private companies may choose to relocate their employees to other cities, at least on paper. It will be possible for a lot of companies to work remotely in the current scenario. But I think industries like manufacturing and real estate will be hit hard by these constraints.”A senior employee of a prominent real estate firm in Gurugram, seeking anonymity, said, “We have been relying on skilled workmen from states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh for years. To train locals from scratch is an investment that we cannot make as we are in a period of economic downturn. This ordinance will make Haryana a less attractive location for private firms to do business. Once the draft ordinance is made public, we can put up our objections to it.” Employers in the manufacturing sector also appeared worried at the prospect of such an ordinance being promulgated into a law. Pankaj Yadav, president of the Gurugram Udyog Association, said, “At this point in time, jobs are already scarce. Industries should be allowed to hire at their discretion for the next few years at least. This is not the time to be putting such constraints on us in an already reeling economy. We have no issues with hiring locals, but finding people with the right skills and qualifications will become much harder, and possibly more expensive as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/reservation-in-private-sector-jobs-might-hamper-gurugram-s-economic-recovery-say-employers/story-IGU61TFFV06XBKZ255wy7O.html
07-07-2020||Gurugram||Man assaulted by a group of armed men in Sector 10||Three men allegedly barged into a house and assaulted a man, after firing a gunshot to intimidate him in Sadhrana in Sector 10 on Saturday night. The suspects are yet to be arrested, said the police on Monday.According to the police, the incident took place at 10.15pm, when the victim was at his house with his wife and two children. The police said the three suspects entered the house and asked for the victim. When his wife told him he was upstairs, the suspects rushed after him and started assaulting him. “I tried to plead with them but they continued beating me. One of the suspects pulled out a gun and fired on the floor to intimidate me. My wife also requested them to leave. They snatched my phone and car keys and before leaving,” stated the victim in the FIR. He added that he did not know any of the suspects.The police said the victim suffered minor injuries and, prima facie, personal enmity is suspected to be the alleged reason for the attack. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said,“We have identified the car used by the suspects and efforts are on to trace them.”A case was registered against the suspects under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 452 (house-trespass), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 379 B (snatching), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and relevant section of the Arms Act at Sector 10 A police station on Sunday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-assaulted-by-a-group-of-armed-men-in-sector-10/story-sIoQ1JTDPcIRRmunt6wyYK.html
07-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s Covid-19 count crosses 6,000-mark; death toll at 101||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the city breached the 6,000-mark on Monday after 109 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the district health bulletin. The city’s total number of Covid-19 cases stands at 6,058, out of which 947 are active ones, while 5,010 have recovered till now. The city added 5,000 new cases in June alone when the total positivity rate was more than 50%. At present, the positivity rate is around 4.5%.Gurugram has the highest number of cases in Haryana, followed by Faridabad and Sonepat. At least 17,504 cases have been reported in the state, out of which 3,893 are active, while 13,611 patients have recovered. Gurugram’s overall burden as a percentage of the total number of cases in state is 24.3%. The city recorded its first case of Covid-19 on March 15, when a 26-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 9 had tested positive for the infection after returning from Malaysia and Indonesia. Since then, it took two-and-a-half months to record the first 1,000 cases on May 30 and another 30 days for 5,000 cases. Overall, it has taken the city 107 days since the first case to touch the 6,000-mark.On Monday, the district also recorded one death due to Covid-19. The total toll due to the Covid-19 infection in the city reached the 101-mark on Monday. This takes Gurugram’s present fatality rate to 1.66% as compared to 0.4% in May. The case fatality rate started surging from June onwards when over six to nine deaths were being reported daily. More than 50% of the deaths were reported between June 11-29. Till now, 64 patients have died due to co-morbid conditions, such as hypertension, tuberculosis, diabetes, cancer, among other underlining health issues, while another 37 have died without any co-morbidities. To ascertain the cause of death in such cases, senior doctors of PGIMS Rohtak, a Covid-19 designated tertiary care hospital of the state, are coordinating with All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi. Gurugram, however, is far behind the predictions earlier made by the district administration regarding spike in the number of cases. Considering parameters, such as doubling rate and test positivity rate, it was predicted that 35,000 cases would be reported by June-end. But later experts suggested the numbers might be around 6,000-7,000. To match the swelling number of cases, it was predicted that the city would need 4,200- 5,250 beds for Covid-19 patients requiring tertiary care. Presently, the treatment for Covid-19 is being provided in 37 private hospitals and three government hospitals across the city. The city has earmarked 1,486 beds for Covid-19 patients, 192 Intensive Care Unit(ICU) beds and 92 ventilators in both government and private hospitals. Currently, 386 patients are admitted in city hospitals, out of which 197 patients are from Gurugram, while 188 patients are from other cities of the country, including 82 from Delhi. The administration has also reserved more than 1,000 beds in several hotels of the city for self-paid and government-paid isolation facilities for the treatment of asymptomatic patients.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), said, “Our focus currently is on testing, tracing and treating the patients. Today, the total number of active cases in Gurugram is below 1,000. There is also an improvement in the recovery rate. Our target is to test more than 2,000 people every day to break the chain of transmission in the large outbreak regions.”As per official estimates, 46,187 tests have been conducted in the city so far, out of which more than 6,000 have tested positive.“The average number of daily positive cases in the city is down by 22% from 152 in June to 118 in July, while daily testing has more than tripled mainly due to the introduction of rapid antigen testing. As a result, positivity rate has dropped sharply from 23.9% in June to 5.5% in the first week of July. For the next two weeks, Gurugram should sustain more than 2,000 daily tests with more focus on RT-PCR testing to achieve the 5% positivity rate as recommended by the World Health Organization(WHO),” said Dheeraj Singh, a city-based data scientist tracking Covid-19 cases in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-covid-19-count-crosses-6-000-mark-death-toll-at-101/story-kQoTUVEidLNJOkYKMK1SbL.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||Hotels, lodges allowed to operate in Maharashtra from Wednesday, but only at 33%||A day after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray assured hotels that the sector will be opened up, the government issued a notification on Monday allowing hotels, lodges and guest houses to operate from Wednesday, but at 33% of their capacity. The government has issued guidelines for strict compliance with measures to contain the spread of coronavirus. Dine-in restaurants, however, will remain to be shut and operate only for takeaways as the government has not taken any decision yet. Restaurants at hotels and guest houses will be available only for the resident guest, although the government has pressed for room services and takeaways. Swimming pools, gymnasiums, playing areas, gaming arcades and gatherings of more than 15 people at these hotels will not be allowed, the notification issued by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar stated. Remaining 67% of the facility can be used for the quarantine facility by the district/municipal administration. The hotels have been asked to admit asymptomatic patients only after taking their travel history and self-declaration. The guests are also mandated to wear face masks at all times during their stay. It has been made mandatory for the hotel management to sanitize the rooms, lavatories, drinking and hand-washing stations and washrooms at regular intervals. Besides the sanitisation, the changing of linens and keeping rooms vacant for at least a day after it is vacated by the guest has also been made compulsory. Besides measures to avoid crowding, the notification has also made it compulsory to keep pedal-operated hand sanitizers at the entrance, in the rooms, thermal scanner at the entrance and making personal protection equipment (PPE) available to all staff members. The hotels have also been directed to follow the guidelines issued by the Central government related to the use of air-conditioning facilities.“We welcome the step and expect the cap over occupancy is removed gradually in phased manner. We have clarified to the honourable CM that hotels are the safest places in terms of maintaining social distance and there should not have been any cap on operations. Some of the compulsions like sanitizer in every room and thermal screening at the entrance are too harsh and uncalled for. In such conditions, many hoteliers would opt to not begin operations immediately,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI).Hotelier Dilip Datwani said that with 33% cap it would not be feasible to operate as the operation and maintenance cost remain the same. “Similarly, with the restrictions on industrial operations and on travelling, there are no takers too for services,” he said.Kohli said that there are 53,000 hotels in organised sectors across the country and 10,500 are in Maharashtra. The estimated losses, according to him, during the period of the lockdown are Rs1.10 lakh crore. Representatives of hoteliers had a meeting with the CM on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hotels-lodges-allowed-to-operate-in-maharashtra-from-wednesday-but-only-at-33/story-WCHhEAWoOMBsKOnclmv9HN.html
07-07-2020||Gurugram||Mid-day meals to be extended to out-of-school children in Haryana||The department of elementary education of the state has directed all the district elementary education officers to ensure that out-of-school children are enrolled in age-appropriate classes and that they are provided with mid-day meals just like regular students. Until now, mid-day meals were only being provided to students who are on the school’s roll. Out-of-school children are usually given special bridge classes before they can be formally enrolled into government schools.A directive in this regard was shared with district elementary education officers last Friday. Ritu Chowdhary, district project coordinator, Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, said mid-day meals would be provided to school drop-outs and out-of-school children in line with the new directions. “Children enrolled in schools used to receive mid-day meals in the form of cooked food earlier. In view of the spread of Covid-19, teachers have started delivering dry ration to children on the school’s roll. However, out-of-school were not being covered earlier. Now, the dry ration will be made available to these children as well,” said Chowdhary.The district administration has been providing 3kg of rice and wheat, and dry milk, as dry ration, to enrolled students. The dry ration is delivered by teachers who visit their homes. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, children are also being provided with hand sanitisers, masks and soaps.Gurugram’s block education officer Sudesh Raghav said that the department would start providing dry ration to out-of-school children once it receives the detailed guidelines regarding the dispersal of the same. “We have received the new directions recently. As per the new directions, classes will soon start for these out-of-school children. They’ll be enrolled and mid-day meals will be provided to them.While anyone can access online classes, regular classes for these children couldn’t take place due to the disruption caused by the pandemic,” said Raghav. Special centres for out-of-school children have been created in the vicinity of government schools in various clusters. In Gurugram, some of these centres run in places such as Kadipur and Nathupur. “The government maintains a data of children who are enrolled in these classes. As per the records of the department, meals in the form of dry ration will be provided to them. Efforts are also being made to ensure that such children are able to access classes through the various mediums that are currently operational,” said Raghav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mid-day-meals-to-be-extended-to-out-of-school-children-in-haryana/story-SP2ylzB5OBiOSl7KCKlDmL.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt freezes dearness allowance and dearness relief at 17% for a year||Haryana government on Monday decided to freeze dearness allowance (DA) of its employees and dearness relief (DR) of all pensioners at the current rate of 17% till July 2021.Although the state government will continue to pay both DA and DR at a rate of 17%, employees and pensioners will not receive the arrears of these allowances between January 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021.There are about 3.5 lakh employees across 38 departments, boards and corporations of the state. The salary bill of the employees is about ₹1,870 crore per month, while the pension bill comes to around ₹770 crore per month.Before the imposition of the nationwide lockdown on March 24, Haryana was a revenue surplus state. However, because of the lockdown, the state has been struggling to meet its financial liabilities and has been releasing salaries and pensions in a staggered manner. The financial crisis has also forced the government to impose a ban on the purchase of new vehicles, apart from deferring all new recruitments for government jobs for a year.On Monday, the finance department, in a letter to all departmental heads, commissioners of divisions, deputy commissioners informed them about the decision to freeze the DA and DR at the current rate.“In view of the crisis arising out of Covid-19, it has been decided that additional instalment of DA payable to Haryana government employees and dearness relief to Haryana government pensioners, due from January 1, 2020, shall not be paid (sic),” read the letter.“However, dearness allowance and dearness relief at the current rate of 17% will continued to be paid,” the letter stated.The letter further stated that as and when the decision to release the future instalment of DA and DR is taken, their rates as effective from January 1, 2020; July 1, 2020, and January 1, 2021, will be restored “prospectively” and will be subsumed in the cumulative revised rate, which will be effective from July 1, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-freezes-dearness-allowance-and-dearness-relief-at-17-for-a-year/story-e5s4l4ygQHK3zlHJ2YS7qJ.html
07-07-2020||Gurugram||Mental health sessions for patients isolated at home in Gurugram||The district administration has initiated online counselling sessions on mental health issues for all asymptomatic Covid-19 patients who are currently under home isolation.At least 706 Covid-19 patient, who are currently in home isolation, are being connected to a psychiatrist and psychologist of the district mental health programme through WhatsApp and video calls to address all doubts about the infection and its treatment.Earlier this week, mental health experts had divided the home isolated Covid-19 patients into 19 groups based on their age. Every day a different group is connected to psychiatrists and psychologists via WhatsApp video call during different time slots of the day.“The counselling sessions are held to clear doubts of people related to home isolation, and address depression and stress related issues triggered by Covid-19,” said Dr Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. “Doctors motivate patients to stay stress-free as most of them are worried about getting critically ill.Through these sessions, we try and address their doubts about the disease while helping them deal with the stress that comes with it,” he said. Through a video calling application, active Covid-19 cases are contacted and informed about basic measures to prevent the transmission of virus to their family members. “The team enquires about their health condition to prevent them from becoming critical,” said Yadav.According to him, till June 30 —when the 19 groups were formed — Gurugram had at least 925 asymptomatic Covid-19 patients under home isolation. The number as of July 6 had come down and stood at 706 , all of who are under mandatory home quarantine and have been undergoing counselling.. Each group, officials said, comprises at least 50 patients. A psychiatrist and a psychologist counsel different groups during morning and evening hours. The online sessions are slotted from 11am to noon, noon to 1pm, 4pm to 5pm and 5pm to 6pm.At present there are three mental health experts who are involved in the programme — clinical psychologist Dr Sachin Khatana, psychiatrist Dr Vinay Saini and Ayush expert Dr Aruna Jhangar.Dr Sachin Khatana, clinical psychologist of district mental health programme, who has been holding these sessions said, “Majority of the patients under isolation complain about sleep disorder, as they are mostly occupied using their mobile phones, tablets or electronic gadgets till late night . We have also received complains of patients suffering from headaches and eye pain. Some of them ask about the confirmatory test to check whether they are positive or not after 10 days. Based on their symptoms and queries, we clear their doubts.” Most patients, dealing with stress and sleeplessness, are suggested lifestyle changes by the psychologist and the psychiatrist,with the Ayush doctor recommending regular Yoga practice. Khatana said that after patients recover, they automatically leave the group. Patients who attend these sessions submit their personal details in on a Google document to the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-dept-starts-online-sessions-for-mental-health-of-covid-patients-isolated-at-home/story-YiMproj2FmwfUuY65r96MP.html
07-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid-19 toll goes past 9,000; tally now 211,987||Maharashtra on Monday breached the 9,000-mark in Covid-19 fatalities with 204 more deaths, taking the toll to 9,026. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) is 4.26%. The state recorded 5,368 fresh Covid-19 cases — lowest single-day figure since June 30 — taking the tally to 211,987. Mumbai is inching closer to the grim mark of 5,000 fatalities as it recorded 39 new deaths, taking the toll to 4,938. Mumbai recorded 1,200 new Covid-19 infections, pushing its tally to 85,724. There are 87,681 active cases in the state and 23,624 in Mumbai. After an upward trend in the daily cases reported, the state saw a relatively lower increase on Monday. The state recorded 5,537 cases on July 1, 6,330 on July 2, 6,364 on July 3, 7,074 on July 4 and 6,555 on July 5. However, state health department officials said that it is not a trend to consider yet as the incubation cycle in several areas is not completed and there would be an upswing in daily cases for a few more days.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) continued to contribute a chunk of the new infections with 2,169 cases or 40.41% of the state’s total cases were reported from the region, excluding Mumbai, on Monday. In the past 15 days, the region recorded 32,631 cases.On Monday, Thane city and Thane district recorded 301 and 250 new cases respectively, while Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 454 Covid-19 infections. The total cases in Thane city are 12,260 while it is 10,854 in Kalyan-Dombivli. Vasai-Virar reported 283 new infections, while adjoining Mira-Bhayander reported 123.Besides Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane recorded 28 and 10 fatalities respectively, while Pune, Vasai Virar and Nashik city reported 13 deaths each on Monday. Jalgaon district reported 12 deaths on Monday.“The daily rise in cases is lower on Monday. But it is hardly a trend unless it sustains for a longer period. The cases in MMR and few other regions are still increasing. We expect the cases to rise till this month-end before they start to plateau,” said a senior health department official. Besides MMR, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Jalgaon, Jalna and Aurangabad have also clocked several cases on Monday. Pune reported 520 cases, while Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 257 new cases. Jalgaon district reported 188 new cases. Aurangabad district and city reported 83 and 161 new cases, taking the total cases there to 6,782.The local administration in Jalgaon, Jalna, and Aurangabad has announced a complete lockdown looking at the spike in cases in the past few days. In the wake of the rising cases, the district administration and municipal bodies are enforcing stringent lockdowns to manage patients and the burden on health infrastructure.There would be a complete lockdown in Aurangabad city from July 10 to July 18 in the wake of rising number of coronavirus cases. This phase of the lockdown will be in force for nine days and only essential services will be allowed to operate during this period. Jalna district collector Ravindra Binwade has already announced a lockdown in the district from Monday till July 16, while a lockdown has been announced in Jalgaon from Tuesday.State health commissioner Dr Anup Kumar Yadav said that the priority before the state government is to keep mortality in check. He said that the state had set up a task force with expert doctors to tend to critical patients. “We have changed clinical guidelines, have set up a task-force in every district where advice from expert doctors, epidemiologists and virologists are being made available to rural patients with comorbidities,” Yadav.Yadav added that the state government is also procuring adequate quantities of drugs that could prove to be life-saving for patients in critical condition. Without divulging the quantity of remdesivir and other drugs, Yadav said, “We have some stock of these drugs, and we are also procuring more for every district.” He added that the state is also adding ventilators in districts and tier-two cities where the health infrastructure is weaker.In a bid to give a boost to the reopening of businesses, the state government has decided to allow any private establishment seeking to reopen to get their staff tested for Covid-19. The state medical education and drugs department (MEDD) issued a government resolution (GR) on Monday stating that private establishment had repeatedly sought relaxations in getting their staffers tested before reopening their businesses.According to the GR, minimum 50 people are required from an establishment for a group test. The head of the establishment must approach the district collector or municipal commissioner in urban areas to seek approval for the tests. They would have to mention the type of test they want to undergo, including RT-PCR, TrueNat, CBNAAT, antibody, or antigen test, in their application.“It is a part of Mission Begin Again for establishments that want to reopen. The establishments can approach the district collector and get approval for tests, and say we have this private lab and we need permission to test our employees. We have allowed two things: all labs to conduct antigen and antibody tests so testing is ramped up,” said Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary, MEDD.Meanwhile, the recovery rate in the state continued to remain over 54 % with 3,522 patients discharged on Monday. So far, 1,15,262 patients have been discharged after full recovery until today. The total number of active cases in the state stands at 87,681.(with inputs from Eeshanpriya MS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-19-toll-goes-past-9-000-tally-now-211-987/story-SYnfuexD856R9ODF2I6X0L.html
07-07-2020||City||Haryana Tourism Corporation to run six liquor vends in Gurugram as pilot project||Gurugram The Haryana Tourism Corporation will run six liquor vends in Gurugram as a pilot project starting Tuesday. Officials said that it is the first time that a state government entity will run liquor vends in the district. The decision was taken by the state government after the tourism department suffered huge losses due to closure of tourism complexes and guest houses during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. During the lockdown period, the revenue receipt of the corporation was almost nil, said an official. The Gururgam excise department had placed an advertisement on June 23 for auction of 78 liquor vends in 39 zones, following which the tourism corporation filed tenders and were allotted the three zones, excise officials said, adding that there are two liquor vends in a zone. “The company was allotted six liquor vends in three zones after it followed the bidding process like others,” said H C Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC), Gurugram. Dahiya said that the tourism industry has been majorly hit during the coronavirus outbreak. Sources in the department said liquor prices at stores run by the corporation will be cheaper as compared to that of other liquor vends. Currently, retailers sell IMFL at a premium on the minimum retail price.The six liquor shops which will be run by the tourism corporation are situated at Hero Honda Chowk, Bakhtawar Chowk and Atul Kataria Chowk.Rajesh Joon, additional divisional manager of Haryana Tourism Corporation, said that they have entered the liquor business following Delhi model. “We gave our list to the excise department and got approval for opening the shops falling under the standalone category and other guidelines. Close to 284 shops are operating as of now in the district,” he said.State agencies like Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC) and Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC) operate liquor shops in the national capital. “We decided to enter this field to curb the nuisance of liquor mafia. Our shops will ensure the availability of genuine liquor to the customers at a fair price,” Joon said, adding that they have taken these liquor shops after bidding nearly ₹11 crore.The excise officials said DSIIDC holds a considerable share of market in retail sale of Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL), beer, imported foreign liquor and country liquor since 1979, and this is the first time any government agency will operate liquor vends in Haryana.Anurag Rastogi, principal secretary, excise and taxation, said it is a good initiative and will help the tourism corporation.By auctioning 284 liquor shops in Gurugram (the government had auctioned 206 stores in March) through e-tenders, the state earned nearly ₹800 crore, the excise officials said. The state excise department has set a target of ₹7,500 crore for 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-tourism-corporation-to-run-six-liquor-vends-in-gurugram-as-pilot-project/story-uxGJbTC6pTepW1zKI8iEuN.html
07-07-2020||Gurugram||After negligible income during lockdown, MCG earns ₹18 cr in June||After collecting a sum of merely ₹12 lakh in property tax dues in April and May, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) procured ₹18 crore in June and ₹6 crore in just six days in July. The uptick in the revenue collection happened only after the civic body introduced a rebate scheme in the last week of May to encourage taxpayers to clear their dues, said officials on Monday. Nearly 90% of the civic body’s revenue comes from property taxes. On May 23, MCG introduced a 25% rebate scheme after it realised that it has not earned any significant revenue during the lockdown period and was staring at a possibility of depleting its cash reserves. The rebate percentage offered by MCG is the highest ever since the civic body came into existence in 2008. “We wanted to make the payment of property taxes lucrative for taxpayers. As such, we offered them a 25% rebate scheme. In addition to this, taxpayers who cleared their dues in the 2020-21 fiscal were also offered an extra 10% rebate. All these measures have significantly boosted our revenue collection. In just the first six days of July, we have recovered more than ₹6 crore of dues, averaging more than ₹1 crore per day,” Dinesh Kumar, zonal taxation officer, MCG, said, adding that the rebate scheme is valid till July 31. At the start of March, just a few weeks before the nationwide lockdown came into force, MCG had set a target of collecting around ₹800 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal. This is more than three times its average collection of ₹250 crore in the previous three fiscal budgets.For instance, in the 2017-18 fiscal, MCG had collected ₹342.24 crore in property tax — its highest ever collection. Since then, the civic body had failed to meet its ₹250-crore target in the next two fiscals. As such, it had set more than triple the usual target in the 2020-21 fiscal in order to recuperate some of its previous losses. Till now, the civic body has collected nearly ₹25 crore. In order to meet the fiscal target, MCG has identified 197 property owners in the city, who owe more than ₹20 lakh each to the civic body. Another set of 243 properties has also been identified, who owe between ₹10-₹20 lakh in property tax dues. The civic body has sent notices to all the defaulting tax payers. Moreover, for the first time in its operational history, the MCG had also sent notices to 150 liquor shop owners, asking them to clear their decade-long property tax dues. MCG officials said that work on recovering dues was temporarily halted during the lockdown period, but has started since then. On Friday, during a press conference, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh also reiterated the details regarding the rebate scheme and further said that the civic body will be rewarding 5% of the total amount of taxes collected from a locality to its RWA, provided that the residents’ welfare body has ensured more than 80% collection from its residents. The money will be used by the RWA to install and upgrade sanitation, composting and waste management facilities in its locality. As per officials privy to the matter, all these steps have been initiated to ensure that the MCG does not face a cash crunch deficit, which in turn would severely impact the maintenance and upgrade of the civic infrastructure in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/after-negligible-income-during-lockdown-mcg-earns-18-cr-in-june/story-u3BXaQhQueOqEud5iiquLL.html
07-07-2020||City||Power minister warns developers against exploiting residents in name of single-point connections||NOIDA: In a big relief to people residing in high-rises in Noida and Ghaziabad, the state government has ordered builders to give multipoint connections to homebuyers, replacing single-point connections, and not to exploit them at their “whims and fancies”.State power minister Shrikant Sharma, while chairing a review meeting with officials of the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) in Noida regarding the progress in conversion of single-point connection to multipoint connections in high-rises, said he had received number of complaints from people about hiked electricity prices from builders. “The state government is determined to bring relief to those who have opted for community living in areas like Greater Noida, Noida and Ghaziabad. People living in high-rises have repeated been complaining that builders are taking extra money from them as part of their electricity bills. In the name of power backup, the builders ask for around Rs 10-12 per unit – which is illegal in any case,” he said.Sharma said the project of fragmenting single-point connections aims at saving consumers from the exorbitant electricity charges being collected by developers. “The time has come for builders to give multipoint connections to their clients, replacing single-point connections. They can’t impose unnecessary burden on them. I have asked PVVNL officials to take legal action against builders who are trying to harass residents,” he said.The power minister said under the pilot project of conversion of single-point conections to multipoint in Noida, 14 out of 142 high-rises have given their consent for giving individual connections to residents. “Conversion work has been completed in six societies and work will soon be over in the remaining eight high rises. Since our government is providing adequate electricity to every consumer in the state, the consumers now trust us more. We’ll not let them be exploited by developers who are virtually subletting them electricity,” he said.The minister asked for timely redressal of consumers’ grievances and ensure uninterrupted power supply.Developers, however, are not in favour of multipoint connections on technical grounds.“Multipoint connection in high-rises is not a good idea due to safety reasons. A single-point connection is always better in terms of safety. Maintenance of the infrastructure is also better. If any developer or apartment owner association is overcharging, then there is a way to file a complaint and solve the issue. But a multipoint connection is not a way out as it will create more problems,” said Amit Modi, vice-president of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), a developers’ group.The apartment owners said the multipoint connection should be strictly implemented.“As of now, single-point connections are not converted into multiple point because a fee of Rs25,000 to Rs30,000 is being imposed. We have demanded that the conversion fee for multipoint connections should be very nominal. Multipoint connections will provide relief to consumers as they can pay as per consumption without having to argue with the developer or AOA that controls the electricity supply in single-point connections,” said Rajiva Singh, president of Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association (NOFAA), an umbrella body of at least 100 high-rise housing societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/power-minister-warns-developers-against-exploiting-residents-in-name-of-single-point-connections/story-hdSE4bZ3Zot5eDSBCpJLTM.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Total Covid-19 infections cross 100k, but number of new infections fall||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases recorded in the national capital till now crossed the 100,000 mark on Monday, crossing a grim milestone that underlines the challenge in containing the outbreak even as daily numbers show a sustained decline.The capital recorded 1,379 new cases, the lowest in a day since June 9, according to Delhi government data. The number of tests dipped from 23,136 in Sunday’s to 13,879 in Monday’s bulletin. The capital’s first case was 127 days ago when on March 2, a 45-year-old man from Mayur Vihar tested positive after returning from Italy.Senior government officials said the dip in the number of tests conducted on July 5 was because it was a Sunday. Government data confirmed the trend. On June 28 (Sunday), 16,157 tests were conducted and on June 21 (Sunday), 14,682 tests were conducted. “On Saturday, all the 11 districts had conducted a total of 23,136 tests, which dropped to 13,879 on Sunday. These numbers include both RT-PCR and rapid antigen detection tests. Earlier also, the testing numbers had dipped on Sundays because fewer people turn up and fewer workers report to duty. They cannot be working seven days a week for months together,” a senior government official said. The city touched the 1-lakh mark six days later than predicted by a five-member panel set up in the beginning of June to aid the Delhi government plan the increase of infrastructure. Contrary to what the committee had suggested, the number of active cases has also not shot up to 50,000-60,000 yet.It has remained between 25,000-27,000 for the last two weeks—reaching a peak of 28,329 active cases on June 27.“We had predicted the trajectory of the infection based on the trends then. Anyway, it was the worst-case scenario; now we are well-prepared to handle the cases. The number of active cases seems to have stabilised. This is mainly due to two reasons—now even though we are testing over 20,000 people a day, the positivity rate has been reducing—fewer new cases are being reported. At the same time, the number of recoveries has gone up,” said Dr Arun Gupta, one of the members of the panel and the president of Delhi Medical Council.Even though it is declining, Delhi’s case fatality rate—the number of people who died of Covid-19—remains over 3%. This is slightly higher than the national average of about 2.8%.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal during a press briefing on Monday said the number of deaths due to Covid-19 has come down. “Earlier, over 125 deaths were being reported on a single day. Now there are 55 to 60 deaths daily. So, the umber of deaths has come down by half. It needs to be reduced further,” he said.Dr Gupta said, “No one across the globe has been able to predict the behaviour of this infection; the models have all failed. But, from the current numbers, I feel that the number of new cases and new hospitalisations will start going down now.”An increased recovery rate is the reason for the number of active cases stabilising. The number of recoveries shot up June 18 onwards when 3,884 people recovered or were discharged in one day, rather than the few hundred that were recovering before. According to the data provided by the Delhi government, the highest number of recoveries was recorded on June 20—7,725.An increase in the number of cases in June and the revised discharge policy of the union health ministry—wherein a Covid-19 patient can be discharged 10 days after the onset of symptoms or three days after recovery—are likely the reasons for Delhi’s increased recovery rate.On Monday, the recovery rate stood at 71.4%; it had crossed the 70%-mark a day ago.“I do not know whether the increased recovery rate is because of a change in the behaviour of the virus. It could also be that we are testing more people in the community and detecting mild cases. However, I have always believed, that Sar-Cov-2 just like any other zoonotic virus will slowly adapt and become less virulent. However, the virus is unlikely to disappear, it will cause milder symptoms and people will get used to living with it. A vaccine will also help,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).The data also shows that hospitalisations have started going down – with 5,250 people in hospitals on Monday as opposed to over 6,000 people that were in hospitals the week ending on June 28. This decline, however, is because of the decline in the number of new cases being recorded and not because the cases are milder.The proportion of active cases that need hospitalisation has remained more or less the same at about 21%.“It is too soon to judge whether the infection has peaked. The positivity rate has gone down since the rapid antigen tests began. They have been testing even the asymptomatic people in the community, which is likely the reason for brining down positivity rate. If you take a population that is likely to have the infection and test them, the positivity rate will be higher. Having said that, Covid-19 is likely to plateau in Delhi soon,” said Dr Broor.Delhi’s positivity rate – proportion of people who test positive among those tested – has also continued to decline and came to a single digit for the first time on Sunday after May third week. On Sunday, only 2,244 of the 23,136 people tested turned out to be positive, bringing the positivity rate to 9.7%.Experts say this is a positive sign as the number continues to decline despite increased testing.The highest positivity rate of almost 37% was recorded on June 13 – when the number of tests being conducted in the city in a day had gone down. On average, 5,525 people were being tested in a single day then. Now, the figure stands at over 20,000.The deployment of the rapid antigen testing helped the government in considerably scaling up testing, with the government now asking all hospitals to test people in the high-risk groups, such as older people and the immune-compromised to be tested mandatorily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-total-infections-cross-100k-but-number-of-new-infections-falls/story-xuWUJa6wTtoT7Hma5r2kIL.html
07-07-2020||Noida||High humidity, sweat take a toll on healthcare workers and their PPE kits||Fighting on the front lines as they treat patients of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease and try to contain the spread of the infection at the cost of making themselves vulnerable of contracting the virus, doctors and health care workers in the region have been battling one more challenge: rising temperatures and humidity levels and the resultant perspiration that makes working in the same personal protective equipment (PPE) suit difficult for long hours. The heat and especially the rising humidity levels, in the past five-six weeks, has spurred the demand for PPE gear at government-run Covid-19 facilities in the district as with the build-up of sweat inside them, the life of these kits has been reduced to almost as low as four hours, health officials said. While the PPE gear could be used by a health care worker for six to eight hours in April and May, they currently need to be changed at least after every four hours as the person wearing them has to bear high perspiration levels inside them. Out of the 14,500 PPE kits used by health workers in government-run Covid-19 facilities so far since the outbreak of the disease in March, almost 42% were used in the month of June alone when the average humidity levels touched 66.63% and the maximum temperature hovered around 38.5 degree Celsius. According to Dr Nepal Singh, Gautam Budh Nagar’s acting chief medical officer (CMO), over 6,200 PPE kits have been used in government-run Covid-19 facilities in June. “In April and May, the consumption of PPE kits was around 3,500 and 4,400, respectively. While the number of health care staff has increased by 10% in June compared to previous months, with the rise in temperatures, the demand for PPE kits has gone up by at least around 40%,” he said.The district currently has six government-run Covid-19 facilities, up from three such centres in April. According to an analysis of data by India Meteorological Department, the average humidity levels saw a sharp spike of 15.9 percentage points from 50.65 % in May to 66.63% in June. According to the records, the maximum humidity in June oscillated between 71% and 100% throughout the month, while the minimum humidity oscillated between 35 % and 75%. In May, the maximum humidity was between 47% and 100 %, while the minimum levels ranged from 14% to 65%. The average humidity level in April was 56.88%.The sharp rise in humidity in June was because of the 13 days of rain experienced caused by the western disturbances and then the arrival of monsoon. The maximum temperature experienced in June was 42 degree Celsius. The problem of working in high humidity levels and high temperatures with the PPEs on is amplified by the restrictions on using centralised air-conditioning in isolation wards. “We use fans instead of centralised air conditioning and keep the windows open for better ventilation, but humidity levels have increased in the past few weeks. As a result, health care workers need to change their PPE kits at least twice and sometimes even thrice in an eight-hour shift,” he said. Centralised air-conditioning has been shut down keeping in line with the guidelines laid down by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Reiterating that the demand of PPE kits has gone up with the rise in humidity, Dr Rakesh Gupta, director of Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, the biggest Covid-19 facility in Gautam Budh Nagar, said: “With the constant build-up of sweat inside the PPE kits, our doctors and other staff working in Covid-19 wards now have to change gear at least two times during their shifts. The daily consumption of PPE kits has now gone up to 150 per day in June from being around 100 per day in April and May,” he said. “As per the ICMR guidelines, we are not using centralised ACs in Covid-19 wards, and are using fans instead. Given the increased perspiration, our staff is very careful in maintaining adequate fluid levels. They are also taking light foods and ample amount of fluids like water, juices and milk,” he said.The average humidity in the first week of July has been around 78%, while the average maximum temperatureat 38.2 degrees Celsius. The humidity levels will continue to rise gradually till September. “The humidity levels remain very high in July August and they start dropping in September as the monsoon withdraws,” Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting centre Skymet, said.District magistrate Suhas LY, however, assured that Gautam Budh Nagar will not run out of PPE kits despite the increase in their rate of usage. “The supply chain and buffer stock of the PPE kits are maintained in such a way here that the district can never run out of them,” he said.Meanwhile, a few Covid-dedicated hospitals in Noida have started setting up window ACs in their isolation wards. The spokesperson of Sharda hospital said a separate ward with window ACs is on the verge of completion. “Once it is be completed, we will shift our Covid-19 patients to the new ward,” he said.(With inputs from Kushagra Dixit)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-high-humidity-sweat-take-a-toll-on-ppe-kits/story-BTX7N6kl4yVnO0Pu9e1fGN.html
07-07-2020||City||Noida floats tender for building six-lane flyover at Parthala Chowk||Noida The Noida authority has decided to construct a 650-metre flyover at Parthala Chowk to decongest the busy intersection that connects Noida with Greater Noida West. To develop the ₹83-crore project, the authority last week floated a tender to hire a contractor, officials said. “We have floated the tender for this ambitious project to select a private agency. We hope that in the next one or two months, an agency will be finalized and work will start at the site,” said Mukesh Vaish, project engineer, Noida authority.According to a survey conducted by the Noida authority’s traffic cell, about 125,000 commuters who use the stretch daily have to face congestion at Parthala Chowk, where Master Plan-III Road meets Faridabad-Noida-Ghaziabad Expressway. The survey also found that the traffic situation at the intersection becomes worse during peak hours when around 18,000 motorists use this stretch.“The congestion that commuters face at this traffic intersection will be a thing of past once this flyover becomes operational,” said Vaish.According to the officials, the six-lane flyover that will be built on Master Plan-III Road will benefit motorists, who travel from Noida to Greater Noida West, Ghaziabad, Meerut and other areas. The work will be completed in 18 months from the day it begins at the ground, said the officials.The officials also said that once the project gets complete, motorists will not have to face any traffic signal at Parthala Chowk to reach Greater Noida’s Kisan Chowk located in Sector 1. The commuters, who use FNG Expressway, will also not have to face any traffic signal at Parthala, they added.The Noida authority had been planning to remove traffic signal at Parthala Chowk for the past three years. “We had explored several options, including an underpass, to make this a signal free stretch. And finally the authority decided to build a flyover,” said the project engineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-floats-tender-for-building-six-lane-flyover-at-parthala-chowk/story-cS3RaKkJ3hyinaJGazP53K.html
07-07-2020||City||Gangsters’ assets worth ₹13 crore attached by Noida police in three days||In the past three days, the Noida police commissionerate attached illegally acquired movable and immovable assets worth ₹13.35 crore owned by known criminals and gangsters in the district.“On Monday, we attached assets, worth ₹2 crore (including plots and vehicles), owned by four people linked to the Sunder Bhati gang,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 3. The Noida police had first attached property owned by gangster Bhati and his accomplices on Saturday when a structure constructed on illegally acquired government land in Ghangrola village under Kasna police jurisdiction was also demolished. Targeting properties of various other criminals, the police had attached assets with a total worth of ₹8 crore on Saturday.According to Section 14 of the UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act (1986) any movable and immovable assets, owned by a known gangster, which have been obtained through fraudulent means can be attached by the government. Before the police commissionerate system was enforced in Noida, this power lay with the district magistrate.The police said on Sunday they had attached assets of eight criminals. The assets are worth around ₹3.5 crore and include vehicles and property plots in Greater Noida, a police statement said.Of the eight criminals, whose properties were attached on Sunday, five are from the Anil Dujana gang, while three are from the Sunder Bhati gang, the police said. “Associates of the Anil Dujana gang had obtained some of the assets in the names of their relatives,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2. While going to attach one such property in Bambawat village under Badalpur police jurisdiction, the police said, their team had also faced resistance from the locals. The concerned property was later attached and an FIR against six named and 30 unnamed locals was also registered, said Chander.Bhati and Dujana are both currently serving time in jail. “We will continue attaching more properties owned by gangsters and criminals in the district,” said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangsters-assets-worth-13-crore-attached-by-noida-police-in-three-days/story-8T0MiSFamu1d9N25Aw0EPP.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||No dearth of dedicated Covid-19 beds in Delhi: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that there is no dearth of Covid-dedicated beds in the city. He said there are around 15,500 of them, of which 10,000 beds are empty, and that the government is working to add more beds to this number.Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia paid a visit to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) in Tahirpur Monday on a landmark occasion—the release of the 1,000th Covid-19 patient who recovered from the viral infection.The recovery rate in Delhi has improved from 38.5% during June first week to 71.4% on Monday, according to data from the Delhi government.“Delhi government’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital is playing an important role in the fight against Covid-19. Its staff is working day and night. A 1,000 patients have been discharged from here after treatment. It has increased the number of ICU beds from 45 to 200 in a day with limited resources. We have asked the hospital authorities to increase it to 500 in the next few days,” he said.“There are around 15,500 beds in the city, of which 10,000 are empty. Delhi also has around 1,900 ICU beds, of which 750 are vacant. But in the next few days, the bed requirement will increase due to an expected spike in the number of Covid-19 cases.”Over the last three months, older people with severe symptoms of Covid-19 are being admitted to RGSSH.“With mildly symptomatic patients recovering at home, we now get only patients with moderately severe to severe symptoms—several of them require oxygen and ventilator support,” Dr BL Sherwal, the medical director of RGSSH. which was the second hospital in the city to be converted into a dedicated Covid-19 centre in April, said.The doctors treating the patients said that the average age of the patients has increased from around 35 years to over 50 years.“According to the data from the first month of treatment, the average age of patients was around 35 years. The younger people must have passed it on to the elderly living in their homes because now the average age is over 50 years. I have treated a patient who was over the age of the 90. Older patients also tend to have comorbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension that increase the risk of severe illness,” Dr Ajeet Jain, the nodal officer for Covid-19 at the hospital, said.The 1,000th patient to be discharged from the hospital was a senior nursing officer from Delhi-government-run Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel hospital in East Patel Nagar. Her husband, who works in the public works department (PWD) of Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) and is associated with Lok Nayak Hospital, Delhi’s biggest Covid-19 facility, was also discharged along with her. Though three others from their family are also infected, they are in home isolation. “My husband was the first to get diagnosed in our family. He tested positive on June 17 and was brought to the hospital the next day after his oxygen saturation started dropping. Once he tested positive, my family and I also got tested. Four of us tested positive. The others are in home isolation,” Manjulata Sharma, 52, said.In June, Delhi health minister Satyendra Kumar Jain was initially admitted to RGSSH when he showed symptoms of Covid-19, but was later shifted to Max Hospital in Saket for convalescent plasma therapy. Now, RGSSH has started administering convalescent plasma therapy to at least 200 patients under a trial headed by the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which houses the country’s first plasma bank. The hospital is also administering medicines such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab to its patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-dearth-of-dedicated-covid-beds-in-delhi-kejriwal/story-gys8wnGCfvBHVThWJP9AfM.html
07-07-2020||City||Teenager rapes 12-year-old neighbour in Greater Noida||A 12-year-old girl was raped allegedly by a 14-year-old boy on July 4 in an area under the Ecotech 1 police jurisdiction. The boy, who is lives in the same neighbourhood, had sexually assaulted the girl when she was on her ways to the woods to relieve herself, the police said. The police detained the 14-year-old suspect on Monday based on a complaint filed by the girl’s mother.In the complaint, the girl’s mother said the boy— who is a class 7 student—sexually assaulted the girl before fleeing and leaving her alone in the alone. Police officers said that the girl’s mother had been out of town at the time of the incident and the girl, who studies in class 5, waited for her to return before informing the family about the assault. Based on the complaint of the mother, a case was registered at the Ecotech 1 police station under section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.“The girl was raped by her 14-year-old neighbour. She was sent for a medical examination on July 4th itself and the report has confirmed rape. The boy was detained on Monday,” Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women and child safety, said.The police said the boy will be produced before a judicial magistrate. However, as many as 13 children at the Gautam Budh Nagar juvenile home testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on July 2, members of the Juvenile Justice Board(JJB) sent the boy for a Covid-19 test first. “To avoid any further transmission of the infection, the boy was first tested for Covid-19 at the district hospital. His report came back negative after which he was sent in remand custody to the juvenile home,” Aneet Baghel, a JJB member, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teenager-rapes-12-year-old-neighbour-in-greater-noida/story-Enc8MHiGimwA1ltdbGbk4O.html
07-07-2020||Noida||Over 80% target achieved in sampling drive, 67 new positives in GB Nagar||The Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday achieved over 80% of its target of collecting 4,000 samples in a day for coronavirus testing — a significant improvement from Sunday’s sample collection of 55% — on the fifth day of the 10-day massive surveillance drive.GB Nagar district surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohre said a total of 3,290 samples were collected by different teams in the district on Monday using different methods, including on-site rapid antigen kits, TrueNat machines, and lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. “Out of 2,534 samples collected through rapid antigen kits, 60 samples tested positive. Our teams have also collected 731 samples through RT-PCR tests and their results will come in a few days. Apart from this, 25 samples have been taken through TrueNat machines, of which none tested positive,” he said.Meanwhile, 67 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the overall count to confirmed 2,831 cases. According to the daily health bulletin released by the state control room, a total of 1,762 people have been cure and discharged, including three on Monday, in the district so far. “So far, 28 Covid-19 positive patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 1,041 active cases,” the bulletin stated.In Uttar Pradesh, in the last 24 hours, as many as 24 Covid-19-positive patients succumbed to the disease. The overall tally of positive cases in the state has touched 28,642 cases with 933 new cases in the last 24 hours. While 809 patients have lost their lives to the infection in the state so far, 19,109 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the state till the date. At present, the state has 8,718 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-80-target-achieved-in-sampling-drive-67-new-positives-in-gb-nagar/story-marrms1TtpcG5z5HFOpplI.html
07-07-2020||City||Ludhiana city bus service resumes operations||After a three and a half month halt, the city bus service resumed operations here on Monday. The service was resumed only on the clock-tower to Sahnewal route and received a low response on the first day.In the absence of the service, the residents had been opting for auto-rickshaws, which charge up to Rs 20 per ride in comparison to Rs 5 charged by the city bus service.The officials said that the service would soon resume on other routes as well. As per the officials, the contractor has also sought a hike in the fare citing rising diesel price and low footfall, but the municipal corporation (MC) is yet to take the final decision on the same.Jaskirat Singh, city bus contractor, said, “We have been demanding a hike for a long time. A reminder was also given to the authorities a few days back.” Despite repeated attempts, Hindustan Times couldn’t reach MC additional commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal for comments.Before being put to a halt after the imposition of curfew in the state in March, the city bus service used to ferry around 3,500 passengers on a daily basis on four routes including Sahnewal to clock tower, Kohara to bus stand, Dugri to Metro supermarket and railway station to Meharban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-city-bus-service-resumes-operations/story-gUNSNOKL9czeOGbRSFf3iK.html
07-07-2020||City||Work on timely referral of Covid patients, Ghaziabad told||Ghaziabad The state government has laid stress on early detection of Covid-19 cases in order to prevent the rising deaths in Ghaziabad and directed the district administration to streamline systems so that patients at the most get discharged from an L1 or L2 hospital, officials said on Monday. Rajnish Dubey, UP’s additional chief secretary (medical education), on Monday held a detailed meeting with Ghaziabad officials and directed them certain measures to be taken up to contain the Covid-19 spread.The additional chief secretary (ACS) asked district officials to ensure that referral of Covid-19 patients to L2 or L3 facility is taken up in a timely manner. According to the district officials, ACS has also directed that L2 patients can be admitted to L3 hospital as it has availability of vacant beds while the only L2 category Sanjay Nagar hospital is over 80% occupied at present.The Ghaziabad district at present ranks third on the list of 75 districts in the state having most number of Covid-19 related deaths.“Most of the deaths in Ghaziabad have taken place in June. Also, a majority of them are related to patients having comorbid conditions. These also include patients who went to other districts on their own and succumbed. Later, these deaths were added to our tally. ACS, during the visit to L3 category Santosh Hospital, has also asked for creation of 200 more L2 category beds. The hospital has 630 Covid beds. Four hundred of these are for L3 patients while the rest will now be for L2 patients,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.According to the state control room figures for July 6, the district has a total of 62 Covid related deaths and accounts for about 8% of total fatalities in the state. Till May 31, the district had only four death cases. However, in June alone, 51 deaths were added to the tally while seven more patients succumbed to the viral infection this month so far.The officials said that for the purpose of immediate movement of patients to another hospital, they have requested for 15 more ambulances from the state government. “They (the ambulances) are expected to arrive soon. Now, we have also integrated the test report, referral team and ambulance service in an integrated control room. Earlier, the patients were ferried to an L1, L2 or L3 hospital only at night. Now, the integrated control room will enforce immediate referral and transportation of patients to the appropriate category Covid hospitals,” Pandey said.At present, the Ghaziabad district has 14 ambulances, including two advanced life-support ambulances, and has further acquired 20 private ambulances for better and timely referral of patients to designated Covid hospitals.On directions of the state government, the district on July 2 started with special surveillance drive in order to timely detect influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe cute respiratory illness (SARI) patients.According to official records, 2,029 teams during the special surveillance drive have surveyed 589,290 households covering a total population of 2560,941. Out of these, they identified 457 ILI and 72 SARI cases, the officials said.“These patients are now getting identified timely and we are making efforts so that they do not move to critical state. We have also started arranging for about 80 ventilator beds. We already have 33 such beds in government facilities while the rest will be acquired at private hospitals. The idea is to create backup of ventilator beds, but we are trying to prevent patients moving to ventilators,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.With the surge in positive cases in June, the health department officials expect that Covid-19 patients will rise further for the next two months. On Monday, the district reported 82 fresh Covid-19 cases,taking the tally of positive cases to 2,382. The total cases include 1,251 active cases while 970 patients have been discharged. “The rise is on account of recently started antigen testing for which we now have about 19,000 rapid test kits. If positivity rate goes on, we estimate that we can even have as high as 300-400 cases per day. But we are working on reducing deaths. We have about 70% L1 patients, besides 20% under L2 category and 5% under L3 category. The recovery rate is high in L1 and L2 categories. So, our focus is for early detection of L1 or L2 patients and quality treatment of L3 patients who require critical care,” Dr Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-on-timely-referral-of-covid-patients-ghaziabad-told/story-HrVPTD51l5GsK0UvNnhoPO.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||Govt withdraws order to delink three hotels from hospitals||The Delhi government on Monday withdrew its order delinking three hotels in the city that were acting as extended Covid-19 facilities and were attached to three separate hospitals.The order delinking the three hospitals was issued on Sunday, citing poor room occupancy and unnecessary staff expenditure and maintenance of facilities as the reasons for the decision. A senior official with the revenue department said that the earlier order was issued in haste and the government has planned to maintain the status quo at least till July 15. “We have to be open to the possibility of an unexpected spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the next few days,” the official, who did not wish to be identified, said.Through the Sunday order, the government had delinked Hotel Piccadily in the Janakpuri District Centre complex that was acting as an extended facility for Mata Chanan Devi Hospital, Hotel Taj Vivanta in Dwarka that was acting as an extended facility for Akash Healthcare Super Speciality Hospital and Hotel Pride Plaza in Delhi Aerocity that was acting as an extended facility for Venkateswara Hospital in Dwarka.The order had further stated that Hotel Welcome in Dwarka Sector 10 that was acting as an extended facility for Manipal Hospital in Sector 6, Dwarka, would now act as an extended Covid-19 facility for the all the three other hospitals as well.The withdrawal order, which HT has seen, stated that the decision has the approval of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-withdraws-order-to-delink-three-hotels-from-hospitals/story-4kDEvTztAXZNjyJNeqsbFL.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s monuments reopen, see minimal footfall amid coronavirus crisis||Delhi’s historical monuments reopened their doors on Monday after a gap of three months but footfall remained abysmally low amid the Covid-19 pandemic and on a day the city crossed 100,000 positive cases. The monuments had been shut on March 17 as the country locked down to contain the spread of the coronavirus.Popular monuments such as Humayun’s Tomb, Purana Qila, Safdarjung Tomb and Qutub Minar, which reopened on Monday, witnessed low footfall. Red Fort will reopen on Tuesday as per its regular schedule. For instance, less than 60 and 30 people had visited Humayun’s Tomb and Purana Qila, respectively, till 5pm on Monday. Till 6pm, Qutub Minar had a little over 100 visitors on Monday. Before lockdown, Red Fort, Qutub Minar and Humayun’s Tomb saw over 10,000 visitors per day. On Monday, visitors were seen taking a stroll on the mowed grass lawns at these places, clicking selfies, or resting on the footsteps. Security guards on the premises ensured people had their masks on at all times.Several visitors spotted at these sites on Monday said they ended up there by chance. Dheeraj Deshmukh, 23, a UPSC aspirant from Maharashtra who has been in Delhi for about a year, said he had not stepped out anywhere for around three months.“I was passing by Purana Qila on my way to run an errand when I noticed it was open. I’m glad I decided to visit the place. It’s not crowded like it usually is and one can enjoy the surroundings more. The rain made the experience better,” he said. On Monday, Delhi witnessed light rainfall in some areas. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 36.2 degrees Celsius and a minimum temperature of 26.2 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Of the 171 monuments protected under the Archaeological Survey of India in Delhi, Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb and Qutub Minar are on the list of UNESCO’s world heritage sites. They were closed in March due to the Covid-19 lockdown.Preventive measures have been put in place in the wake of the pandemic, including compulsory e-ticketing, installation of thermal scanners and sanitiser dispensers at gates, a cap on the number of visitors to ensure social distancing, maintenance of records to help with contact tracing if needed, the mandatory wearing of masks, and digital payment at parking lots and cafeterias. Visitors need to show their e-tickets while exiting the monuments as well. The tickets can be booked through the ASI website in two slots: morning and afternoon.On Monday, those who weren’t aware of the online ticketing system took the help of fellow visitors. Rahul Jain, a businessman from Gandhinagar, visited the zoo. “When I saw that it was closed, I came to Purana Qila instead. But they asked for online tickets. A fellow visitor booked the tickets on his phone and we gave him the money,” he said. However, not all visitors came unplanned. Simran Goyal, a Class 12 student from Paschim Vihar, was among those who convinced her family to visit Humayun’s Tomb on Monday. “Due to the lack of clarity over our pending papers and results, the past three months have been very stressful. When I saw on social media that the monuments were reopening, my brother and I requested our parents that we be allowed to visit the monuments since we needed a break,” she said. Asif Khan Dehlvi, the founder of Delhi Karavan, which conducts heritage walks across the city, said that though the people needed such events in times of a pandemic, they would not be conducting them anytime soon. “With the high number of cases being recorded in Delhi, we don’t plan to conduct any heritage walk till the curve flattens here. Even if we do announce any walk this year, it will be for a smaller group and in locations where there is ample amount of space so that people can maintain social distancing,” he said.Swapna Liddle, a historian and the convener of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) Delhi, said she plans to visit the monuments soon. “Individual visits are less risky compared to heritage walks. So we won’t be conducting any heritage walks till we get a go-ahead from the medical experts. However, we have moved online and have been organising talks over social media on Delhi’s history and monuments,” she said.Ramit Mitra, the founder of Delhi By Foot, however, plans to start a walk next week depending on the Covid-19 situation in the city. “We will put some measures in place to ensure that social distancing is maintained at all times and there is no huddling during the walk. We will be using microphones and small loud speakers and we will not include more than 10 people in a group,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-monuments-reopen-see-minimal-footfall/story-aioQR1EBAeRJYyGzBu7wOL.html
07-07-2020||Delhi||CM Kejriwal asks hospitals in Delhi to encourage people to donate plasma||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday urged all hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in the city to counsel recovered patients at the time of discharge to donate their plasma, noting that even though the demand for the therapy has gone up, the number of people ready to donate is yet to pick up. The Delhi government had set up the country’s first plasma bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) in South Delhi’s Vasant Kunj last week to streamline plasma therapy, a treatment in which plasma from a recovered patient is injected into an infected person in order to boost the immune response to the coronavirus. According to the government, plasma therapy trials in Delhi have shown improvement in the condition of 34 out of 35 Covid-19 patients in government hospitals and 46 out of 49 patients in private hospitals.The chief minister also announced additional features in the Delhi Corona mobile application, including dedicated helpline numbers given against each hospital and colour coding for bed occupancy to make sure that people trying to locate beds and contact hospitals can do so comfortably. Addressing a digital press conference on Monday, Kejriwal said the plasma bank has boosted the demand for the therapy but the availability of plasma has remained low.“We opened the plasma bank last Wednesday and since then we have found that the demand for plasma is much more than its supply. The number of people who require plasma is more than the number of people who are donating plasma. If things continue like this, the plasma stock at the bank will be over in just a few days,” he said.Hospitals offering plasma therapy in Delhi include Lok Nayak Hospital, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, Max Hospital, Saket, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, Batra Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.To scale up donations, he said the government has deployed a team of doctors who are calling up all recovered patients and appealing them to donate plasma.“If you receive such a call, please do not refuse to donate. I want to also request all the hospitals that whenever they discharge a recovered Covid-19 patient from their hospitals, they must counsel the patient for a few minutes. The hospitals must motivate them to donate plasma after 14 days of their recovery,” Kejriwal said.He urged all residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to encourage persons who have recovered from Covid-19 to become plasma donors and felicitate those who donate.“I want to request the people of Delhi to come forward in more numbers and donate their plasma. There is no need to worry. You will not experience any pain or weakness, and the government will arrange transport for you. Some people are scared that if they visit ILBS hospital, they will contract the coronavirus disease. I want to clarify that ILBS is a non-Covid hospital. There are no corona patients there and you will not be infected,” he said.The chief minister said the bank will be a success only if more and more persons who recovered from Covid-19 donate their plasma.On Monday, Delhi crossed 100,000 Covid-19 cases. The chief minister said there is no need to panic as of the 100,823 cases, 72,088 have already recovered. The recovery rate in Delhi has gone up to 72% and the positivity rate has dipped below the 10% mark for the first time in nearly 7 weeks.On the availability of beds, he said only around 5,169 beds of the total 14,986 were occupied as on Monday afternoon across all hospitals. The peak Covid-19 bed occupancy in Delhi so far has been around 6,200.To further streamline the process of getting a bed, Kejriwal has directed all Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi to launch dedicated helpline numbers to handle admission and patient-related queries.“The Delhi government received a lot of complaints from people that the phone numbers of hospitals offering Covid treatment is unreachable most of the time. Now all these hospitals have launched 24X7 authorised helpline numbers that are available on the Delhi Corona app. Any person who wants to reach out to these hospitals with Covid-19 related information can now dial these numbers directly from the app,” the government said in a statement.The hospitals have also been colour-coded -- red, yellow and green --- depending on the availability of beds, with red denoting hospitals with very few or no beds available; yellow for hospitals which have less than 50 beds available and green for hospitals that have 50 or more vacant beds. All these features were made live in the Delhi Corona mobile app and the delhifightscorona.in web portal on Monday.Dr Puneet Mishra, a professor of community medicine at AIIMS, said that a plasma bank helps ease the process of procuring plasma for patients. “Opening one centralised plasma bank is a good idea, but before opening more, the government should wait until ICMR comes out with the final result of their plasma trials. Besides, the government should now focus on increasing their ICU beds and ventilator machines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-asks-hospitals-to-encourage-people-to-donate-plasma/story-WK9cbXoiojq1wK3fyiNejN.html
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala admn launches helpline for people with comorbidities||The district administration has recently launched 24-hour helpline number 1950 to assist persons suffering from diseases like cancer, tuberculosis, besides pregnant women amid the ongoing battle against Covid-19.The helpline aims to provide medical assistance and psychological counselling to such persons.Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said that the helpline number, launched last week, will work in a two-tier system and its main objective is to mentally strengthen the locals, who are scared of Covid-19.“A team of operators and SAKSHAM Yuva, led by the district child welfare officer, will work in a two-tier system. The first will be managed by helpline operators who will address queries related to the coronavirus and will provide psychological support if required. The second tier will be manned by the MBBS and AYUSH doctors, who will provide medical support to them at different time slots: 12 noon, 3pm and 5pm, daily,” the DC said.“This service will be beneficial for persons suffering from diseases like tuberculosis, cancer, etc. It will be ensured that pregnant women are connected with female operators only. Also, if a person, living in a containment zone, is willing to stay at the quarantine centre to avoid any risk at home, the administration will make necessary arrangements,” the DC added.Sharma also appealed to the families of pregnant women to not get the delivery done at home and get the delivery done at a hospital instead so that the immunisation of the child and the mother is taken care of properly. “Instructions have already been given to all hospitals in the district to keep their premises and equipment completely sanitised regularly,” he said.An operator at the helpline desk said that they will also arrange for a WhatsApp number and SMS facility for the callers to enable them to exchange information with the doctors and psychologists personally.An administrative official said that the district has 39 persons surviving on dialysis, 462 cancer and 845 tuberculosis patients; 2,275 pregnant women in their third trimester and 815 beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-admin-launches-helpline-for-people-with-comorbidities/story-iJHmpHB70xlaumVfPnOJKJ.html
07-07-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad fire: Owner of candle-making factory arrested||The Ghaziabad Police on Monday arrested the owner of an illegal candle-making factory in Modi Nagar where eight people were killed in a fire, officials said. The blaze at the factory in Bakharwa village was reported around 4 pm on Sunday after an explosion that brought down the roof and gutted the building, the officials said. The factory had stockpiled highly inflammable material used in small quantities to make sparkler candles, which is generally used to decorate birthday cakes, according to the officials. The factory owner, Nitin Chaudhary, who was on the run for 18 hours, was arrested on Monday morning and is being questioned, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kalanidhi Naithani said. “He told the police that the candles were stocked in the factory and were being packed when the blaze broke out,” Naithani said. An FIR was registered on the basis of a complaint by local villagers. Chaudhary has been booked under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336 and 338 of the Indian Penal Code, as well as relevant sections of the Explosives Act and the Criminal law (Amendment) Act, the SSP said. Investigation revealed that the factory was being run in his ancestral house, Naithani told PTI. The ownership documents of the house will be scrutinised. In case the factory was operating at a rented premise, the owner will also be booked, the officer said. Seven women workers and a 16-year-old boy were killed in the fire at the factory. Another eight people were injured in the incident, the officials said. Three of the injured, who had sustained burn injuries, were admitted to a private medical college in Meerut. The National Human Rights Commission has issued notices to the Uttar Pradesh government and the state police chief over the incident, officials said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had on Sunday directed District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and the SSP to immediately visit the spot. He had also sought a detailed report from them. Loni sub-divisional magistrate Khalid Anjum will submit his report within a week before the district magistrate. The incharge of the police post in the area was suspended for alleged dereliction of duty and a magisterial inquiry was ordered into the incident, officials had said on Sunday. The administration has announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each for the families of the deceased. The injured will be given Rs 50,000 each and free treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-fire-owner-of-candle-making-factory-arrested/story-G3ZKcax1qJQxhiZnq3yzDI.html
07-07-2020||Pune||55-year-old man dies by suicide at Kondhwa Covid centre||A 55-year-old man was found dead in his room, in an apparent case of suicide, at the Kondhwa Covid care centre on Monday.The man had tested positive on July 4 and was lodged at the treatment centre at Sinhgad girls hostel in Kondhwa.His 26-year-old son was among three others who were living in the room with him.“As per the primary report, one person died by suicide. Father and son both were positive and in quarantine there. Now the police conducting an inquiry,” said Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner during a press briefing.The man and his son both worked as labourers and were from a poor family, as per primary information.“The others had left for breakfast from the room. When they came back, they found him dead. His son and the two other people are saying that he was tensed since he tested positive,” said senior police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of Kondhwa police station.The three others left the room around 10am, when they came, they found the 55-year old dead.“He had a lot of breathing issues and was coughing,” said assistant commissioner of police Sunil Kalgutkar of Wanowrie division.The incident was recorded at Kondhwa police station. The body will be disposed of as per ICMR protocol by PMC staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/55-year-old-man-found-hanging-at-kondhwa-covid-centre/story-QHXJ1moSqwANBB5adYxjCN.html
07-07-2020||Pune||PMC plans additional 1,000-bed facilities at COEP, Agriculture college||With the number of fresh Covid cases surging in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to start two more Covid care facilities to increase the overall bed capacity by 1,000, while also appealing to asymptomatic patients to opt for home isolation, rather than burden the hospital infrastructure. According to Pune Municipal Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, two facilities are coming up at the College of Engineering Pune (COEP) and College of Agriculture in the next two days. “As cases are going up each day, we are increasing bed capacity with two Covid care centres that are getting ready at COEP and Agriculture College. A total of 1,000 beds will be available in the next two days,” said Gaikwad on Monday.Anticipating more cases by July end, the PMC plans to further increase existing bed capacity at the Balewadi stadium, where currently there are 500 beds. The city administration plans to turn the badminton hall at Balewadi stadium into a Covid care centre with its engineering department making changes to the ventilation system.As of Monday, Pune reported XXXXXXX cases and XXXXX deaths. The PMC expects the city’s Covid tally to reach 48,000 by July end. With increasing cases, the administration is receiving complaints about non-availability of beds in hospitals. To de-congest hospitals, the administration wants asymptomatic patients to stay at home and complete isolation period.Medical kits for home isolation “Those having big homes and mild symptoms should opt for home isolation. In most parts of India, home isolation is being preferred but it is not happening in Pune,” said Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, who was part of the press conference with Gaikwad and Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram.Ram said, “As the number of cases is increasing, we need to keep hospitals for critical patients instead of asymptomatic ones. Right now, it is the choice of patients but if cases increase, the administration will need to take a call on it.”The administration plans to make available a medical kit for Covid-19 positive patients who will prefer home isolation.“We are not forcing anyone, but are appealing to asymptomatic patients to prefer home isolation. It will also be helpful for them to get social and mental support from family members. We will distribute pulse oxymeters among other things,” said Mhaisekar.However, Gaikwad took a different stand on home isolation saying, “Though we are speaking about home isolation, the patients often panic when their reports come positive. They prefer to keep in contact with the medical staff. Considering this, PMC is creating more facilities.”BOX 1Gunde to be incharge of ambulancesThe government has given additional responsibility to IAS officers on deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s direction. PMPML Managing Director Nayana Gunde will now also be in-charge of ambulance operations in Pune. Sports director Om Prakash Bakoria and Agriculture Commissioner Suhas Diwase were given various responsibilities in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-plans-additional-1-000-bed-facilities-at-coep-agriculture-college/story-8v4bW9Wb1MqV6r1wskb5pO.html
07-07-2020||Pune||Pune varsity starts evaluation process, results expected this week||Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has started the evaluation process and is all set to declare the results of all students, except for the ones in their final year of various courses. This year, marks will be calculated by adding 50 per cent weightage of the previous semester or year marks to 50 per cent of the internal marks obtained in the current year or semester.The department and course-wise results will be declared starting this week, and to make the process more transparent, an expert committee of four-five experts has been appointed by the SPPU for each course. The committee will check and verify the evaluation process for each course and then, it will be declared online.“The academic council, board of examination and management council of SPPU has approved the evaluation process to declare this year’s results for SPPU students except the final year students. It is as per the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines and work has started in our department. We have worked out the formula to declare the results, and to make it more transparent, we have formed an experts committee under each department dean. This committee will check and verify each and every result process of all the courses and once they give the approval the results will be declared. Starting this week, the results for various courses will be declared online,” said Mahesh Kakade, director, SPPU, board of examinations and evaluation.Currently, there are 7.5 lakh students studying in various departments, pursuing different courses at SPPU. Of these, 2.15 lakh students are in the final year and their results will not be declared now. Parag Kalkar, SPPU’s dean of management and commerce faculty, said, “We have appointed experts from all the courses and subject, these experts are now looking at the evaluation process. We do not want to take any chance, and students should not suffer. We are using this method/formula for the first time to declare the results. Though our examination department will evaluate the marks, but once experts go through it, the process will be transparent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-starts-evaluation-process-results-expected-this-week/story-hkbTb4aMQYr0hJ9Z64BaLJ.html
07-07-2020||Pune||Kilometre-long stretch of Katraj, Bopdev ghats turn into garbage dumping ground||People entering Pune via Katraj and Bopdev ghat are greeted with piles of garbage on the roadside. At least a kilometre stretch of the ghat sections are filled with trash, which residents say is due to the dumping of the garbage from the surrounding gram panchayats.Katraj and Bopdev ghats serve as the entry points for Pune city and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jurisdiction begins there. Solid waste management department head of the PMC, Dnyaneshwar Molak said, “Both the ghat sections do not come under the municipal corporation’s jurisdiction. However, the garbage pile-up is bad and both the spots serve as entry points to the city. We will write a letter to the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) and Pune Zilla Parishad and request them to clean the area.”PMRDA officials were not available for comment despite repeated requests, however, officials on the condition of anonymity, said, “We do not have any mechanism for garbage management. Local villages are managing their own garbage.”Molak said, “Residents of surrounding gram panchayats have been seen throwing garbage either in municipal corporation areas or near the boundaries. We have the machinery and can remove it, but the authorities responsible for cleaning it up claim that they do not have machinery and request us to remove the garbage. It is better that they manage their own garbage.”Sachin Konde, a resident of Khed Shivapur, said, “We have been using the old Katraj ghat section daily for our commute and we never saw garbage there. When the Covid restrictions were relaxed, I was shocked to see heaps of garbage in the ghat section. People from western Maharashtra mainly Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur, use this route and it is a wrong indication we are giving to our visitors.”Ranjit Diwan who stays at Khadi Machine chowk, said,“We used to travel by the Bopdev ghat almost every week. People use the ghat to get to Baramati, Jejuri and Saswad. Currently, we can see loads of trash on both sides of the road. It needs to be cleaned immediately as it gives off a foul smell as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/kilometre-long-stretch-of-katraj-bopdev-ghats-turn-into-garbage-dumping-ground/story-ZaeAwWLUWDHiXGMj4CILfL.html
07-07-2020||Pune||50 lakh urban, 2 crore rural property owners to get benefit of digital property cards||Pune Residents can now get the details of their property at the click of mouse where they can generate their digital property card.The state has fixed Rs 135 for residents from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Rs 90 for residents of municipal council while Rs 45 for rural residents as online fees for obtaining the digital property card.The property card will be affixed with digital signature and the project is implemented by the state land records department as part of its electronic mutation entry and property record storage initiative.The card is aimed at providing legal protection to one’s property as it comes with a government guarantee to the title and in future will have biometric fingerprints of owners and Aadhaar card details will be seeded with the land records, according to Maharashtra settlement commissioner S Chockalingam.Currently, full information of the real estate, including its background history and dimensions are available in the property card. Earlier, an end user had to go to the talathi office for a hardcopy of his/her property card known as 7/12 extract which was later digitised. Maharashtra revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said, “The project is in the final stage and it will benefit the citizens at large. It is a foolproof mechanism where necessary protections are in place for the property owners.”Currently the user has to pay Rs 15 online for getting a digital copy of 7/12 extract. In continuation with the digitisation policy, the state government went ahead with digitisation of complete records of individual properties in phases. Currently, the work is in its final stage after which all properties will have unique digital property cards. However, a decision regarding the fees to be charged was not taken by the government. Revenue department additional secretary Santosh Bhogale issued the government resolution (GR) regarding the fees to be charged in cities, municipalities and gram panchayat areas paving way for the earliest availability of digital property card with signature for the end users in the state.According to the land record officials at the settlement commissionerate, the digital property card will have details like name ownership title, the flat / land size, which can be obtained online subject to online payment. Besides the 50 lakh urban property owners, the benefit will extend to two crore holders of 7/12 extract in rural Maharashtra. It will trace the history of the property and generate a detailed report.“The project is being rolled out for Maharashtra from August 1. Those who want to obtain the property card can log onto mahabhumi.gov.in, link to all services and click digital property card by selecting their district and city survey no,”said Chockalingam. He said, 98.5 per cent of 2.50 crore are digitally signed and available. “We have three thousand villages having property cards. We intend to cover the state by November 1 in different stages.”The card will enable government authorities to have a clear view of the property ownership and help in taxation. It will also reduce the burden of physical running around by citizens as well as document preservation as all records are scanned and stored permanently online with a robust and secure data protection system in place, revenue department officials said. Foolproof mechanism to check property recordsThe revenue and land record individuals will be granted dedicated role-based limited access to property data through strict monitoring and accountability mechanism.Biometric access will be granted to only authorised officials after verificationMechanism to fix the responsibility of staffers with biometric access and log generationData encryption and digital signatures mechanism will be activated before government officials authorise the property documentDigital signature system has been activated to prevent unauthorised change or tamper in the individual property data on the serverSystem of verification of original informationThere will be a centralised system of the state to store data in the form of a dedicated data centreForensic audit in place to find out which official made changes in the property documents with time, data and reason||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-lakh-urban-and-2-crore-rural-property-owners-to-get-benefit-of-digital-property-cards/story-kZ7F7IpPTk5I5OXEOF41bL.html
07-07-2020||Pune||Maratha politics: Wadettiwar offers to give up charge over ‘Sarthi’, says he is targeted for being OBC||Maharashtra minister for relief and rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar on Monday offered to give up his charge over Pune-based training institute Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute (Sarthi) alleging that he was targeted by Maratha outfits for being member of Other Backward Class (OBC).The minister said he will write to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday to relinquish him from heading Sarthi and hand it over to other minister to “avoid further politics”.Wadettiwar’s remarks came after community outfits under the umbrella body Maratha Kranti Morcha targeted him for “creating hurdles” in the functioning of Sarthi, a non-profit government body for research, policy advocacy and training for socio-economic and education development of Maratha and Kunbi-Maratha communities.Established in 2019 by the then Devendra Fadnavis government, Sarthi has been at the centre of controversy over autonomy and its functioning. Maratha outfits have alleged that state government is apathetic towards the organisation and wants to close it down.Rajendra Kunjir, convenor of Maratha Kranti Morcha, said that Wadettiwar’s approach towards Sarthi has been indifferent. “Despite our repeated follow-ups, this government and the minister has not released funds to Sarthi. The body has also stopped various schemes for poor Maratha youths. We, therefore, demand that Sarthi’s charge should be taken away from Wadettiwar,” said Kunjir.Wadettiwar has repeatedly termed the stand taken by Maratha Kranti Morcha as “political”. “There was no complete autonomy to Sarthi from the beginning when it was established by the Fadnavis government in its last days. However, efforts are being made to target me possibly because a section of Maratha community feel I am OBC and they may not get justice. Therefore, I have decided to write to CM requesting him to give Sarthi’s charge to someone else.”The minister’s stand comes a day before the Supreme Court is to hear petition challenging the validity of Maratha reservation. Various Maratha organisations have alleged that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is not pro-active in ensuring that decision on Maratha reservation is upheld in the Supreme Court.During the Fadnavis government, Sarthi was allocated Rs 23 crore while MVA gave Rs 23 lakh till now. “There are efforts to kill Sarthi by MVA government just because it was founded by us,” said former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Responding to Wadettiwar’s allegations that he was being cornered for being OBC member, Leader of Opposition in the state legislative council Pravin Darekar said, “There is no question targeting Wadettiwar for being OBC. Instead of making allegations, this government should come up with time-bound programme to make Sarthi an important organisation for Maratha youths.Congress spokespersons Hemlata Patil said that the chief minister will personally see how work will be carried out at Sarthi. “There is no question of Sarthi’s autonomy being taken away. There’s politics being played as the government was formed just six months back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maratha-politics-wadettiwar-offers-to-give-up-charge-over-sarthi-says-he-is-targeted-for-being-obc/story-qEDjPLtRny26juzohzYIyH.html
07-07-2020||Pune||DSK’s brother granted bail in cheating case; police to challenge order||Makrand Sakharam Kulkarni, brother of jailed realtor Deepak Sakharam Kulkarni alias DSK, was granted bail by a court in Pune on July 3, according to his lawyer Advocate Rohan Nahar. DSK, his wife, son, relatives and some employees have been accused of cheating thousands of investors of over Rs 2000 crore.Makrand was granted bail on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh, according to his lawyer. However, he is awaiting release due to procedural requirements. The application was opposed by special public prosecutor Pravin Chavan.“Yes, bail was granted. We have applied for certified copies of the order. We will be challenging the release order once we have it,” said Shivaji Pawar, assistant commissioner of police, Pune who is investigating the case.DSK, his wife, and a few relatives were booked under Sections 420, 406, 409, 411, 465, 467, 468, 471, 109, 120(b) and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act.The first chargesheet in the case was registered against DSK and his wife Hemanti Kulkarni in May 2018. A supplementary chargesheet was filed later in 2018 against son Shirish Kulkarni, Dhananjay Pachpor, Kedar Vanjpe, Sai Vanjpe, Vinay Badgadi and Anuradha Purandare. In July 2019, a second supplementary chargesheet was filed against Sunil Madhukar Ghatpande and Rajeev Dullabhdas Nevaskar. A third supplementary chargesheet was filed in November 2019 against Makrand Kulkarni, according to advocate Nahar.“There is nothing on record to show that he has acquired any financial benefit and that he is beneficiary of DSK group of companies,” reads his bail application filed by advocate Nahar.The police had alleged that Makrand was involved in hiking up the price of a land in Phursungi. He allegedly bought land in his name from the farmers who previously owned it for Rs 4,87,25,000 and later sold it to DSK Developers Limited at a higher price of Rs 9,29,83,000.The bail application by Makrand states that he has not been a part of DSK business since 1993. However, the power of attorney of a bank account in his name was with Anuradha Purandhare and Hemanti Kulkarni, co-accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dsk-s-brother-granted-bail-in-cheating-case-police-to-challenge-order/story-sF3fuuoCwNZZGMYtaPO3FI.html
07-07-2020||City||YAD leaders booked after dharna outside YPS||An FIR was lodged against Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Romana, MLA Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra and Shiromani Akali Dal’s Patiala urban president Harpal Juneja, after they, along with some parents, staged a protest outside the Yadavindra Public School (YPS) on Monday.Demanding the school management to return the excess fee charged from the students, they had also threatened to start a sustained agitation if the matter was not resolved within three days. Earlier, the party workers had staged a dharna outside the Moti Bagh Palace, the residence of chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh, when they were stopped on the way to YPS.Accusing the CM of double speak, Romana said while the state government had announced it would file a review petition against the high court verdict in favour of private schools, the schools run by the CM’s family were extorting money from parents. He said the branches of YPS in Patiala and Mohali had extorted fee from parents even before the high court verdict was out.The case against SAD workers was registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, for holding dharna during a pandemic and not adhering to social distancing norms.“The police had briefed them about the pandemic situation but they went ahead with the protest. Thus on the basis of the complaint, we have registered an FIR,” confirmed SSP Mandeep Singh SIdhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yad-holds-dharna-outside-yps-over-excess-fee-charged-from-parents/story-4qcB28gsDGbfjuF1XhiKMI.html
07-07-2020||Pune||PMC doubles stipend to attract doctors for Covid care||Even as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to double stipend of specialist doctors who will be recruited, the response is poor as the latter demand insurance cover and definite job profile.The civic administration’s shortage of critical care infrastructure got a boost when it received 21 ventilators from the PM Cares funds. However, the civic body is facing a shortage of specialist doctors to run the critical care facilities. With earlier calls to invite specialist doctors to join PMC failing to get the desired result, the civic body has doubled their stipend.In May, the civic body placed advertisements to invite specialist doctors like intensivist, ICU physician, paediatrician, anaesthetist, resident medical officer, dentist, pharmacist and medical officer (Covid-19 Aayush certificate holder). Few replied to the job offer, forcing PMC to increase payment terms. On June 29, the civic body published an advertisement to recruit 10 intensivists, 20 physicians, 10 paediatricians and 10 ICU physicians with a starting a salary of Rs 2.25 lakh per month. The civic body’s recent recruitment drive under the health department is the appointment of over 150 doctors for six months under ‘The Urban Learning Internship Programme’ or TULIP. The civic body published advertisements to hire 50 MBBS at Rs 60,000 per month, 50 BAMS as Rs 40,000 per month and 50 BHMS doctors at Rs 35,000 per month.Dr Ramchandra Hankare, PMC health officer chief, “For the second round, we compared our offers with the Mumbai civic body, PCMC civic body and the state. We have put forward these advertisements across the country. We hope to get a better response this time. Those working continuously in ICU or Covid wards will be given enough rest if the recruitment drive succeeds.”Dr Anjali Sabne, officer incharge of recruitment, PMC health department said, “We did not get the desired response to our earlier advertisement and have now doubled the pay offer. We have begun the interview process for specialist doctors from Monday and hope to get more doctors. Those hired will work at Covid care centres and flu clinics and carry out Covid and non-Covid duties.” Dr Sanjay Patil, vice-president of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Maharashtra chapter said, “The uncertainty of job profile and the time period is a concern among doctors. While specialist doctors want a shorter duration like the one Sassoon hospital offers of 14 days package with 7 days of quarantine, interns require a longer duration which provides job guarantee of at least 6 months. Sassoon hospital offers a package of about 14 days wherein the person gets enough time to rest and recharge and even continue his or her private practice. They have now even started the second round. Another important issue is that while PMC hires a person as a dentist or even as an intensivist, they are often asked to work in Covid-19 ward as a general physician which is what was happening earlier. So, these uncertainties are keeping doctors away from accepting PMC offer.” Dr Patil said that despite IMA writing to the state government to provide deputation letters and insurance coverage under the PM’s Covid-19 warrior insurance coverage scheme to those being hired on contract, the response is still awaited. He said, “An official recognition like a deputation letter will also go a long way in encouraging young doctors to work for PMC and open a window of opportunities for young doctors in the near future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-doubles-stipend-to-attract-doctors-for-covid-care/story-SklzcFymBqqB6aRIBptDRM.html
