08-07-2020||Gurugram||Man, driver shot at near Farrukhnagar||A businessman and his driver were allegedly shot at by three unidentified assailants on Wazirpur road near Farrukhnagar on Tuesday evening. Police said the bullets missed them and suspects were yet to be identified. According to the police, the incident was reported around 6.30 pm when Farrukhnagar residents Manoj Jain, who owns grocery shops in Kasan village, and his driver, identified by first name as Deepak, were on their way to Farrukhnagar in an SUV. A police officer, requesting anonymity, said, “Three suspects, on a motorcycle, followed them and when they had reached near an electricity office on Wazirpur road, they signalled the driver to stop the car. When the driver stopped the vehicle, the suspects fired multiple gunshots at the occupants. The bullets whizzed through the windows of the car and missed the targets.”Police said the suspects fled to Wazirpur. Two cartridges were recovered from the spot. Police said prima facie, probe suggests that the suspects wanted to rob the businessman and decamp with the SUV, adding that they were also probing other angles, including extortion. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and section 25/54/59 of The Arms Act at Farrukhnagar police station on Tuesday night, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-driver-shot-at-near-farrukhnagar/story-AwZHIZQNsKVrfeoPAAjBfM.html
08-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram:20-year-old found murdered in Sector 94||: A day after a 20-year-old man went missing, he was found murdered at a vacant plot in Sector 94 on Wednesday morning, the police said. A case of murder has been registered against unidentified persons.The victim, Uttam Singh, a resident of Kasganj in Uttar Pradesh, worked as a supplier in an automobile company in Gurugram’s Sector 37. According to the police, he had gone to IMT Manesar to supply materials to a firm as part of his official duties on Tuesday morning but did not return to his house in Hari Nagar, Sector 10 A.His brother told the police that when he did not return by the evening, the family tried calling him on his mobile phone but there was no response. In an earlier conversation during the day, the victim had told his brother that he did not have any conveyance to return from Manesar and had asked if his brother could pick him up. Sanjay Kumar, station house officer (SHO), sector 10 A police station, said, “A commuter informed the control room regarding a dead body lying near a school in Sector 94, following which our teams rushed to the spot in the morning. Prima facie, it appears that the victim’s throat was slit with a knife. His phone and other belongings have been recovered, which rules out loot as the motive. It is possible that he took a lift for the commute from Manesar.”Police said they are checking CCTVs in the area to identify possible leads. The victim’s body was handed over to the family after an autopsy, on Wednesday evening. A case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) has been registered against unidentified persons at Sector 10-A police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-20-year-old-found-murdered-in-sector-94/story-iPmMnIBEjp4iCMfOij8kfJ.html
08-07-2020||Gurugram||HSVP builds wall at Khandsa alongside Badshahpur drain to prevent accidents||To ensure that there is no reverse flow in Badshahpur drain at Khandsa during the monsoon and to prevent any accident along a 30-meter sretch which is still incomplete, the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has built a wall along the stretch on both sides. HSVP constructed the 28-km long Badshahpur drain as a box-type concrete structure to prevent waterlogging. However, a 30 metre stretch in the Khandsa village could not be built due to legal dispute over acquisition of some land. On June 20, when they had inspected the area, officials said they found iron bars were protruding out from the under-construction drain that posed a threat to anyone walking alongside it.“The work on the walls started on June 23 and it has been completed. This safety wall will ensure that water does not get collected there and prevent people or vehicles accidentally falling into the drain during rains,” said Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP. The Badshahpur drain originates from Ghata village and brings monsoon water that collects at the Ghata dam to the Najafgarh drain passing through the city. To ensure that the water does not flow back and flood the Hero Honda Chowk, officials said that a pump with high capacity was installed at the location to ensure that the water flowed towards the Najafgarh drain. In 2018, Hero Honda Chowk underpass was submerged after the drain at Khandsa started flowing the other way forcing road closure for four days.In a recent stock taking meeting of different civic agencies, Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, Gurugram also said that heavy water pumps have been installed at this and several other locations to ensure no waterlogging takes place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-builds-wall-at-khandsa-alongside-badshahpur-drain-to-prevent-accidents/story-mBcJSm9No7X8CooJFakK5N.html
08-07-2020||City||UP govt extends term of CEO of nodal agency behind Noida airport||GREATER NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday extended the term of the chief executive officer (CEO) of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA), Arun Vir Singh, for a year. Singh is also the CEO of the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) that is developing the airport at Jewar.The retired IAS officer’s term was extended due to his long association with the airport project, which the government wants to start work on at the earliest after the Covid-19 pandemic is over, sources said.In June 2019 after superannuation from the Uttar Pradesh government, former IAS officer Arun Vir Singh had got a year’s extension as CEO of YEIDA. The government had given him a year’s extension as he was involved with the airport project since the beginning and his expertise in the project can help in the timely execution of the Noida International Greenfield Airport scheduled to come up at Jewar along the 165km Yamuna Expressway. However, work at the site could not be started due to the nationwide lockdown imposed from March 25 in light of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The foundation of the airport was to be laid down in April this year but the event was put off, said officials. Now, the UP government has given him another year’s extension in the hopes that he can get the work expedited for not only the airport but for infrastructure projects proposed along the expressway as well.“The work had got affected due to the coronavirus crisis. Our priority is to first start the work of the airport at the site as and when restrictions on air travel are removed. We hope that the agreement signing and other formalities for the airport with the Swiss firm, selected to develop the facility, are completed on July 17, paving way for the work to begin at the site,” said Singh, CEO of Yeida and NIAL.Apart from the airport, Singh said his priority is also to bring investment into this region.“We want to attract more and more investment, create jobs and also develop world class infrastructure in this region. Metro, the expressway, an electronic cluster, a skill university and a mobile manufacturing hub, among other projects, will help create jobs for youth in this region. Our aim is to make that happen within a stipulated time frame,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-govt-extends-term-of-ceo-of-nodal-agency-behind-noida-airport/story-oQLFIveRn7tdnJub1zJOtI.html
08-07-2020||City||Noida: Circle rate revision process begins, builders raise concerns over pitfalls of possible hike||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Wednesday started the process to revise the circle rates for the 2020-21 fiscal.Developers, homebuyers and other stakeholders said they believe that due to the repercussions of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic on the realty market, increasing circle rates will not be a feasible move. However, according to the administration, it has merely initiated the exercise on the process.“Today (Wednesday), we merely held the first meeting on the issue of circle rates. We have discussed the circle rates with the sub-registrar and other administration officials. We have adequate time to deliberate and finalise the rates as it is just the start of the process,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar. The Noida, Greater Noida and the Yamuna Expressway authorities, the sub-divisional magistrates and other officials, took part in the meeting and gave their opinions. In a week’s time, a proposal will be made after which objections or suggestions will be invited from the public before a final decision on the rates, said officials.“No authority is of the view to increase the circle rates as the real estate market is undergoing its worst phase due to the pandemic,” said a Noida authority official, asking not to be named.The ongoing circle rates will be effective till August 7, 2020. New rates are put into effect beginning August 8 of every year.“We will finalise the new rates before August 7 as per rules. The decision on revision is to be taken in the future,” said LY. The DM discussed the circle rate issues with officials at the Sector 27 office.Circle rates revision is an annual exercise done after inviting objections and suggestions from the general public. The circle rate is the rate at which a property is sold or bought. It is the circle rate at which the government charges stamp duty in fee for the registration process, which is required to transfer the property from one person to another. In Noida, the government charges 5% of the total property cost as the property fee, as of nowThe homebuyers said they feel that a hike in the circle rate will affect their budget. The circle rates in Gautam Budh Nagar are in the range of Rs 20,000 per square metre to Rs 3 lakh per square metre, depending upon the location.“The circle rates are already unrealistic in most of the sectors as compared to the level of civic services and existing infrastructure. The problem the buyers face is, for example, if in some areas the cost of a property is Rs 40 lakh, but it is valued at Rs 70 lakh as per the prevailing circle rates, the buyer will have to pay the stamp duty according to Rs 70 lakh value,” said SK Nagrath president of Jaypee Aman flat buyers’ association.Developers said they also hope the rates will be reduced in some areas.“The administration must reduce circle rates as per the market sentiment. Due to unrealistic circle rates, buyers are unable to purchase the property, which in turn affects the market,” said Prashant Tiwari, president of Western UP confederation of real estate developers association of India (CREDAI), a developers’ group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-circle-rate-revision-process-begins-builders-raise-concerns-over-pitfalls-of-possible-hike/story-Sdd8gksvLBDFtX60RLBkDJ.html
08-07-2020||City||‘Bed pooling’ an option to deal with shortage of Covid beds: health department||Districts in western UP are planning to pool in their hospital beds to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) if cases surge further, said officials from the Ghaziabad health department.This way, if all beds in a district are occupied, patients can be referred to other appropriate hospitals in the neighbouring district.At present the six districts falling under the Meerut division -- Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut, Hapur, Baghpat and Bulandshahr -- account for 28.7% cases out of the total 31,156 cases in the state.“Since the cases are on rise, there are plans that hospitals in Meerut, Hapur and Ghaziabad get integrated. In case the number of patients get spillover in one district, they can be referred to hospitals having vacant beds in other districts. This will make better utilisation of available beds. The concept is in the planning stage and being considered in case Covid-19 count rises in future,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “Once the plan is finalised, the medical colleges/hospitals will be connected to each other in order to find out availability of beds.”Compared to the other five, Hapur has a relatively low case count and officials said that keeping accessibility in mind, the three medical colleges there could be the first alternative under the plan for Ghaziabad. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls.On the other hand, CMO said, Ghaziabad is also banking on paid private Covid-19 facilities for patients and more hospitals will be added to the list in coming days.According to officials, they have 444 beds Covid beds available for patients in seven private hospitals in Ghaziabad and 84 of these are ICU beds.“Of the total beds we have also acquired 13 ventilator beds from the seven hospitals so far. We need to take our total ventilator beds to 80 in the district. Apart from the 13 ventilator beds acquired by the government, we have 33 ventilator beds available at our government facilities. Apart from seven private hospitals presently under Covid operations, two more private hospitals have shown interest and will start with paid Covid treatment soon. Together, the two hospitals will add 150 more Covid beds,” Gupta added.New L-1 facilitiesThe health department will also open up two more L-1 category Covid hospitals (for mild cases) within the week -- IMS, Dasna (350 beds) and AKGIT College (400 beds).“We have added 100 more beds to the L-1 category Divyajyoti Hospital at Niwari taking its capacity to 350. At the SRM Campus, Modinagar we have opened up three storeys of the building with 250 beds. It has two more storeys where 100 additional beds can be added,” Dr Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bed-pooling-an-option-to-deal-with-shortage-of-covid-beds-health-department/story-CrwiH1nEtgGhoG4J5GlOaI.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers await opening of tractor mandis even during Unlock 2.0||Farmers across Punjab are eagerly awaiting opening of the much sought-after ‘tractor mandis’ that continue to face closure even in the Unlock 2.0 phase. For the last three decades, these informal open markets for the sale and purchase of used tractors were held every week at Talwandi Sabo (Bathinda), Moga, Kotkapura (Faridkot) and Barnala. Ahead of the sowing season in June and November, the sale and purchase of used tractors hits the peak. But these markets are completely out of business since the lockdown was imposed in March in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Major Singh, a farmer from Talwandi Sabo who has taken 30 acres land on lease to sow paddy, wanted to sell his Ford-7,000 tractor to buy a smaller used machine to pay for farm labour. “Due to the lockdown, locally available farm labourers charged exorbitant rates for sowing of paddy. This year’s rate for per acre is Rs 1,400 higher than the last season and I had no means to pay them the additional cost. As the tractor mandis are still closed, my plan to get cash for payments after buying a lower version of the tractor has been dashed,” he said.Mahinder Singh, an enterprising farmer from Bathinda, said traders and farmers from various districts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh used to visit the tractor mandis every week.“After these mandis started in the 90s, they became the most preferred platform to sell or buy second-hand tractors. Several farmers have been contacting me to finalise deals for their tractors, but we have no buyers,” said Mahinder, who was among a group of farmers behind starting the concept of tractor mandis.Resham Singh, a resident of Bhai Bakhtour village, said he intended to invest in a rotavator after selling his old tractor. But he ended up hiring a machine to prepare his fields for the kharif crop last month. “I bought tractors at the Talwandi Sabo mandi thrice as it is a reliable place to invest in used tractors. Traders outside the mandi quoted low rate for my tractor and I have no option but to wait for the mandi to resume,” he added. A marginal farmer from Barnala Gurdeep Singh said his additional income as a sales agent at the local mandi stopped due to the pandemic.“During the peak season, about 250 tractors are sold in a month at the Barnala mandi. Like vegetable or fruit mandis, the authorities should also consider resuming the tractor mandis with adherence to Covid-19 guidelines as several farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-farmers-await-opening-of-tractor-mandis-even-during-unlock-2-0/story-mMMn2kueXHQVxKiopvmQvI.html
08-07-2020||City||Special surveillance drive: 8.5 lakh houses surveyed, only 724 found with Covid-like symptoms||A special surveillance drive launched on July 2 to check for Covid-like symptoms has turned out to be a dud in its first six days. Although, the teams have been able to cover close to 8.5 lakh households so far in Ghaziabad , only 724 cases of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) have been detected. The teams are likely to cover around 12 lakh houses by July 12.Residents said that the surveillance drive lacked intent and seems to being conducted only as a matter of formality.Under the special surveillance drive, the teams were to visit door-to-door in the entire district and survey the residents about having co-morbid conditions, and also identify those having symptoms of Covid-19 or ILI/SARI-related symptoms. The teams were required to put up markings on flats/houses that had been surveyed.Each teams comprising of two members were assigned a target of covering 75 houses in one day and each member will be paid Rs 75 per day for the survey.Residents, however, said that although teams did arrive at their doorsteps, they mostly restricted themselves to questions about people having symptoms like cold, cough or fever.“The teams arrived in Kaushambi highrises and our RWAs allowed them entry. They stood at the doorstep and just asked if anyone in family has any cough, cold or fever like symptoms. They did not ask about comorbidity and no marking was done on the flats. They noted down details of people living in the houses and went away,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartments’ RWA.The teams also went to highrises in Indirapuram and covered areas of Ahimsa Khand and Vaibhv Khand.“Two people teams visit the flats and seek replies. There were no markings put up on the flats after the survey. We feel that the teams were primarily dependent on whatever information (whether correct or incorrect) was provided to them by residents. The door-to-door survey would have been better if the teams were provided with infrared thermometers and they should have been allowed to scan residents living in a flat/house. Otherwise, the survey is reduced to a mere formality,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners.The first surveillance drive was launched in Meerut division — that comprises the six districts of Ghaziabad, Meerut, Gautam Budh Nagar, Baghpat, Hapur and Bulandshahr. According to official records of the Ghaziabad district administration, total of 12,072 teams (at an average of 2012 teams being deployed each day) went out for surveys in containment and non-containment areas of the district in first six days and covered 842216 houses, covering a total population of 3631165 people living in it.During the first six days, the teams could identify only 724 cases of ILI/SARI out of which 321 were tested and 10 have turned positive so far, officials said . They said that the results were far from satisfactory as of now, but the numbers will improve as the drive picks up steam in the remaining four days, before ending on July 12.“There were complaints that teams were visiting houses in evening timings against fixed timing given to them. Some residents complained that there were no signs marked on surveyed houses and teams just went away after asking 3-4 questions. After this, we called a meeting of all the 237 supervisory heads and asked them to take corrective measures immediately,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.“Considering the hardship involved in the work amid peak summer season, we are of view that if 60-70% survey gets finished by the teams, a lot of ground would have been covered. The teams are trying their best to get more details from households and onus is also on residents to extend full cooperation,” Dr Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-surveillance-drive-8-5-lakh-houses-surveyed-only-724-found-with-covid-like-symptoms/story-gIxDTsDnj8bbpOS35h1HUM.html
08-07-2020||City||Four months on, Gautam Budh Nagar DM says surge in cases due to better testing||NOIDA: On Wednesday, the Gautam Budh Nagar completed four months since the first Covid-19 positive case was reported in the district.From just about one positive case a day in March, the district now sees around 92 cases per day in the first week of July alone. District magistrate Suhas LY said that the rising number of cases with less than 1% fatality rate indicated better testing and treatment. The recovery rate in the district is about 67%.“We are focusing on containment as well as early treatment. We have increased our testing multifold. Antigen testing kits are being used for large scale testing every day. In the last six days, over 14,000 tests have been done, including around 9,000 antigen kit tests and nearly 5,000 RT-PCR tests. Because of this, positive case numbers have definitely gone up, but it has helped us in containment and isolation of positive cases, thereby reducing positivity rate,” he said.The DM further said that testing includes Covid-19 contacts, high risk persons in containment zones, symptomatic patients and others. “We shall continue with the intensive screening and testing, till the infection of deadly virus ends,” he said. Over 1,500 teams have been formed of health and other departmental workers. “These teams are visiting households and identifying high risk groups, persons with symptoms of Covid-19. These teams are carrying thermal screening equipment and pulse oximeters for oxygen saturation monitoring. The better we do our comorbidity management, lesser will be our mortality rate. We have also requested different residents’ welfare associations and local panchayats, to actively participate in this fight against the coronavirus,” he said.He further said that the Covid-19 facilities of different levels are continuously being ramped up. “The district, at present, has around 1,100 active cases. But, we are ready with over 3,000 beds. Not only that, based on the feedback given by the cured patients, we are making improvement in the hospitals – where they had been admitted,” he said. He also said that the 24X7 call centre 18004192211 continue to be at residents’ service for scheduling tests and positive declaration/bed request. “Our portal tinyurl.com/GBN-COVID-HELP is also actively disposing off public health related grievances. We believe, there is always scope for improvement in delivery of services and we shall strive to do better,” he said and appealed the people for self-regulation, awareness and protocol adherence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-months-on-gautam-budh-nagar-dm-says-surge-in-cases-due-to-better-testing/story-4kLOydsbspspAUtrBEKvMM.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Brahmpura sees BJP hand behind Dhindsa’s move, feels ‘betrayed’||A day after a faction of dissident Akali leaders “elected” Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa as the SAD president, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD-Taksali) president and former MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura said he was seeing the BJP hand behind Dhindsa’s political move.Dhindsa, along with his son and former state finance minister, was expelled from the SAD in February this year for “anti-party” activities. Dhindsa later joined hands with SAD (Taksali), which was formed by Brahmpura, Sekhwan and former MP Dr Rattan Singh Ajnala in December 2018.“A few days ago, Dhindsa and Sewa Singh Sekhwan had come to me. I informed Dhindsa that there had been talks that he was going to form a new party. I suggested him take over the reins of the SAD-Taksali. I offered to step down as the party president. To this, Dhindsa said he would let me know his decision in a couple of days, but he didn’t reply. I think he has followed the instructions of his friends in New Delhi,” said Brahmpura, while talking to HT over phone.“At a function in Ludhiana on Tuesday, the stage secretary was seen saying that I would also join the function, but he was lying. I am not with them. Dhindsa has betrayed me. I will expose him and his team in the coming days. People are saying that Dhindsa wants to make his son Parminder Punjab chief minister. I feel that he is being guided by the BJP’s central leadership, who are trying to increase their foothold in Punjab,” he said.On Tuesday, the SAD had accused Dhindsa of acting at the behest of the Congress.When asked why Dhindsa didn’t accept his offer to become SAD-Taksali president, Brahmpura said: “I have reports that Dhindsa is eying Hindu votes in Punjab and for this he would take BJP’s help. He even had a problem with the ‘Taksali’ word.”He said he will not join Dhindsa, but will continue working for his party and its principals. “The party was formed after taking a pledge at the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs. I and my supporters will continue working for the party and for the betterment of Punjab,” he said.Lashing out on former minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan, who was present with Dhindsa at Tuesday’s function in Ludhiana, Brahmpura said: “Sekhwan has betrayed me. He didn’t even inform me that he was joining Dhindsa. The people of Punjab know how to deal with such leaders. He was in the forefront when our party was formed at the Akal Takht. He is a PO (proclaimed offender) of the people of Punjab.”Brahmpura said it is his appeal to the people not to make any contact with Sekhwan, who has betrayed the Punjabis. Brahmpura also said his party will fight the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections as announced earlier. “The BJP-led Union government is deliberately delaying the SGPC elections,” he said. Sekhwan, however, said: “As Brahmpura was not physically fit to lead the party, we had asked him to dissolve the party and constitute its new team, but he was unwilling to do so. Our repeated meetings with him proved futile and we were forced to elect Dhindsa our president. Brahmpura’s leadership was not accepted to the people as he failed to fulfil the ambition of the party for which it was made at Akal Takht.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/brahmpura-sees-bjp-hand-behind-dhindsa-s-move-feels-betrayed/story-PFOSLysBi9QQq9AB7pH59I.html
08-07-2020||City||With 81 new positives, overall tally crosses 3,000-mark in Gautam Budh Nagar||NOIDA: With 81 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported in Gautam Budh Nagar district in the past 24 hours, the overall count has gone to 3,010 cases on Wednesday. According to the daily health bulletin released by the state control room, a total of 2,011 people have been cured and discharged, including 226 on Wednesday, in the district so far. “So far, 30 Covid-19 positive patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 969 active cases,” the bulletin stated.In Uttar Pradesh, in the last 24 hours, as many as 18 Covid-19 positive patients succumbed to the disease. The overall tally of positive cases in the state has touched 31,164 cases with 1,196 new cases in the last 24 hours. While 845 patients have lost their lives to the infection in the state so far, 20,331 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the state till the date. At present, the state has 9,980 active cases.On the other hand, the district achieved little over 60% of its target of collecting 4,000 samples in a day for coronavirus testing, on the sixth day of the 10-day massive surveillance drive on Wednesday.GB Nagar acting district surveillance officer Dr Manoj Kushwaha said a total of 2,528 samples were collected by different teams in the district on Tuesday using different methods, including on-site rapid antigen kits, TrueNat machines, and lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. “Out of 1,825 samples collected through rapid antigen kits, 49 samples tested positive. Our teams have also collected 703 samples through RT-PCR tests and their results will come in a few days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-81-new-positives-overall-tally-crosses-3-000-mark-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-gALwEnqimePAwVETIpcHMI.html
08-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad’s patient discharge rate slips to 40%, worst in Uttar Pradesh||Ghaziabad has earned the dubious record of having the highest number of active Covid-19 cases among all the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh — as per as per state control room figures (from June 30 till July 7)— with health officials worried that either patients were not getting discharged or their entries were not being updated on the portal.Ghaziabad breached the 2,000 mark of Covid-19 cases on July 4 and has been the top district in UP in terms of active cases since June 30. On June 30, the district had 822 active cases, which rose to 1,390 on July 7. The number of patients discharged as on June 30 stood at 738, while the figure for July 7 was 977. This means that only 239 patients were discharged in the district since July 1.On Wednesday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad stood at 2612 with number of active cases going up to 1477 and number of total patients discharged stood at 1072 besides 63 deaths. Since June 30, the Ghaziabad district has been featuring on top of all 75 districts in UP having highest number, more than one thousand, of active cases.“The fewer number of patients getting discharged is a cause of concern. We think this is happening either because the patients are not getting discharged on time as per the latest guidelines or they have been discharged but the same information has not been uploaded to the state portal,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of the district.“We think that entires of about 300 patients will to be updated in the next few days and this will bring down our number of active cases,” he added.The discharge rate of patients in Ghaziabad district had been on the higher side ever since the Covid-19 outbreak. On April 30, the discharge rate was 66.66% out of total 66 cases. It jumped to 76.39% (out of total of 305 cases) till May 31. However, it started seeing a downward slip after that. The discharge rate, as per the state health bulletin, was quoted at 45.69% till June 30 out of a total of 1,615 cases.It has slipped further since and till July 7, the overall discharge rate was 40.2% out of a total of 2430 cases.The officials said that they suspected the government’s L1 category facilities were the main culprits in not uploading details.“We have now changed the staff deployed at our L1 hospital at Niwari, which was opened last week. The physical verification from patient’s register is being taken up by other staff. Each hospital has been given a login ID and password and they are supposed to make entires on state portal. The same has been issued to private hospitals but we expect that they have much more efficient staff and make proper entries,” Dr Gupta added.Ghaziabad district at present has seven private paid Covid-19 facilities for treatment of patients while the government is operating three L1 category hospitals at ESCI Sahibabad, Divyajyoti Hospital at Niwari and SRM Campus at Modinagar. The district also has an L2 hospital at Sanjay Nagar and L3 hospital at Santosh Medical.As per the new discharge guidelines issued on June 19, if any asymptomatic patient shows no symptoms, he/she can be discharged without undergoing any test on the tenth day from their date of admission. But, such patients will have to remain in home quarantine for seven days after discharge from hospital.According to officials, the recovery rate of L1 category patients ranges from 8-16 days while the L2 and L3 patients, who have moderate to critical conditions, need full recovery before they can be discharged.The officials also added that with increased sampling and testing through various means like RT-PCR, rapid antigen kits and TrueNat machines, the district had been witnessing an increase in the overall number of Covid-19 cases.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on July 16 had approved a special RT-PCR laboratory for Ghaziabad district for conduct of testing in view of the rising number of cases in the district.HT on July 18 had reported about the approval given by the CM.“We expect the laboratory to be functional in another month. The old women’s hospital building at the premises of MMG Hospital will be modified for installation of the new RT-PCR laboratory. Two doctors are undergoing training at present and new staff — including nine lab technicians — will also be provided for the operation of the new laboratory,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, the chief medical superintendent of MMG Hospital.“Once the lab gets is inaugurated, we will be able to conduct about 100 tests per day and will slowly scale up testing, depending on requirement,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-s-patient-discharge-rate-slips-to-40-worst-in-uttar-pradesh/story-4OGDnfknOr5W7ix8pka2kO.html
08-07-2020||Noida||Old video of Noida mall roof collapse goes viral||A video showing a portion of the roof of DLF Mall of India at Noida sector-18 went viral on Wednesday. The mall said that the clip was of June and that repair works were on.The video showed a section of the roof collapsing, creating a cloud of dust. “We had commenced planned enhancement works in a part of The Mall of India, Noida when the lockdown was suddenly implemented. During this time, a small portion, measuring approx. 650 square metres -- under 3% of total roof area ... was in the process of being prepared … the thunderstorm and extreme weather conditions that hit the city of Noida in June adversely impacted this portion of the roof in its vulnerable state. As a consequence of the damage suffered, a decision was taken to bring down that entire portion of the roof and rebuild it completely with enhanced standards,” read an official statement from the mall.According to the police, they have neither received any complaint nor has such an incident that happened on Wednesday.“The video is old and we did not receive any complaint nor any such incident has happened. The shopping mall is closed for the visitors,” said RK Singh, SHO, Sector-20 police station, Noida.The shopping malls were allowed to open from June 8 after remaining shut for 70 days in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the Mall of India remained shut with its officials saying that it will resume operations soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/old-video-of-noida-mall-roof-collapse-goes-viral/story-IOcigN2WVnIsy9cAjRl9HP.html
08-07-2020||Noida||GIMS to soon have paid private room facility for Covid-19 patients||The Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida will soon provide paid air-conditioned rooms to Covid-19 patients, hospital officials said.Officials said they have prepared 35 rooms, which will be soon offered to patients either on a single occupancy or as shared occupancy basis for a price. The cost of these rooms, according to officials, will be ₹3,000 a day for single room and ₹2,000 for double occupancy. Each room will have air-conditioners and private washrooms.“We will soon offer private rooms to Covid-19 patients with some extra amenities such as ACs and private bathrooms, at a nominal charge. We are preparing 35 rooms which can accommodate 50 patients. Although the treatment would be the same and the ongoing free-of-cost treatment will continue as usual. The private room or paid facility would be an option for patients who want and can afford extra facilities,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS.He added that GIMS will be getting more hands from the hospital into the Covid-19 team to cater the needs of the private room patients.“The private facility will be soon ready. The rooms will also have oxygen channels. We just want to provide an option of better facilities to those who can afford them,” said Gupta.City’s first hospital that had started the treatment for Covid-19 patients and testing, GIMS currently has several wards with a total of 150 beds, including 10 ventilator beds and 18 beds with oxygen channels. To handle emergencies, the hospital has over 50 oxygen concentrators that can be administered to any bed at any time.Currently, the hospital has around 138 Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment. The hospital saw nine deaths while 511 were successfully treated and discharged. Gautam Budh Nagar has seen the highest numbers of Covid-19 cases in the state of Uttar Pradesh at 2,935 cases as on Wednesday of which 1,121 are current cases, and 29 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gims-to-soon-have-paid-private-room-facility-for-covid-19-patients/story-6Di4JxecrPczXUZXCD62qI.html
08-07-2020||City||Support syllabus cut but CBSE must say how deleted topics were chosen: Sisodia||New Delhi: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday sought the Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) response over the rationalisation of syllabi from classes 9 to 12 announced a day earlier and questioned the selection process adopted by the board while deciding on reduction of the course material.To compensate for the lack of classroom teaching during the Covid-19 crisis, the national board on Tuesday announced that it had reduced the course load by 30% for students of classes 9 to 12. The move, however, evoked sharp responses from many who claimed that important chapters had been omitted.On Wednesday, Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, said students should learn about social sciences through “authentic sources". “The topics of social science which are dropped are so relevant in a contemporary context that it is important that children learn about it through authentic sources rather than through WhatsApp University,” he said in a statement.Last month, Sisodia had also written to the Union minister of human resource development, requesting a syllabus reduction of 30%. While saying that the Delhi government had been “a votary of syllabus reduction” to encourage in-depth learning, Sisodia on Wednesday questioned the process the course committees, curriculum committee and the governing body of CBSE adopted to arrive at the decision to remove or include specific chapters.“The ‘curriculum deduction details’ containing subject-wise topics that have been deleted do not give any reason as to why that particular topic or chapter has been left out,” Sisodia said, adding that the board should have explained the rationale behind dropping certain topics. The 1,030 Delhi government schools are affiliated to CBSE. More than 15 lakh students from Delhi’s private and government schools will be learning under the revised syllabi.The education minister asked why topics such as Democratic Rights and Food Security in India had been removed completely from class 9 syllabus; four chapters from Democratic Politics-Democracy and Diversity, Gender, Religion and Caste, Popular Struggles and Movement and Challenges to Democracy have been completely removed from class 10 syllabus; Federalism, Citizenship, Nationalism, and Secularism were completely removed from class 11 Political Science syllabus; and why Understanding Partition, Social Movements and New Social Movements in India, and Regional Aspirations were removed from class 12 syllabus.He questioned the removal of Science topics such as Human Eye and Sources of Energy along with dropping of a different genre of writing like Article and Report Writing, Letter to the Editor and Application for Jobs from English Core subjects among other things.On Tuesday, the board said schools could ensure the reduced topics could be explained to students to understand other concepts. However, students would not be evaluated on those topics in the 2020-21 examinations.To this, Sisodia said, “Asking the heads of schools and teachers to cover those topics while explicitly saying these will not be part of internal or year-end board exams is not enough as it is well known that evaluation drives the teaching-learning in class. Hence, for all practical purpose these topics are unlikely to be covered.”Calls and texts to the CBSE officials for a response were not answered. Earlier on Wednesday, the board clarified that topics removed from the syllabi were either being covered by a rationalised syllabus or were included in the Alternative Academic Calendar of NCERT, which prescribes a list of activities for students with specific learning outcomes.“Since the syllabus reduction came so late, we have already covered a lot of removed topics in the online classes. Teachers are currently busy analysing the syllabus and deciding on how they will be taught. The reduction in the syllabus will also affect the paper pattern during the assessment and we are keeping that in mind as well,” said the head of a government school in Dwarka, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/support-syllabus-cut-but-cbse-must-say-how-deleted-topics-were-chosen-sisodia/story-4a2k5PlHV9wB8h5uNZfnJJ.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sacrilege done to avenge insult of dera men by a Sikh preacher: Khatra-led SIT in chargesheet||The special investigation team (SIT) led by deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra probing the 2015 desecration cases in its chargesheet has claimed that it was Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh who ordered to carry out sacrilege at gurdwaras to avenge insult of sect followers by a Sikh preacher. The SIT chargesheet, submitted in the court of Faridkot judicial magistrate Chetan Sharma, says that some dera followers arrested in connection with sacrilege revealed that Mohinderpal Singh Bittu, who was killed in a Nabha jail in 2019, told them that the sacrilege was executed at the behest of the dera chief. “During a diwan (religious congregation) in on March 22, 2015, Harjinder Singh Manjhi, a Sikh preacher, asked some dera followers to remove their lockets or leave. Bittu raised the issue with dera’s now absconding national committee members — Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri — who saw it as an act of sacrilege and decided to take revenge. The sacrilege conspiracy was hatched thereafter,” the document reads. Arrest warrants against dera’s 3 national committee membersA Faridkot court on Wednesday issued arrest warrants against the three absconding members of the dera’s national committee after the Khatra-led SIT named them as accused in a case of the theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in the district. The SIT had filed an application in the court seeking arrest warrants of three Haryana residents — Sandeep Bareta of Bareta Mandi, Pardeep Kler of Kalait village and Harsh Dhuri of Dhuri. Judicial magistrate Suresh Kumar issued arrest warrants of the trio. The three were also named in the Malke and Gurusar cases. Torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib were found at Malke village in Moga district in November 2015 and Gurusar (Bhagta) village in Bathinda district in October 2015. The SIT claims that the instructions to execute the theft of Guru Granth Sahib were given by the three. “The trio directed dera’s state committee member Mohinder Pal Bittu to steal the bir,” claims SIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sacrilege-done-to-avenge-insult-of-dera-men-by-a-sikh-preacher-khatra-led-sit-in-chargesheet/story-WK7RKRoY21qlm7iP7SVCbI.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three deaths, 185 fresh Covid-19 cases in Punjab||Punjab on Wednesday reported three deaths and 185 fresh cases. With this, the state has reported 178 deaths and 6,934 positive cases so far, according to reports received from the field till 10pm. “A 60-year-old man of of Harijan Colony at Guru Ram Dass Nagar, Amritsar, died of Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital,” said civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said. “The patent was suffering from hypertension and diabetes,” he said. The district also reported 13 fresh cases on Wednesday, of which nine are fresh community transmission cases and four are close contacts of the Covid-19 patients. Eight more people tested positive in Gurdaspur district.HOSHIARPUR SDM, MC COMMISSIONER TEST POSITIVE Four persons, including the Hoshiarpur sub-divisional magistrate and municipal corporation commissioner tested positive for coronavirus. Both the officers had attended a meeting in Chandigarh a few days ago. The other two patients are working in Jalandhar and are quarantined there. Civil surgeon Jasbir Singh revealed that a Mukerian based nurse working with a private hospital in Jalandhar and another youth who is in Jalandhar police custody have also been detected positive.In view of two bureaucrats having tested positive for coronavirus, public dealing in deputy commissioner office would remain suspended for two days. SANGRUR CIVIL SURGEON CONTRACTS INFECTION Sangrur civil surgeon Dr Raj Kumar was tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. He was admitted to ICU of Government Rajindra Hhospital, Patiala, on Tuesday night. Dr Kumar was suffering from fever and diabetes and he was on leave last week.Ten people, including five women, were found suffering from Covid-19 in Ferozepur district on Wednesday. District and sessions judge of Bathinda Kamaljit Lamba was tested coronavirus positive. JAGRAON ADC AMONG 53 FRESH CASES IN LUDHIANAA day after additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Amarjit Singh Bains and Khanna sub-divisional magistrate Sandeep Singh were declared infected, Jagraon ADC Neeru Katyal has tested positive for coronavirus disease.Fifty three fresh cases were detected in the district on Wednesday. Of these, 48 belong to Ludhiana, while the others pertain to Sangrur, Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Mansa and Uttar Pradesh. With this, the total number of Covid-19 patients in Ludhiana has reached 1,181.Meanwhile, a 54-year-old resident of Daba-Lohara area succumbed to the disease at Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer hospital on Wednesday, taking the district’s death toll to 28.JALANDHAR CROSS 1000-MARK A judicial officer and 14 armymen are among 72 persons tested positive of the novel coronavirus in Jalandhar on Wednesday. Seventeen persons, including seven anganwadi workers and a cop, tested positive for Covid-19 in Faridkot. Besides, three persons contracted infection in Bathinda.In Patiala, four persons, including an MBBS intern at Government Rajindra Hospital tested positive for coronavirus.Two persons contracted infection in Phagwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-deaths-185-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-punjab/story-dixsqC9tgY4LKZdr6s339J.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Constable 12th policeman to succumb to Covid-19 in Delhi||A 40-year-old Delhi Police constable died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday -- the twelfth police casualty of the viral disease in Delhi. Constable Yoginder Prasad had been admitted a private hospital in west Delhi on June 12 with mild fever and liver-related complications. His first Covid test came negative but he remained in the hospital as he was also diagnosed with hepatic encephalopathy. Since he had fever, he was again tested for Covid-19 and the result came positive on June 25, said joint commissioner of police (western range), Shalini Singh, adding that Yoginder was posted with the Paschim Vihar West police station in the outer district. “One member of our family CT Yogender made the greatest sacrifice in the fight against COVID. We pay our homage to this great warrior (sic),” the Delhi Police tweeted from their official handle on Wednesday.According to his family, “I am having breathing problem but will recover and return home soon,” were his last words to his family during their 90-second video conversation on July 6, a day before he succumbed to Covid-19 at Park Hospital. “When I asked my son about his health, he said he was having breathlessness and was on oxygen support. I asked him to do yoga for enhancing his immunity. Knowing that we all were worried, he tried to comfort us by saying that he will recover and return home. But he is gone now and will never return,” said Yoginder’s father Jagdish Prasad Yadav, who retired from the police force in 2017 as an assistant sub-inspector (ASI).According to Yadav, his son was put on a ventilator support a few hours after their last conversation on July 6. The next day around 3 pm, he died during treatment.“The constable used to visit our hospital for liver disease treatment. On June 12, he was admitted with chronic liver ailment. He was later tested positive for Covid-19 and died on July 7,” said Dr. Rekha Gupta, medical superintendent of Park Hospital. Following the protocols for cremating Covid-19 patients, the constable’s last rites were performed the same day at the Uttam Nagar crematorium in the presence of his family members and police officials, said deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan.DCP Koan said that Yoginder had joined the Delhi Police as a constable in 2003 and was posted in Paschim Vihar West police station since January 2019. He is survived by his parents, wife, two children – a 14-year-old son and 3-year-old daughter – and two siblings. The family lives in police colony Paschim Vihar. The family originally belongs to Haryana’s Mahendragarh.So far, 12 officers of the Delhi Police, including a decorated inspector of the special cell, Sanjeev Kumar Yadav, have succumbed to Covid-19. However, over 22,000 personnel have tested positive for the infection, more than 1,400 have recovered from the viral infection and resumed their duties so far, a Delhi Police spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/constable-12th-policeman-to-succumb-to-covid-19-in-delhi/story-CVD53nlTZ22JvyQFCfzXsI.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal seeks report on Covid deaths||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has sought a detailed report from the state health department on Covid-19 deaths in the city over the last fortnight, in a bid to help it implement more stringent measures to reduce fatalities from the contagious pathogen, the Delhi government said on Wednesday.According to government records, Delhi reported more than 800 Covid deaths in the last two weeks, with 397 people succumbing to the disease in the first week of July. For more than a week, the daily Covid-19 deaths in Delhi have been ranging between 50 and 60.“To take all possible measures to further reduce deaths due to Covid-19, the chief minister has sought a detailed report from the Delhi government’s health secretary on the factors responsible for Covid-19 deaths in the city,” a government statement read.Delhi’s present fatality rate is 3.1%, which is higher than the national average of 2.8%. A total of 104,864 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Delhi till now, which includes 78,199 recoveries and 3,213 deaths.“The detailed analytical report on Covid-19 related deaths in Delhi will aid the implementation of more stringent measures to reduce deaths. It will also help mitigate other causes that have added to the casualties, such as co-morbidities, age, and health condition. This will ascertain the cause of the deaths,” the government said.The death rate in Delhi has seen a decline since June, government officials said on Wednesday, with the number of fatalities falling to around 50-60 every day.The chief minister’s office said various measures taken by the Delhi government, such as increasing the number of ICU beds in hospitals, installation of more oxygen beds, plasma bank and so on, had reduced the death and positivity rates. Delhi at present has 1,995 ICU beds, government records showed.“To bring the death rate to zero, the Delhi government will prepare further steps to be taken after obtaining a detailed analysis of Covid-19 deaths from the health secretary,” the government’s statement said.Principal secretary (health and family welfare) Vikram Dev Dutt said he will soon prepare and submit a detailed analysis of Covid-related deaths so the Delhi government can execute further measures to reduce the fatality rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-seeks-report-on-covid-deaths/story-GP9MJL1sF658HkCXwAVJlL.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||CABINET DECISIONS: Punjab CM to review state’s fiscal health on monthly basis||With Punjab’s revenue receipts falling by 21% in the first quarter of the financial year 2020-21, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced to undertake monthly review of the fiscal situation of the state.The decision was taken at the cabinet meeting, in which the CM said the financial support was not forthcoming from the Centre. He agreed to finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s suggestion to draw short-term financial plans on quarterly basis in view of the critical situation since the beginning of this fiscal, on account of the Covid outbreak and the prolonged lockdown.Manpreet warned that faced with its own revenue shortfall, the Government of India was likely to pull back finances even further from states in the coming quarter. The funds expected from the Centre in the first quarter had not come, thus leaving the state government struggling to cope, he said. Earlier, highlighting the grim fiscal situation prevailing in the state, principal secretary (finance) KAP Sinha said as of June 30, the share of central taxes for Punjab had gone down by 32%. The grant-in-aid from the Centre for the March-June period showed an increase of 38%, but that was mainly on account of the GST receipt of Rs 3,070 crore received in April, which included Rs 2,366.46 crore against pending arrears for 2019-20.While state’s own tax revenue fell by 51%, the first quarter decline in the state’s non-tax revenue stood at 68%, Sinha informed the cabinet, adding that more prudent measures would need to be taken to survive the current crisis.MUTATION FEE DOUBLEDIn a bid to mobilise additional revenue, the cabinet gave the go-ahead to increase the mutation fee from Rs 300 to Rs 600 and the decision would help add nearly Rs 10 crore to the state exchequer.The CM also asked the revenue department to launch a special campaign for clearing all pending mutations in the interest of landowners.According to a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office, the fees set by government for revenue collection is very low in today’s high currency environment and the mutation fees was last increase in October 2012, when it went up from Rs 150 to Rs 300.Earlier, the Cabinet also reviewed the Covid situation in the state, with the chief minister appealing to all to be extra cautious in view of the increasing number of cases. The state government’s expert health advisor Dr KK Talwar said the next four weeks were critical and every individual would have to take full precautions for their own safety and the safety of otherThe cabinet also approved increase in the number of attempts for candidates belonging to ex-servicemen category in the Punjab State Civil Services combined competitive examination.NOD TO TWO NEW INDUSTRIAL PARKSThe cbinet approved setting up of a Modern Industrial Park and Integrated Manufacturing Cluster over an area of 2,000 acres on government and panchayat land near Mattewara (Ludhiana) and Rajpura in Patiala district, respectively, at a total cost of Rs 3,200 crore. To be set up at a cost of Rs 1,600 crore each, the projects will cater to the needs of prospective entrepreneurs/industrialists for setting up their ventures expeditiously, in line with the urgent need to develop such industrial/economic hubs in the state. The panchayat land for the said projects would be purchased by the Housing and Urban Development Department, for development as mixed land use/industrial park/IMC.The ambitious Mattewara project had been envisioned and pursued by the industries department, and land of government departments would be taken over by the Housing and Urban Development Department under OUVGL. The project site had been under active consideration of the state government for past several years, and it was originally conceived and constantly pursued by the Industries department. However, considering the capacity of Housing and Urban Development to raise finance and execute the project of such scale, the same was transferred to it.The integrated manufacturing cluster (IMC) near Rajpura would be developed with the assistance of National Industrial Corridor Development Corporation on 1,000 acres of government and panchayat land.SCHOOL FEE: AG ASKED TO FILE LPAThe Punjab government will file a letters patent appeal (LPA) in the Punjab and Haryana high court this week against the decision of a single-judge bench in the matter of payment of school fee during the lockdown period.The issue came up for discussion informally during the cabinet meeting after which the CM said the LPA should be filed in the HC this week, advocate general Atul Nanda said later.On June 30, a single-judge bench of the high court ruled that all the schools were entitled to collect tuition fee irrespective of offering online classes during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cabinet-decisions-punjab-cm-to-review-state-s-fiscal-health-on-monthly-basis/story-xWsN5iV3QsREJ4SX9i3IPN.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Markaz meet: 91 from 21 countries get bail||A city court on Wednesday granted bail to 91 foreigners from 21 countries who were named in police charge sheets for attending a congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz at Nizamuddin for violating visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government lockdown guidelines issued in the wake of coronavirus disease outbreak.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur granted bail to the accused on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 10,000 each. The foreigners who got to the relief came from Afghanistan, Brazil, China, USA, Ukraine, Australia, Egypt, Russia, Algeria, Belgium, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, France, Kazakhstan, Morocco, Tunisia, UK, Fiji, Sudan, Philippines and Ethiopia.Advocates Ashima Mandla and Mandakini Singh appearing for people from Algeria, China, Philippines, Ukraine, UK, Russia, Ethiopia, Morocco, Jordan and Sudan said that the court has allowed them to file plea bargain before the court on Thursday.A plea bargaining is an arrangement between the prosecutor and accused whereby the latter pleads guilty to a lesser charge in exchange for a more lenient sentence or an agreement to drop other charges.Advocates Fahim Khan and Ahmad Khan appeared for people from Brazil, Afghanistan, Fiji, USA, Australia, Egypt, Belgium, France, Kazakhstan and Tunisia.During the hearing, all the foreigners who were staying at a hotel were produced before the court through video-conferencing.The court had on Tuesday granted bail to 122 Malaysians who were also booked in the case. They also filed applications for plea bargaining which was allowed by the court and listed before the concerned Metropolitan Magistrate Siddharth Malik for early disposal of the petitions.Earlier, the court had taken cognisance of the 59 charge sheets filed against 956 foreigners from 36 different countries in the case and summoned the accused to be produced on different dates through video conferencing.The investigating officer had told the court that the investigation was complete against the 956 foreigners in the case and each has been allegedly found to have independently committed the offence for which he/she has been charge-sheeted and has added that the further investigation is pending.According to the charge sheets, all the foreigners have been booked for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and regulations regarding Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure.They have also been for the offences under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act.The punishment for various offences under penal provisions ranges from six months to eight years of imprisonment. The Centre has cancelled their Visa and blacklisted them. The foreign nationals have not been arrested yet and are presently residing at various places approved by the Delhi High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markaz-meet-91-from-21-countries-get-bail/story-iZPG59uYkVUiDVuEnrQNXP.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Baijal, Kejriwal inaugurate 500-bed Covid care centre at CWG campus||In a bid to enhance Delhi’s medical infrastructure to fight the coronavirus disease, lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday inaugurated a 500-bedded Covid care centre at the Commonwealth Games (CWG) complex in East Delhi. Kejriwal and Baijal inaugurated the facility through video-conferencing in the presence of deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and officials from the east district administration. The facility was set up by the Delhi government’s east district administration in a record six days, the government said in a statement. The 500-bedded care centre was made operational from Wednesday and has been attached to Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital. A team of 80 doctors and 150 nurses has been stationed at the new facility by the NGO ‘Doctors For You’ for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “I am happy that the facility was built in just six days with the district administration’s efforts. Lok Nayak hospital earlier had 2,000 beds, then 100 beds were added through Shehnai Banquet and now, 500 beds have been added through this facility, which makes it a total of 2,600 beds that are serviced by this hospital,” Kejriwal said during the video conference.Looking back at the days gone by, Kejriwal said all the preparations done by the Delhi government during the lockdown fell short eventually when the cases started surging.“We lifted the lockdown on June 1. During the lockdown, the level of Covid management in Delhi was remarkable. We had anticipated a surge in the number of Covid cases after lifting of the lockdown, but this surge was unexpected. All our preparations we did during the lockdown fell short after we lifted it. Now, the situation in Delhi is under control,” he said.The chief minister assured that the Covid situation in Delhi was “much better now” and that there was no shortage of beds at present.“But this does not mean we do not take steps any further to tackle the surge. We have to learn from our past experiences and prepare for the future so that if there is a spike in Corona cases, there should be no shortage of medical facilities. There has been a massive expansion of Covid infrastructure in Delhi in terms of beds and other facilities, be it Covid centres or Covid hospitals,” Kejriwal said.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the residential quarters had also been readied in the CWG campus for medical professionals to stay. The facility has been jointly readied by the east district administration team, the health department, and the NGO ‘Doctors For You’.“If the condition of a patient gets serious, he/she will be transferred from the general ward to the high dependency unit (HDU), and if no improvement is noticed, he/she will be taken to LN Hospital,” Sisodia said.The newly set up Covid care centre in the CWG stadium is equipped with CCTV cameras, arrangements for food for up to 700 people and ambulances for taking serious patients to LN Hospital. Apart from specialists and doctors, mental health counsellors have been deployed. Patients will have access to leisure activities such as books or board games.This facility is equipped with separate beds for men and women. Out of the 500 total beds, 350 beds are reserved for men and 100 beds for women. The remaining 50 beds have been reserved for patients with critical conditions, and have attached oxygen supply with them. Sisodia, who visited the facility to review its preparedness, said patients will start coming from Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baijal-kejriwal-inaugurate-500-bed-covid-care-centre-at-cwg-campus/story-YsfKg4jq0DBCy05F8QLkYK.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Stricter surveillance for places that record isolated Covid cases||The Delhi health department on Wednesday issued fresh directions according to which neighbourhoods where isolated Covid-19 cases are recorded on-and-off for a period of 28 days will be put under stricter surveillance by district officials.A standard operating procedure (SOP) attached with Wednesday’s order, which HT has seen, require districts to prepare lists of high-risk groups and special surveillance groups in areas that have witnessed isolated Covid-19 cases in any frequency for 28 days.The high-risk groups include people aged over 60 years, pregnant women and those with comorbidities, much like a protocol that was earlier drafted for prioritising containment zone residents for rapid antigen tests. People belonging to high-risk groups have to be screened and their health records fed into a database, the order said.Health officers are required to regularly check on the high-risk groups in the localities recording isolated Covid cases and maintain a record of each visit or call, the SOP said.According to the order, special surveillance groups include domestic workers, self-employed individuals such as plumbers, mechanics, etc, daily essential suppliers, auto-rickshaw drivers and transporters operating in the locality concerned. All individuals belonging to the special surveillance groups also have to be screened and their health records fed into a separate database.If any of the individuals belonging to the special surveillance groups is found Covid-19 positive, a system has to be set up to enable contract tracing of all people in the neighbourhood who have come in contact with the patient and assign them 15-day home isolation.The directions were issued as a modification to the revised Covid response plan for Delhi that was notified through an order issued on June 22, incorporating a bunch of Covid management strategies recommended by Union home minister Amit Shah, which included delineation of containment zones in Delhi, health survey of residents, improving contact tracing and a sero-survey for the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stricter-surveillance-for-places-that-record-isolated-covid-cases/story-i5Zbji9cO6LcQtZyAXyDpM.html
08-07-2020||Dehradun||Iconic Bougainvillea-Devdar tree ‘beautiful love affair’ duo collapses due to heavy rains||The residents of Uttarakhand’s picturesque hill town of Almora woke up to a disheartening sight after famous 40 feet high Bougainvillea tree and its supporting Devdar tree collapsed due to overnight heavy rains on Wednesday morning. The Bougainville tree which was about 30-years old had grown over a century old Devdar tree near GB Pant Park in Almora’s Chaughanpata area.The two trees often termed by local as a ‘beautiful love affair’ had become the identity of Almora and emerged as a very popular tourist destination.Ever since the news broke out that the two iconic trees had collapsed, locals started gathering at the spot for a last glimpse. Nitin Singh Bhadauria, district magistrate Almora termed the incident as a “big loss for the region as it had become a part of everyone’s life.”“The incident happened at around 7 in the morning. The beautiful Bougainvillea tree which was about 30-years-old had grown over the Devdar tree which was more than 100-years-old and from the British era. Due to the heavy rains, the latter collapsed on the ground taking down the Bougainvillea along with it,” said Bhadauria. The DM said ‘fortunately there was no loss of property or life in the incident.’“But, it’s like the soul of the city has died. There will always be a sense of emptiness whenever anyone will pass from that spot. As of now, local authorities are trying to clear the road by removing the fallen trees from the road. A large number of locals have gathered there to have one last glimpse of the two trees which were the identity of Almora,” he said. The locals gathered at the spot were quietly witnessing the clearing of collapsed trees from the road, mourning the loss.“Locals called it a beautiful love affair between two trees. They were dear to every single soul living in Almora. The spot was like a landmark of the city but now when they are no more, it’s like a family member has passed away,” said Paritosh Joshi a resident of Almora. Another local Hemendra Chauhan said, “The void created by the loss will never be filled. We all have memories with them from our childhood ““The century-old Devdar tree was fully covered in the flowers of the Bougainvillea. It was so popular that if you Google Almora, you will definitely see pictures of the two in full bloom,” said Chauhan. Considering the significance of the trees, the district administration said it will try to ‘at least restore the Bougainvillea tree there.’DM Bhadauria said, “We are in talks with GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment (NIHE) and Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan based in Almora for their expertise in restoring the Bougainvillea tree which still has its roots intact in the ground. We are hopeful it will re-grow to its size in 3-4 years. However, as the Devdar tree has completely collapsed, we will see what could be done with it.”RS Rawal, director of GB Pant NIHE confirmed that the Bougainvillea tree ‘could be restored but there will be issues with its support system.’“Bougainvillea being a hard species can re-grow if its roots are intact. However, in this case, there will be an issue of providing a support base like the now collapsed Devdar tree. I have not visited the spot yet but will need to first analyse the remaining condition of the Bougainvillea before saying to what extent it could re-grow,” said Rawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/iconin-bougainvillea-devdar-tree-beautiful-love-affair-duo-collapses-due-to-heavy-rains/story-obzJJ1bTL9HznkRmSvrLnI.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Sangrur emerges as new hotspot with 16 deaths, fourfold jump in cases in a month||With more than a fourfold (415%) rise in Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths in a month, Sangrur has emerged as a new virus hotspot district of Punjab. The coronavirus count of the district went up from 115 on June 8 to 593 on July 7. The district, which now has 126 active cases, reported its first death on June 10 even as the state had witnessed 175 fatalities till July 7. In the past one month, the district went on to attain 9.14% share of the state’s death tally. As per the state health department’s July 7 media bulletin, Malerkotla was the worst-virus hit block with 78 active cases and 12 deaths.The Sunam block has 16 active cases without any fatality, Amargarh has 4 active cases with 2 deaths, Sherpur and Fatehgarh Panjgrain have one death each. The Longowal and Sangrur blocks have 9 and 7 active cases.On Wednesday, Sangrur civil surgeon Dr Raj Kumar was also tested positive for the coronavirus. Also, 33 police personnel have been found infected in a month. Deputy superintendent of police (investigation) Mohit Agarwal said 31 cops have recovered. Swaranjit Singh, a member of the Punjab Paramedical and Health Employees Front, said cases are increasing due to the poor healthcare infrastructure. “Though the current testing ratio is satisfactory, it was not the case earlier. Also, people are avoiding getting their test done due to shortage of isolation facilities,” he added. Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir said, “There is no community transmission in the district. We are tracing all contacts of Covid patients. Malerkotla is the worst hit area but we have deployed senior officials to monitor the situation. Also, containment zones are being declared to prevent the spread of virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-sangrur-emerges-as-new-hotspot-with-16-deaths-fourfold-jump-in-cases-in-a-month/story-Q9wYvNNC542gXHEsH7TGmO.html
08-07-2020||City||Five UP residents arrested for lying about purpose of visit in Kullu||Five Uttar Pradesh residents were booked on Wednesday for entering Kullu district and lying to the authorities about their purpose of visit. During checking, they were asked about their purpose of visit but were caught lying to the authorities after which they were immediately arrested.Superintendent of police (SP), Kullu, Gaurav Singh said a case under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act had been registered against them and investigation was being carried out.As many as 70 tourists who had entered the state in 20 vehicles from other states were sent back from Kullu district’s barriers as their purpose didn’t comply with the state government’s guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-up-residents-arrested-for-lying-about-purpose-of-visit-in-kullu/story-zRx9bGtPmtfYLATnPzBR7K.html
08-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan gets 9 mn acre-foot Ravi, Beas water, highest in 5 years||Rajasthan received 9.051 million acre-foot (MAF) Ravi, Beas water this year, which is highest in last five years, said officials. One acre-foot is equal to water in a football field with a depth of one foot. The state receives its share of water from Ravi and Beas rivers through Rajasthan Feeder and Bikaner Canal. Rajasthan Feeder off-takes from Harike headworks in Punjab and provides water to Indira Gandhi Nahar Project (IGNP), which serves the command lying in western Rajasthan.Ten districts, including major cities such as Jodhpur, Bikaner and Jaisalmer, are totally dependent on the IGNP for drinking water. The Bikaner canal off-takes from tail of Ferozepur feeder which in turns off-takes from Harike headworks and serves the command lying in Sriganganagar district.Ravi-Beas water was allocated to Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and J&K by an interstate agreement signed on December 31, 1981. Rajasthan has been allocated 1.11 MAF pre-partition share and 8.60 MAF surplus water.“As per the agreement, pre-partition share remains fixed but availability of surplus water varies every year. In case of any variation in availability of surplus water in any year, the share of Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana is changed on pro-rata basis,” said water resources department secretary Naveen Mahajan.He said Rajasthan has share of water in Ravi, Beas and Sutlej rivers through various interstate agreements. Western districts of Rajasthan are solely dependent on this water.The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) regulates and distributes interstate water among the partner states.At the 235th meeting of BBMB on July 7, Rajasthan raised the issue of short supply this year through the Bhakra Main Line (BML) via Haryana.Mahajan, who is a member in the board from Rajasthan, said Rajasthan raised the matter of short supply by Haryana to Rajasthan through BML. Haryana also raised the matter of short supply and conveyed to the Board that Punjab was continuously giving short supply at Haryana Contact Point to the tune of 200 to 1000 cusecs.“We told the Board that there was resentment in the farmers due to short and erratic supplies,” said the WRD secretary. “We requested the BBMB that if there was short supply, the water should be distributed proportionately between Rajasthan and Haryana.”BBMB has divided year into two parts – filling period from May 21 to September 20, and depletion period from September 21 to May 20. Water accounts are maintained separately for each period.Rajasthan requested the Board that during the current filling period Haryana has received 7.43% short supply; and it transferred shortage at an average of 37.15% to Rajasthan. It means whatever short supply has been received to Haryana, all has been passed to Rajasthan.The BBMB chairman ordered setting up of a committee of chief engineers of Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana to resolve this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-gets-9-mn-acre-foot-ravi-beas-water-highest-in-5-years/story-axXpspUGuTafni6pLqQANN.html
08-07-2020||City||Banquet halls suitable for Covid care facilities: Delhi govt tells high court||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Wednesday told the Delhi High Court that banquet halls are among the most suitable premises to serve as extended Covid care centres as they are permanent roofed structures of large size that are already fitted with air-conditioning, kitchens, washrooms and other basic amenities.The government said it was correct in attaching banquet halls as Covid care centres as the number of cases is increasing in the city every day and at this rate, the total count could go up to 5,50,000 by the end of August.Justice Jayanth Nath, who was hearing a bunch of pleas challenging the state government’s decision to take over banquet halls and use them for mild or asymptomatic patients, was told by the government that these facilities are preferable over other premises such as stadiums and railway coaches, which lack these infrastructure advantages for use as extended Covid hospitals and care centres.The Delhi government initially plans to use eight banquet halls as Covid care facilities and make space for at least over 1,100 beds in such spaces across the city. These eight are part of the 77 banquet halls that have been identified and requisitioned by the government, which will be used on a need basis.In an affidavit, the Delhi government told the court that the problem of increasing Covid-19 cases was compounded by the partial roll-back of the lockdown. It said due to the absence of targeted measures, it may not be possible to exit the lockdown completely even in the medium to long term.Appearing for one of the banquet halls, its counsel Sandeep Agarwal told the court that these units are not like the hotels where there are separate facilities as well as a common area for people to move around. He said the ceilings of banquet halls are higher and are not feasible to be converted into Covid care centres. Advocate Sachin Chopra, appearing for another petitioner, said all banquet halls are centrally air-conditioned and cannot be used for patients as it can aggravate the spread of the virus. He said 30,000 beds are already vacant and available with the Delhi government, which still wants to take over the banquet halls.Chopra said 63,000 patients had already been discharged and migrated and hence there is no need for more beds. Following the arguments, the court posted the matter for further hearing on July 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/banquet-halls-suitable-for-covid-care-facilities-delhi-govt-tells-high-court/story-67SIw5bF2m4fYuvZFfG2rK.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Lack of identity proof deprives homeless and mentally ill of Covid tests||The Delhi government’s Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) is facing a major hurdle while trying to get homeless people with mental health issues tested for Covid-19—their lack of identity proof. According to a June 22 Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order based on Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, proof of identity and a contact number are mandatory for a Covid-19 test to be administered—both by the RT-PCR and rapid antigen methods—to a patient.IHBAS has requested both the Centre and Delhi government to modify the testing guidelines. Dr Nimesh Desai, the director of IHBAS, said that the present norms of Covid-19 testing are not only depriving homeless people with mental health issues of timely and proper medical care, they are also posing a risk to health care workers at the institute.“Of the 25 homeless people with mental health illnesses brought to the institute in the past three months, we could get just four tested for Covid-19 because we found their relatives who then furnished the requisite papers. Of the four, three tested positive. We can’t get the others tested—these people don’t even remember their names,” Dr Desai said.The institute has created an isolation ward where such persons are kept under observation for 14 days or until they can be tested. “It is creating a difficult situation for us. Without a test, we can’t get them admitted to a Covid-19 hospital. Nearly 40 members of my staff (doctors, nurses and attendants) and 10 patients have tested positive for Covid-19 so far,” he said.In an order dated June 22, chief secretary Vijay Dev, who is also the chairperson of the state executive committee of DDMA, had directed all testing labs and authorities to ensure that a person has a government-issued identity card and functional mobile number before a test could be conducted for Covid-19.“The mobile number furnished (by the person who is getting the test done) is tested to be functional and correct through a missed call…The testing labs/authorities concerned shall be held responsible if the person tested is untraceable…,” the order read.Dr Desai said that he had raised the matter with the Centre, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Delhi government, as well as requested it to take it up with the Centre. “There should be clear guidelines about Covid-19 tests for homeless people who don’t have valid identity proofs and contact numbers. We do understand that the directions issued by the chief secretary are in accordance with ICMR guidelines. We have requested the government to take up the matter with the Centre, as the issue needs to be reviewed and sorted out by ICMR and the central government.”Indu Prakash, a member of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee for homeless shelters in Delhi, said that the concern raised by IHBAS is valid. “Though we have tried to get Aadhaar cards and voter IDs made for a lot of homeless people, those who don’t have them shouldn’t be deprived of medical treatment for the contagious disease. They have a right to proper medical care during this pandemic, even if they don’t have an identity card.”An ICMR official said, “The ICMR form doesn’t mandatorily require an individual’s phone number or address at the time of sample collection; they are required for the RT-PCR app for the state to conduct surveillance.”However, a senior Delhi government official with the health department put the onus of responsibility back on ICMR’s shoulders and said, “We have received the letter from the IHBAS director regarding the problem they’ve been facing while getting the test administered to homeless persons with mental health issues. We are writing to ICMR in this regard. It is ICMR which has made the RT-PCR app mandatory so we have no option but to ask for the contact numbers and identity proofs before testing for Covid-19.” The Delhi government spokesperson didn’t not comment on the issue. Meanwhile, a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed in the Delhi High Court by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal on June 22 seeking directions to the Centre and the Delhi government to issue guidelines for the Covid-19 testing of homeless people with mental health issues in the Capital. The court had directed the Centre and the state government to file their reply in the matter, which is listed for a hearing on July 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lack-of-identity-proof-deprives-homeless-and-mentally-ill-of-covid-tests/story-OavuyjkOiowvkLVOiYiNNK.html
08-07-2020||City||With 18 new cases, Himachal’s Covid-count crosses 1,100-mark in 111 days||With 18 people testing positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, the total number of cases crossed the 1,100-mark on Wednesday.The state’s Covid-19 count has climbed to 1,101.Seven cases were reported in Kangra , six in Solan, two in Una and one each in Mandi, Hamirpur and Sirmaur.A four-year-old girl from Sera Thana village, whose 33-year-old mother had tested positive after returning from Mumbai, was also found to be infected. A 32-year-old man from Vill Palakh, who came from Delhi on July 5 and his 28-year-old brother-in-law have tested positive.A 45-year-old man from Dhan village of Kangra, who had returned from Panipat on June 30, tested positive. A 43- year-old man from Panalth village of Kangra who was the direct contact of a previously diagnosed patient also tested positive on Wednesday. All patients have been shifted to the district Covid-Care Centre (DCCC) in Dadh.As many as 31 patients have been discharged, including 14 from Solan, eight from Hamirpur, six from Kangra and three from Sirmaur.Nine people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state while 13 patients have migrated.Himachal breached the 1,100-mark on the 111th day of reporting its first case, which was detected on March 20. It had reached the 1,000-mark on July 2. It took six days for the count to climb to 1,100 from 1000.Since the Covid-19 outbreak, Himachal has recorded 1,101 cases. There are 257 active cases and 820 persons have recovered.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 298 cases followed by Hamirpur with 268 cases, Una with 131 cases, Solan with 126 cases, Chamba with 58 cases, Shimla with 49 cases, Bilaspur with 48 cases, Sirmaur with 41 cases, Mandi with 37 cases, Kinnaur with 34 cases, Kullu with seven cases and Lahaul-Spiti with four cases.COUPLE BOOKED FOR ENTERING HP WITH FAKE COVID REPORTA couple was booked for trying to enter Kangra district on a fake Covid report. Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Vimukt Ranjan said the couple had entered Himachal from the Bhadroya barrier. Their Covid-19 negative test report was found to be fake.Legal action is being initiated against them for cheating, fraud and forgery. They are currently lodged at an institutional quarantine facility at Parour, said Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-18-new-cases-himachal-s-covid-count-crosses-1-100-mark-in-111-days/story-tEieWcX3dws7ktJM526XlM.html
08-07-2020||City||Mohali SDM tests positive for Covid-19||Mohali subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Jadgeep Sehgal, 29, has tested positive for Covid-19. He was home-quarantined at his residence in Purab Apartments, Sector 88, after the test results came on Wednesday.Sources said he had recently attended a meeting of Punjab Civil Services (PCS) officers, which has raised concern over further spread of disease among bureaucrats.A senior health official said samples of employees who came in contact with the SDM besides his family members will be taken on Thursday.The district also reported six more cases, taking the count to 330.The patients include a 65-year-old man and 50-year-old woman from Kurali, a 22-year-old man from Kumbra, and a 54-year-old man from Sector 48C. A 42-year-old man and 14-year-old boy have also tested positive in Sector 104.All patients have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and are responding well to the treatment, said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh.Meanwhile, 11 patients have been cured, taking the total to 248. The number of active cases stands at 76.4 cases surface in PanchkulaFour new Covid-19 cases were reported in Panchkula on Wednesday, taking the district’s total to 131.Two men, aged 46 and 49, have tested positive in Sector 7. A 26-year-old man, who works in the Chandigarh education department, has also been found infected. He is a resident of Sector 19.The fourth case is of a 30-year-old man from Adarsh Colony, Kalka. He works in a sweets shop and was a contact of another positive patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-sdm-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-XTdJ6Pf7tZQE8J0KGqbf7L.html
08-07-2020||City||Homeless left to fend for themselves as free meals during lockdown period discontinued||New Delhi: The free meal scheme for marginalised occupants of government night shelter homes has been discontinued since July 1 after the relaxation of Covid-19 lockdown restrictions in the capital, forcing its occupants to look for alternative arrangements, including stepping out to beg for food or looking for menial jobs..Hundreds of homeless people lived in more than 230 Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) night shelters. Before the Covid-19 crisis struck in March, there was no provision for meals to residents of these shelters.Azad Singh, 68, a resident of a shelter at Yamuna Bazaar, said he and his friends were dependent on alms provided by people in nearby temples and gurudwaras before the lockdown, as they were too old to find work.“With the free meal system closed, we have to step out once again and arrange for food. Even if there are donations outsides the few temples and gurudwaras that are open, the place would be crowded and we run the risk of contracting the virus.” Singh said, adding he hoped the free meal scheme would resume.Singh often brings food for his fellow occupant Suresh Rikki, 84, who doesn’t know where his next meal will come from these days. “I went to sleep on an empty stomach last Thursday – the first day we didn’t get food at the shelter,” he said. “Since Friday, I am relying on locals and other residents who bring me food sometimes.”Due to the Covid-19 crisis and the subsequent loss of employment, many daily wage labourers, homeless population and people living on the streets relied on these shelters to get cooked meals. The Delhi government had provided cooked food twice daily through the network of Hunger Relief Centres to an average of 10 lakh beneficiaries per day for almost two months. Activists have raised their voices against the discontinuation of free meals at these shelters. “Until and unless work resumes completely and their livelihood is secure, these people should be provided food because they don’t have any social security. Most vulnerable are children, women, elderly, and the disabled. These are the people who don’t protest for their rights and we must take care of them,” said Indu Prakash Singh, member of the State Level Shelter Monitoring Committee.Rakesh Kumar, member of the non-governmental organisation, Society For Promotion of Youth and Masses (SPYM), which runs a night shelter at Sarai Kale Khan, said most people in shelter homes cook food on their own. “Only a few are dependent on the free meal scheme. For them, it is a problem because there is not much work. Most of them are daily wage labourers and expressed their disappointment when the scheme was discontinued.”Kumar’s NGO had been preparing food for children at the Sarai Kale Khan shelter and for those who require extra care at the recovery shelter home in the premises before lockdown as well. “During the lockdown, we were preparing meals for around 1,000 people since we had to feed everyone. Now, the number has gone down to 150,” he said.Savita Topno, 35, a resident at the Sarai Kale Khan shelter, had come to Delhi from her village in Jharkhand only a year ago with her husband looking for work. The Covid-19 crisis and the discontinuation of the free meal scheme have caused difficulties for the family.“My husband is a daily wage labourer. He went to work on Friday after four days. We had little money and managed to buy some supplies to cook food since. There is no certainty about the coming days. Many are begging for food outside,” she said.NH Sharma, Director, Night shelter, DUSIB, said, “The arrangement had started March 22 onwards and was till the ‘lockdown’ period ends. The National Urban Livelihoods Mission’s March 28 notification from the central government clearly stated free meals to be provided in all shelters across the country for the ‘lockdown’ period.”Despite repeated requests through call and messages, Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/homeless-left-to-fend-for-themselves-as-free-meals-during-lockdown-period-discontinued/story-qBbtOXZGo7UMljZL0ndgUO.html
08-07-2020||City||With people flouting Covid-19 norms, Himachal govt mulls over enforcing ordinance||Having observed that people are not following Covid-19 norms, the Himachal government plans to approve an ordinance that will make violations such as not wearing a mask or observing social distancing a punishable offence. Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman confirmed that the state plans to bring in an ordinance to impose penalties on those violating guidelines.“The work on preparing a draft is in process and the same is likely to be placed in the cabinet meeting slated for July 10,” said Dhiman.Dhiman said that it has been noticed that the people were not paying heed to health guidelines, though the pandemic was far from over. “Ever since Unlock Phase-2 has been implemented, people are behaving in an irresponsible manner by not wearing masks and flouting social distancing norms,” he said. Wearing facemask and maintaining social distance has been made mandatory through orders issued by the government from time-to-time under Epidemic Disease Act or Disaster Management Act, he said. The ordinance will confer special powers on the administration and anyone violating the norms will be penalised and punishedSources say the monetary fine may begin from ₹100 for first time violations and then go up for every repeated violation. In case of default in payment of the penalties,violators could land in jail or be slapped with a heavy penalty or both.Spitting in public places will also invite a heavy penalty or jail. Fine may also be imposed if shopkeepers sell items to a person not wearing a mask. Not maintaining social distancing will also attract monetary fine, he said. STRICT MONITORING ON BORDERSThe government will also keep a strict vigil on borders to discourage weekend tourism. Tourists entering the state must have at least a five-day valid booking in a hotel and a Covid-19 negative report from an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved lab is also mandatory.Tourists will not be allowed to make short visits. Last week, some tourists from Punjab managed to enter the state after misleading cops at the border and they returned same day after merry making at Kasauli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-people-flouting-covid-19-norms-himachal-govt-mulls-over-enforcing-ordinance/story-Fg20e0cFLh8WnFDbVrOVuJ.html
08-07-2020||City||Delhi: Bootlegger straps 100 alcohol bottles inside jacket, arrested||New Delhi: An alleged bootlegger, who taped 100 bottles of illicit liquor to the inside of his jacket, and another who hid 18 cartons below a pile of garbage on a cart to smuggle them from Haryana to outer Delhi, were caught within hours of each other on Tuesday after police found the clothes of the first one to be “odd” and the presence of the second to be “suspicious”.The first suspect was identified as 20-year-old Ishu, who was caught from outer Delhi’s Mundka Tuesday afternoon after a police personnel noticed him wearing a heavy jacket despite the sweltering heat, said A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (outer). Another investigator, on condition of anonymity, said that not only was his choice of dressing odd for the weather, his torso also looked unusually fat for a man with a lean face.“A policeman who noticed these odd signs stopped him for a casual checking. When he asked him to take off his inside jacket, he was found to be wearing another half-sleeved jacket inside that resembled a bullet-proof vest,” said the investigator mentioned above.The inner jacket was found to have a total of 100 quarter bottles of illicit liquor stuck using tape, added the investigator.Ishu allegedly turned out to be a bootlegger who would make five such trips from Haryana to Delhi to smuggle in country made liquor using this modus operandi. “Since the checking of the vehicles along the border has been strict in the recent past, Ishu was using the bylanes on the border to bring in the liquor,” said the officer.The other suspect was caught in the evening in the jurisdiction of the same police station. The DCP identified him as Jagmohan Shakya, also allegedly a regular bootlegger.“He had placed 18 cartons of illicit liquor bottles under a pile of garbage on a cart and was riding it into Delhi. A policeman noticed him and found it suspicious that he was plying the garbage cart in the evening when garbage collection is usually done in the morning in that neighborhood,” said the investigator quoted above.When questioned casually by the policeman, Shakya said he belonged to Nihal Vihar. “It was surprising that a man from Nihal Vihar was picking garbage at the far away Tigri Border,” the officer said, adding that it was around that time that the policeman noticed some cartons below the garbage.Both the men have been arrested and the sources of the recovered illicit liquor are being probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-bootlegger-straps-100-alcohol-bottles-inside-jacket-arrested/story-ixDsuF7a5XjOJtjvMcPoFK.html
08-07-2020||City||Delhi: EDMC demolishes encroachments in East Laxmi Market, residents question timing of move||New Delhi: The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Wednesday demolished temporary and permanent encroachments in the East Laxmi Market near Chitra Vihar in the eastern part of the city. Officials of the EDMC said the drive was started Monday in light of directions of the Delhi High Court to remove encroachment on the service road alongside the nullah road, which is also known as the Master Plan Road, in the area.The action was taken after the high court gave an ultimatum to the civic body to remove encroachment and clear the road’s right of way (ROW) before August 17, 2020. According to EDMC officials, the matter pertaining to construction of houses on the service lane along the nullah road in east Delhi had been going on in the high court since 2011 and those who had encroached upon the service road were also given proper hearing. Residents — many of them are sanitation workers — however, alleged the demolition was carried out without giving them an opportunity to remove their belongings. They described the move as “inhumane” and tried to stage a protest but the police foiled their bid.“I had been living here for the past seven years but all this time no one came to tell us about irregularities. Then one fine day, they come with bulldozers and demolish our houses. Where will we go now in times of coronavirus? It is inhumane,” Santoshi Devi, whose house was demolished, alleged.Jeevanram Valmiki, another person whose accommodation was demolished, questioned the timing of the drive. “Why did the civic body let the service road get encroached in the first place? Why did they not nip it in the bud? The EDMC could have waited for the demolition drive till the pandemic gets over. Forget about social distancing, we are literally on the road. Now we have no other place to go and have no idea how we’ll survive. The government should make some arrangements to rehabilitate us.”A senior EDMC official said the service road alongside ‘nullah road’— which connects the East Laxmi Market with Pushta Road — converts into a dead-end near Chitra Vihar, hence people “mostly from lower-income groups” encroached upon the stretch and slowly built houses. “In 2011, residents of the East Laxmi Market area had approached the high court against the encroachment on the service road. In 2015, the court had ordered the demolition of permanent structures on the stretch. Later, in 2016, the other party also approached the high court against the order, after which the court gave them the liberty to prove their ownership to the property in the lower court. The lower court, however, dismissed the case as the encroachers could not prove their point. So again in January 2020, the high court asked the EDMC, the Public Works Department (PWD) and the police to remove this encroachment and submit a report by August 17, 2020. Now we are complying with the order and hence launched the demolition exercise,” an EDMC spokesperson said.He said nearly 56 houses were to be demolished and that the action has now been completed. He said that prior notices were given to each occupant to vacate houses before the demolition drive.Sanjay Gehlot, chairman, Delhi Safai Karmachari Ayog, also demanded that the “victims” of the demolition drive be rehabilitated as many of them are sanitation workers. “This was a mixed population area and was majorly a Valmiki Colony. Many residents are sanitation workers. Sanitation workers are playing a major role in fighting Covid-19; the authorities should have waited till the pandemic was over. I have written to the chief minister to rehabilitate these victims of the demolition drive. For the time being, arrangements are being made to shift them to a nearby MCD school,” Gehlot said.Residents are now planning to move the high court for rehabilitation. “They have no place to live especially in times of Covid-19 crisis. Tomorrow (Thursday) residents will move the high court seeking their rehabilitation,” Dev Pal, a field researcher of housing and land rights network, said. Pal is assisting the residents with legal remedies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-edmc-demolishes-encroachments-in-east-laxmi-market-residents-question-timing-of-move/story-0U8m60PmMfrTMkcckEcctM.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal has alloted Rs 587 crore to woman, child welfare: CM||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday said the state government had alloted Rs 586.82 crore to overall development and welfare of women and children in the state. He was interacting with anganwari workers from different parts of the state through video-conference. Appreciating the workers’ role amid the Covid-19 crisis, he said anganwari workers had ensured that Covid-19 does not spread at community level. “Anganwari workers have played a commendable role in making the ‘Nigah’ programme of the state government a success and ensuring that persons under home quarantine do not violate guidelines,” he said. ACTIVE CASE FINDING CAMPAIGN Thakur said the ‘active case finding campaign’ launched by the state government was also appreciated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The PM also advised CMs of other states to take up this campaign in their respective states. Around 70 lakh people are covered under this mega campaign. It was due to this campaign that the state was able to collect a sound database of people with influenza-like symptoms,” the CM said, adding that around 4,021 anganwari workers were involved in the active case finding campaign and 4,083 were involved in the cluster containment survey. He said the workers had prepared and distributed about 5.68 lakh masks to the people.The CM said that the government had launched several schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana, Mukhya Mantri Kanya Daan Yojana, Mother Teresa Asahay Matri Sambal Yojana, Beti Hai Anmol Yojana and Beti Padhao Beti Bachao to ensure women welfare and empowerment. The state government has provided smart phones to the Anganwari workers for their effective functioning. He particularly appreciated the anganwari workers of Hamirpur district for preparing creative masks and face shields. Jai Ram Thakur said that keeping in view the commendable services rendered by the Anganwari workers, the state government has increased the honorarium of anganwari workers by Rs 500 per month and that of mini-anganwari workers and anganwari helpers by Rs. 300 per month. He said that now anganwari workers are getting Rs 6,800 per month instead of Rs 6,300 whereas mini-anganwari workers are getting Rs 4,900 instead of Rs 4,600 and anganwari helpers are receiving Rs 3,500 per month instead of Rs 3,200..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-has-alloted-rs-587-crore-to-woman-child-welfare-cm/story-nBu2x31OwAPIkmgNDnfuvI.html
08-07-2020||City||North MCD says yet to get funds for teachers’ salaries, govt says released money||New Delhi: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation told the Delhi High Court on Wednesday that it has been unable to pay employees, including resident doctors, as the state government has not released entire funds for the first quarter of this financial year.Appearing for the North DMC, its standing counsel Akhil Mittal, told a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan that around Rs 162 crore was due to the corporation from Delhi government in the first quarter of the financial year 2020-21 and of that only Rs 27 crore had been sanctioned, which is “yet to be seen”.The court was hearing a PIL it had initiated based on news reports that doctors of old Delhi’s Kasturba Hospital have threatened to resign as they have not been paid salaries since March this year.In response, additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain, appearing for the Delhi government, said on Wednesday that in its report filed on Tuesday, July 7, the amounts released to the corporation by various departments had been indicated. Jain said all dues had been cleared by the Delhi government and asked the Delhi government counsel to file a response to the submissions made by the civic body.The bench made it clear that it was only dealing with the non-payment of salaries of resident doctors of hospitals run by the corporation and not all its doctors and other employees.In its status report, filed in response to the plea that the court has initiated, the corporation said salaries for March and April months of all resident doctors in hospitals run by the civic body had been paid. The corporation also said that salaries for the month of March of all of its regular doctors had also been paid.It said because of non-release of the requisite amount by the Delhi government, the corporation has been unable to release salaries of its doctors in time. The Delhi government in its status report said it had released Rs 8 crore to the corporation, as directed by the court, for payment of the April salary of resident doctors. It said paying salaries of doctors and other employees of the corporation was the sole responsibility of the civic body and the Delhi government only releases funds which it is obliged to as per budget estimates of the financial year.The government said the urban development department had released the first instalment of the funds allocated to the north and south MCDs under the basic tax assignment. It said Rs 212.53 crore had been released to north MCD and Rs 112.62 to south MCD.The state government said its education department had already released Rs 147.50 crore to north MCD, Rs 97.50 crore to south MCD and Rs 75 crore to east MCD as grant-in-aid for the current financial year.Besides that, its revenue department had released Rs 33.65 crore to north MCD, Rs 48.02 crore to south MCD and Rs 11.40 crore to east MCD in the current financial year, the Delhi government said in its report.The matter would be now heard on July 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-mcd-says-yet-to-get-funds-for-teachers-salaries-govt-says-released-money/story-2l8qwRwGoddG8PIF6sHToJ.html
08-07-2020||City||Traffic movement allowed on pedestrianised stretches at Krishna Nagar and Karol Bagh markets||New Delhi: The east and the north civic bodies have allowed vehicular movement on the pedestrianised stretches of the Krishna Nagar and Karol Bagh markets after traders complained of low business due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) opened a stretch for vehicles at the Krishna Nagar market in March after the lockdown was imposed while vehicular movement in Karol Bagh market was allowed on Tuesday.A senior EDMC official, who was associated with the pedestrianisation of the Krishna Nagar Market project, said when the lockdown was announced, EDMC decided to leave open the stretch for all types of movement, including vehicles, to do away with unnecessary expenditures incurring in maintaining infrastructure and manpower.“Since traffic was completely blocked during the lockdown, we decided to remove our guards and volunteers, who used to ensure vehicles do not ply on the pedestrianised stretch, from the market as we had no funds to maintain the manpower and infrastructure. So the stretch was open for the vehicular movement. This continued even after the lockdown was ended as all the staff was busy with the management of the Covid-19 crisis. So we have decided to keep status quo for some more months,” the official said.He said after the markets were opened, traders of the area requested that traffic movement should remain on the stretch as their business was down due to Covid-19. “We will assess the situation again in August and decide the future course of action,” the official said.EDMC had in September last year pedestrianised a 1-km stretch between Chhachi Building to Ghondli Chowk in Krishna Nagar Market, which was built in 1947. Similarly, the north corporation also opened the emergency lane of the nearly 1.5-km Ajmal Khan Road in Karol Bagh for visitors to drive through for pick and drop. Parking won’t be allowed.Ajmal Khan Road in Karol Bagh market was pedestrianised about a year ago. Ajmal Khan Road has been clogged with traffic and haphazard parking for decades before it was made car-free in May last year.A senior official at the north corporation said that traders were complaining of poor business and people were not feeling comfortable walking in the streets due to the Covid scare. “So, a proposal has been finalised to open the 6 metre emergency lane for public vehicles, 3 metres on each side, for the two-way movement of vehicles,” he said.The decision comes after the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Delhi chief Adesh Gupta on Tuesday met traders of the area and said movement of vehicles on the pedestrianised stretch will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traffic-movement-allowed-on-pedestrianised-stretches-at-krishna-nagar-and-karol-bagh-markets/story-iND7FVIHZ1TbJBY3gjwt4K.html
08-07-2020||City||Ensure timely completion of tourism projects: Himachal CM to officials||To promote traditional crafts of Himachal Pradesh, the state government has decided to start a craft and tourism fair in the state on the pattern of the Surajkund International Fair. This was stated by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday while he was presiding over a review meeting of the tourism department.He directed the officers to expedite the matter regarding the transfer of land near Kandaghat in Solan district so that it can be constructed at the earliest to organise this fair.The CM also directed them to ensure timely completion of various tourism projects.Thakur said that the light and sound show in Shimla would be completed by March next year and will prove to be an added attraction for the tourists. He added that signages, gantries, CCTV, and WIFI systems were also being provided throughout the Himalayan Circuit under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme.He directed the officers to ensure time-bound completion of development of north and south ports of the tunnel besides procurement of the Vista Dom bus which would allow tourists to have a glimpse of Himachal while passing through the Atal tunnel.He said that like Uttrakhand, Rajasthan, Goa, and Kerala, the state government had also decided to open the state for tourists with strict SOPs. He said that the online training for the hospitality sector would also be held in wake of Covid-19. He said that around 10,000 candidates would be provided one-day training on hygiene and sanitation procedure and three-week training on essentials of tourist guide communication skills would be provided to about 400 candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ensure-timely-completion-of-tourism-projects-himachal-cm-to-officials/story-hG4N3jz0j8pERGexxSYxvL.html
08-07-2020||City||Collector seeks report on Covid-positive woman’s death; files FIR against ambulance service provider for overcharging||Pune: A day after Hindustan Times reported on a Covid positive 62-year-old woman succumbing to the contagion due to non-availability of a vacant hospital bed, district collector Naval Kishore Ram visited Gujar-Nimbalkarwadi, the area where she resided, and ordered an inquiry to be completed within seven days.In a separate case, the district administration, on the instructions of Ram, lodged a first information report (FIR) against a private ambulance service operator for overcharging a 56-year-old patient when he wanted to move from Bibwewadi to Karvenagar, after he tested positive for Covid-19.The operator has been booked under relevant sections of Pandemic Act and Motor Vehicle Act.The amblulance driver charged Rs 8,000 for a seven-km run from Bibwewadi to Karvenagar. The state government- approved charges for the said distance is Rs 900 and the patient was charged nine times the approved amount.Also, the driver demanded an additional Rs 1,500 for the PPE masks provided to the accompanying doctor and nurse in the ambulanceIn the Gujar-Nimbalkarwadi case, Ram has also asked the health authorities to ensure ambulances visit each village where there are patients, once a day.The woman was initially asked by the administration to stay at her home in Gujar-Nimbalkarwadi, on the outskirts of Pune. However, on Monday, her condition worsened as she due to the non-availability of a ventilator in the hospital situated in her neighbourhood, said her kin.“We have issued a show-cause notice to the concerned staff of the health department and sought their reply in seven days. This is a lesson for the administration and the health department must follow all the standard operating procedures (SOPs) essential for the management of a Covid patient’s health and wellbeing. We will ensure that the best treatment is given to the patients and such incidents don’t repeat in the future,” said Ram.Ram said, “She was diagnosed on June 29 and her report came on June 30. She died on July 3. We have found that private lab Thyrocare did not share the report with the government and this has come after an on-the-spot inquiry. Their report is not coming to the authorities and we are banning them in Haveli taluka for this strange working style,” According to Ram a bed was available for the woman at Aundh hospital, but the family insisted on another hospital.“I have taken a serious view of the incident and conducted a meeting with the villagers. I have instructed the tehsildar to visit all villages and take feedback from villagers. Home isolation was not there in the beginning for these villages. We are starting a practice where a government doctor will go to the village in an ambulance and check the details of each patient and take immediate steps for facilitating medical services depending on the patient condition. In this way we will keep co complete control on the situation unfolding in the villages,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/collector-seeks-report-on-covid-positive-woman-s-death-files-fir-against-ambulance-service-provider-for-overcharging/story-uLH33o8cIKGvR1RreXedZO.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rain to intensify in Chandigarh from July 9||The 52.4mm rain on Tuesday night was followed by another 30.9mm rain through Wednesday.The total of 83.3mm rain is classified as heavy by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) that has forecast heavy rain on Friday and Saturday as well. “The monsoon system, which had been concentrated in central India and Gujarat, is moving towards Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Chandigarh is likely to get rain from this. Chances of heavy rain (over 70mm) are high on Friday and Saturday, with light to moderate rainfall on Thursday,” said Surender Paul, regional IMD director.Although traffic jams and waterlogging were reported on Tuesday night, Wednesday was a tad better due to staggered rain. Meanwhile, the showers brought the maximum temperature down from 35.5°C on Tuesday to 30.4°C on Wednesday. The minimum temperature also dropped from 27.7°C to 24.8°C.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 33°C and 35°C, while the minimum temperature will hover around 25°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rain-to-intensify-in-chandigarh-from-july-9/story-M9J4z4aRb1AX7NIlSjlr8J.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Passport Office to handle enquiry appointments via video calls||In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the regional passport office in Chandigarh will be handling enquiry appointments through only WhatsApp video calls. “A dedicated enquiry team will contact the applicant as per the appointment for resolution of certain issues,” the office said in a in a press release. In case, the applicants need to submit revised documents, these will be invited through e-mail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-passport-office-to-use-video-calls-for-enquiry-appointments/story-Al44DbwFdCTqvFxeR8wYrL.html
08-07-2020||City||Biker gang involved in 11 major robberies busted in Ludhiana||With the arrest of four persons, the police on Wednesday busted a biker gang involved in a slew of robberies in the city.As per the police, the accused executed at least 11 robberies in the past year, including a ₹7 lakh theft on Gill Road.The accused have been identified as Sunny Kumar alias Sunny (35) of Charan Colony in Manakwal village, Amandeep Singh alias Bhau (33) of Manakwal village and Mukesh Kumar alias Babbu (32) of Preet Nagar near Barnala Fatak in Sangrur.Later on Wednesday, the police also arrested the kingpin of the gang, Sanjeev Chopra (38) of Nimwala Chowk, Shahpur Road, and recovered a pistol and two live cartridges from him. Another accused, Guddu Jaiswal of Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, is yet to be arrested.The police have seized three pistols, one sharp-edged weapon, two swords, one iron pipe, three helmets, ₹40,000 cash, five motorcycles and a scooter from the gang.Addressing an online press conference here, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said they used to hide their faces with helmets and wore gloves to prevent leaving their fingerprints during the crime.Agrawal said that they had received a tip-off on Tuesday that the accused were planning another robbery near Quality Chowk in Kidwai Nagar, following which the police conducted a raid and arrested the accused.“During interrogation, it was revealed that accused Sanjeev was sentenced to 10-year imprisonment in a murder and dacoity case of 2005, and had jumped the parole in 2014. A case of possessing illegal weapons had also been registered against him at Mohinder Park police station in New Delhi on September 5, 2019,” said the police chief.Revealing the gang’s modus operandi, Agrawal said, “Sanjeev used to do the recce of the targets. Then all of them would gather near the railway quarters and change into track suits and wear helmets and gloves to conceal their identities. After the robberies, they would come to the same spot and share the booty among themselves.”The police chief added that the gang has confessed involvement in 11 robberies in Ludhiana.The arrested accused were produced before a court here on Wednesday and have been remanded to five-day police custody.As per the police chief, more important information is expected from the accused during interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/biker-gang-involved-in-11-major-robberies-busted-in-ludhiana/story-qfyTbZXNuyMDVfRnCTeWMI.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Admissions open at Panjab University, apply by August 8||Panjab University on Wednesday launched admissions to various courses for the 2020-21 academic session. The process will be online, for which a website has been launched. As many as 153 postgraduate and undergraduate courses are on offer this year. The tentative deadline for applying for admissions is August 8.This year, students can submit the admission form irrespective of the declaration of result of the qualifying exam or entrance test.For undergraduate courses, applicants can visit http://ugadmissions.puchd.ac.in. For postgraduate and diploma courses, the link is http://onlineadmissions.puchd.ac.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admissions-open-at-panjab-university-apply-by-august-8/story-FQOehfAdF5geeYYgHW3aeI.html
08-07-2020||City||Now, Jagraon ADC among 53 new Covid-19 cases; one more death in Ludhiana||A day after additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Amarjit Singh Bains and Khanna sub-divisional magistrate Sandeep Singh were declared infected, Jagraon ADC Neeru Katyal has tested positive for coronavirus disease.Fifty three fresh cases were detected in the district on Wednesday. Of these, 48 belong to Ludhiana, while the others pertain to Sangrur, Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Mansa and Uttar Pradesh. With this, the total number of Covid-19 patients in Ludhiana has reached 1,181.Meanwhile, a 54-year-old resident of Daba-Lohara area succumbed to the disease at Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer hospital on Wednesday, taking the district’s death toll to 28.Katyal has become the fifth high-ranking official of the district administration to have tested positive for the virus in the district. While deputy commissioner of police Ashwani Kapoor is undergoing treatment, ACP Anil Kohli and revenue department kanungo Gurmel Singh had succumbed to the disease.Senior administration officials, including MC additional commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal, Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) additional chief administrator Bhupinder Singh, SDMs Amrinder Singh Malhi and Dr Baljinder Singh Dhillon, regional transport authority secretary Damanjit Singh Mann, MC joint commissioners Kulpreet Singh and Swati Tiwana, and GLADA estate officer Sonam Chaudhary, among others were home quarantined after ADC Bains tested positive on Tuesday.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma has tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-jagraon-adc-among-53-new-covid-19-cases-one-more-death-in-ludhiana/story-GbLOaQhrh997CBYiC0SjoO.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board to recover ₹7.5 crore from 15 housing societies||handigarh As many as 15 residential group housing societies in the city owe the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) dues totalling Rs 7.54 crore. These include outstanding ground rent, interest thereon and the land allotment dues. Significantly, Rs 7.5 crore has to be recovered from one society alone.“An amount of Rs 7.5 crore is to be recovered from Chandigarh Cooperative Housing Building Society, Sector 50. In 2014, the process for resuming the plot was initiated, but society members approached court, which remains sub-judice. The outstanding amount includes land cost and rent accrued,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB. The rest of the 14 societies owe the board around 4 lakh as ground rent.The board has also prepared a list of 11 oustees that owe it Rs 1.9 crore. Oustees are people from whom land is acquired by the government, and in lieu of it monetary compensation is given. They are also offered houses at subsidised rates. As many as 11 of these oustees need to clear arrears of Rs 1.9 crore. Among them, an oustee from Sector 49 needs to pay the board Rs 31.61 lakh, one in Sector 61 Rs 28 lakh and three others in Sector 63 Rs 26.59 lakh each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-to-recover-7-5-crore-from-15-housing-societies/story-liZDVD1qOHi5XzLlAkBGOK.html
08-07-2020||City||65% complaints to Punjab real estate regulator are from Mohali district||Of 1,572 complaints to the Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Rera), since its inception in September 2017, 65% have been from buyers in Mohali district. In the past one decade, Mohali, particularly the peripheral towns of Zirakpur, Kharar and New Chandigarh (Mullanpur), has emerged as the tricity’s development hub with around 500 residential and commercial projects. Since last year, with Greater Mohali Area Development Authority coming up with IT City and Aero City projects, Airport Road has also become a prominent realty destination.Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, was passed by the Parliament in 2016 to address grievances of homebuyers. It has provisions to penalise builders for malicious acts. In Punjab, Rera came into force in September 2017.A senior Rera officer, not wishing to be named, said most complaints received pertain to delay in possession of property, non-payment of interest and penalty, sale of a flat to multiple buyers, unnecessary demands by builders and construction left midway.He said the number of complaints has gone up during the lockdown period, with Mohali accounting for the bulk — 100 of the 179 received since March 25 this year.Alka Kapoor, an allottee at Chandigarh Citi Center, Zirakpur, said: “I have recently lodged a complaint with Rera after waiting for possession for nearly two years. As per the agreement, possession was to be given in December 2018, but work has still not been completed.”Harish Gupta, president of the builders association in Zirakpur, said: “Due to the nationwide lockdown, we have already got a six-month extension for delivery of projects. Builders are also facing financial issues for the past few months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/65-complaints-to-punjab-real-estate-regulator-are-from-mohali-district/story-NKzDLokU4L2yERxgZzEZjM.html
08-07-2020||City||Oswal family feud: Apex court sets aside NCLT’s order in favour of petitioner||In yet another twist in the Oswal family feud, the Supreme Court (SC) set aside an National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) order in favour of Pankaj Oswal, ruling that the company petition filed by him against his mother Aruna Oswal is an ‘afterthought’ and needs to be dropped. In the order passed on July 6 (copy with HT), the SC held that the proceeding before the NCLT, Chandigarh, should not be entertained because of a pending civil suit, filed by Pankaj, in the Delhi high court (HC). The court noted that the basis of the company petition is a claim of inherence, which cannot be decided by NCLT under the provisions of law.The NCLT had issued an order in 2018 recognising that Pankaj, the eldest son of industrialist late Abhey Oswal, is entitled to the shares of listed companies that his father promoted-- Oswal Agro Mills Ltd and Oswal Greentech Limited. Setting aside this order, the SC allowed the appeals filed on behalf of Oswal Agro Mills Limited, Oswal Greentech Limited and Aruna.The apex court held that filing of the company petition by Pankaj seeking waiver of the minimum eligibility criteria of 10% shareholding under the Companies Act is a “misconceived exercise”. It further held that Pankaj should have waited for the decision of the high court as his entitlement is under cloud of a pending civil suit. The court labelled the attempt by Pankaj Oswal in filing the company petition, after choosing to avail the remedy of civil suit as “nothing but an afterthought”.The court noted that after the demise of Abhey Kumar Oswal, the shareholding was registered in the name of his widow Aruna on the basis of nomination. The court noted that regarding the said shares, the Delhi HC has passed a status-quo order on February 8, 2017, thus shares have to be held in Aruna’s name till the civil suit is finally decided.At the NCLT earlier, Pankaj had filed a petition alleging mismanagement, misappropriation and related party transactions happening in his late father’s companies. It was also alleged that after the sudden intestate (not having made a will before death) Abhey’s wife Aruna had arbitrarily taken control of both the companies, on the basis of nominations in her name. In February 2017, Pankaj had filed a petition in the Delhi HC, claiming absolute properietary rights to the extent of 1/4th undivided share in the estate of his father. In the petition, Pankaj had alleged that the other three heirs, his mother Aruna, younger brother Shailendra and sister Shalu Jindal, were attempting to oust him from the estate of his father.The HC had issued a stay order against the other legal heirs. Abhey, 67, had control and held the promoters’ shareholding over both these listed companies (Oswal Agro Mills Ltd and Oswal Greentech Ltd), before he died of heart attack on a business tour to Moscow on March 29, 2016. Abhey Oswal held 5,35,3,960 shares with Agro Mills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/oswal-family-feud-apex-court-sets-aside-nclt-s-order-in-favour-of-petitioner/story-kmvHvRyTxFjrzmiDPhMP1J.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid count crosses 500 mark in 112 days||A day after Chandigarh recorded its seventh Covid-related fatality, the number of confirmed cases crossed the 500 mark with 15 fresh ones being reported on Wednesday.The tally has now reached 507, within 112 days of the first case that surfaced on March 18. As many as 98 cases remain active. The new cases have been reported from Sectors 19, 20, 43, 44, 45 and 49 besides Manimajra.Six of a family, including four males and two females, have contracted the disease in Sector 49. In Sector 20, too, three family members of a patient have been found infected. They include two men, aged 44 and 55, and a woman, aged 53. In Sectors 19 and 44, two men, aged 57 and 47, have tested positive, respectively. Both are having three family contacts each, who are asymptomatic.A 25-year-old woman, who is a workplace contact of a patient from Punjab, has tested positive in Sector 45.Two cases have been reported from Sector 43 — a 57-year-old woman and a 29-year-old man, both working in Punjab.In Manimajra, a 54-year-old woman has tested positive, following which her 15 family contacts have been sampled.ACTIVE CASES ACROSS 34 SECTORS, VILLAGESThe 98 active cases in Chandigarh are spread across 34 sectors and villages, with peripheral areas accounting for 36%. So far, 50% of the cases have been reported from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, which currently has only three active cases.The maximum load of active cases is from Sector 41, with its eight residents still hospitalised.Dr G Dewan, director, health services, said all asymptomatic contacts of patients are being tested, as per the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines. Also, at flu clinics, patients having slightest symptoms of fever, throat infection or breathing problems are being tested, he said.Administrator VPS Badnore has asked health officials to ensure that teams going for screening residents carry oximeter, so that oxygen level can be checked instantly. Meanwhile, the UT administration on Wednesday decided to remove perimeter control from all lanes and houses in Pockets 5 and 16 of Bapu Dham Colony. No case has been reported from these areas for the past 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-count-crosses-500-mark-in-112-days/story-z3EJJylMOTrucPuSaWvkyI.html
08-07-2020||City||Vandals booked for running SUV over truck driver in Ludhiana||Five miscreants crushed a truck driver to death with their SUV in Bottlewala village of Jagraon after the latter tried to deter them from vandalising the vehicles of the people they were chasing late on Tuesday.The Sadar police have registered a murder case against Jatin of Jagraon, his accomplices Munija of Kachha Qila village, Gagna of Kothe Rohlan village, Gagan alias Kaka of Shastri Nagar and Kaniya of Lehndi Bhaini village, all in Jagraon.The complainant, Sunny Singh of Bilaspur Basti in Moga, told police that he and his 60-year-old father Gurmel Singh had stopped at a fuel pump in Bottlewala village when they saw an SUV chasing three men, two of whom were on a bike and one was riding a scooter. Soon, the three fled the spot, leaving their vehicles on the road. The accused then alighted from the SUV and started vandalising the two-wheelers. When his father intervened and deterred the vandals, they abused him and left.However, Sunny alleged, the accused returned and hit them with the SUV. While he jumped aside and escaped unhurt, his father got crushed under the vehicle and died on the spot. The accused then drove away.Sadar police SHO inspector Nishan Singh said an FIR under sections 302, 307, 427 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the accused and a hunt is on for their arrest.He added that the accused had rivalry with Ritesh of Sherpur Kalan in Jagraon, Prempal and Jaspreet Singh of Ramgarh. The accused were chasing the trio on Tuesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vandals-booked-for-running-suv-over-truck-driver-in-ludhiana/story-Z0lRe6Sg6TEwMZ6KDoiRlO.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two, including minor held for kidnapping, murdering 16-year-old in Ludhiana||A day after a 16-year-old was kidnapped and murdered, police arrested two of his friends, including a minor, on Wednesday. The accused confessed that they kidnapped the victim, Preet Verma, with intention of demanding ransom from his father, police said.One of the accused has been identified as Vijay Kumar, 19, a resident of Gujjarmal road, Pindi street, who cleared his Class 12 exam this year, while his minor accomplice has cleared Class 10.The accused said they killed Verma on Monday night, police said.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Gurbinder Singh said the accused killed Verma brutally by thrashing his head with bricks repeatedly at an under construction colony in Husainpura village. The accused also stuffed construction material and gravel in his mouth to choke him. The accused told police that they used to play cricket with Verma. The ACP said the accused have been booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) of IPC at Salem Tabri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-including-minor-held-for-kidnapping-murdering-16-year-old-in-ludhiana/story-0OBmOzXE3jfwbyLdnBUPFM.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||71mm rainfall leaves multiple Ludhiana roads waterlogged||Incessant rainfall flooded different areas of Ludhiana on Wednesday as the city witnessed its first heavy rainfall since the onset of monsoon.Despite tall claims made by the municipal corporation regarding being prepared for monsoons, 71 mm rainfall left areas in the city inundated including Domoria bridge, Panj Peer road, Gill road, Transport Nagar, railway station road, Ferozepur road, Chandigarh road, Shiv puri, Salem Tabri, Haibowal and civil lines.The MC staff drained out the accumulated water by opening manhole covers and cleaning sewer lines. Accumulated rainwater also entered a few shops near Clock Tower. The cremation ground behind KVM school, Civil Lines, was also waterlogged. The internal drains near Domoria bridge and Dharampura also overflowed and sewer water overflowed in nearby areas. Councillor Manju Aggarwal’s husband Inder Aggarwal, said, “The internal drain was damaged while it was being cleaned a few days back due to which it choked. But, the drain is being cleaned and the accumulated water has been drained out. Meanwhile, the MC’s failure to upgrade the disposal points also resulted in rain water accumulation in different wards.”Potholed roads in different parts of the city added to the woes of residents. A Dugri resident, Gurkamal Singh said, “The Dugri main road starting from police station till cremation ground is in bad shape which is resulting in accidents. A few residents on two-wheelers fell on the potholed road due to water accumulation.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said,”Water logging is mostly witnessed in low lying areas. The MC teams were on the field and efforts are being made to drain out the water as soon as possible. I had also visited different areas of the city to inspect the work being done by sweepers and sewermen. The sewer lines are being cleaned regularly.” Rainfall good for paddy: ExpertsPunjab Agricultural University’s (PAU), assistant agro meteorologist, KK Gill said, “The rainfall is good for paddy farmers. The maximum temperature has been recorded at 26.6 degrees, which is 8 degrees below normal. Light rainfall is also expected in the city on Thursday.”Roof collapses, sewer caves-inAn old sewer line at Dugri Phase 2 caved-in for the second consecutive year on Wednesday due to which a 10-feet crater formed at the site. MC sub divisional officer (SDO), Arshdeep Singh, said, the line would be repaired by evening.Mayor Balkar Sandhu visited the cave-in site on Wednesday and said the MC is working to replace the four decade old storm sewer drains in Dugri and Kaka marriage palace road. A road cave-in incident was also reported at Kaka Marriage palace road on Monday. Sandhu also visited different areas of his ward including Panj Peer road where rain water accumulated and directed the MC officials to find a solution for the problem. The roof of a house in Guru Arjun Dev Nagar also collapsed. MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains said the owner, Gurdev Kaur, was living in an old house. He added that no casualty was reported from the spot and he would take up the matter with the administration so that compensation could be provided to Kaur.Three calls received by MC’s flood control roomThe MC’s flood control room received only three calls from Shivaji Nagar, Salem Tabri and Domoria bridge areas. The authorities said that the accumulated water was drained out in half an hour after receiving the complaints. The MC has set up a 24x7 flood control room - 0161-4085039-to deal with water logging woes during the monsoon.MC starts demarcation of Buddha NullahThe Municipal Corporation (MC) has started the demarcation of Buddha Nullah through electronic total station machines to remove encroachments along the nullah.In the past, residents have claimed that the width of the nullah has decreased by upto 20 feet due to encroachments in the last over two decades. Due to this, the capacity of the nullah has reduced and it overflows every monsoon. Special task force (STF) constituted by chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh for cleaning the nullah had also directed the MC to remove encroachments.Joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh said officials of revenue department have also been involved in the process which is expected to complete in a week. Following this, the MC will remove the encroachments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/71mm-rainfall-leaves-multiple-ludhiana-roads-waterlogged/story-ih59TflqCJGbUeru6cTIaJ.html
08-07-2020||Gurugram||Amid uncertainty of Covid-19 pandemic, Gurugram schools start online nursery admission||Private schools in the city have started inviting online applications for admissions to nursery and Kindergarten classes for the academic year 2021-22. However, with no centralised monitoring from a state agency and given the extraordinary circumstances thrown open by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, there is very little consensus among schools as to how the process should be carried out. Unlike Delhi, admissions to private schools in Gurugram usually take place between July and October every year in a staggered manner with most schools deciding their own schedule and criteria. Although the admission process gets over by October each year, the new session for successful candidates usually starts between March and April of the following year. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic this year, most schools are exploring ways of conducting the admission process entirely online. Manav Rachna International School, Sector 46, initiated its online admission process last week. The school follows a first-come, first-served basis for admission. However, in view of the pandemic, the school will be conducting the whole process online, including the interview and counselling of parents. It has also introduced three days of virtual classes that would enable parents to experience how such classes are conducted. “Parents can place a request and inform us about the various subjects they would wish to explore. They will be given a unique identity number with which they enter the virtual class and observe silently,” said Dhriti Malhotra, school principal. She said that the online process was a new experience for both parents and schools. “Earlier, parents could walk into the school for a tour before admissions. With the changed circumstances, everything is being done virtually now. I have a chat with parents for five to 10 minutes, and then they get the chance to attend the classes,” said Malhotra. Malhotra added that the age criteria would remain the same as last year. The admission cut-off age of the school is three years and six months as on March 31 for nursery and four years and six months for Kindergarten. Preference will also be given to children who have siblings studying in the same school. As per the guidelines issued by the state directorate of elementary education last year, a 1km neighbourhood preference, a uniform age limit, and a random lottery system were some of the criteria that schools needed to follow for admitting children to the nursery section. However, with very little monitoring on the part of the state government, it is not clear as to how many schools followed the guidelines in reality. So far this year, the department has not issued any new guidelines. Although the admission process has started, several schools in the city are still trying to figure out as to how the process would be conducted. For instance, Kunal Bhadoo, director of Kunskapsskolan Schools, said that while the school has opened a registration link, the admission process is yet to be launched formally. He said that the school was still holding discussions on the modalities of the admission process. “Queries pertaining to admission have started pouring in, but the finer details regarding the process are still in the works due to the unpredictable situation this year. We will be incorporating feedback from the parents as we go ahead. In view of the pandemic situation, distance as a criterion will be significant. There is a growing preference for schools that are in the vicinity,” said Bhadoo.Aditi Misra, principal, Delhi Public School, Sector 45, also said that the school had been receiving queries from parents but the details regarding the admission process would only be finalised in the coming weeks. “We are planning to discuss the modalities of the admission process with other schools this week. Every year, we usually have a draw of lots but keeping the current situation in mind, we are open to exploring ways of conducting the draw online,” said Misra. The age criteria adopted by the school will remain same as previous years’, that is, 3+ as on September 30 for pre-nursery and 4+ as on September 30 for Kindergarten. Anita Malhotra, principal of Lotus Valley, said that the school would delay the admission process in view of the pandemic. “Admissions might get delayed this year. Earlier, we used to carry out admissions in August and September itself. This time, the process will get postponed due to the pandemic. The time is not appropriate,” said Malhotra. She added that the other factors, such as the age criteria, were likely to remain the same as last year.When contacted, Pardeep Kumar, elementary education department director, said that the department has not issued any new guidelines so far. “Guidelines concerning nursery admissions in private schools in the city had already been issued last year and the same may be followed this year.” Given the lack of clarity, parents of children who are slated to take admission this year are worried about how the situation would unfold amid the current Covid-19 pandemic. Umang Singla, whose daughter is eligible for nursery admission, said that he had started applying for admission with the hope that the situation would improve by next year, when the new session starts. “I have started looking out for schools. Hopefully, the situation created by the pandemic would improve by next year. Moreover, some sort of learning needs to take place regardless of the circumstances,” said Singla, whose elder son is taking online classes for nursery.Frequently asked questions: Nursery and Kindergarten admission, 2020-21When will the admission process start? Will it be postponed due to Covid-19?Unlike Delhi, private schools in Gurugram do not follow a uniform admission schedule. Admissions take place in a staggered manner between July and October each year. This year, while some schools have started the registration process, others are expected to do so in the coming weeks. There is no clarity if the admission cycle will be postponed.What is the age criterion for admission? As per the guidelines issued by the directorate of elementary education in February 2019, a child needs to be 3+ on March 31 for being admitted to nursery. For Kindergarten, a child needs to be 4+ on March 31. No new guideline has been issued so far. Parents whose children don’t meet the age criterion by a few days or months can approach the schools directly. Is there an upper cut-off age? Some schools impose an upper cut-off age while others don’t. The current government rules in place do not mention anything on the upper cut-off age for admission to nursery and Kindergarten.Will admission be difficult for children without playschool experience? As per the government guidelines shared in 2019, playschool is not a requirement for nursery admissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/amid-uncertainty-of-covid-19-pandemic-gurugram-schools-start-online-nursery-admission/story-sUsVEd0uCH6CiUQo4E6WJK.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||HC allows Chandigarh woman to terminate 26-week pregnancy||Noting PGIMER’s report that the foetus’ brain and skull were poorly formed, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday allowed termination of a Chandigarh woman’s 26-week pregnancy.The high court bench of justice Ramendra Jain acted on the woman’s plea filed on July 1, following which the court had sought a report from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, does not permit termination of pregnancy beyond 20 weeks. The law allows termination of pregnancy by a registered medical practitioner, where the length of the pregnancy does not exceed 12 weeks. Where the length of the pregnancy is up to 20 weeks, it can be terminated on doctors’ opinion that continuance of the pregnancy will involve a risk to the life of the mother or of grave injury to her physical or mental health. It can also be terminated, if there is a substantial risk to the newborn or upon birth, the child will suffer from such physical or mental abnormalities as to be seriously handicapped. A PGIMER panel on Wednesday informed the court that the woman has a single live intrauterine foetus with features suggestive of anencephaly (underdeveloped brain and incomplete skull) with spinal deformity and polyhydramnios (excess of amniotic fluid in the amniotic sac). “It is a severe congenital malformation in which the foetal skull and brain are poorly formed, and are incompatible with life,” the panel informed the court, adding that the woman was clinically fit. But, she was under mental stress due to the foetus being affected with anencephaly.The panel informed the court that she may undergo medical termination of pregnancy at this stage due to severe congenital anomaly. The risks, involved with termination of pregnancy at an advanced gestation of more than 25 weeks, have been explained to patient.On this, the court now allowed termination of the pregnancy and asked PGIMER to admit the woman within the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-allows-chandigarh-woman-to-terminate-26-week-pregnancy/story-6akuODXrVXo9hwrm51EVwI.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest against Ludhiana school for charging fee||As many as 100 parents of students from Jesus Sacred Heart School, South City, protested against school authorities on Wednesday, for asking them to pay all charges including tuition and admission fee. School authorities sent a circular to parents recently asking them to deposit all charges as decided by the Punjab and Haryana high court.On June 30, the HC ruled that all schools were entitled to collect tuition fee irrespective of whether they offered online classes during the Covid-19 lockdown. The court has also permitted schools to charge admission fees.The parents said their economic condition has deteriorated amid the Covid-19 lockdown and they can’t afford the charges. Standing outside the school gate for an hour, the parents urged the school authorities to allow them to deposit the tuition fee and waive off the other charges. The parents said they have sent an email to the school authorities and will wait for the reply till tomorrow. A parent, Vishal Jain, said, “I have requested school authorities to take the tuition fee and when the school reopens, we will pay the admission fee. I am not in the economic condition to pay admission fee and other charges right now.”School coordinator Avtar Singh, said, “We are following the high court’s orders. We have sent a note to the parents to submit the fee and if they are facing financial constraints, the school authorities will provide them relaxation, but, they have to submit proof.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-against-ludhiana-school-for-charging-fee/story-yxlB3lDj4bJcYtmebYf4IO.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab industries minister lays foundation stone for infrastructure development project in Mohali||Punjab industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora on Wednesday laid the foundation stone of the infrastructure development project at the industrial focal point in Dera Bassi, with the assistance of Punjab Small Industries Export Corporation (PSIEC).Speaking on the occasion, the minister said industrial sector is the backbone of Punjab’s economy and only a robust infrastructure can ensure ample jobs for the youth of the state.He added that the infrastructure at the focal point, which comprises 201 plots and is spread over 136 acre, will see overall development at a cost of approximately ₹16 crore. This includes various aspects including land filling/levelling including boundary walls, fencing, construction of concrete roads, water supply, rain water harvesting, storm drainage, street lights with LED and the upgradation of the sewage treatment plant (STP), Arora said.He further divulged that it is Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s vision that the state should be known as an industrial hub and to achieve this, a policy will be unveiled soon which will focus on micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). He added that 17 focal points in the state will be developed at a cost of ₹200 crore and an additional sum of ₹200 crore has been given for developing cycle valley in Ludhiana.Meanwhile, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the minister exhorted people to stay safe from by following the health department protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-industries-minister-lays-foundation-stone-for-infrastructure-development-project-in-mohali/story-gGWsWADW3F09Angh09ofTJ.html
08-07-2020||City||Mohali mining dept slapped ₹11-crore fine on former DGP PS Gill, 50 others last year||Former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Paramdeep Singh Gill and 44 other farmers of Saini Majra, who were recently booked for allowing illegal mining on their land, were fined Rs 11 crore in October last year for the offence.On July 6, police had booked the 45 landowners under Section 21 of the Mine and Minerals (Regulations and Development) Act.“In October last year, we had received complaints of illegal mining in Saini Majra village of Majri block. An inquiry committee had reported that around 9 lakh metric tones of sand and earth were dug out from the fields of 51 farmers. Therefore, a fine of Rs 11 crore was imposed on all of them,” said Gurpreet Pal Singh Sandhu, district mining officer, adding that they had also notified the police to register a case, which has finally been lodged.“If the fine is not paid within the stipulated period, the case will be dealt by the deputy commissioner, who can even confiscate the land or add the fine to their land arrears,” said the officer. Majri Block station house officer (SHO) Himmat Singh said they registered a case against 45 farmers, including former DGP PS Gill, on July 6.Despite repeated attempts, Gill could not be contacted as his mobile phone was switched off.Deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said the administration was committed to reining in illegal sand mining and providing sand to people at reasonable prices. “Officials are empowered to take strict action against illegal miners,” he said.Earlier in July last year, the mining department had imposed a penalty of Rs 52 crore on 193 land owners in three villages of Mohali - Mianpur Changar, Kubaheri and Abhipur for illegal sand mining activities. These cases are lying pending with the DC.The district police had registered 24 cases of illegal mining in 2016, followed by 67 in 2017 and 79 in 2018. There were 25 cases in 2019 and two so far this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-mining-dept-slapped-11-crore-fine-on-former-dgp-ps-gill-50-others-last-year/story-El93p7OTUZfw0xGmHfQQyO.html
08-07-2020||City||Two covid patients recover with plasma therapy in Amritsar||The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, has conducted Punjab’s second and third successful convalescent plasma therapy for coronavirus as two patients recovered on Wednesday.The plasma of a 27-year-old man was given to two Covid-19 positive patients on June 24. One is a resident of the city while the other is from Pathankot.“After June 24, we conducted tests of the patients and on Wednesday, they were tested negative. The patents were critical at the time of admission to GMCH and had co-morbidities. They were responding less to the treatment before plasma therapy. They will be discharged soon,” said GMCH principal Dr Rajiv Kumar Devgan.GMCH, Amritsar, got approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research on June 19 to treat Covid-19 patients with plasma therapy.PLASMA BANK RUNS DRY IN AMRITSARMeanwhile, despite the successful convalescent plasma therapies at GMCH, Amritsar, the plasma bank of the hospital ran dry in the absence of plasma donors. Over 848 persons have successfully recovered from Covid-19 in Amritsar, but the hospital only got two plasma donors so far.GMCH blood bank in-charge Dr Neeraj said, “Till date, only two recovered covid patients have donated plasma at GMCH, Amritsar, which is low. We request covid recovered patients to donate plasma.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-covid-patients-recover-with-plasma-therapy-in-amritsar/story-B8PDPo3FQJmVG2AkwerBSP.html
08-07-2020||City||Chided for being drunk at work, factory worker kills colleague in Ludhiana||A 25-year-old factory worker strangled his colleague to death after he reprimanded him for coming to work drunk at Guru Gobind Singh Nagar near Sherpur Chowk on Tuesday night. Police said after the crime, the accused, Ajay Kumar Paswan, called the police and concocted a story that his co-worker, Devendra Singh, alias Bachan, 47, was murdered by two unidentified men.However, he cracked during questioning and confessed to the crime.Police both Ajay and Devender hailed from Uttar Pradesh and lived on the premises of the sewing machine factory. “Ajay called the police control room at 12.30am. When a police team reached the spot, Ajay said two men had come to meet Devendra on Tuesday night. They were talking to Devendra in his room, while he was playing games on his mobile phone in his room. After sometime, when he came out of the room, he found Devendra lying dead on the floor,” said inspector Amarjeet Singh, SHO at Division Number 6 police station.However, the SHO said, the CCTV footage did not reflect any visitors, leading them to suspect Ajay’s claims.When police grilled him, Ajay confessed to have murdered Devendra, as he scolded him for coming to work in an inebriated condition. “On Tuesday night, Ajay started arguing with Devendra over the issue. In a fit of rage, he hit Devendra with a blunt object on his face. When he fell down, he strangled him to death,” said the SHO.After he realised he will be arrested for murder, he concocted a story and called the police. Ajay has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The deceased is survived by his wife and three daughters. They have been informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chided-for-being-drunk-at-work-factory-worker-kills-colleague-in-ludhiana/story-G2bK95IDaWcsYomNR0cH9L.html
08-07-2020||City||Legal tangle: BFUHS postpones 2nd PG admissions counselling||In the view of an interim order passed by the Punjab and Haryana high court on the writ petitions of aspirants, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, on Wednesday postponed the second round of online admissions counselling for PG courses at seven medical and 12 dental colleges in Punjab.In a notification, the BFUHS stated that the second counselling under NEET PG 2020 is postponed till July 13 in view of the interim orders passed by the HC. The revised schedule will be uploaded on the university website on July 9.Two aspirants had filed a writ petition in the HC claiming that they should be given the same benefits for admission to private colleges as are given to PCMS doctors for admission to government colleges.The state has argued that one major problem which will be faced is that PCMS doctors who are granted incentive for admission in government colleges are given full salary because during their course they are undertaking duties at the hospitals.“However, this benefit cannot be insisted for PCMS doctors who may get admissions at private colleges and will then get salary from the government while working in the private hospitals,” state informed court.While the petitioners’ counsel said that the petitioners have stated that in case government decides to give them the same incentive for admission, they will not seek any salary or remuneration for the period during which they are undergoing their course and will be willing to sign any bond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/legal-tangle-bfuhs-postpones-2nd-pg-admissions-counselling/story-JklF1R0LA3zK0WtRxhvRJI.html
08-07-2020||City||Tractor-borne man crushes brother to death for ‘revenge’ in Ludhiana village||A 50-year-old man ran his tractor over two of his brothers, killing the eldest one on the spot and severely injuring the other in Kalakh village here, police said on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Ranjit Singh (60), a namesake of the accused. An injured Gurpreet Singh (57) has been hospitalised.As per the police, the murder is the fallout of a three-year-old enmity between the families which erupted after the accused’s 17-year-old son, Arshpreet Singh, died as his motorcycle crashed into his now deceased uncle’s mini truck amid dense fog in 2017. The accused had been blaming his elder brother for his son’s death ever since.In his police complaint, victim’s brother Manjit Singh (54) said the accused hit his brothers with his tractor, killing Ranjit on the spot, while Gurpreet sustained serious injuries. He alleged that the accused fled from the spot screaming that he had taken revenge for his son’s death.Sadar police SHO inspector Jagdev Singh said a case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tractor-borne-man-crushes-brother-to-death-for-revenge-in-ludhiana-village/story-w4veQF5VGkxp3jg6YPApPJ.html
08-07-2020||City||Digital marksheets for PSEB Class-10 students this time||In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has decided to do away with physical marksheets and provide digital certificates to Class 10 students this year. Announcing this on late Tuesday night, the board said students can download their marksheets through the digilocker app on Google Playstore. Students will be required to fill in their details and create an account on the app, following which a six-digit OTP would be sent to their mobile number. Students can then access their marksheets and even take a print out if required.The initiative, a first for PSEB, is being hailed by all as it will allow students to access their marksheets, which they will require for admission to Class-11, without stepping out of their homes in times of the pandemic. Board’s examination controller Janak Raj Mehrok, said, “We had received instructions from the ministry of human resource and development to provide students certificates in a digital format.” Pradeep Sharma, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Lalton Kalan, said, “This is a welcome move as it will help students get the certificates at the click of a button. In view of the growing number of Covid-19 cases, it is not safe for children to venture out.” Last year also, the board had decided to provide digital certificates to students of Class 12, but it had then retracted from the decision and went ahead with hard copies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/digital-marksheets-for-pseb-class-10-students-this-time/story-EYGmj4XeYiRTIOLWaZh26M.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration plans to reduce syllabus for Classes 1 to 8 in govt schools||To reduce the course load of students amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the education department is planning to reduce the syllabus for Classes 1 to 8 in government and aided schools of Chandigarh.For Classes 9 to 12, the Central Board of School Education (CBSE) has already announced a 30% reduction in the syllabus.District education officer (DEO) Harbir Anand said, “We are planning to reduce the syllabus for Class 1 to 8 to minimise the load of students in the lockdown.”A committee, comprising school heads, teachers and education department officials, will be constituted to recommend the sections of the syllabus that can be omitted this year. Schools in Chandigarh have been closed since March and many students have been facing an added challenge as they do not have the facilities to attend online classes.WORK FROM HOME FOR SCHOOL STAFF The teaching and non-teaching staff in government and aided schools of Chandigarh have been allowed to work from home till July 31. The communication regarding this was issued by the district education office on Wednesday following the directions of school education and literacy department of the Union ministry of human resource development.For the smooth conduct of online teaching, the district education office has also allowed the school heads to call teaching and non-teaching staff to school, in case of urgent work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-plans-to-reduce-syllabus-for-classes-1-to-8-in-govt-schools/story-40xjF5cqBFesYsP1g0wx1H.html
08-07-2020||City||Labourer held for cattle trader’s murder in Khanna village||The Sadar police claim to have solved the murder case of a cattle trader with the arrest of a labourer in Kalal Majra village in Khanna late on Tuesday.The accused, identified as Harpreet Singh (48), had executed the crime with help of his 17-year-old son, who is yet to be arrested. The victim had allegedly developed an illicit relationship with Harpreet’s wife and tried to target his daughters as well.The police have also recovered the murder weapon, an axe, from near some under-construction shops on Sawaddi Road following the information provided by the accused.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) said the accused, who was trying to flee the city, was arrested on Tuesday night following a tip-off.During interrogation, the accused told police that cattle trader Jagmail Singh (48) was in an illicit relationship with his wife for the past two years. He had asked his wife and Jagmail to part ways, but they didn’t. Harpreet also alleged that Jagmail had started targeting his daughters to establish physical relations with them.“The accused hatched a plan to murder Jagmail and involved his minor son in the crime. On Sunday night when Jagmail was sleeping in the cattle shed, Harpreet turned up there with his son. They struck the victim with an axe and fled,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-held-for-cattle-trader-s-murder-in-khanna-village/story-V88YlEFifZHZBURA4sb0zK.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Suspecting theft, man beats up female fruit vendor at Chandigarh’s Sector 17 market, arrested||A 40-year-old female fruit vendor was beaten up by a commission agent for allegedly stealing a packet of jamuns from his shop at the vegetable market set up at the Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) in Sector 17 on Wednesday morning.The accused, Rajesh, who also sells fruits and vegetables at the market, has been arrested. Police said Rajesh accused the 40-year-old woman, resident of Bapu Dham Colony, of stealing a packet of jamuns from his shop. He dragged the woman by her hair and slapped her before other vendors rescued her. Police officials from the ISBT chowki reached the spot and arrested the accused.He was booked under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 17 police station. Police said the woman did not sustain any injury and was medically examined after her statement was recorded.A video of the incident showed a large crowd at the market, not maintaining social distancing and several people without masks. Police officials, however, said by the time they reached the spot, the crowd had dispersed, so no challan was issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/suspecting-theft-man-beats-up-female-fruit-vendor-at-chandigarh-s-sector-17-market-arrested/story-qa0SLkA1tMM6hoNXEY6QNI.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||500-bedded COVID care centre opens at Delhi’s CWG village||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday inaugurated a 500-bed COVID care centre at the Commonwealth Games village.Doctors For You, a not-for-profit organisation, supported the Delhi government in setting up the facility which is attached to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital. “Inaugurated 500 bedded CWG Village Covid Care Center with CM Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy CM Manish Sisodia...My appreciation for DDMA & ‘Doctors For You’ (Volunteer group of Doctors NGO) for establishing this centre in record time of 6 days,” Baijal tweeted.“It’s an excellent example of government-civil society collaboration. I am confident it will strengthen Delhi’s fight against Covid-19,” he said in another tweet. On Sunday, the LG had inaugurated 10,000-bed Sardar Patel COVID care centre, one of the “largest” such facilities in the world, at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas here.The centre is 1,700-feet long, 700-feet wide -- roughly the size of 20 football fields -- and have 200 enclosures with 50 beds each. The administration has also been acquiring banquet halls to set up such COVID care centres to cater to cases that require institutional isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/500-bedded-covid-care-centre-opens-at-delhi-s-cwg-village/story-EVvKq4Vo8jC3gZNwenrnbL.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Lady cop helps destitute woman deliver baby in Mumbai||At a time when the police and medical services are grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, a woman police officer and her staff helped a 35-year-old destitute woman deliver her baby on the road side in south Mumbai, police said on Wednesday.As heavy rains lashed the city in the early hours of Sunday, sub-inspector Priya Garud was on check post duty when she got a call about a destitute woman crying out for help near Metro cinema, an official said.Garud, who is attached to the Azad Maidan police station, rushed to the spot with her staff and found that the woman, who is mentally challenged, was experiencing acute labour pains, he said.When the personnel saw that the woman didn’t even have proper clothes, they went to a nearby house to borrow some clothes and bedsheets, the official said.The policewoman then ran to the state-run hospital nearby, where the doctors asked her to get the patient to the hospital, he added.By the time Garud returned to the spot, she found that the woman had already delivered the infant, the official said, adding that the personnel tried their best to keep the woman and the baby safe as they waited for an ambulance.When the ambulance finally arrived after over an hour-long wait, the woman and her baby were shifted to Cama and Albles Hospital and both are doing well, the senior officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lady-cop-helps-destitute-woman-deliver-baby-in-mumbai/story-oYXDzmS5aVXq4SamhMUYeP.html
08-07-2020||City||5 days after police car hit his bike in Mohali, 19-year-old succumbs to injuries||Five days after being hit by a police car in Mohali, a 19-year-old biker succumbed to his injuries at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, in the early hours of Wednesday.The incident had taken place in the Industrial Area of Mohali on July 3.The victim, Sukhbir of Chappar Chiri Khurd village, was returning after handing over the family’s horse cart to his father when the incident took place. His father, Sukhwinder Singh, said that his son left on the bike after handing over the cart. “My son was taking a left turn towards Chappar Chiri when a Punjab Police car hit his bike. I was right behind my son on my cart when it happened,” he told the police, adding that the driver, who was in a cop’s uniform, sped away after the accident.A PCR vehicle rushed Sukhbir to the civil hospital in Phase 6 from where he was shifted to a private hospital in Ropar. He had suffered a thighbone fracture. Two days ago, the victim complained of pain in his chest following which he was referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, where he died during the treatment in the early hours of Wednesday. The body was handed over to family members after post-mortem examination.A case has been registered against the Punjab police car driver, Amarjit Singh, under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (death by negligence) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-days-after-police-car-hit-his-bike-in-mohali-19-year-old-succumbs-to-injuries/story-afy7IBjUGg3YBxZedziyUN.html
08-07-2020||Pune||Ambulance with Covid-19 patients overturns, two cops come to their rescue||A courageous act of two police personnel, who had rushed five Covid-19 patients injured in a road accident near Pune in Maharashtra on Monday to hospitals, has earned them accolades from Home Minister Anil Deshmukh.At least 12 Covid-19 patients were injured when their ambulance overturned while on its way to a Covid care facility near Bavdhan on Mumbai-Pune highway.“ASI Abdul Sheikh and Police shipai Akshay Ingwale of @PuneCityPolice rushed five #covid19 patients, who were injured in an accident to the hospital without worrying about their lives. Their resilience and presence of mind is commendable,” Deshmukh tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ambulance-with-covid-19-patients-overturns-two-cops-come-to-their-rescue/story-8QeHjrs1gJwkFeRSlfSLSI.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Murder accused evading arrest since 2018 held in southwest Delhi||The Delhi Police has arrested a 28-year-old man from southwest Delhi’s Najafgarh who was allegedly evading arrest since December 2018, after jumping parole in a murder case, officials said on Wednesday.The accused has been identified as Om, a resident of Bahadurgarh in Haryana’s Jhajjar. He was accused of killing another man -- Abhinav Verma -- inside his shop in 2014, they said. The murder case was registered against him at Palam police station. He was evading arrest since December 2018 after jumping parole and was carrying a reward of Rs 25,000, police said.Since then, he was involved in three cases of car-jacking in Delhi and Haryana. He was arrested on Tuesday night by a Crime branch team lead by Inspector Yashpal Singh after receiving a tip-off that he would come to the Najafgarh area to kill another person. A country-made pistol along with two live rounds were found in his possession, a senior police officer said.During interrogation, Om told the police that he wanted to take revenge from a person named Monu, who had hired him in 2014 to kill Abhinav Verma. Monu had promised to pay Rs 20 lakhs for killing Verma but did not pay Om nor did he help in getting him out on parole. The accused told the police that Monu had also assured him that he would hire a lawyer for him and get his parole extended. But Monu, who was also arrested in connection with Verma’‘s killing, managed to get bail but did not help Om. Om felt cheated and to take revenge, he had decided to kill Monu, police said. A case under Arms Act has been registered against him, the police, said adding further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/murder-accused-evading-arrest-since-2018-held-in-southwest-delhi/story-43BV2ZhkGUJgl0Pi3oEBzN.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Manali, Kinnaur hotels to stay shut despite Himachal opening state to tourists amid rising Covid-19 cases||SHIMLA: Hoteliers in the tribal district of Kinnaur have unanimously decided to keep all tourism operations closed till the Covid-19 situation improves.Kinnaur reported its first Covid-19 case on June 3 when a Delhi-returned couple tested positive.The border district’s count has since risen to 34. Though most of the cases in the district are Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel quarantined at their camps, residents fear the situation may aggravate in coming days as the government has opened the state’s borders for tourists.“We have decided to keep tourism activities suspended till the situation normalises,” said Mohan Prakash Negi, president of the Kinnaur Hoteliers’ Association.“All hotels and home-stay units in the district will remain closed and no bookings will be accepted,” he said.Negi said that the panchayats in Kinnaur are opposed to opening tourism activities. “Since most of the hotels in the district are located in the rural areas, inviting tourists to the region may spell Covid trouble. We appeal to tourists to postpone their plans,” he added.KULLU, MANALI HOTELS SHUT TILL SEPTEMBERThe Hoteliers Association of Kullu-Manali also decided to keep hotels closed till September.The decision was taken at the association’s meeting in Manali on Tuesday in view of the rising Covid cases in the state.Villagers adjoining Manali town requested the hoteliers to keep operations shut till the situation stabilises.The Himachal Pradesh government opened the state’s borders for tourists on July 6, relaxing the Covid e-pass condition for inter-state movement after the Centre denied it permission to continue with the travel curbs.According to the new guidelines, tourists having Covid-19 negative report not older than 72 hours and having five-day confirmed booking in hotels may enter the state.The tourists seeking entry to the state will have to register themselves on the Covid portal at least 48 hours before entry. This will help in monitoring and contact tracing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manali-kinnaur-hotels-to-stay-shut-despite-himachal-opening-state-to-tourists-amid-rising-covid-19-cases/story-7dPEmra4YJojyvgDBVyiOK.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Heavy rain in Himachal triggers fear of landslides||Shimla: Heavy rainfall occurred in isolated parts of Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, triggering fear of landslides, while light to moderate rainfall was experienced throughout the day in Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur, Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Kullu, Mandi, Chamba and Kangra districts.State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said, “It’s been raining in the state for more than 12 hours so there is possibility of landslides in Shimla, Solan and adjoining areas.”Due to fresh western disturbance, heavy rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorms are likely to occur in the state till July 14.A yellow weather warning for the middle and lower hills has been issued for July 10 and 11 and in the middle hills for July 9 and 12.SOLAN WETTEST IN STATESolan got 82mm of rainfall on Wednesday, the highest in the state, followed by Kheri in Hamirpur district, which received 71mm of rainfall, while Jubbar Hatti in Shimla district got 54.3mm of rainfall. Dalhousie received 48mm of rainfall, Kasauli 45mm, Arki 41mm, Nahan 40.7mm, Ghumarwin 25mm, Shimla 22.8mm, Mashobra 16.8mm, Hamirpur 19mm, Kufri 14mm, Una and Paonta Sahib 10.4 mm each and Mandi 15.1 mm.The temperatures were in the normal range throughout the state. Shimla recorded a maximum of 20.1°Celsius and Kufri was pleasant at 16.2°C.Manali recorded a high of 28°C and Dalhousie 20.5°C. The maximum temperature in Dharamshala was 29.4°C, Solan 25.5°C, Una 30.4°C, Hamirpur 33.8°C and Nahan 29.9°C.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a maximum of 21.7°C, while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest at 11.5°C.Bilaspur was the hottest place in the state with a maximum temperature of 34°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rain-in-himachal-triggers-fear-of-landslides/story-NSHFi5QZJhPcpb5mlNH1LI.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet gives nod to two industrial parks to boost economy, create jobs||Chandigarh: To further boost the state’s economy and industrial infrastructure, the Punjab cabinet on Wednesday approved the setting up of a modern industrial park and integrated manufacturing cluster over 2,000 acres on government and panchayat land near Mattewara in Ludhiana and Rajpura in Patiala district, respectively, at a total cost of Rs 3,200 crore.The two projects would be instrumental in accelerating the pace of industrialisation and creating job opportunities, an official spokesperson said, after a meeting of the cabinet, chaired by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, through video conferencing.To be set up at a cost of Rs 1,600 crore each, in an area of 1,000 acres each, the projects will cater to the needs of prospective entrepreneurs/industrialists for setting up their ventures expeditiously, in line with the need to develop such industrial/economic hubs in the state.The panchayat land for the projects will be purchased by the housing and urban development department, for development as mixed land use/industrial park/IMC.According to the spokesperson, the Mattewara project had been envisioned and pursued by the industries department, and land of government departments would be taken over by the housing and urban development department under the optimum utilisation of vacant government land (OUVGL) scheme. The project site had been under active consideration of the state government for several years, and it was originally conceived and pursued by the industries department. Considering the capacity of housing and urban development to raise finance and execute the project of such scale, the same was transferred to it.Giving the break-up of the available land for establishment of modern industrial park/mix land use development at Mattewara, the spokesperson said that of 955.6 acres, 207.07 acres belonged to the animal husbandry department, 285.1 acres of rehabilitation department (potato seed farm), 416.1 acres of Sekhowal panchayat, 27.1 acres of Salempur panchayat (potato seed farm) and 20.3 acres of Sailklan panchayat.The integrated manufacturing cluster (IMC) near Rajpura will be developed with the help of the National Industrial Corridor Development Corporation on 1,000 acres of government and panchayat land. Of 1,102 acres of panchayat land, 492 acres belonged to Sehra village, 202 to Sehri, 183 to Aakri, 177 to Pabra and 48 acres to Takhtu Majra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cabinet-gives-nod-to-two-industrial-parks-to-boost-economy-create-jobs/story-XXbXGtLgBO2Zjt5c5lnZIO.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||New guidance on alcoholism in Punjabi community published in UK||Following a three year programme that highlighted the issue of alcoholism in the Punjabi community and improved access to support services, new guidance on dealing with alcoholism in the Punjabi community has been published in the United Kingdom. A first of its kind initiative, called the Shanti Project, was launched in 2016-19. IT was led by charitable organisation Aquarius that supports people affected by alcohol, drugs and gambling. The guidance has been developed by Aquarius with the University of Birmingham and the Manchester Metropolitan University.Co-author of the guidance, Surinder Guru of the University of Birmingham, said: “Drinking within the Punjabi community is gendered. Heavy drinking is a common practice among men but women’s drinking is frowned upon. This creates tensions in families and women can suffer rejection and shame within the community and family.”“The original research underpinning Shanti showed that young Punjabi people had noticed this unequal treatment and deemed it unfair. We need to pay attention to women’s drinking and the impact of men’s drinking on women and children within the Punjabi community,” Guru added.The guidance offers advice on setting up projects, developing a project model, project management, project delivery, as well as useful resources, the University of Birmingham said in a release on Wednesday. It also details best practices on how to work productively when providing services that address alcohol use within south Asian communities in general, and the Punjabi community in particular.‘AVOID ONE-SIZE FITS ALL APPROACH’ Richard McVey of Aquarius said, “It is important that all alcohol and drug services hear the particular needs of our diverse communities. We must avoid a ‘one size fits all’ approach. To do this, partnership with the community from the outset is vital.”The Shanti Project was developed out of Aquarius’ concern for the number of middle-aged Punjabi men being taken to accident and emergency departments in hospitals with serious alcohol-related liver conditions that needed earlier detection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-guidance-on-alcoholism-in-punjabi-community-published-in-uk/story-fbBkp2WcAVlf6vXiIyjntK.html
08-07-2020||Pune||Pune’s Kasba MLA Mukta Tilak tests positive for Covid-19||Kasba peth legislator and former mayor of Pune, Mukta Tilak, announced on social media that she has tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, along with her mother. Mukta Tilak’s father expired with Covid-19 four days ago.On her official Twitter handle, Tilak, a BJP legislator, wrote: “Today, me and my mother have been tested positive for Covid-19. We are both not showing any symptoms and have been advised by doctors to be under home quarantine and have thus self-isolated. All other family members have tested negative.”Tilak said, “While we did have our first tests done immediately, the next day after my father passed away, we tested negative. We did a follow-up test on the fifth day wherein we tested positive. So, we are at home now and taking care of ourselves.” Prior to this current Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and former BJP MLA Yogesh Tilekar tested positive for the infection. A total of 211 PMC staff have also tested positive, of which 12 persons died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-kasba-mla-mukta-tilak-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-O3T2X8JvXEHzWFofz1QywI.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet approves CM’s decision to increase number of attempts for ex-servicemen PCS aspirants||Chandigarh: Formalising the announcement made last week by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the Punjab council of ministers on Wednesday approved increase in the number of attempts for candidates belonging to ex-servicemen category in the Punjab State Civil Services Combined Competitive Examination.The increase is on the pattern of the attempts provided by the Union Public Service Commission.The council of ministers, led by the chief minister, has given approval to amend the existing proviso clause (i) of rule 5 of the Punjab Recruitment of Ex-Servicemen Rules, 1982, in this regard.With this approval, the way has been paved for increasing the number of attempts for general category ex-servicemen candidates from the existing four to six, and four to nine for the backward classes ex-servicemen category in the PCS (executive) and allied examination, while the Scheduled Castes ex-servicemen candidates would continue to get unlimited chances.This decision has been taken in line with the UPSC pattern, and keeping in view the welfare of ex-servicemen so as to address the anomaly existing in the rule 5 of Punjab Recruitment of Ex-Servicemen Rules.Under existing rules, candidates of all categories are allowed a maximum of four attempts as per Punjab State Civil Services (Appointment by Combined Competitive Examination) Rules, 2009.The Punjab Public Service Commission had earlier informed the chief secretary about having received several representations regarding the anomaly in the number of attempts fixed for ex-servicemen and persons with disability for the Punjab State Civil Services Combined Competitive Examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cabinet-approves-cm-s-decision-to-increase-number-of-attempts-for-ex-servicemen-pcs-aspirants/story-XZuYQUZGEqZ0KNBJG0XJ8M.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||114 Indians, 82 Pakistanis set to return their respective countries via Wagah tomorrow||Amritsar: As many as 114 Indians and 82 Pakistani nationals, who have been stranded in Pakistan and India, respectively, will return to their native countries via the Attari-Wagah border, 32 km from here, on Thursday.On July 2, Pakistan’s interior ministry wrote to the director general (DG) of Pakistan Rangers informing him about the repatriation of 114 stranded Indians on July 9. On July 6, India’s ministry of external affairs facilitated the movement of 82 Pakistani nationals through Wagah border on July 9 on the request of the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi.The 144 Indian nationals are a part of a group of 748 stranded Indians in Pakistan that was allowed to return in three batches last month. However, of the total 748 people, only 634 could return in the three batches.Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM-2) Shiv Raj Singh Bal said, “Of the 114 Indians, 35 are from Jammu and Kashmir, while the rest are from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan and Gujarat.”Besides students from J&K, the returnees include those who had gone to the neighbouring country to meet their relatives or pay obeisance at religious shrines.SOCIAL DISTANCING TO BE MAINTAINEDEarlier, India had facilitated the movement of more than 500 Pakistani nationals through the land border. A Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) official at the integrated check post (ICP) in Attari, which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, and the movement of passengers from India to Pakistan and vice-versa, said, “A special team of doctors will conduct thermal screening of all those going back to Pakistan, and returning to India, as per guidelines of the health department to contain the spread of coronavirus. Special arrangements have been made to follow the social distancing norms.”On March 14, India had suspended cross-border movement of passengers through the Attari-Wagah border as a precautionary measure to check the spread of Covid-19. But diplomats, officials of the United Nations (UN) and other international organisations, and employment and project visa-holders were excluded from the ban. On March 19, Pakistan too closed its borders. Since then, hundreds of Pakistani nationals have been stranded in India and Indians in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/114-indians-82-pakistanis-set-to-return-their-respective-countries-via-wagah-tomorrow/story-JmowEiUJDDThJOxay4ICoM.html
08-07-2020||Jaipur||Elderly patient with Covid-19 symptoms jumps to death in Rajasthan||An elderly man admitted to a hospital here with symptoms of coronavirus allegedly committed suicide by jumping from second floor of the medical institute on Wednesday, police said. He was admitted to Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) in Pratap Nagar, they said. His Covid-19 test report came negative, minutes before he took the extreme step, police said, adding he was not aware of the test result. Kailash Chand Sharma (78) was admitted to a semi ICU on the second floor of RUHS, they said. “His sample for Covid-19 test was collected yesterday and the report came negative today. The reason behind the extreme step is not clear yet and the matter is being probed,” a police official said. “The hospital received the test report (negative) just five minutes before he jumped to his death. He was not aware that he was Covid-19 negative,” DCP (East) Rahul Jain said. Sharma was earlier admitted to Kanwatia hospital, Shastri Nagar for two to three days due to breathing problem. He was referred to RUHS on Tuesday after his condition worsened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/elderly-patient-with-covid-19-symptoms-jumps-to-death-in-rajasthan/story-efZNXxfQygFFZXABZifOUJ.html
08-07-2020||City||Landslide warning in Shimla, Solan following heavy rains||The weather department on Wednesday issued a landslide warning for Shimla, Solan and adjoining areas following rains in most parts of Himachal Pradesh.  Most parts of the state will continue to receive rain in the day, the weatherman said. Shimla MeT Centre director Manmohan Singh said there is possibility of landslides in Shimla, Solan and adjoining areas.Solan received the highest 82 mm rain in the state from Tuesday 5:30 pm to Wednesday 8:30 am, followed by 54.3 mm in Jubbar Hatti, 48 mm in Dalhousie and 40.7 mm in Nahan.Similarly Shimla witnessed 22 mm rain during the period, followed by Mashobra 16.8 mm, Chamba 16 mm, Mandi 15.1 mm, Kufri 14 mm, Una 10.4, Keylong 10 mm, Bilaspur 8.5 mm, Manali 5 mm, Dharamshala 2.2 mm, Palampur 2 mm and Kangra 1 mm.The MeT centre has predicted rains in the state till July 13.The lowest temperature in the state was recorded in Lahaul-Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong at 11.5 degrees Celsius, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/landslide-warning-in-shimla-solan-following-heavy-rains/story-0WluEukzb2mlNeWikENHhO.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||New reservation law won’t affect already employed workers: Chautala||With Haryana government planning to bring an ordinance to reserve 75 per cent of private sector jobs in the state for local candidates, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday said the new law will not affect the already employed workers. “Nobody who is already employed is going to lose the job,” said Chautala, who is also the state’s industries minister, seeking to ward off fears on the government’s plans. He said the new condition will apply to new appointments only after the ordinance is promulgated and notified. The deputy chief minister said the government‘s main objective is to make more and more youths of the state employable by skilling them. If suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category of job, a provision will be made in the law for the labour commissioner to allow firms to hire candidates from outside the state. The people who are already working in state’s industries need not panic at all as they will not be removed from their jobs, he added. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, meanwhile, said the state government is laying special emphasis on skilling youths to make them employable. He made the remark while interacting with the beneficiaries of Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) during a webinar organized here on Tuesday by the newly formed Department of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Haryana. The chief minister had on Monday said the state Cabinet has approved a proposal for drafting “Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020” to address the unemployment of local population on priority basis. It aims at reserving 75 per cent of new jobs with salaries less than Rs 50,000 a month in private firms, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms and partnership firms for local youths, he had added. The draft ordinance is to be placed before the Cabinet in its next meeting. Providing 75 per cent quota in private sector jobs to local youths was a key poll promise of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janta Party, which is a coalition partner of the BJP government in Haryana. PTI SUN VSD RAX RAX||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-reservation-law-won-t-affect-already-employed-workers-chautala/story-kaDslgjpo3C5iVCTkBdZaJ.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin man who helped Asians settle in the UK passes away||Master Malkiat Singh Jaspal, who arrived in the UK in 1963 and over the decades helped many people from India and Asia to complete immigration papers and settle has passed away aged 86, his family said.Born in 1934 in Isharwal village of Punjab’s Jalandhar district, the community leader spent his spare time helping immigrants who could not read and write to prepare citizenship applications and advising them of their rights in the UK. He worked as a crane driver in Wolverhampton.His son, Wolverhampton councillor and former mayor Milkinder Jaspal, said he passed away peacefully on Sunday. “He wanted to help others settle in and never charged them a penny. He was an extremely generous and caring man and as a family we are really proud of him,” he said. Married to Sardarni Nashatar Kaur in 1952, Jaspal landed at Heathrow in July 1963. He first lived in Gravesend and as his first job he helped build the Dartford Tunnel. He moved to Wolverhampton later that year.After moving to Wolverhampton, he bought a house that he shared with an Indian family and a Jamaican family. Jaspal’s parents were Safedposh Hukam Singh and Sardarni Amar Kaur Rai. His grandfather Sardar Sawn Singh was a noted wrestler, his son said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-origin-man-who-helped-asians-settle-in-the-uk-passes-away/story-Lr68KsNAKvwTR6WN1fpfeJ.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sangrur civil surgeon tests positive for Covid-19; Punjab district’s coronavirus count reaches 588||Patiala: The civil surgeon of Sangrur district, Dr Raj Kumar, tested positive for coronavirus infection on Wednesday.He was admitted to the Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala after he reported Covid-19 symptoms, including fever.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said Dr Kumar’s samples were collected on Tuesday and found to be positive on Wednesday.“The required treatment has been initiated,” he added.As many as 588 cases of coronavirus infection have been reported so far in Sangrur district.TWO NEW CASES, REST CONTACTS OF PATIENTSTen people, including five women, were found suffering from Covid-19 in Ferozepur district on Wednesday. Ferozepur sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Amit Gupta said two new cases had surfaced, while the rest were primary contacts of coronavirus patients. Gupta said that among the 10 positive patients are two teenaged boys. While one of them is 13 years old, the other is 16.He said a retired senior official from the state revenue department is among the infected persons.The total number of positive cases in the district has now reached 130 out of which 76 patients have been discharged.Ferozepur district has had three Covid-related deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangrur-civil-surgeon-tests-positive-for-covid-19-punjab-district-s-coronavirus-count-reaches-588/story-xm6SmULT1hfPEQ7sJJNtIJ.html
08-07-2020||Jaipur||Six Covid-19 deaths reported in Rajasthan||Rajasthan on Wednesday reported six Covid-19 deaths and 173 fresh cases of coronavirus infection, officials said.While two deaths were reported from Jaipur, one each was reported from Bikaner, Dausa, Sawai Madhopur and Jodhpur, taking the death toll to 478.The total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has increased to 21,577.Of the total 173 fresh cases, maximum of 81 cases were reported from Alwar.Other cases were reported from Jaipur (34), Kota (12), Bhilwara (11), Rajsamand (10), Bikaner and Nagaur (8 each), Churu (3), Udaipur and Ajmer (2 each),  Jhalawar and Dungarpur (1 each).  After discharge of 16208 patient, there are 4516 active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/six-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-rajasthan/story-MOhjVsaPFiRP8NDtYBLzfI.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt to facilitate bringing Ganga water from Haridwar on Maha Shivratri||Haryana government has decided to facilitate bringing holy water of Ganga river from Haridwar to the state on Maha Shivratri during the Shravan month this year as the governments of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh have conveyed their inability to make arrangements for the transit and stay of ‘Kanwariyas’ in view of COVID-19.Giving information in this regard, an official spokesperson of the Home Department said that the Divisional Commissioners, Inspectors General of Police, Police Ranges, Deputy Commissioners, District Magistrates, and Commissioners of Police - Panchkula, Faridabad and Gurugram have been directed not to allow ‘Kanwariyas’ to proceed on ‘Kanwar Yatra’ during Shravan month this year, read a statement.He said that the state government has directed all Deputy Commissioners, Superintendent of Police to immediately engage with Kanwariya Samitis, Bhakt-Mandalis, religious leaders, etc of their respective districts to ensure that they do not proceed on “Kanwar Yatra,” in view of COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-to-facilitate-bringing-ganga-water-from-haridwar-on-maha-shivratri/story-yvy6wDy6MdNkYRkXP4bVEP.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rain spells cheer for paddy farmers, brings relief from sultry weather in Punjab||Jalandhar: Cloudy skies and rain made way for pleasant weather in Jalandhar, Sangrur, Patiala and Chandigarh on Wednesday.Residents in towns welcomed the relief from the sultry weather though water-logging was reported from low-lying areas, but paddy farmers were all cheer as the monsoon bodes well for the crop.Amodh Sharma, a resident of Jalandhar’s Chotti Baradari, said, “We were struggling in humid conditions over the past two weeks. Finally, there is relief.”Agriculture department officials said the rain was beneficial for the paddy crop at this stage.Ravi Dhillon, a farmer from nearby Sultanpur Lodhi, said that he had to run a generator for six hours to irrigate the paddy transplanted recently on 20 acres. “I was forced to spend a huge amount on diesel to run the generator but the monsoon should take care of things now.”Jalandhar mayor Jagdish Raja assured residents that arrangements have been made to deal with water-logging during the monsoon.FALL IN MERCURY GOOD FOR PADDYPatiala: The agriculture department said Patiala district got 35.2mm of rainfall on Wednesday. Samana block recorded 19.5mm of rainfall, Nabha 24.5mm, Rajpura 42.2mm, while Patiala block got 54mm of rainfall.Kuldeep Singh, a farmer of Daun Kalan, said: “The rain is good for the paddy crop. Now I don’t need to run my tubewell for a few days.”Surjeet Singh Walia, the agriculture officer of Patiala, said, “The fall in temperature is good for the crop. Otherwise, the standing water in fields would also get heated up. Some areas are struggling with salt water that is harmful. The rain will knock off the salt effect, too.”Several areas of Sangrur district recorded up to 15.8mm of rainfall.Sangrur chief agriculture officer Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal said: “The drains and fields are full of water. This rain will be helpful for paddy’s growth.”77MM OF RAIN IN CHANDIGARH, MORE FORECASTChandigarh: After 52.4 mm of rainfall in Chandigarh on Tuesday evening, there was 25mm more recorded at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) observatory in Sector 39, bringing the total to 77mm of rainfall in Chandigarh, which is classified as heavy.Officials said another system of rain is likely to begin from Thursday onwards.Regional IMD director Surender Paul said, “The monsoon system, which had been concentrated in central India and Gujarat, is moving towards Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Chandigarh is likely to get rain from this as well and chances of heavy rain (over 70mm) are likely on Thursday and Friday.”The temperature dropped to 26.4 degrees at 8.30am on Wednesday due to the rain. In comparison, on Tuesday it was at 32 degrees around this time. The day is likely to remain cloudy and temperature will remain on the lower side through the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-spells-cheer-for-paddy-farmers-brings-relief-from-sultry-weather-in-punjab/story-r1fYI1Fe2HoHYagaRIN4FM.html
08-07-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata now has 33 Covid-19 containment zones, North 24 Parganas has 219||Kolkata city has 33 containment zones, while in neighbouring South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas districts of West Bengal, there are 155 and 219 such zones, respectively, according to an official data. The containment zones and buffer zones around them were clubbed together to constitute a “broad-based” containment zone where a total lockdown will be imposed from 5 pm on Thursday, a state government order said on Tuesday.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here  Ultadanga, Phoolbagan, Kankurgachi, Hudco, Beliaghata, Bhowanipore, Alipore, Bijoygarh, Jadavpur, New Alipore, Kasba, Mukundapur, and Ajaynagar are among the 33 containment zones in Kolkata, the official data showed. The number of containment zones in the city, as on July 1, was 18, the state government-managed website Egiye Bangla stated. In North 24 Parganas, the 219 containment zones include areas of Rajarhat, Swarupnagar, Hasnabad, places under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Bongaon, Dum Dum, Habra, Halisahar, Barrackpore , Barasat and Basirhat. South 24 Parganas district has 155 containment zones.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Battling a surge in Covid-19 cases, the West Bengal government on Tuesday decided to clamp a “total” lockdown in containment and buffer zones after merging them together, and impose tough restrictions on public mobility and trade from July 9. West Bengal has reported a total of 23,837 cases till Tuesday and the contagion has claimed the lives of 804 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-now-has-33-covid-19-containment-zones-north-24-parganas-has-219/story-ycJXkCYYZYkLA2dsa2kcrM.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||23 members, employees of Maharwal Khewaji Trust booked for forging Faridkot erstwhile maharaja’s will||Faridkot: A month after the Punjab and Haryana high court ruled that the will of the last ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Faridkot, Harinder Singh Brar, was forged in favour of the Maharwal Khewaji Trust on June 1, 1982, a case was registered against 23 of its members and employees.The case of fraud was registered on the complaint of Brar’s younger daughter Amrit Kaur against the 23 trust members, including chairman Jai Chand Mehtab, who is also the son of her elder sister, Deepinder Kaur, and a prince of the erstwhile royal family of West Bengal. The erstwhile ruler’s granddaughter and Mehtab’s sister, Nisha D Kher, who is vice-chairperson of the trust, is also named in the FIR.The other accused include trust CEO Jagir Singh Sran, trust legal adviser Navjot Singh Wahniwal, Paramjit Singh Sandhu, Santosh Kumar, Jaspal Kaur, Bhushan Sharma, Shankarpal, Baljit Kaur, Harpreet Kaur, Babu Ram Pal, Madan Mohan Devgan, Naresh, BS Sandhu, Sheparwah Singh, Raghubir Singh, Resham Singh, Kuldeep Chand, Barjinder Pal Singh Brar, Jatinder Pal Singh, SK Kataria and then trust CEO Lalit Mohan Gupta, who is chairman of the improvement trust, Faridkot, at present.A case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property); 465 (forgery); 467 (forgery of valuable security, will); 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating); 471 (using as genuine a forged document); and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at the city police station in Faridkot.Senior superintendent of police Swarndeep Singh said that on the basis of the high court order Amrit Kaur filed a complaint and a case was registered after taking legal advice. “She has stated in her complaint that the accused have committed forgery by preparing a fake will of Faridkot ruler,” he said.The high court had upheld a Chandigarh court’s order last month, awarding majority share in the ₹20,000-crore property of Harinder Singh Brar to his two daughters —Amrit Kaur and Deepinder Kaur. The court held that descendents of Manjit Inder Singh, the last ruler’s brother, would get their mother Mohinder Kaur’s share.As of the will in dispute, the court observed, trustees conspired to create the will to take over the property. “The will is proved to be forged, fictitious, fabricated and shrouded with suspicious circumstances,” the court order said.FARIDKOT ROYAL DISPUTECrowned maharaja at the age of three in 1918, Harinder Singh Brar was the last ruler of the Faridkot estate and was married to Narinder Kaur. The royal couple had three daughters, Amrit Kaur, Deepinder Kaur and Maheepinder Kaur and a son, Harmohinder Singh.The son died in a road accident in 1981.One of the rulers of the seven Sikh princely states, Harinder died in 1989 and left behind prime properties in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana and Chandigarh.Maheepinder Kaur died a spinster, while Deepinder died while the legal battle was on. Amrit Kaur lives in Chandigarh.The property dispute started soon after Harinder Singh Brar died in October 1989 after a will surfaced in which he had bequeathed his properties to the Maharwal Khewaji Trust, with his daughter Deepinder as its head.The property dispute reached the high court in 2018 after a Chandigarh court declared the trust void and gave property to the daughters. In June this year, the high court upheld the Chandigarh court’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/23-members-employees-of-maharwal-khewaji-trust-booked-for-forging-faridkot-erstwhile-maharaja-s-will/story-p2iVUWXdOMiMCdn76KmMHP.html
08-07-2020||Noida||2 criminals arrested after gunfight with police in UP’s Noida||Two alleged criminals were held after suffering injuries in gunfights with the police in Gautam Buddh Nagar in separate incidents on Tuesday, officials said.In the first incident, Suraj Tanwar was held, but his partner managed to escape during the gunfight that broke out on the Yamuna Pusta in Noida’s Sector 128 around 8 pm, the officials said. “The duo was on a motorcycle which did not have any registration plate. When gestured by the police to stop for a check, they opened fire and tried to flee instead of stopping, prompting a retaliation by the policemen, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, Ranvijay Singh said.  “One of the two men, Suraj, got injured and was held, while his partner escaped. The accused was then taken to a hospital for treatment,” Singh said. During initial probe, the accused confessed to his involvement in the June 30 shootout at a fuel station in Noida where a salesman was targeted for money, the officer said. The accused has previously been jailed in a criminal case and was absconding in a murder case too, the ADCP said, adding his police records were being checked further. An illegal firearm was seized from the possession of the accused and further proceedings in the case were being carried out at the local Expressway police station, officials said.Later around midnight, a wanted criminal, allegedly involved in robberies at houses, was injured in gunfight with the police in Greater Noida (West), Additional DCP, Noida, Ankur Aggarwal said. The accused has been identified as Vikram Singh, a native of Ghaziabad, who suffered an injury on his leg during a retaliatory fire by the police, he said. “The accused and his partner were on a motorcycle when they were intercepted near Cherry County police post in Bisrakh area. They opened fire on the police and tried to escape. Vikram was held but his partner managed to escape. A combing operation is underway to find him,” Aggarwal said. The accused carried a reward of Rs 25,000 on his arrest, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/2-criminals-arrested-after-gunfight-with-police-in-up-s-noida/story-gotXMXWjhnyu3xMPWWIxpN.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal seeks report on factors leading to Covid-19 deaths in Delhi||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has sought a detailed analytical report from the Delhi government’s health secretary on factors responsible for Covid-19 deaths in the city in the last fortnight, officials said. Delhi reported 736 deaths in the last two weeks, with 397 people succumbing to the disease in the first week of July.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Officials said the objective of seeking the report is to take all possible measures to reduce coronavirus deaths in the national capital.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage A total of 3,165 Covid-19 deaths have occurred in Delhi so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-seeks-report-on-factors-leading-to-covid-19-deaths-in-delhi/story-wXPfcBx3EJ1rIK33FyG2SI.html
08-07-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru man insists on institutional quarantine for wife returning from Punjab||Amid coronavirus outbreak, a man insisted that his wife should go in for institutional quarantine instead of returning home, police said. The woman had recently returned from Punjab.After police intervention, the man allowed his wife into the home.The incident took place in Varthur police station limits. The man did not open the door of the house even as his wife continued to knock, police said.The woman tried to convince him but when the husband did not open the door, she called the women helpline and police.Police and health department staff reached the spot and convinced him about new guidelines and quarantine norms of the Karnataka government, police said.As per revised quarantine norms issued by the Karnataka government on July 6, persons coming from other states to Karnataka, including Maharashtra, shall be placed in 14 days home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-man-insists-on-institutional-quarantine-for-wife-returning-from-punjab/story-AgvsFQZscMBW0d70obFVFK.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Two held in Mumbai for posing as Covid officers and duping man of Rs 54,000||Two men have been arrested for allegedly posing as Covid officers and duping a man of Rs 54,000 in Chembur area of Mumbai, informed the police on Tuesday.A case has been lodged against them under Section 420 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.The victim Abdul Sheikh was on his way to Chembur railway station on June 30 when the two accused accosted him and introduced themselves as Covid officers. On pretending to inspect, the accused searched Sheikh’s bag, took out an ATM card and withdrew Rs 54,000 after obtaining a PIN number from him.“A case has been filed under Section 420 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code at Chembur police station. Two people have been arrested for posing as Covid officers and extorting Rs 54,000 from a man with his ATM card. A Honda City car and an ATM card have been seized from the possession of the accused during the time of arrest,” said Hemant Gurav, Crime Police Inspector, Chembur Police Station.Further investigation into the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-held-in-mumbai-for-posing-as-covid-officers-and-duping-man-of-rs-54-000/story-SlteYDf2hTMaEIJq6DLTNM.html
08-07-2020||City||With schools shut and no mid-day meals, children in Muzaffarpur return to agricultural fields||The fight against hunger for children studying in government schools in Muzaffarpur has been a daily challenge. During this coronavirus lockdown, the burden has become heavier with the mid-day meals services in schools being stopped in the past few months.“Mid-day meals are not being provided, the government has not done anything on this yet,” said one of the parents while speaking to ANI.“The government had promised that our children will get mid-day meals and money. So far we have not received anything,” said another parent.The mid-day meals have disappeared and due to paucity of money to buy grains some young children here are back to working in the fields helping their parents to sow paddy crops, while a few others graze animals.The mid-day meal scheme is a school meal programme of the Government of India designed to better the nutritional standing of school-age children nationwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-schools-shut-and-no-mid-day-meals-children-in-muzaffarpur-return-to-agricultural-fields/story-S34zsovNuonIrQXhfq59yK.html
08-07-2020||Ranchi||Protest in Jharkhand’s Latehar demanding probe in murder of BJP leader||Hundreds of locals marched through the main market of Barwadih in Latehar district on Tuesday raising anti-police slogans and demanding a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the murder of Jaiwardhan Singh, a BJP leader and representative of Chatra MP Sunil Kumar Singh.The locals later gathered on the main road near the Barwadih police station and demanded an audience with the MP and MLA. Later, Barwadih sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Amarnath reached the spot and persuaded the youths to withdraw the protest.The protest was taken back after an hour after the police assured to fulfil their demands of providing security to Jaiwardhan’s family, immediate arrest of the culprits, installation of CCTV cameras, and deployment of police force at the Chowk.Some of the protestors also demanded action against Barwadih police station officer-in-charge Dinesh Kumar for demanding money during the lockdown.Confirming the same, SDPO Amarnath said, “Some people have levelled bribery charges against the Barwadih OC. I have asked them to file a complaint in writing. If found true, we will recommend action in this regard.”Meanwhile, Sunil Kumar Singh met with the Jharkhand director general of police (DGP) MV Rao on Tuesday to demand security cover for the deceased leader’s family and arrest of the culprits.Two days after the murder, a special investigation team (SIT) held some villagers for interrogation in this connection. The team again visited the spot on Tuesday for detailed investigation. Latehar superintendent of police Prashant Anand said, “We have collected some vital forensic clues and held some persons for interrogation but it’s too early to say anything in this regard.”Unidentified assailants had shot dead Jaiwardhan Singh at Barwadih bus stand on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/locals-protest-demand-cbi-probe-in-bjp-leader-s-murder/story-BInI7bVe8I3IID6KOyNHTI.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Vandalism at Ambedkar’s Mumbai residence; FIR filed||Mumbai police have registered an FIR against unknown persons following vandalism at Rajgruh, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s house, an official said on Wednesday.Two persons threw stones on glass windows, and damaged CCTV cameras and potted plants at Rajgruh in Dadar area here on Tuesday night, the official said.CCTV footage from the erstwhile home the Constitution architect shows a person smashing flower pots in the compound before fleeing, the official said.Matunga police have registered an FIR in the incident.Located in Hindu Colony, Dadar, the two-storeyed heritage bungalow houses the Ambedkar Museum where Babasaheb’s books, portrait, ashes and vessels are among the artefacts.The current residents of Rajgruh include Babasaheb’s daughter-in-law, and his grandsons Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader Prakash Ambedkar, Anandrao and Bhimrao.Prakash Ambedkar, who was in Akola when the attack took place, has appealed for calm and asked his followers to not gather outside the house.The All India Professional Congress on Wednesday asked Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to look into the attack on Rajgruh.Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has already assured that strict action will be taken against the culprits.“This is highly condemnable. @CMOMaharashtra should immediately look into this. Rajgruh is not just a memorial, it is a reminder of the legacy of Dr B R Ambedkar,” AIPCMumbaiEast tweeted.The minister said police are probing the matter and assured that strict action will be taken against the guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vandalism-at-ambedkar-s-mumbai-residence-fir-filed/story-kuxUOj74jbv2L7pug8j6wJ.html
08-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt directs private schools not to charge fees till reopening||Rajasthan government on Tuesday barred the private schools in the state from taking advance fees till they reopen, a statement said.The state government had on April 9 barred schools in the state from taking advance fee for three months in view of the corona pandemic and the order was extended today, it said.“Private schools were directed to not take fees till June 30. Now this order has been extended till reopening of schools,” School Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasara said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-govt-directs-private-schools-not-to-charge-fees-till-reopening/story-KbE9Xu1Mk68kdqH30LUYCM.html
08-07-2020||Bhopal||55-year-old man held for allegedly raping cow in Bhopal: Police||A 55-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping a cow at a dairy in Sundar Nagar here, police said on Tuesday.Alok Srivastava, Ashoka Garden police station in-charge, Bhopal said that incident took place on July 4 and the accused has been booked under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code.“On July 4, a man named Sabir Ali, 55 entered a diary in Sundar Nagar. The dairy owner Ram Yadav caught him but later allowed him to go. The next day, Yadav checked CCTV footage and found Ali doing an unnatural act (sex) with the cow,” Srivastava told ANI.“Yadav has filed a complaint in the police station and Sabir Ali has been booked under Section 377. He has been arrested,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/55-year-old-man-held-for-allegedly-raping-cow-in-bhopal-police/story-S4Zsoa62BG2jCm1EBREU0L.html
08-07-2020||Pune||Pune reports 1,134 new coronavirus cases, 29 deaths||As many as 1,134 new Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours in Pune district.The total positive cases stand at 30,978 and the death toll at 919, according to Dr Bhagawan Pawar, District Health Officer, Pune. With a spike of 22,252 cases, India’s Covid-19 count breached the seven lakh mark and reached 7,19,665 on Tuesday, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.With as many as 467 deaths reported in the last 24 hours due to coronavirus, the death toll has reached 20,160.Out of the total number of cases, 2,59,557 are active and 4,39,948 have been cured/discharged/migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-1-134-new-coronavirus-cases-29-deaths/story-SUNTOGdjX3ChRjGxIT3NnO.html
08-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugramwale: The story behind the walker||The walker can have many uses. Shiraz Muhammad discovered it not long after acquiring one for himself, following a leg injury.“You cover the walker with a cloth, sit down under it and you will be protected from the rain,” he says — though this morning he is protecting himself from a resentfully strong sun.Mr Muhammed is seated on a central Delhi pavement. He indicates his “current status” is being a beggar. “I have nobody in this world,” he says. He suggests—rhetorically—to go through his I-card. “My father’s name: khali (empty); my mother’s name: khali; my place of birth: khali.”Mr Muhammed doesn’t have any idea of his age but says he cannot be more than 40.He pauses to gather his thoughts. “From top to bottom I’m a lawaris (orphan).” He says it in a bland tone.His life used to be far superior to his present, he points out. “I worked as a waiter in Ludhiana (Punjab). This is where I was hit by a car, last year, and hurt my leg.”It’s more than a mere hurt. The great part of the left leg is not only bandaged but encased in a metallic casing. “Doctors fitted it.... there is a steel rod inside my leg,” he says in awe.Mr Muhammed came all the way from Ludhiana to Delhi, believing that “as the country’s capital, it would have better facilities for a quick recovery.”He got the walker not long after getting his leg treated in a “sarkari aspatal (government hospital).” A stranger donated it, he says. And “before the lockdown my legs would be dressed after ever few weeks by nurses in the aspatal, with fresh patti (bandage), for free.” Mr Muhammed has not visited the hospital since the coronavirus pandemic has started — he is indeed acting very responsibly since the first lockdown and, unlike most people on the street, he has his mouth covered with mask.These days, he says, he buys new “patti” after every two weeks for 120 rupees from a chemist shop, and does the bandaging himself.Mr Muhammed plans to follow his current profession until his leg fully recovers. “Doctor says my leg will heal faster if I walk more.” But he hardly employs the walker to walk, which, he now feels, will serve more as an umbrella as monsoon takes over the city. At night, it becomes his shelter. “I sleep over there across the road... with my top body under the walker that I cover with a chaddar(sheet).”It’s about ten and the air is getting extremely humid. Mr Muhammed hasn’t had breakfast yet. Soon, a passerby drops a 20-rupee note by his side. He silently nods his head in acknowledgment. Not long after he is joined by another man who sits besides him, and reads aloud the headlines on India-China border dispute from the day’s newspaper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugramwale-the-story-behind-the-walker/story-QYpvs3lFL4Ybfgk6Ujt0zO.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwala: The pickle store tolls||The obvious and subtle ways in which the pandemic has affected a landmark storeIt ought to be a truth universally acknowledged that dal-chawal-subzi remains an incomplete meal without being accompanied by aam ka achar. Or, for that matter, by any pickle.The humble pickle has even been recognized as an essential commodity by the authorities, and “so we were permitted to open our pickle shop before the complete lockdown was lifted,” says Rohit Dhingra, 38. Along with two of his brothers, he run the landmark Shri Sai Pickle Store in Gurugram’s Old Subzi Mandi in Sadar Bazar. He is chatting this morning on WhatsApp from his home on “Gali Number 1, Madan Puri” and is just preparing to leave for the shop.Obviously, the pickle shop took its toll in the going coronavirus pandemic too. Here’s a non-exhaustive list of them.Toll no. 1The two employees who had been serving as store assistants for a long time left for home before the lockdown began, Mr Dhingra says. Aakash went back to his village in UP, and Sanjay returned to his parents in Bihar. “The last time I talked to Aakash, he said he was busy looking after his mango orchard and would get back only after the (mango) season gets over, while Sanjay is more vague about his return.” Sanjay actually says he will consider coming back only after the virus has disappeared.For now, Mr Dhingra is running the shop with his two brothers daily from 7 am to 7 pm.Toll no. 2It was a difficult time for the eleven women who make the pickles in the shop’s factory, in nearby Rewari town. “They all have been working with us for a long time, so we had to look after them even when the business was closed,” notes Mr Dhingra. Now about seven women have started reporting to work—Ravi, Bhagwati, Angoorie, Jyoti, Seems, Mahindra, and Madhu. “The rest of the staff will also come hopeful soon.” Being women, Mr Dhingra observes, they have additional responsibilities at home too.Toll no. 3Mr Dhingra’s wife, Kirti, remains suspended in a state of anxiety. She was greatly alarmed when the shop reopened. “But she understood that we had to restart the business, and I assured her that we all would wear masks and gloves in the shop at all times, and would exercise physical distancing from customers.”Nevertheless, Kirti isn’t taking any chances. Every morning she keeps some additional two masks in her husband’s bag “because it’s hot and humid now, and one sweats a lot, making it tempting to change the sweaty mask for a fresh one.” Kirti also serves Mr Dhingra an extra-fortified breakfast with two pieces of their shop’s very own aamla ka murabba-“an immunity booster, and currently our best seller.” She also arms him with a large bottle of freshly squeezed musambi juice.Toll no. 4Mr Dhingra’s 9-year-old son, Priyansh, also had to change his ways. In the BC (before corona) era, he would run out to welcome his father and two uncles as they would return from the shop in the evening. He would first join his palm in a respectful namaste, and then would reverently touch the feet of each of the three men. “But now we would immediately tell him “Nahin nahin beta abhi door rahon! (No son, stay away!)” The men first head straight to the bathroom, thoroughly wash themselves with soap and change into clean, sanitized, clothes before entering the rooms and letting Priyansh follow his daily ritual.Despite these professional and personal tolls, however, Mr Dhingra isn’t perturbed too much. “This situation is beyond one’s control, it’s happening to everyone... so we need to bear it and carry on with caution.” He later Whatsapps a joint portrait of the achar shop-owning family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwala-the-pickle-store-tolls/story-S7gq6GfDSQ1XVznmmmlIrJ.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||HC cites freedom of speech in turning down Murthy’s plea||The Delhi high court has declined a plea by venture capitalist Mahesh Murthy to restrain publication of sexual harassment allegations against him by some women entrepreneurs. Murthy’s prayer for compensation to the tune of Rs 2,50,00,000 from eighteen defendants for publication of posts against him was also turned down by the court.“It would not be reasonable in the facts and circumstances to fetter the narration of alleged facts and comments of defendants. The defendants have a right to exercise their right of freedom of speech. If these incidents and claims of the said defendants are in trial proved to be false, the plaintiff (Murthy) would have a right to claim damages,” the single-judge bench of justice Jayant Nath said on Monday.Some women published details of conversations with Murthy to expose his alleged inappropriate responses. Such posts were published on websites like LinkedIn and Indian Ceo. Articles were also FactorDaily and YourStory. The Delhi high court had, by a 2017 order, restrained publication of such material till his plea was decided. The HC on Monday vacated the stay. Murthy said he will be filing an appeal and that “justice will prevail”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-cites-freedom-of-speech-in-turning-down-murthy-s-plea/story-mkuOMWLbvuhyKwXZgqBXiP.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Chandni Mahal’s lanes of uncertainty||At least 70 families in two lanes of Chandni Mahal have been stayed in containment for the past 88 days -- the longest duration for which restrictions were imposed in any part of the city to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease. The residents are now clamouring for easing of restrictions but the district officials asserted that till cases are emerging from the area, there cannot be any let up in the containment measures. On April 10, Chandni Mahal was sealed with only one entry and exit remaining open.Before the area was unsealed on June 6, 89 cases had been reported from there. However, the two lanes -- Gali Chhatta Lal Miyan and Gali Dakotan -- remained closed. Though officials said cases were still surfacing in the two lanes, local residents said the last known case was reported on June 1 and the infected woman has fully recovered. As per the protocol, the administration waits for at least 28 days since the last case before unsealing a containment zone. The residents also complained that their life has come to a halt as they have been marooned in their locality and facing difficulty in managing essential items and daily chores. “After June first week, the main road outside was opened. Police barricades were removed. Chandni Mahal residents were allowed to move out but for us, it has been like a prisoner’s life. Even the building (Markaz) at Nizamuddin was removed from the list of containment in lesser time compared to us,” said Shoaib, 45, a resident.Mohammed Malik, 33, a resident of Chhatta Lal Miyan, said, “We give the address of our friends (living outside contained lanes) to get online deliveries. Our friends collect those items and hand it to us over the police barricades. From cell phone battery chargers to gas cylinders, this is how we have been managing. We don’t know how long our troubles are going to continue,” Malik said.Till Tuesday, Delhi had 454 containment zones.Junaid, 24, another resident of the Chatta Lal Miyan, said his brother had written to the sub-divisional magistrate office last Friday, urging lifting of containment measures. He said his aunt had tested positive following which the lane was sealed. “My aunt had tested positive on June 1 at the Lok Nayak hospital where she regularly went for dialysis. She was admitted at the hospital and returned on June 12. She has completed her home quarantine too. My aunt is fully recovered but the government is yet to remove containment measures,” he said.Nidhi Srivastava, district magistrate (central), said regular door-to-door surveys are being conducted in the area. “Our teams are collecting samples from the restricted area. We are also ensuring that home delivery of essential items is maintained. For this purpose, we have deployed civil defence volunteers and also distributed contact numbers of designated vendors and traders to the residents,” she said.“Nearly 6,000 cases were reported from the central district and most of them are from Old Delhi areas. Some fresh cases were reported last month (from the two lanes) so they could not be unsealed. We are closely monitoring the situation,” the DM said.The area councillor , Ale Mohammad, said though the locality is congested and there were chances of virus spreading rapidly but no fresh cases were reported from the two lanes in the last 15-20 days.“There is no need to keep the lanes under containment. For over three months, residents of these localities are facing trouble in procuring necessary items as they are unable to move out,” he said.District officials, however, said two new cases were reported from Gali Dakotan on June 22 and therefore, it cannot be unsealed. Officials said, as per guidelines, any area is declared containment zone when three or more cluster cases appear from there but it also depends on the demographics of the area. If an area is densely populated and is congested like localities in old city, it can be made containment zone even when the number of cases is less than three and the risk factor is high. Any area is declared containment zones only after due survey and risk assessment in the region.Besides the two Chandni Mahal lanes, other areas which have been remained in containment for at least 50 days include Pratap Khand in east Delhi, Block B and C in Jahangirpuri and Zakir Nagar in Jamia Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chandni-mahal-s-lanes-of-uncertainty/story-wtMmpwrmZxHFaN4hJAMcSI.html
08-07-2020||City||Covid-19 patients can now book ambulances and beds online in Thane||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), in a bid to ensure a smoother admission process for Covid-19 patients to hospitals, introduced an online booking facility for ambulances and beds. Locals can visit the website, www.covidbedthane.in, log in and register for ambulances or beds by filling a form. Local can also lodge their complaints on the website. “We ought to provide basic details, and according to the clinical status of a patient, they will be allocated a bed. If the patient has requested for an ambulance service, that too will be provided. The patient should share the One Time Password (OTP) received on the website with the ambulance driver and accordingly the hospital and corporation will be alerted about the patient and the details of the patient will be updated on the Covid-19 dashboard,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-patients-can-now-book-ambulances-and-beds-online-in-thane/story-jRVpHBNEFtLnxykwmNDmQM.html
08-07-2020||City||CR transports medicines for cancer patients from Maharashtra to Karnataka amid lockdown||The Central Railway (CR) transported medicines to two blood cancer patients from Mumbai to Belgavi in Karnataka amid the coronavirus lockdown. The medicines were sent from four different railway transport. The parcel wing of CR sent the medicines from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) to Pune by a special parcel train. The medicines were then sent from Pune to Satara by workmen special train, meant for railway employees and then transported to Miraj in Maharashtra through a Shramik Special train. From Miraj to Belgavi, it was sent on a goods train. “Railway has always played a proactive role and proved to be a saviour for many cancer patients during the nation-wide lockdown by providing medicines to them on time.” said a CR spokesperson.Earlier, the zonal railway had transported one lakh N95 masks, 10,000 eye protection goggles, 2,000 face shields and 75 pairs of protection footwear from the city to health care workers in Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cr-transports-medicines-for-cancer-patients-from-maharashtra-to-karnataka-amid-lockdown/story-F2D7xMaJRqhEHNw1Hd5Y8L.html
08-07-2020||City||Shortage of bamboo shoots led to delay in sealing buildings: Kalyan Dombivli civic officials||With the number of cases rising in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) limits , the civic commissioner has given directives to seal every building where Covid-19 positive cases are found, by Wednesday. Civic officials claimed that there were several complaints from the residents that most buildings or areas are not sealed despite housing positive patients. A report on the sealed buildings will also be sent to the commissioner on Wednesday morning. Civic officials said they were unable to seal buildings owing to lack of bamboo shoots. On Tuesday, KDMC recorded 381 positive cases and seven deaths. This has taken the total number of positive cases to 9,880 and deaths to 151 deaths within the corporation. “I have asked all the officials to seal the buildings with positive patients by Wednesday,” said civic commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi . The civic body said each ward will be allotted a different contractor for the supply of bamboo shoots to resolve the issue. “We had only one contractor who was in-charge of supplying bamboo shoots to seal the buildings, and ran out of the sticks. So many buildings could not be sealed on time last week,” said a civic official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shortage-of-bamboo-shoots-led-to-delay-in-sealing-buildings-kalyan-dombivli-civic-officials/story-7V1fZNtfpqhtvdTdwhkXjK.html
08-07-2020||City||Sangrur women college management suspendedfor ‘fund misuse’, ADC appointed administrator||The Punjab government has suspended the management of the Akal Degree College for Women, Sangrur, over allegations of misuse of funds and not admitting students in the BA-1 course for the 2020-21 academic session. In her orders, director public instructions (DPI colleges) Indu Malthora said the college management neither responded to the clarification sought by the higher education department nor it followed the instructions given.“Additional deputy commissioner (ADC general) has been appointed as administrator of the college,” the orders dated July 6 read.On July 3, the secretary (higher education) formed a three-member committee to probe the alleged misuse of funds by the college management on directions of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.The college is run on grants issued by the government since 1970.Local MLA and state school education minister Vijay Inder Singla said the college is the only institute of higher education for girls in the 40-km radius in the Sangrur area.“I am continuously briefing the CM on the issue. A high-level committee has been formed to probe the alleged misuse of funds released by the government to the college as an aided institution,” said Singla, who also holds the public works portfolio.“The special committee will expose the wrongdoings of the committee, if any,” he added.Leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, who had written a letter to the CM demanding action on the issue, said, “It is the victory of people as the college is the only ray of hope for girls in this backward belt. We will not allow the management to stop admission to the BA course.”Justifying their focus on self-financed courses, Akal Degree College for Women management committee chairperson Karanvir Singh Sibia had said the college was suffering from losses and could not afford more financial burden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangrur-women-college-management-suspendedfor-fund-misuse-adc-appointed-administrator/story-1M6nHpn8R6I7sIo0bFO4gP.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s 18 districts among India’s worst drug-hit: Sampla||Former Union minister and BJP leader Vijay Sampla on Tuesday claimed that Punjab’s 18 districts are among the country’s worst-hit by drug abuse. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Sampla cited a survey by the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment saying the state’s 82 percent of area is under the menace.He said the survey released on June 26 on the occasion of International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking found that out of the 22 districts in state, 18 figure in the list of 272 districts in India that the central government has declared as ‘most affected districts’ in terms of drug abuse and addiction.Sampla, who remained the minister of state in social justice and empowerment ministry during previous tenure of the NDA government at the Centre, said that the worst affected districts are Faridkot, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Mansa, Moga, Pathankot, Sangrur, Patiala, Muktsar, SBS Nagar, Tarn Taran and Hoshiarpur. Accompanied by BJP’s former state secretary Vineet Joshi, he also rolled out the annual Nasha Mukt Bharat programme under which Rs 260 crore budgetary allocation has been made to root out drugs in the affected districts.“Under this programme the Narcotics Control Bureau will work on putting an end to drugs and the ministry for social justice and empowerment will work on creating awareness about the issue. Also, the health department will treat and rehabilitate addicts,” said Sampla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-18-districts-among-india-s-worst-drug-hit-sampla/story-jfcDa6meK9Tn9wPerfz55I.html
08-07-2020||City||Maharashtra revenue minister isolates self at home after staffer tests positive||Revenue minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat is in home quarantine, after one of the telephone operators at his official bungalow Royal Stone tested positive for Covid on Monday. Following this, the minister and all those who had come in close contact with him underwent Covid-19 tests. Their test reports are awaited. “As a precautionary measure, the minister has quarantined himself at an undisclosed place in Mumbai,” a staff member said. Previously, three senior ministers from the Maharashtra government cabinet were tested positive for the virus and recovered from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-revenue-minister-isolates-self-at-home-after-staffer-tests-positive/story-B4pt1OslhYm3B3DiWno2pI.html
08-07-2020||City||Akalis first backstabbed Sikhs, now ditching farmers for power: Jakhar||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has already backstabbed the Sikh community and is now ditching the farmers by supporting the central government’s agriculture ordinances to get a share in spoils of power. Addressing a gathering of farmers at Litran village in Jalandhar, Jakhar said the Congress’ state unit will explore ways of challenging the validity of the ordinances brought by the Narendra Modi-led government as they violated the basic spirit of the Indian Constitution. Accompanied by Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary, MLAs Pargat Singh, Hardev Singh Laddi and state water resources chairman Jagbir Singh Brar and others, Jakhar said the Centre has no right to frame any law on the subject. The former Gurdaspur MP said the ordinances were aimed at breaking the backbone of the of country’s foodgrain growers. “The move to stop government purchase of foodgrains is aimed at making the farmers a puppet of the private players to whom the BJP government wanted to benefit. The Akalis are more concerned about enjoying power rather than protecting the interests of the state and its people,” added Jakhar. The Akalis have already backstabbed the Sikh community as a series of incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib took place during their tenure, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akalis-first-backstabbed-sikhs-now-ditching-farmers-for-power-jakhar/story-vBORWzRrZbaob495s3A0SK.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Two constables dismissed from Mumbai Police for failing to report to duty||Two constables were dismissed from the city police force for not reporting to duty despite several warnings. The two were suspended earlier and asked to be present for an inquiry. However, they remained unavailable for inquiry, following which they were dismissed. The dismissal orders were sent to them. A senior police officer said that in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Disaster Management Act is implemented in the state and the police force is entrusted with the responsibility of maintaining law and order. So the police department is taking stern action against those personnel who are not cooperating with the department during this crisis. The dismissed constables – Dada Bapu Sonawane and Madhav Rajendra Jadhav – were attached to Tardeo local arms division (LA-2). “Both remained absent for a very long period. They did not respond to the show-cause notices that were issued during the departmental inquiry and hence have been dismissed,” said Nandkumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police, LA-2.Jadhav was absent since December 22, 2018, while Sonawane has a history of remaining absent from duty for long periods, said the police. “He was absent for 107 days in 2009 and later in 2011, did not report to duty for over four years. After resuming duty in May 2015, he was again stopped reporting to work on November 7 last year and since then did not come back on duty,” said a police officer.Sonawane is in his village. The departmental inquiry found him guilty for indiscipline and “not fit for police service”.To prevent the spread of the virus and save the lives of the personnel, those with comorbidities and above 55 years of age are exempted assigned indoor duties or exempted from reporting to duty. As a result, the number of personnel on the field has reduced and the leaves of all the personnel were cancelled, while those on leave were asked to report to duty on an immediate basis. But several personnel are yet to resume the services, prompting their superiors to take stern action. “Strict action sends a clear message across the force that such attitude will not be tolerated,” said Thakur. Last month, in a similar development, a criminal case was registered against six police personnel for not reporting to duty, despite several warnings. The personnel were suspended earlier and were asked to be present for an inquiry by the Borivli police. However, they remained unavailable during the inquiry, following which they were booked in a criminal case.In May, the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) registered a similar complaint against 17 personnel at the Vanrai police station not reporting to duty despite several warnings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-constables-dismissed-from-mumbai-police-for-failing-to-report-to-duty/story-h6mByM8RCkaycZ4cgbim6K.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Amend Act to keep fee hikes by private schools in check: Parents, experts to Maharashtra government||As several private schools in the city have hiked their fees, parents and experts urged the state to make amendments to the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011, to allow the government to regulate the fees of private schools.An official from the education department said that the state is reviewing the fee-related laws.As parents reel under financial stress owing to the lockdown, they said they were unable to pay huge amounts at the moment. Many schools are removing students from their online learning groups or threatening parents to remove them from the school altogether, if the fees are not paid.Vaishali Bafna from SYSCOM, a Pune-based think tank, said the government needs to amend the fee regulation Act to include a provision, in which fees of private schools can be capped during a crisis.“The current provisions of the Act allow private schools to set their own fee structure. Schools are using this system to their own advantage even in difficult times such as these to put pressure on parents to pay huge sums. The government needs to intervene and bring amendments in the Act urgently,” she added.A government resolution released on May 8 stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay high court on June 26, in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. The petitioners argued that the government cannot regulate fees of private schools as per the current rules.Parents said that in the absence of strict norms, they have nowhere to go.“We are all stuck now because even if we complain to the education department, schools will still get away, as the court put a stay on the GR. On the other hand, schools are discriminating against students whose parents are unable to pay the fees, by removing them from online learning groups. The government needs to intervene,” said a Goregaon-based parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amend-act-to-keep-fee-hikes-by-private-schools-in-check-parents-experts-to-maharashtra-government/story-HdwGiTuchD0PP96otLQ7AJ.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||PIL challenges cancellation of exams: Bombay HC asks UGC to be made party, Maharashtra govt to respond||A division bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has called for the University Grants Commission (UGC) to be made a party to a public interest litigation (PIL) that has challenged a Maharashtra government resolution (GR) of June 19 which decided to not conduct exams for professional and non-professional courses due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench also asked the state to respond to the petition.The PIL filed by Dhananjay Kulkarni, a retired teacher from Pune, has stated that because UGC was the regulation authority, Maharashtra state was not empowered to decide and announce the mode of assessment for final-year students, and has sought to set aside and quash the GR.The division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice MS Karnik was informed by Kulkarni’s advocate Uday Warunjikar that the decision of the higher and technical education ministry to not conduct exams for professional and non-professional courses was not valid.The GR had stated that students of non-professional courses who have cleared all previous semesters and do not want to appear for last semester exams of their final year should submit their decision in writing to their respective universities. These students will be awarded a score based on the average of their aggregate marks of previous semesters and provided with results.The GR had also offered an exception for those students who were not satisfied with their score and wished to fare better, to give a written undertaking to the effect which would enable them to take an optional exam later.It had stated that it will not be able to conduct final-semester exams of professional courses like engineering, pharmacy, hotel management, architecture, planning, management studies, computer studies, law, physical education, and pedagogy, but had given students the option to take the exam for better scores later.The plea stated, “There is an artificial classification made by the state among students admitted to professional and non-professional courses. If the state government is not going to conduct examinations for non-professional courses because of the coronavirus outbreak, there is no reason to conduct exams for professional courses either. There is no logic behind the decision and it is arbitrary and unreasonable and therefore, the court’s intervention is required.”Warunjikar further submitted that the dual assessment method offered to the students in the GR was without logic, and such methods cannot be adopted while granting degrees. “Such an exercise is unknown to the educational field, and therefore, there is non-application of mind on the part of the state,” said Warunjikar, and submitted that even the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016 did not permit the state government to take such a decision, and only the UGC could take such decisions. Hence, he said, the decision was beyond the purview of the provisions of the UGC Act as well.The plea stated, “The hanging sword of uncertainty is faced by final-year students and the GR is not clear as to when the exams will be conducted and the academic year will get over. The fate of a large number of students who wish to take admission for post-graduation courses is kept hanging.”Stating this, the petitioner sought from the court to quash and set aside the GR, and pending hearing sought a stay on the same. After hearing the submissions, the court directed that UGC should also be made a party to the PIL and directed the state to file a response to the plea within a week, the court posted further hearing on July 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pil-challenges-cancellation-of-exams-bombay-hc-asks-ugc-to-be-made-party-maharashtra-govt-to-respond/story-mf5Uswi9RefP1uKZyezRPN.html
08-07-2020||City||Maharashtra can’t conduct final-year exams, state education minister writes to Union HRD ministry||A day after the University Grants Commission (UGC) accepted a recommendation by an expert committee, clarifying that universities should conduct end-of-term exams for their final-year batches, state minister of higher and technical education Uday Samant on Tuesday wrote to the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), reiterating that Maharashtra is not in a position to conduct the exams.“At present, Maharashtra is the worst-affected state, with more than two lakh confirmed Covid-19 cases. In such an unforeseen and challenging situation, conducting final-year exams of more than 10 lakh students seems a highly infeasible task, and if conducted, would endanger the well-being of students, teachers, parents, support staff and other machinery involved in it,” said Samant in a statement addressed to the union HRD minister, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank.He asked authorities to make the revised guidelines of UGC not mandatory and instead to suggest a formula to promote students based on their previous semester performances.The two-page letter is also marked to Union home minister Amit Shah, secretary of higher education, government of India and UGC chairman.“Due to this pandemic situation, most students have travelled back to their hometowns and to appear for exams, they will have to travel back to cities and this travel could also hamper their health. There have been incidences in other states and countries where exams were conducted and a large number of students got infected by the virus,” stated his letter.The UGC-appointed committee on Monday revealed that it is in favour of holding exams, especially for final-year students. However, it suggested that the exams may be held either in the online, offline or blended modes. The panel also clarified that universities must hold these exams latest by September-end for which revised guidelines will be released soon.Officials from city colleges, however, say it will be impossible to work out an exam schedule and conduct them in the state.“The UGC’s decision will be applicable to all the states but the Covid-19 situation is not the same everywhere. Maharashtra is facing a grave situation at present and even though the UGC directive says exams should be held by September, who knows how the situation will be in the next two months?” asked TA Shiware, chairman of the Mumbai Association of Non-Government Colleges.Teacher groups too feel that the UGC’s decision has been taken without understanding the ground reality.“UGC in its decision in April made exams optional, but now when the Covid-19 cases are at an all -time high, it are making exams mandatory, which is very illogical,” said Tapati Mukhopadhyay president the Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO).She added that forcing lakhs of students to appear for exams at different colleges, some of which have been used as quarantine centres, any time soon will be putting the lives of students as well as the teachers conducting the exams in danger.“As a teacher organisation, we are against the decision by UGC and stand by our students’ safety. The central government should leave the decision on the state governments,” she added.Several student organisations too have criticised the UGC’s decision. Many called the revised guidelines issued by the UGC on exams and the academic calendar as “utterly pointless, unreasonable and unfair to students, teachers and educational institutes.”“The commission’s suggestion to conduct exams in online, offline or blended modes is detached from the ground reality. Despite the relaxations provided by the Centre, many parts of the country continue to remain under strict lockdown imposed by the state governments and local bodies, rendering offline examinations impossible and also undesirable. Several colleges, especially those located in the remote parts of the country, lack the necessary infrastructure for conducting online examinations. Reports have pointed out that a large number of students don’t have access to the Internet or digital equipment. These students will suffer if exams are conducted online,” said Mohammad Salman, south Maharashtra president of Students’ Islamic Organisation.He added that the guidelines will only to confusion and anxiety among students, and at worst, will disturb the academic calendar of universities, create health issues and put additional burden on teachers and colleges.Many student organisations, including the Yuva Sena and the Maharashtra Students Union (MASU) started online petitions against the implementation of the latest recommendations by the UGC- appointed committee.Yuva Sena general secretary Varun Sardesai outlined the concerns on behalf of the students and questioned the logic behind holding the exams at a time when the Covid-19 cases in the country have crossed the 7-lakh figure. Sardesai said that Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already taken a decision to cancel the final-year exams, and given students an option to take voluntary exams for better grades.“When exams were originally scheduled, Covid cases were far lesser and it had not reached all parts of our country. The cases have been steadily rising and we cannot be sure they would decline by September,” his letter stated to the minister.“Lakhs of final year students have secured jobs as campus placements or enrolled in private Indian universities or foreign universities. Exams in September would mean they effectively lose all these opportunities,” Sardesai said in the letter.The youth leader said that the decision by the Centre has caused “confusion, panic and immense stress” among students and the education fraternity. He has also started an online petition, seeking the cancellation of final-year exams.“Yesterday, the UGC made final-year exams compulsory, and therefore, Yuva Sena has raised its voice against it and written to the HRD Minister. When the cases are increasing by the day, is the government expecting any vaccine or medicine to be developed by September? Secondly, they have given options for online and offline exams, but we all know that in rural India the Internet infrastructure is weak. If exams are conducted offline, the university staff and students are likely to get infected with coronavirus,” Sardesai said.(with inputs from Swapnil Rawal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-can-t-conduct-final-year-exams-state-education-minister-writes-to-union-hrd-ministry/story-X3rbq4GB6AXONFhItgg5fP.html
08-07-2020||City||3 absconding Dera Sacha Sauda national committee members key link in 2015 sacrilege: SIT||The three absconding members of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda’s national committee are the key link in Punjab’s three sacrilege incidents that sparked off state-wide protests in 2015, says the police’s special investigation team (SIT) led by Jalandhar range deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra. The team probing the sacrilege cases claims to have found that the instructions to execute sacrilege at Bargari, Moga and Gurusar were given by dera’s national committee members Sandeep Bareta, a resident of Bareta in Mansa district, Pardeep Kler of Panipat in Haryana and Harsh Dhuri of Dhuri in Sangrur district, to the district dera committee members.The SIT has named Breta, Kler and Dhuri as accused in a 2015 case relating to the theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of the ‘bir’ were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari village in Faridkot. The trio was also named as accused in the Malke and Gurusar cases. Torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib were found at Malke village in Moga district in November 2015 and Gurusar (Bhagta) village in Bathinda district in October 2015. In 2018, the Khatra-led SIT had arrested more than 20 dera followers, including Mohinder Pal Bittu who was killed in the Nabha jail in 2019, in connection with the sacrilege incidents and rioting in Punjab in 2015. But the police have failed to nab the trio even after two years.DIG Khatra said Bareta, Kler, and Dhuri were the main link between the Sirsa dera and district committees in the sacrilege incidents. “In the Bargari sacrilege case, the instructions to steal a bir came through the three. The trio had met Bittu and instructed him for the theft and sacrilege. Similarly, in Moga sacrilege case, they gave instructions to dera state committee member Pirthi Singh after which sacrilege was done by a dera follower at Malke village,” he said.“In the Gurusar case, the torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib found in October 2015 were delivered to a dera state committee member, Jatindervir alias Jimmy, from the Sirsa dera directly. Deepak, a Malout resident, picked these pages from the dera headquarters and hand it over to Jimmy near the Bathinda thermal plant. There could be another case of sacrilege as we are yet to identify from where the dera had got those pages. The trio’s link was revealed during the interrogation of the accused dera followers, including Bittu, Pirthi and Jimmy,” he added.An SIT official said the arrest of the trio could lead SIT to chance upon the names of more people involved in sacrileges. “We recently conducted raids to nab them, but got no clue. I am afraid they might have left the country,” he added. The Moga and Gurusar sacrilege cases are at different stages in the courts. The charges were framed against five dera followers, including Pirthi, in the Moga case last year.In the Gurusar case, the court has framed charges against six dera followers, including Jimmy, and evidence has started. Bretta, Kler and Dhuri have been declared proclaimed offenders (POs) in these cases.Now, the SIT has sought arrest warrant of the absconding trio in the bir theft case and the matter is listed for hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-absconding-dera-sacha-sauda-national-committee-members-key-link-in-2015-sacrilege-sit/story-zPErZaqPHzThsk5PJeC2mN.html
08-07-2020||City||Rains lash Thane on Tuesday||Heavy rain lashed Thane city on Tuesday leading to waterlogging at over 17 spots in the city. Few vehicles were also damaged and several trees collapsed, while a plaster of a house also collapsed. A 30-foot boundary wall of a private property collapsed due to heavy rains on Tuesday near Panchpakhadi. However, there were no injuries in any of the incidents.Thane saw incessant rains on Tuesday afternoon; it recorded around 101mm of rainfall throughout the day.Santosh Kadam, chief, regional disaster management cell, Thane, said, “A boundary wall of around 30 feet of a private property collapsed near Panchpakhadi on Tuesday. Similarly, parts of the plaster of a three-story residential building in Kolbad also fell on a neighbouring house; both the incidents did not have any injuries or casualties. However, in three incidents of tree fall bikes have been damaged in different parts of the city.”Heavy rains especially in the afternoon noted water logging in 17 places and 11 tree fall complaints on Tuesday. He added, “Five bikes in YAshodhan Nagar were damaged after a tree fell on it, three other bikes in Wagle Estate were also damaged due to tree fall and another tree fall incident occurred at Shree Nagar on a car. All these vehicles were parked below the tree, the tree has been removed from all these places.”Waterlogging was witnessed in Balkum, Majiwada, Wagale Estate, and Khopat areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rains-lash-thane-on-tuesday/story-kkAs5d5ec4ADx4OK9jFNMO.html
08-07-2020||City||Mumbai’s Dharavi reports only 1 new Covid-19 case on Tuesday||Dharavi reported only one positive case on Tuesday, the lowest since April first week, when the first case was reported from the area.For around a month now, Dharavi has been reporting fewer cases than earlier. On Saturday, Dharavi, which was the city’s hot spot earlier, reported only two cases. The total number of cases in India’s largest slum area now stands at 2,335 and until a week ago, Dharavi had reported 81 deaths. The civic body is yet to release the death toll figures for this week. The Brirhanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said over 6 lakh of around 8 lakh residents have been screened in Dharavi until now. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G-North ward, that covers Dharavi, said, “There are three factors that have helped us the most in controlling the spread of the virus: testing, screening and quarantining maximum people. Even after the migrants have returned and the small-scale industries in the area have opened , we have not seen a major spike in the cases. We are hoping for the best now” . Despite the decline in the number of cases in Dharavi, G-North ward has recorded 381 deaths till Monday, which is the highest among all the 24 wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-s-dharavi-reports-only-1-new-covid-19-case-on-tuesday/story-VSZJl4oCd3LB3PJG7yq9tJ.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab water regulatory body chairman to get salary, perks on a par with HC judge||The chairman of the newly constituted Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority (PWRDA) will get salary and perks on a par with a serving high court judge, it is learnt. The Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in the state has appointed former chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh as the first incumbent of the top post. Apart from the basic pay of Rs 2.25 lakh with a dearness allowance (DA) of 21% for the chairman, other entitlements include subsidised power supply for home, free furnished accommodation, a servant for lifetime and leave traveling allowance twice a year. The perks and salary will be paid after deducting pension drawn by him.Officials in the water resources department said the salary drawn by Karan Avtar Singh as chairman will almost equal to the last salary drawn by him when he was serving as the chief secretary.The PWRDA members will get salary equal to that of an IAS officer of the rank of financial commissioner Rs 2.24 lakh basic pay with 21% DA besides 20% house rent allowance. They are also entitled to entertainment allowance of Rs 1,000 and LTC once in two years.Meanwhile, assuming of charge by Karan Avtar along with two newly appointed members Sushil Gupta and Surinder Singh Kukal has been delayed as a petition challenging Singh’s appointment was filed in the Punjab and Haryana high court and is listed for hearing on Wednesday. Inderjit Kaushal, an HC lawyer who was also a contender for the post along with Singh and 20 other, has challenged the selection citing favouritism. Karan Avtar Singh, a 1984-batch IAS officer, was appointed as chairman two months prior to his retirement on August 31. He is learnt to have requested for premature retirement and the approval for the same is pending.The state government is also likely to appoint secretary of the water regulatory authority — a retired or serving officer of the rank of special secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-water-regulatory-body-chairman-to-get-salary-perks-on-par-with-hc-judge/story-1IKygVFRlK15RuhMVHBxGM.html
08-07-2020||City||785 Covid-19 cases in a day: New low for Mumbai||In its lowest new case count in 56 days, Mumbai reported 785 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. The city had recorded 426 cases on May 12. The case tally is now 86,509. The city, however, reported 65 deaths, taking the toll to 5,002. The total number of discharged patients in Mumbai is 58,137, with a recovery rate of 67%. There are 23,359 active cases. The fatality rate as of Tuesday was 5.80%, followed by a doubling rate of 43 days. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s data (BMC) shows that 55% of the total 4,896 deaths until July 5 are in the 50-70 age group. Twenty per cent deaths are in the 0-50 age group, while the remaining are in the 70-100 age group. In terms of cases, 56% of the around 82,000 cases are from the 0-50 age group.The overall deaths crossed the 500 mark on May 10, and 15 days later, it crossed 1,000. After another 17 days, it crossed the 2,000 mark on June 12. The city quickly breached the 2,500 mark on June 16, and crossed the 4,000 mark on June 25. The data on 4,892 of the 4,896 deaths shows the highest number (1,417) is in the age group of 60-70 and 1,324 in the 50-60 age group. A total of 836 deaths are in the age group of 70 and 80, 633 between 40 and 50, 319 between 80 and 90, 227 between 30 and 40. Seventy-five deaths were reported in the 20-30 age group, 35 deaths in the 90-110 age group, 18 deaths in the 10 to 20 age group, and eight deaths in the 0-10 age group.The highest fatality rate is in the 80-90 age group (18.90%), followed by 18.6% in the 90-100 age group, 15.1% for 70-80 age group, 12.31% for 60-70 age group, 7.96% for 50 to 60 age group, 4.10% for 40-50 age group, 1.5% for 30-40 age group, 0.6% for 10 to 30 age group and 0.5% for 0-10 age group.The jump in fatality rate is also due to recalibration of data that added 862 deaths, not reported or pending from city hospitals, to the figures in June. BMC has claimed these figures are from March and April, which had not been recorded properly. This had led to a controversy with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), alleging BMC had been fudging and misreporting data on deaths. The civic authorities have denied the claims.According to BMC officials, the deaths and fatality rates are high in those aged above 50 because of comorbidities and other ailments leading to lower immunity. “The death rate is high owing to comorbidities and other ailments. Along with this, other factors such as reporting late or delayed medical attention also result in deaths. We are taking several measures as part of the mission ‘Save Lives’ to bring down the number of deaths.”On June 30, BMC launched ‘Save Lives’ to reduce the fatality rate. BMC had noted that several deaths occurred between 1am and 5am, often when serious and critical patients disconnect oxygen support and leave their beds to go to the toilet. They end up straining themselves and collapse. As part of the ‘Save Lives’ strategy, the civic body decided to keep a bedpan for every bed and a commode near every four beds and instructed all healthcare staff to cooperate with patients who want to use the toilet at night. Several such measures were introduced as part of the strategy for all centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/785-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-new-low-for-mumbai/story-NiPBKm8BxTdve7EWuJHT0H.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||HC allows gynaecologist accused of illegal abortions to resume practice||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday allowed a gynecologist booked for performing illegal abortions and convicted under provisions of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, to resume medical practice. The gynaecologist, Dr Suhas Jadhavar had moved HC challenging an order dated June 18 passed by the additional sessions judge, Pandharpur, refusing to relax a bail condition prohibiting him from practicing medicine till completion of his trial.Dr Jadhavar and his wife Dr Ashwini, also a gynecologist, have been booked by Sangola police in Solapur district in February 2018 for performing illegal abortions.On June 4, 2018, HC granted bail to Dr Ashwini on the condition that she will not practice medicine until the conclusion of the trial.A fortnight later, the Pandharpur sessions court granted bail to Dr Jadhavar on the same condition.Last year, Dr Ashwini moved HC seeking relaxation of the condition, and on February 20, 2020, HC allowed her to resume practice.Dr Jadhavar then moved the sessions court seeking a similar relaxation for himself on the ground of parity, but the sessions court rejected his plea, prompting him to move HC.His lawyer, advocate Vishwanath Talkute, submitted that on the ground of parity, the petitioner doctor was entitled to the same relief as was granted to his wife and a co-accused in the case, but it was refused only on the ground that Dr Jadhavar has been convicted in a separate case under the PCPNDT Act – the legislation that prohibits the use of modern techniques for sex-selective abortions.Assistant public prosecutor RM Pethe had opposed the plea, saying that the doctor was rightly refused the relief in view of his conviction.Justice CV Bhadang, however, felt that the gynecologist should not have been denied the same relief as that granted to the co-accused in the case.The judge felt that the conviction under the PCPNDT Act was an extraneous consideration. “The consideration in my view has to be principally confined to the present case,” said the judge.“Once the said condition has been relaxed in respect of the co-accused, and where the reasons for such relaxation, namely that the co-accused Dr Ashwini Jadhavar has abided by the said condition and that there is no likelihood of the trial coming to end in the near future [which apply equally to the case of the petitioner], the parity cannot be refused,” the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-allows-gynaecologist-accused-of-illegal-abortions-to-resume-practice/story-ab0LpYab4Z6ZC8gZdejbUN.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Covid deaths per million half of national average||Punjab’s Covid-19 deaths per million are half of the national average even as the state’s death rate of 3% is almost equal to the countrywide figure. As per the state health department’s daily Covid-19 analysis till July 5, Punjab has witnessed 5 deaths per million against overall India figure of 11, which government officials believe is a positive sign.“The death figure per million reflects that the state has fared well in terms of crisis management. Timely detection of cases and improvement in clinical management are apparently the key reasons behind this,” state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said. Till June 5, the state’s death toll was 164 as compared to India’s total of 19,692.There has been a sudden surge in deaths due to the virus of late, with 99 people succumbing to the virus in June only. Since July 1, the state recorded 26 deaths, taking the toll to 175. The state nodal officer, however, claims that of the 175 deceased, the coronavirus was the only reason of death only among 22.“In rest of the cases, the patients did not die due to Covid-19 but because they had other ailments like high blood pressure, high sugar, renal complication, etc when they tested positive. Less deaths per million when the state is doing more testing is encouraging,” Dr Bhaskar added.Analysis also reveals that Punjab’s cases per million population is 209 against India’s figures of 386 positive patients per million. Also, Punjab has one of the best recovery rates of 70% against the national averages of 61%.In Punjab, 27% of the total cases are active against India’s 36%.LUDHIANA EMERGESAS NEW VIRUS HUBLudhiana has emerged as the new Covid-19 hub in the state whereas Amritsar, which topped the tally of cases for nearly two months, has shown improvement in the past one week.In the week preceding July 5, Amritsar witnessed 74 new cases against Ludhiana’s 298, followed by Jalandhar, Sangrur and and Patiala at 137, 127 and 98, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-covid-deaths-per-million-half-of-national-average/story-dintNIUD9rnUtgyZs8PELL.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||22-year-old from Rajasthan arrested for kidnapping, raping minor||Agripada police arrested a 22-year-old man from Rajasthan on Monday for allegedly kidnapping a 13-year-old girl from Agripada and raping her. The accused’s elder brother and three friends were also arrested in connection with the girl’s kidnapping.The accused befriended the girl on social media in February this year and used to talk to each other regularly. The man, who works in a bottled water company in Haryana, is a resident of Rajasthan.Last month, the girl along with her elder sister visited her grandmother’s home at Agripada. “On July 1, the accused, along with his brother and three friends, who were from Madhya Pradesh (MP), came to Mumbai in a private seven sitter vehicle without any ePass and picked the girl from Agripada. The accused then took the girl to Rajasthan and raped her in a lodge there,” said an officer from Agripada police.On not finding the girl around when the grandmother asked girl’s mother who is a teacher by profession, if the kid returned to Naigaon (near Virar) home, she said no. The girl’s grandmother then approached police following which a case of kidnapping was registered at Agripada police station. During the preliminary probe, the girl’s family told them that the she was in contact with someone on social media since long and used to regularly talk to him.Through her social media profile, the police zeroed in on one suspect. The police also found some phone numbers linked to the social media account and on going through the call details of both the numbers, traced the number trails to Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.Following this, the police formed separate teams and visited the two states. One of the teams arrested the accused, his brother from Rajasthan’s Jhalawad district and rescued the girl. Three of the accused’s friends, who helped him kidnap the girl were arrested from Madhya Pradesh by the other team. One of these three, who drove the vehicle, initially was kept in the dark about the plan by the main accused by saying that the girl is his sister. The police also seized the vehicle used in the kidnapping. One of the accused who aided the kidnapping is still absconding.“We brought the accused to Mumbai on transit remand and on Tuesday produced them in a court that remanded them to police custody up to July 13,” said inspector R Syed from Agripada police station. The accused are booked under the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Indian Penal Code (IPC), said Sawlaram Agawane, senior inspector of Agripada police, adding, that the girl is sent to a children’s home, keeping in view her safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/22-year-old-from-rajasthan-arrested-for-kidnapping-raping-minor/story-f9ekGWUwRr7yH8AR4IPThO.html
08-07-2020||City||Man, his brother booked for raping, abetting 20-year-old’s suicide||Ghatkopar police booked a man for raping a 20-year-old woman and his brother for abetting her suicide. The woman died of suicide on Sunday.According to Ghatkopar police officers, the man raped the victim on the pretext of marriage, but later refused to marry her. She then approached his brother to intervene in the matter. But his brother threatened her and asked her to stay away from the accused, said the police. Following this, she ended her life.Initially, an accidental death report was filed, but after the statement by the woman’s father, a first information report (FIR) was registered under 376 (rape), 420 (cheating), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the two brothers.Senior inspector Nitin Alaknure from Ghatkopar police station said, “We haven’t arrested the accused yet as we are still investigating the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-his-brother-booked-for-raping-abetting-20-year-old-s-suicide/story-ThLEwiU8xRAkcA2zgri6YP.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Lonar lake in ‘pathetic’ condition: HC raps state for callous approach to preserving geo-heritage site||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday came down heavily on state bodies for failing to uphold their responsibilities in preserving the 113-hectare Lonar crater lake in Buldhana district.The lake, declared a notified national geo-heritage monument in 1979, had turned reddish-pink last month from June 9, due to high salinity, acidity (pH), and an algal bloom, the forest department had said. The exact reasons are yet to be confirmed by research bodies that collected water samples.The district collector and forest department both said the natural lake colour was restored last week following heavy rain.The HC bench noted that the Geological Survey of India (GSI) had conducted a survey of the pink water and will submit a report within a week, while reports from scientific bodies such as the National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and Agarkar Research Institute, Pune, to be submitted before the next date of hearing on July 22.On Monday, the HC bench of justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor, while hearing a 2009 petition by lawyer Kirti Atul Nipankar and others against various state bodies through senior counsel Anand Parchure, rapped the Buldhana district administration, Lonar Municipal Council, and public works department (PWD) for their indifference to previous HC orders, callous approach in conserving the lake. It cautioned that further disobedience of court orders could lead to contempt proceedings against erring authorities.Based on submissions by Parchure, the bench highlighted two issues of immediate concern – open defecation by Lonar citizens at the lake, including the area where the sewage treatment plant (STP) is located, and discharge of sewage water from Lonar city, freely entering the lake.During the last hearing on June 15, HC had taken cognisance of the change in the lake’s colour, open defecation, and improper sewage treatment. HC had directed four senior lawyers to visit the crater and submit a status report. The inspection was undertaken on June 17.“The inspection report has now been placed on record. We find that the situation obtaining at and around Lonar lake is really pathetic,” the bench said in its 12-page order published on Tuesday. “The pathetic situation has arisen mainly because of the indifference, rather callous indifference of many of the authorities responsible in their own way for conservation and preservation of Lonar crater lake.”Meanwhile, the bench took serious cognisance of the failures of implementing HC directions by the Buldhana collector, and accountability of the officer for not attending hearings, even through video conferencing, for the latest hearing, and in person prior to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are of the prima-facie view that the Buldhana collector… has failed in discharging fundamental duties in the recent past, thereby owing an explanation to this court for dislodgement of the prima facie impression,” the bench said.Suman Chandra, district collector and magistrate, Buldhana, said, “There has been no intentional negligence. Over the past three months, there was a delay due to Covid-19. Special efforts will be made to ensure that all directions of the HC are complied with at the earliest. Meanwhile, the lake colour has normalised after rain that led to dilution. The colour had turned pink due to the increased salinity.”The bench, however, took cognisance of the efforts by the forest department that were taking matters seriously and had complied with previous directions of the court. The additional chief secretary, revenue and forests, was directed to fill up vacant posts of the range forest officer and assistant conservator of forest before the next date of hearing.“The directions of the HC will be complied with and the additional posts would help us achieve the targets set by the bench much faster,” said a senior forest official.The bench directed the civic body to furnish copies of increasing STP capacity (from 500 kilo litres per day (KLD) to 1,000 KLD) by July 22 and ensure untreated sewage be stopped from entering the lake within three days from the order date. As per orders issued during its previous hearing, samples of ejecta debris were submitted before the bench, which would be inspected by July 22. The bench intends to understand the possible impact of the ejecta blanket (debris surrounding the impact area of a crater made of unique material) during shifting of the Lonar- Kinhi Road and directed PWD to carry out an environmental impact assessment on June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lonar-lake-in-pathetic-condition-hc-raps-state-for-callous-approach-to-preserving-geo-heritage-site/story-gaQMg5c5jE3Q2dTYkrxNVL.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Cyber criminals use fake TikTok app for phishing||After the Indian government banned 59 Chinese mobile apps, cyber fraudsters have come up with a fake TikTok app named TikTok Pro to dupe people. The state cyber police on Tuesday alerted mobile users about this fraud application.Cyber police officers said that despite the ban, many previous TikTok users and fresh ones are still searching for the app on the various internet platforms. The fraudsters have chanced on this opportunity to scam people.“To target people, the fraudsters are randomly sending a link to internet users through SMS or WhatsApp forwards in bulk. On downloading it, malware gets installed in the system and all the vital information of the user gets compromised. It’s a phishing attack,” said Yashasvi Yadav, special inspector general of police (cyber).“We have recently come across this trend, prompting us to issue an advisory,” the senior IPS officer added.The advisory has appealed to internet and mobile users not to fell prey to such fraud and not to click on the link.Police said that by clicking such links, an individual can expose himself to the threat of ransomware that can also take control of the system and vital information. Later, by misusing this personal information, the fraudster may blackmail the victim or use the information for some other offensive acts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyber-criminals-use-fake-tiktok-app-for-phishing/story-0ejJziWHe4FnCLwuLsr4PP.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Family’s financial condition, woman’s unpreparedness no grounds to allow termination of pregnancy: HC||In a significant order, the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday rejected a petition filed by a 39-year-old woman to undergo medical termination of her pregnancy, after it observed that the financial condition of a family or the mental unpreparedness of a woman to be a mother cannot be the grounds to allow termination under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, 1971.The woman, who is 24-weeks pregnant, moved HC stating that she learnt of her pregnancy belatedly, on May 14, when she underwent a sonography. She claimed that the pregnancy occurred owing to the failure of the contraceptive method and she did not suspect that she was pregnant because she has a history of irregular menstruation, owing to which the pregnancy was detected late.She added that the pregnancy at the age of 39 may lead to various complications in her life and cause her physical and mental agony. The woman also claimed that she and her family were not in the financial condition nor was she mentally prepared to become a mother under the given circumstances.The bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Riyaz Chagla, however, refused to accept the grounds put forth by the woman from Ratnagiri district.“We are of the considered view that the reasons for medical termination of pregnancy beyond the statutory limit of 20 weeks viz. that the petitioner and her family are in no condition financially and/or that the petitioner would be of an advanced age of 39 years to be mentally prepared to be a mother are not valid grounds for termination of pregnancy under the said (MTP) Act,” said the bench.Failure of contraceptive method in under certain circumstances is a valid ground for MTP under the Act, but the bench said it was not applicable to the woman. In this regard, the bench accepted the arguments advanced by additional government pleader MP Thakur that the ground will be available only to a married woman who already has a child and the pregnancy has occurred as a result of failure of any device or method used by the married woman for limiting the number of children. The anguish caused by such unwanted pregnancy may be presumed to constitute a grave injury to the mental health of the pregnant woman, but the petitioner, although married has no child, and hence there can be no limiting the number of children.The petitioner relied in a Supreme Court judgment observing that a pregnant woman has a personal autonomy to exercise her reproductive choice and terminate her pregnancy. But the bench found the reliance misplaced. It clarified that the right to reproductive choice “would necessarily be exercisable in terms of section 3 of the MTP Act, that is, within the statutory limit (of 12 to 20 week’s) provided thereunder.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/family-s-financial-condition-woman-s-unpreparedness-no-grounds-to-allow-termination-of-pregnancy-hc/story-Z6eYGN7RR8FDtCHTRNAzUM.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Introduce new grading pattern only for first-year students this year: MU to Mithibai College||Months after protesting against the management’s decision to introduce a new grading pattern for all students, the University of Mumbai (MU) on Monday directed Vile Parle’s Mithibai College to implement the system progressively, starting with only first-year students this year.MU’s board of examination (BoE), in a letter to the college principal, questioned the institute’s decision to implement the new grading pattern for all the classes, instead of implementing it phase-wise, starting from the fresh batch of students. It further stated that the institute will have to refrain from implementing the new grading pattern to all batches, except their first-year batch.“In response to the reply sent by you to the vice-chancellor of MU, I bring to your notice that any change/modification/revision to grading system has to be implemented only with effect from first year and must not be implemented for students who have already cleared the previous year on the basis of an earlier grading system,” said a letter signed by BoE director, Vinod Patil.He further added that this rule is followed by the university as well as all affiliated colleges, including autonomous institutes.Despite repeated attempts, Mithibai College principal Rajpal Hande and Asoke Basak, chief executive officer of the Shri Vile Parle Kelavani Mandal (SVKM) (the trust which runs the college), were unavailable for comments.HT previously reported that for over four months undergraduate students of Mithibai College protested against the introduction of the new grading system. In February, hundreds of students staged a silent protest on campus after receiving the results of the previous semester. Many, especially final-year students, pointed out that their scores fell drastically in the previous semester after the college introduced a 10-point grading system, instead of the seven-point system followed by MU.“This new system, which was introduced after the college got autonomy, is affecting our scores. We requested the management to introduce the new system in the first semester and not in the middle of the academic year, and we were assured that the academic council will look into it,” said a student.However, despite repeated assurances to students that the decision will be reviewed, the college, two weeks ago, announced the results of second-year students based on the new grading pattern.“We are in a single, integrated three-year course and so the administration can’t introduce new grading patterns without our consent. Changes to the grading system left most students with lower grades as compared to previous semesters and that is unacceptable, especially because it’s not our fault,” said another student, who did not wished to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/introduce-new-grading-pattern-only-for-first-year-students-this-year-mu-to-mithibai-college/story-nbFTtFcHaiZ4Esnj7i6NUN.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Moderate showers on Tuesday with intense isolated spells||Contrary to the weather bureau’s forecast of reduced intensity of rain on Tuesday, the city saw moderate to heavy showers while a few spells of intense showers were witnessed in the suburbs.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) updated its original forecast from ‘light to moderate rain’ to a yellow alert (heavy rain across isolated areas) on Tuesday afternoon. While no alert has been issued for Wednesday, IMD issued a yellow alert and predicted the possibility of heavy rain from Thursday to Saturday.On Tuesday, a Nowcast warning for intense rain spells for Mumbai, Thane, and Satara districts was issued at 2 pm. The suburbs recorded an intense rain spell of 30mm between 11.30 pm and 2.30 pm.Between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm Tuesday, the Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 45.2 mm rain while Colaba, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 49.4 mm. IMD classifies 15.6-64.4 mm as moderate rain while 64.5-115.5 mm rain as heavy.For the season so far, Mumbai suburbs have received 972 mm rain from June 1 to July 7 at 5.30pm and is just 28 mm short of the 1,000 mm mark while south Mumbai has received 991mm rain during the same time. While Mumbai has already received 69% of its July average rain, 42% of the seasonal average rainfall has been received over five weeks.“Monsoon conditions are active along the west coast. Under the influence of a well-marked low-pressure area near the Saurashtra-Kutch region, rain intensity over north Konkan including the Mumbai region increased on Tuesday. The weather system is influencing strong westerly winds, which is pulling a lot of moisture from the Arabian Sea and strengthening the offshore trough extending from Gujarat to north Kerala coast,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.Location-wise rain in the suburbs showed 87mm rain in Mulund, 84 mm in Borivali, 80mm in Kandivali, 75mm in Thane 59mm in Malad, Vikhroli 52mm between 8.30 am and 5.30pm. During the same time, central Mumbai received 35-40 mm rain while the southern tip of the island city recorded 45-50 mm.Independent meteorologists said Tuesday’s intense downpour was unexpected. “This was due to the offshore trough. The trough itself has a periodic north and south oscillation, and on Tuesday, it was active near Ratnagiri since morning but later shifted up towards Raigad. The southwesterly winds further pushed cloud bands towards Mumbai,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, adding that until the Arabian Sea weather system remains active, such sudden changes could be expected. “Until July 9, we could expect such rainfall episodes in Mumbai.”Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom said, “More moisture availability increased rain activity on Tuesday. But that low-pressure system is likely to lose intensity from Wednesday due to which moisture will reduce leading to momentary weakening of the offshore trough. This will lead to light intermittent showers at least until July 12. Rain intensity is expected to increase again next week.” Almost a month after the onset of monsoon, the water stock in city’s seven lakes finally saw a significant increase of 3%in the past two days. The rise in the lake levels was witnessed after heavy downpour in the catchment areas between July 5 and 6. The total water quantum in the seven lakes has gone up to 1.60 lakh million litre which is 11.10% of the required water stock from 1.15 lakh million litre (7.98%) of water stock two days ago. The total storage capacity of these lakes is 14.47 lakh million litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/moderate-showers-on-tuesday-with-intense-isolated-spells/story-0exmyyzS2IdOJxZu2lBReJ.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Amid talks of rift, Uddhav Thackeray meets Ajit Pawar||A day after differences between the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) came to the fore, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar met on Tuesday evening. The meeting between the two leaders came after NCP chief Sharad Pawar met Thackeray on Monday, who was believed to be upset over the unilateral decision to transfer 10 IPS officers and poaching of five Sena corporators by the NCP.Thackeray and Ajit Pawar met at the Bal Thackeray memorial plot at Shivaji Park and the two leaders are believed to have discussed the two issues and matters related to lockdown. Sena ministers Aaditya Thackeray, Eknath Shinde and Anil Parab, and NCP minister Anil Deshmukh were also present at the former Mayor’s bungalow.Meanwhile, Pawar on Tuesday said appointments of IPS and IAS officers are done with the approval of chief minister, ending the controversy.Earlier in the day, Sena leader Sanjay Raut chose to downplay the friction between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies. Commenting on the recent developments, Raut said, “There is no lack of coordination or bickering or any ‘internal differences’ within the government as the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has been claiming. The word ‘internal differences’ is not part of MVA’s dictionary. If there are issues, we discuss and resolve them.”He also said it would not be correct to say that Ajit Pawar engineered the defection of five Sena corporators from Parner Nagar Panchayat in Ahmednagar. The Sena leader termed the issue of corporators a “local” one, which has now been resolved.On Monday, Thackeray conveyed to Pawar that the five corporators should come back to the Sena. The message was sent to the NCP leader by Thackeray’s personal assistant and party secretary Milind Narvekar. However, the five corporators are unwilling to go back and are planning to resign and remain with the NCP, as they are unhappy with the party’s local leadership in Ahmednagar.Muddassar Sayyad, one of the corporators, told TV channels, “If the NCP asks us to return to the Sena, we will resign and seek membership of the NCP, but will not return.” Another corporator Nandkumar Deshmukh said, “Former MLA [Vijay Auti] did not let us work, neither did he do anything for people.”Raut, a Rajya Sabha MP, who is the executive editor of Sena mouthpiece Saamana, recorded an interview with Pawar on Monday. He said Pawar, in the interview that will be published on July 11, has expressed confidence that the three-party government will complete its full term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-talks-of-rift-uddhav-thackeray-meets-ajit-pawar/story-J6y4CnqiKIQpTS3LJa2lnN.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Five weeks after Cyclone Nisarga, 184 villages still without electricity||More than five weeks after Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Raigad and Ratnagiri districts, damaging thousands of houses and crops, 184 villages are still without electricity. The restoration of electricity is expected to take one more week.Cyclone Nisarga had hit the coastal districts on June 3 and damaged multiple structures, including electricity and mobile poles, leading to the outage of the electricity. More than 1,500 villages in Alibag, Diveagar, and Shrivardhan in Raigad district were disconnected from power. Around 4.2 lakh customers in 628 villages in Mandangad and Dapoli tehsils of Ratnagiri were without power supply after the cyclone hit the villages. Of the 149 villages in Raigad, 35 villages are still without power.“Of 1,900 affected villages in the district, 1,500 had no power supply after the cyclone hit them badly. We could restore the electricity in almost all the villages barring just 149. The restoration work is being done on a war footing despite the many challenges the authorities came across. Some of the employees, who had come from other districts, especially for the restoration work, tested positive for the coronavirus. We expect the total restoration to be completed within a week,” said Padmashree Bainade, resident deputy collector, Raigad.Devendra Sayanekar, superintendent engineer, Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Limited, said, “Around 10,000 houses from four villages in Dapoli and 31 in Mandangad are left disconnected now. Around 8,500 electricity poles and 103 transformers had been damaged, leading to losses of ₹32 crore. We had to bring manpower from other districts like Solapur, Pune, and Sangli to complete the work on priority. At least 800 employees are at work of restoration and expect it to be completed in a week.”In Shrivardhan, the cyclone damaged crops on 11,430 hectares and damaged 1.83 lakh houses in Raigad. Ratnagiri witnessed damage to crops on 58 hectares, while more than 28,000 houses were partially or fully damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/five-weeks-after-cyclone-nisarga-184-villages-still-without-electricity/story-c0eoW9YOIsQROdQQLStD8H.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||SC to hear Maratha reservation petition on July 15, no stay on state law||The Supreme Court (SC) will undertake hearings on a day-to-day basis in the Maratha reservation case following a plea made by petitioners challenging the constitutional validity of the Maharashtra law granting quota to the community in education and jobs.The Apex court has asked all the counsels to submit and specify the time they need to argue. It will take up hearing on petitions now on July 15 and may pass an interim order on the matter.The three-judge bench led by Justice L Nageswara Rao heard the petitions, including one challenging reservation benefit to postgraduate medical students from the Maratha community in admission for this academic year on Tuesday.The court indicated that the petition challenging the validity of the law can be heard on a day-to-day basis following a plea from the petitioners. The court also seemed amenable to conduct physical hearings after senior advocate Shyam Divan insisted on it. Mukul Rohatgi, former attorney general of India, who is representing Maharashtra government, too supported the demand.Petitioner Vinod Patil, in his plea, had demanded the case to be transferred to the five-judge bench. However, the court ruled that out in the current scenario.Public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan, who is heading a cabinet sub-committee formed to review progress of legal matters for Maratha reservation and take decisions, said the Apex court again refused to grant a stay on the law for reservation. “The petitioners had demanded a stay on reservation but the battery of senior lawyers led by Mukul Rohatgi for the state argued effectively,” said Chavan.He said that the Apex court will now hear petitions on granting reservation benefits in admissions for postgraduate medical courses on July 15. “The state will fight to ensure that the students from the community will continue to get reservation benefits in admissions,” he said.The erstwhile BJP-led state government has granted a 16% reservation to the Maratha community by enacting the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, in government jobs and education, in November 2018. The Act was upheld by the Bombay high court in June 2019, but it said that the quantum of 16% was not justifiable, and should be reduced to 12%-13%, as recommended by the State Backward Classes Commission in its report.Later, it was challenged in the SC. On February 5, the SC, while hearing a bunch of petitions against Maratha reservation, refused to stay the high court order.Recently, the state government reduced reservation quota to 12% for students from the Maratha community for junior college admissions from this academic year. The decision was taken following the order issued by the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sc-to-hear-maratha-reservation-petition-on-july-15-no-stay-on-state-law/story-GpiS8Ch8tLwSFSrYV9r9DN.html
08-07-2020||City||Custodial death: Human rights panel issues notice to Yamunanagar DC, seeks report in six weeks||Taking cognisance of the ‘custodial’ death of a murder bid accused in the Yamunanagar district jail on April 25, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sought a report from the deputy commissioner (DC) within six weeks. The panel had received a complaint from a human rights activist, Sukhvinder Singh Nara. A copy of the notice accessed by Hindustan Times reads that the commission had received a complaint by Sukhvinder Singh Nara and action was taken on July 1, marking the due date to the DC as August 22. “The commission directs the Yamunanagar DC and the district jail superintendent to send a detailed report (covering all aspects leading to the death, including action if any taken on the complaint by relatives of deceased), inquest report, postmortem report, video cassette of the postmortem examination, chemical examination and histopathology report of viscera, final cause of death based on FSL report, complete medical treatment record of the deceased, site plan of the scene of occurrence, panchnama of scene of occurrence and magisterial enquiry report,” the notice mentioned. The commission has also asked for an action-taken report on the magisterial enquiry report, medico legal certificate, besides copy of the FIR and other relevant documents.NHRC has meanwhile asked the Haryana state human rights commission whether they have taken cognisance of this case or not. Despite repeated attempts, comments of DC Mukul Kumar could not be elicited on the development. Jail superintendent Ratan Singh said that he has been transferred, whereas superintendent of police Kamaldeep Goyal reserved his comments on the issue. “Whatever the commission has asked will be duly sent to it,” he, however, said. HAVE ASKED Rs 1 CRORE COMPENSATION FOR FAMILY: PETITIONERHuman rights activist Sukhvinder Singh Nara, the petitioner in the case, said he had approached the commission the next day Raman Valmiki, a Dalit, died in judicial custody. “I have asked for a compensation of Rs 1 crore for the family, besides action against the jail officials involved in the case,” he added. Raman’s father Rajinder Valmiki said, “My son was not given proper medical treatment because of negligence on the part of jail authorities and he died inside the prison.”THE CASERaman Valmiki, a Yamunanagar resident in his 30s, was sent to judicial custody on April 22 after he was arrested in an attempt to murder case. As per police records, the FIR against him was registered at Yamunanagar City police station on March 10 on the complaint of Manoj Kumar, a liquor contractor. He died on April 25. The jail authorities claimed that his health started deteriorating in the afternoon and he was taken to jail hospital from where he was shifted to the civil hospital. A judicial inquiry was conducted in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/custodial-death-human-rights-panel-issues-notice-to-yamunanagar-dc-seeks-report-in-six-weeks/story-qbITt5RJipVHjhQPp2tW6I.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Coastal authority clears 4.5-km elevated corridor between Sewri and Worli in Mumbai||The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) on Tuesday gave its nod to the 4.5-km elevated corridor between Sewri and Worli. The proposal has been earlier deferred by the authority, which had asked the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to conduct a public hearing on the project, specifically for the residents of Worli sea face, “considering the impact of environment at this location owing to the proposed elevated corridor”. Anil Diggikar, chairman, MCZMA and principal secretary, environment, confirmed that the connector project has been approved. “We had asked them [MMRDA] to undertake a public consultation in the earlier meeting, which they have done,” said Diggikar.The project, estimated to cost ₹1,276 crore, will connect Worli to the upcoming 22-km Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) at Sewri. MTHL, a sea-bridge, will connect Mumbai to Navi Mumbai. The elevated corridor, which starts at Sewri railway station, will pass over Eastern Freeway, the monorail on Acharya Donde Marg, Dr Ambedkar Road, Senapati Bapat Marg and Dr Annie Besant Road. According to MMRDA, 438 metres on both ends of the corridor falls under Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ)-II. In the public consultation, MMRDA said, citizens had asked if the corridor can be built underground as it passes over congested areas and if it can also be connected to the coastal road project.The MCZMA on Tuesday also gave CRZ clearance to the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation’s (MMRC) Vidhan Bhavan station box and allied activities. Meanwhile, the authority is yet to approve the multi-modal corridor between Virar-Alibaug, which was also discussed on Tuesday. MCZMA had earlier deferred the proposal, stating MMRDA must look at “minimal environmental damage”. “The project involves usage of forest land and mangroves. The authority needs a forest clearance,” Diggikar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coastal-authority-clears-4-5-km-elevated-corridor-between-sewri-and-worli-in-mumbai/story-CiGG0UqMwZ0eHk391Tzb3L.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||1.2 million snakebite deaths in India from 2000 to 2019: Study||India has recorded 1.2 million snakebite deaths from 2000 to 2019, with an average of 58,000 deaths annually, a recent international study said.Close to 70% of deaths occurred in rural areas recorded during monsoon at low-altitude regions. Rate of deaths was highest across eight states – Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, and Jharkhand. Most deaths were due to Russell’s vipers followed by kraits and cobras.Published in the peer-reviewed journal e-Life on Tuesday, the study was conducted by the Centre for Global Health Research (CGHR), University of Toronto, Canada, Oxford University, United Kingdom, the Madras Crocodile Bank, Chennai, Indian Council of Medical Research, Delhi, and St John’s National Academy of Health Sciences, Bengaluru.“India is witnessing almost half of the world’s total snakebite deaths,” said professor David Warrell, author of the paper.Overall, the study analysed 2,833 snakebite deaths from 6.11 lakh verbal autopsies in the Indian Million Death Study (MDS), nationally representative mortality survey, from 2001 to 2014, and assessed data over 20 years (2000-2019) covering 87,590 snakebites.Venomous snakebites are medical emergencies that escalate to deaths due to killing by shock, paralysis, haemorrhage or acute kidney injury, the study said. The World Health Organization (WHO) has estimated snakebite as type A or priority disease and aims to reduce deaths by 50% by 2030.“Snakebites need to be made a nationally notified disease in India. Health facilities in rural spaces across high-burden states are inadequate,” said Romulus Whitaker, author, and founder, Madras Crocodile Bank.The study revealed gross underreporting of snakebites in India with the Union health ministry’s declaration of 15,500 deaths between 2003 and 2015, which was only one-tenth of 1.54 lakh deaths detected by MDS during the same period.Whitaker added that government data reflects a fraction of what is happening on ground. “Anti-venom is not being distributed to resolve the issue though India has sufficient manufacturing capacity to produce large volumes,” said Whitaker.The latest analysis identified an 18% increase in annual average deaths in India due to snakebites as against a Lancet study from October 2017 that reported 49,000 envenoming deaths every year. “Overall lifetime risk (before age 70) of being killed by snakebite is about 1 in 250, but in some areas, especially high burden states, lifetime risk reaches one in 100. While 50% of deaths occurred between the age group of 30 and 69 years, over a quarter of deaths were for children less than 15 years old,” said Prabhat Jha, author and director, CGHR.MAHARASHTRA STORY: LOW BURDEN STATEMaharashtra witnessed a steep decline in deaths during this period but had some of the highest cases of snakebites over 15 years, according to the Centre’s data. The latest study however pointed out that while there was underreporting of data by the government, there were better medical facilities and faster response time for snakebite cases than other states allowing Maharashtra to be identified as a low burden for snakebite deaths. Independent herpetologist Kedar Bhide said that the state needed to declare compensation for snakebite deaths as it does for mortalities related to wild animals and identify such cases as a notified disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-2-million-snakebite-deaths-in-india-from-2000-to-2019-study/story-2f5cvgKv8RPKkyqNuInrgJ.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Faster forest clearances for national highway projects? State forest dept seeks clarity from green ministry||The Union ministry of road transport has expressed its intention to make it easier for state bodies to garner faster forest clearances on national highway projects. The Maharashtra forest department, however, has asked the Union environment ministry to issue formal instructions on recent directions issued by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) regarding diversion of forest land for such projects.Sanjeev Kumar, chief engineer, MoRTH said, “The directions strictly pertain to major highway projects proposed by the Centre. Some of the stretches of these projects are handled by state agencies, but owing to existing norms applicable to them, there is a delay in overall project completion. We are not exempting any state agency from existing rules nor are we changing the rules, we are only bringing them under the aegis of the Centre while applying for clearances (under Forest Conservation Act) for faster forest land diversion.”Kumar added that the decision was finalised only after a meeting with the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC).On June 30, MoRTH issued a letter to all state governments informing them that state bodies like the public works department (PWD) and other agencies involved in developing national highway projects be exempted from purchasing non-forest land in lieu of forest area being diverted. This is mandatory for state agencies as per the Forest Conservation (FC) Act, 1980. Instead, MoRTH suggested, state agencies be allowed to carry out compensatory afforestation (CA) on degraded forest land, which applies to certain small projects (link roads, minor irrigation projects etc which directly benefit local livelihood) under the Act.The letter also stated that since MoRTH and central bodies like the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) are already exempted from the rule (purchasing non-forest area for loss of forest cover), state bodies should use the name ‘MoRTH’ as the user agency while applying for project clearances on the Union environment ministry’s Parivesh portal - a web-based application for online monitoring and submission of project proposals.The move was intended to ‘avoid unnecessary delay in identification for transfer of non-forest land and diversion of forest land approval could be expedited’, the letter read.Meanwhile, apprehending that state agencies may commence submitting proposals based on MoRTH’s letter, Sanjeev Gaur, nodal officer, Maharashtra forest department said, “We have referred the issue to the director-general of forest (DG), MoEFCC, to issue formal communication regarding the ministry’s stand on the MoRTH letter, and convey further course of directions when we receive such proposals.”MoEFCC DG Sanjay Kumar and inspector general AK Mohanty refused to comment. However, a MoEFCC officer looking into FC issues, requesting anonymity said, “The MoRTH directive will apply to those state agencies working directly with NHAI only. Specific details on forest area diversion are still being examined, and a notification in this regard will be issued soon.” Environmentalists vehemently objected to the decision. “India roughly has 20% forest area, and the cover needs to be 33% as per the National Forest Policy. To ensure we have additional 13%, mandatory conditions under the FC Act to bring equivalent non-forest land have to be followed by every project proponent, irrespective of who they are,” said Kishor Rithe, former member, National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) Standing Committee (SC).Environmentalist Debi Goenka explained that post Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s demise, the FC Act was diluted due to a lack of political will. “Earlier equivalent revenue land (non-forest land) was to be declared as forests for areas being diverted for projects. Post Gandhi’s death, a newly evolved strategy saw agencies pay for CA on degraded forest land twice the extent of forest area diverted for faster clearance. However, most cases of CA are a disaster as they are monoculture plantations that do not survive. We are losing thousands of hectares of forest land annually with negligible restoration in comparison,” said Goenka.Former SC-NBWL member Bittu Sahgal said CA had been a total failure so far. “Several high court and Supreme Court orders highlighted the threat of not having enough forest cover in India since user agencies only accept carrying out CA on degraded forest land. The courts also raised concerns about the failure of this practice. Such plantations are not being done properly and have yielded unsuccessful results,” he said adding, “If MoEFCC brings such agencies under this sub-clause, India will continue losing forest land. We would never achieve the 33% forest cover goal, as we won’t have that many forest areas left.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/issue-clear-instructions-state-forest-department-to-green-ministry/story-OLZcHu1TJvrRaD5a7dXsdL.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Developers in Mumbai woo migrant workers back to sites with sops||Expensive airline tickets, enhanced wages, medical insurance, weekly doctor visits... just some of the perks that Mumbai’s real estate barons are offering. Not to their Ivy-league-educated senior executives, but to entice hundreds of thousands of construction workers who left the city in the wake of the Covid-19 spread in April, May and June this year to return.According to the Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry (shortened as CREDAI-MCHI), the apex industry body in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), close to 700,000 of the 900,000 on-site real estate workforce migrated back to their hometowns as soon as Mumbai became the country’s worst-affected Covid-19 hotspot.“There are hardly 200,000 on-site workers left in Mumbai, and a majority of the projects are in limbo. We desperately need to start work and hence we are trying all means possible to bring them back,” said Rajesh Prajapati, managing committee member, Credai-MCHI. “The workers are not ready to come back fearing infection and due to family pressure. We are assuring them that we will take good care of them, and offer them best of the facilities such as Covid-19 insurance as well as weekly visits by doctors.”On June 8, the Maharashtra government allowed private construction activity to restart, but builders say they have been facing an acute shortage of workers since then, and that they are left with no option but to lure them back with flight tickets, enhanced wages, boarding facilities and medical insurance, in addition to weekly medical check-ups.Recently, the Avighna Group — best known for erecting highrises in the erstwhile mills cluster in central Mumbai — arranged flight tickets for 88 workers from West Bengal for their new project in south Mumbai’s Worli area. “Work is delayed by six months due to the pandemic, and we cannot afford more setbacks. This forced us to arrange flight tickets as well as offer 25% extra wages for our workers,” said Nishant Agrawal, managing director, Avighna Group. He said Avighna has spent ₹9 lakh to transport them from West Bengal to Mumbai.Real estate executives said they have appointed independent contractors who are scouting for skilled construction workers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha.Real estate consultancy Liases Foras warns that the sector will face long-term crises if work does not start soon. “The disbursement of money by the banks to companies is construction-linked (according to the stage of the project) and hence builders will not get money till work starts and there is progress in the project. Delays will make projects unviable,” said Pankaj Kapoor, CEO, Liases Foras.Liases Foras estimates that there are at least 4,500 ongoing projects in the MMR, of which less than 40% have started after the June 8 notification. “Here also, the work has not started in full swing and is progressing slowly,” Kapoor added.Take Shraddha Lifescapes. This construction firm, which had started their Jogeshwari (in north-west Mumbai) project just before the March lockdown, has sent contractors scouting for workers in places like West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. “Our project is delayed by at least a year, and if we don’t get workers fast, it will be delayed further,” said Bhavesh Sanghrajka, CEO, Shraddha Lifescapes. Shraddha Lifescapes has constructed projects in places like IC Colony in Borivli in north Mumbai and Jogeshwari, and is offering higher wages to bring back its workforce.The National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco), however, estimates that reverse migration has started and the construction workforce will return within the next three months. “There is no work in the villages and hence we are seeing a healthy reverse migration. We estimate that all construction workers will return by Diwali (November),” said Rajan Bandelkar, president, Naredco (Maharashtra).Niranjan Hiranandani, co-founder and managing director of real estate major Hiranandani Group, said the process of workforce returning to Mumbai has started. “They are attracted to Mumbai as it gives them employment and they will return,” he said. “Things will normalise in the coming months as people are realising that they need to live with this virus. Those who have gone are talking to other labourers, and the response has been positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/developers-in-mumbai-woo-migrant-workers-back-to-sites-with-sops/story-dGdZMNktlO8V8sKmuLCFaN.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||MMRDA nod for raising height of Ambedkar statue, 15 other proposals||In a meeting chaired by Maharashtra urban development minister Eknath Shinde after four months, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority cleared 16 proposals, including increasing the height of the upcoming Babasaheb Ambedkar memorial at Indu Mills; a policy to enable direct access between Metro stations by private developers and an in-principle approval for the redevelopment of ‘E’ block in BKC, expected to earn MMRDA ₹18,000 crore.BG Pawar, joint metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA said, “Raising the height of the Ambedkar memorial was already passed by the Maharashtra cabinet. Since we are the executing authority, the amendment was included on Tuesday.” “The authority meeting was to be held on February 28, but got delayed later owing to the lockdown,” said Pawar. In January, the cabinet approved the height to be raised from 250ft to 350ft with a pedestal height at 100ft. The total height of the proposed statue will be 450ft now.MMRDA on Tuesday also approved a 550m ‘hanging pedestrian bridge’, connecting City Park, BKC and the Maharashtra Nature Park. In January, HT had reported that the plan was revived four years after MMRDA held a global competition for the bridge. A decade-old plan to build a funicular railway in the tourist place of Matheran and a ₹550-crore Mahavir Nagar-Gorai ropeway project was also approved on Tuesday, Pawar added.Along with this, a multi-modal integration project for Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro 7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E), that will enable last-mile connectivity in the western suburbs and a revised proposal for the integrated ticketing system that will enable commuters to use a single card to travel across different modes was also passed. “MMRDA has also decided to purchase a plot belonging to Hindustan Organic Chemicals Ltd worth ₹800 crore in Rasayani in Raigad district to develop it in the future,” an official from MMRDA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrda-nod-for-raising-height-of-ambedkar-statue-15-other-proposals/story-pqiaHjRn7WcADRx6FJnZ0J.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank scam accused Rakesh Wadhawan admitted in hospital||Seventy-two-year-old Rakesh Wadhawan, an accused in the ₹6,670 crore Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) bank scam and director of Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) who was lodged in the Arthur Road central prison, has been admitted to JJ Hospital after he complained of breathlessness.Deepak Pandey, inspector general of police (south range) confirmed the development and said that he was rushed to the hospital on Monday night.Police sources said that his condition is said to stable now. When asked if Wadhawan will be undergoing a Covid test, Pandey said, “It will be decided by the doctors at JJ Hospital. He also has other comorbidities.”Wadhawan and his son Sarang were arrested on October 3, 2019, by the economic offence wing (EOW) in Mumbai after they were named in the FIR registered by Reserve Bank of India on September 30.EOW in their charge sheet claimed that Rakesh is the key accused of the fraud as the ‘patriarch’ of the HDIL’s business. He gradually plotted the fraud and obtained loans from the bank with the help of other accused, the agency alleged. The police investigation has revealed that HDIL accounted for 73% of the bank’s total loan book.On September 23, 2019, the RBI had placed restrictions on PMC Bank and barred it from proceeding fresh loans or accepting deposits.The EOW has arrested a total of 15 people in the case. All accused have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-scam-accused-rakesh-wadhawan-admitted-in-hospital/story-k82pz4fz9WnvEvg9eUhlqO.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||23-year-old arrested for kidnapping, sexually assaulting minor||Santacruz police have arrested a 23-year-old man for allegedly kidnapping two minors. According to police, a missing complaint of children aged 13 and 15 years was filed by a 34-year-old woman on July 4. Her children had stepped out of the house and had not returned home. She approached the police after she could not find them in the neighbourhood. Following the complaint, police registered an FIR under section 363 (kidnapping) against an unknown person.Shriram Koregaonkar, senior inspector from Santacruz police station said, “We scanned the CCTV footage, and saw that the girls hired an autorickshaw from Santacruz. After reaching Bandra they boarded a taxi to Dharavi. We then arrested the accused from Dharavi and rescued both the kids.”“The medical examination report showed that one of the girls was sexually assaulted by the accused. We have now booked the accused of sexual assault under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso),” said Koregaonkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/23-year-old-arrested-for-kidnapping-sexually-assaulting-minor/story-yd3Vihloo4B5QUQNUsTaxO.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||No prescription needed for Covid test in Mumbai’s private labs now||Citizens can now get tested for Covid-19 from private clinics without requiring any doctor’s prescription or self-declaration after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday issued an order. In view of the importance of early detection of the disease, the civic body has decided to allow citizens to get tests done from all 17 private clinics approved by the BMC without needing any prescription. This comes into effect from Wednesday. In Thane too, symptomatic residents can get themselves tested without showing a prescription, as per the civic chief’s directive on Tuesday.The cost for Covid tests is ₹2,500 for swab samples collected in private clinics or health camps and ₹2, 800 for sample-collection at home. Earlier, the testing charges were capped at ₹4,500, which was recently brought down. By allowing everyone to get the tests done, BMC is aiming to increase the testing numbers from the current 4,000-5,000 tests daily.In a press statement issued on Tuesday, BMC said, “Earlier, a doctor’s prescription was mandatory for getting tests done. The condition has now been removed. This will make it easier for citizens to get tested. If the test is positive, a bed will be allotted by the team set up by us in local civic ward offices. This will help patients get timely treatment, which is much more crucial for early recovery.”BMC further stated that those who are in institutional quarantine facilities (those who are high-risk contacts of a Covid-19 patient) will be allowed to go home only after their Covid-19 tests are negative. Prior to this, the civic body had permitted testing only for those contacts who had symptoms and could produce a doctor’s prescription. Later on June 7, BMC allowed all direct and high-risk contacts of the patient, including asymptomatic, to get tested by a private lab without requiring a doctor’s prescription. The tests were said to be carried out between five and 10 days of coming in contact with the patient. Now any citizen can approach a private laboratory if he or she suspects they were infected and want to get tested for Covid-19. In Thane, earlier, no testing was allowed without a prescription, however, the new civic commissioner, Dr Vipin Sharma, on Tuesday has given directives to test symptomatic patients without prescription.“Earlier, general practitioners were not allowed to prescribe testing for Covid-19. Only doctors from fever clinic or corporation was allowed to prescribe for the test. However, we have now given them permission. This is to ensure that timely treatment is provided, those with symptoms can be isolated immediately if testing is done. This will also help break the chain for Covid-19 in the city,” said Sharma, commissioner.Meanwhile, Mumbai municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal, on Tuesday, directed all ward officers of 24 administrative wards in the city to increase daily testings in high-risk zones by conducting rapid antigen tests every day through setting up camps or using mobile vans. The ward officers have been directed to conduct at least 250 rapid tests through private laboratories assigned to the wards. For high- risk zones, the commissioner has directed officers to collect samples of all symptomatic individuals as well as their contacts having co-morbidities. A circular regarding this was issued on Tuesday and has come into effect already. (with inputs from Ankita G Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-prescription-needed-for-covid-test-in-mumbai-s-private-labs-now/story-zBfgJVuz1oX3AAeOZCipxL.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Can’t allow street vendors amid pandemic: State to HC||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday informed Bombay high court that they do not intend to allow street vendors to resume their business during Covid-19 pandemic.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed the bench of justice Amjad Sayed and justice MS Karnik that as of now the government does not intend to frame any policy allowing street vendors to resume their business during Covid-19 pandemic, as street vending is a highly unregulated sector and it will contribute to the spread of the virus.He was responding to public interest litigation (PIL) filed by activist Manoj Oswal, for a declaration that the imposition of a complete ban on sale of products or food by street vendors to be illegal or unconstitutional and violative of the rights of the people to conduct legitimate business.The 43-year-old animal welfare and animal rights activist from Pune said in his petition that the nationwide lockdown has led to serious issues for the survival of a large component of the population, including street vendors and traders who own very small informal shops and vends. The situation of people working as employees in the informal sector was equally pitiable and they were left to survive without any government support, it said, adding that since they are not registered with the Government in any form, it would be impossible to provide them with any monetary relief. “The only possible relief for them is that they are allowed to conduct their daily business with reasonable restrictions,” the PIL added.On June 19, HC had asked Kumbhakoni to obtain instructions on the framing of appropriate policy to enable street vendors to earn their livelihood. The directive came after Oswal’s counsel, advocate Ashish Verma had pointed out that, on June 2, Pune Municipal Corporation had decided to allow street vendors, when Pune is a hotbed of Covid-19. Verma urged the court to direct the state to frame a policy to allow street vending across Maharashtra.On Tuesday, Verma again pointed out to HC that street vendors belong to the poorest section of the society and this vast population has been compelled to live without a source of livelihood for past three-four months, and they must be allowed to earn a livelihood.Advocate general, however, responded saying the government has not allowed even standalone restaurants to resume services. Only the restaurants attached to hotels are allowed to serve food to the guests.The bench then asked him to put the stand of the government on affidavit and posted the PIL for further hearing after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/can-t-allow-street-vendors-amid-pandemic-state-to-hc/story-ONA5aVBeaCHjQ8a8t5escM.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees lowest 1-day spike in cases in 56 days||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 5,134 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 217, 121, as Mumbai recorded its lowest single-day jump in new infections in 56 days with 785 more patients. Mumbai’s tally is 86,509, while there are 89,294 active cases in the state after 1,18,558 patients have recovered. The recovery rate of the state is 56.4%. The state also reported 224 new fatalities in the past 24 hours, of which 137 were in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including 64 in Mumbai. The death toll in Mumbai crossed the 5,000 mark to touch 5,002. The state toll stands at 9,250. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state dropped to 4.26% from 4.69% on June 25. The national fatality rate is 2.80%. At present 6.32 lakh people are home quarantined, while 45,463 are institutionally quarantined. The state, till Tuesday, has conducted 11,61,311 tests and the positivity rate stands at 18.69%. After constantly reporting daily new infections at an average of 1,280 over the past week, the Mumbai new case count dropped to its lowest since 426 cases were reported on May 12. Although Mumbai reported a drop in cases, cases in other cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have witnessed a rise after economic and commercial activities were opened up under Mission Begin Again. Mumbai’s share in the state case tally has dropped to 40.44% on Monday, from 56.58% on June 8, when private offices were allowed to operate. During the period, rest of MMR’s share (eight corporations excluding Mumbai) rose to 29.91% from 18.7%. The share of the cases in state figures of cities like Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli rose to 5.78%, 4.39% and 5.12% during the period, from 5.67%, 4.06% and 2.13% respectively. Rest of MMR’s share in the toll of the state rose to 17.48% from 13.63% on June 8. The CFR of Mumbai is still high at 5.76%, against rest of MMR’s 2.49% and Maharashtra’s 4.26% The state government, on Tuesday, extended the timings of shops and markets by 2 hours across the state. The earlier order issued on June 29 had restricted shops to remain open till 5pm from 9 am to avoid crowding at market places in cities and rural areas. The decision was taken after the authorities found unnecessary crowding after the relaxations were rolled out from June 3. The order issued on Tuesday however extended it by 2 more hours and the order will come into effect from July 9. “The market and shop owners associations will ensure that the additional relaxations do not lead to crowding in shopping areas,” the orders issued by chief secretary Sajay Kumar stated.The shops will continue to operate on alternate days, while markets will remain open throughout the week. The state government has allowed hotels and lodges to open their shutters from Wednesday. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the authorities are wary about the spread of the virus after more activities, including operation of hotels were allowed. “Most of this in the beginning had come from hotels and thus we have taken due care, while opening hotels and restaurants. We have issued a strict SOP for them to ensure social distancing and there was no spread of the virus through them. We want to draw a perfect balance between economic normalcy and containment of the virus,” he said. Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske said, “We have adequately augmented bed capacity and there is no dearth of beds with oxygen or ventilator facilities. It is true that the cases are high compared to Mumbai, but we are continuing with aggressive tracing and testing of suspected contacts. Earlier the transmission was more in slums, now it has shifted to buildings and colonies and thus it is comparatively easier for us to contain the spread. The number of cases is expected to drop in next few weeks.”The state government is also wary about the surge more in MMR than in the rest of the state if more activities are allowed. Besides the differences in relaxations from the lockdown curbs in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, the bureaucracy and political leadership is also divided over the exemptions to the sectors. The permissions to the hotels and lodges to open from Wednesday, was a surprise for a section of bureaucrats and ministers. They were expecting the opening of more transportation facilities as it could have normalised more number of industrial and commercial activities. “Ramping up public transport and allowing more workforce in the offices, was on the priority list. The decision of opening of hotels and lodges was surprising for many in the government,” said a state government official.Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders are not on the same page with the Shiv Sena leadership when it comes to relaxations from the lockdown curbs. NCP and Congress want more relaxations, against which Sena chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is opposed, as he wants to go slow in the wake of rising cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-lowest-1-day-spike-in-cases-in-56-days/story-lcqNjg0dxQX09OnLZNpLzL.html
08-07-2020||City||Three more charge sheets filed in connection with northeast Delhi riots||New Delhi: Delhi Police on Tuesday filed three charge sheets in a city court in connection with three separate murder cases that happened during the northeast Delhi riots in February, when 53 persons died and around 400 were injured.Five persons were arrested and had been charged for the murders of three men, who were stabbed and bludgeoned to death by a violent mob at the Main Brijpuri Road during a communal clash on February 25. The Main Brijpuri Road was one of those places where large -scale destruction of properties and loss of lives took place on February 24 and 25, police said in the charge sheet. The mosque that was vandalised before rioters attempted to set it on fire and Rajdhani Public Senior Secondary School, which was torched, are near the Main Brijpuri Road, said a senior police officer, privy to the cases. “Nearly 10 people were killed from both the communities on the first two days(February 24 and 25) in the area. The charge sheets have been filed in the murder cases of three Muslims on February 25. One of them was a mentally challenged resident. They were outside their house when the mob assaulted, stabbed and murdered them.,” said a police officer associated with the probe.Police said in the charge sheet that on February 25, large-scale rioting took place in many parts of northeast Delhi. Around 4 pm, the members of one particular community targeted the shops and houses of the other community, which was fiercely resisted and this led to a large-scale rioting, stone pelting and arson from both the sides, police said in the charge sheet.“...three members of the minority community were caught by a mob in front of Gali No 10, main Brijpuri Road near Chawla Kirana Store. They were assaulted and it led to their death. All three of them were declared brought dead at the Guru Teg Bahadur hospital...,” the police said in the charge sheet.Police identified the three men as Ashfaq Hussain, Mohammed Zakir and Mehtab (identified only by his single name in police records) -- all in their 20s.Three separate cases were registered at the Dayalpur police station and they were transferred to the special investigation team (SIT) of crime branch for probe.Five men were arrested after they were identified as rioters with the help of CCTV footage, eyewitness accounts and technical surveillance. The five who have been charged for rioting, murder and criminal conspiracy in the three separate cases were Ashok, Ajay, Shubham, Jitender and Aarif -- all of them referred only by their first names in a police statement. All of them are in the judicial custody, the police said in the charge sheets.Nearly 120 charge sheets have been filed by the crime branch and the north-east district police, so far. More than 750 cases were registered in connection with the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-more-charge-sheets-filed-in-connection-with-northeast-delhi-riots/story-CtdMTOL9BcxT2xQhgWIT6J.html
08-07-2020||City||Karnal MC officials seal 12 dairy farms||Karnal municipal corporation (MC) on Tuesday sealed 12 dairies being operated within its limits and also took their buffaloes and cows into its possession. The MC officials, accompanied by police, conducted a surprise raid, seized at least 15 animals, and sent them to a community centre. Karnal MC joint commissioner Gagandeep Singh said the corporation had identified 188 plots at Pingli village for relocating dairy farms and in February this year, a draw of plots was held in the presence of dairy owners. Seventy-nine dairy owners had participated in the draw, 54 of whom deposited 20% of the payment, but others did not show any interest. He said they had served a 15-day ultimatum on dairy owners to pay the 20% of the allotment money, but on failing to get any response, they conducted the drive. The joint MC chief said it was a violation of MC norms to keep animals for dairy farming purposes in the city and violators will have to face action. “The owners will have to pay ₹5,000 to get their animals back,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-mc-officials-seal-12-dairy-farms/story-IqSc7BysZMwJmGGd0moLSP.html
08-07-2020||City||HC grants 28-day furlough to jailed gangster Arun Gawli||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC), comprising justice ZA Haq and justice NB Suryawanshi, on Tuesday granted 28-day furlough to gangster Arun Gawli, who is serving a life term in Nagpur Central Prison.Gawli,66, was granted parole in February this year for the marriage of his daughter in Mumbai. He was supposed to surrender on April 27, but following the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, the parole was extended by seven days on April 23. The parole was further extended for a week. Later, it was extended again to June 2, when he surrendered before the prison where he has been lodged since.He then approached the Nagpur bench of the HC, seeking furlough in view of the growing number of Covid-19 cases in the Nagpur prison. Around 100 inmates and personnel, including five officers, tested positive for the coronavirus last week.Gawli was active in the Mumbai underworld since the 1970s and was engaged in a bloody gang war with Dawood Ibrahim’s gang till the 1990s.He was convicted in 2012 for the murder of Shiv Sena leader and corporator Kamlakar Jamsandekar and sentenced to life imprisonment. In 1997, Gawli floated a political party, Akhil Bharatiya Sena, and was elected member of the Maharashtra legislative Assembly (MLA) in 2004. His wife, Asha, also led the party when Gawli was in jail, while his daughter, Geeta Gawli is a corporator from Byculla in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-grants-28-day-furlough-to-jailed-gangster-arun-gawli/story-gsXPuhB6yLUzQv1fIlQxzJ.html
08-07-2020||Lucknow||Kanpur’s controversial ex-SSP, entire Chaubeypur police station staff transferred||Former Kanpur SSP Anant Deo Tewari and the entire staff of Kanpur’s Chaubeypur police station, comprising 68 police personnel, were transferred on Tuesday.Anant Deo Tewari was transferred from his present post of DIG STF after a controversial letter of slain Dy SP Devendra Mishra surfaced. In the letter, Mishra had sought action against SO of Chaubeypur police station, Kanpur, Vinay Tewari but Anant Deo Tewari had allegedly ignored the complaint.Vinay Tewari was earlier suspended, allegedly for passing on information about the police raid on Vikas Dubey’s house, during which eight police personnel were killed by Dubey and his henchmen early on Friday.The state government transfer order included Anant Deo Tewari and three other IPS officers.As per the order, Anant Deo Tewari has been transferred as DIG PAC, Moradabad sector, while Sudhir Kumar Singh, who was posted as commandant of 15th battalion PAC in Agra, has replaced him.Anant Deo Tewari, who was posted as SSP Kanpur till June 15 before being posted as DIG STF after his promotion, got involved in a controversy since the letter by the slain Dy SP became viral on social media. The slain Dy SP’s daughter had made the letter viral on social media, alleging inaction by senior police officers in not removing SO, Chaubeypur, Vinay Tewari despite her late father complaining against him.There were demands on social media for Anant Deo’s removal from his present post as the STF was investigating the killing of eight policemen during the raid at Vikas Dubey’s house in Kanpur’s Bikru village.In the other IPS transfers, SSP Moradabad Amit Pathak and SSP Varanasi Prabhakar Chaudhary swapped places.ENTIRE STAFF SHIFTEDSSP Kanpur Dinesh Kumar P late Tuesday night removed the entire staff of Chaubeypur police station comprising 68 police personnel. The police personnel, including 45 constables and 10 head constables, were sent to the police lines. The action comes in the wake of evidences emerging that many of the policemen were in league with gangster Vikas Dubey, who along with his aides, killed eight policemen early on Friday.About 95 policemen of four different police stations are under investigation for their links with Dubey. Three sub-inspectors and a constable have already been suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kanpur-s-controversial-ex-ssp-entire-chaubeypur-police-station-staff-transferred-days-after-massacre-of-cops/story-qYP26ieKkx5eiJmPIbqnyO.html
08-07-2020||City||2 Karnal millers booked after 4,520 quintal rice found missing from their stock||Owners of two Karnal-based mills were booked on Tuesday after about 4,520 quintal rice was found missing from their stock. The action came after the district administration ordered registration of FIR against the owners of New India Rice mills and Balaji Rice Mill over ‘irregularities’ in their stock. Karnal deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav confirmed that orders for the registration of FIR have been issued. It is pertinent to mention here that the district administration had swung into action after two trucks allegedly carrying the rice meant for the public distribution in Uttar Pradesh were seized by officials of the district food and supplies department. During an investigation, it was found that the owners of both these rice mills had purchased the PDS rice from Uttar Pradesh to complete their stock and return it to the government. DC Yadav then ordered a physical verification of their stock where 4,520 quintal rice was found missing. Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Surender Singh Bhoria said the FIR has been registered under sections 406, 420 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code. Inquiry marked against all mills in districtAs per the information, 238 rice mills in the district were given 11.47 lakh MT of paddy for milling as per the custom milling of rice contract and they had to return the rice to the government by June 30. But, only 77% of the rice was returned by the mills. “We have ordered an inquiry under the Karnal ADC against all rice mills and physical verification of their stock would be done. Action will be taken if any irregularity is found in their stock,” the DC said. In a similar case in February, brothers Rajnish Miglani and Girish Miglani, owners of RG Enterprises, were booked after 4,000 MT rice worth Rs 7 crore was found missing from their stock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-karnal-millers-booked-after-4-520-quintal-rice-found-missing-from-their-stock/story-K15nK6DCFEZuDGqe6XaKZL.html
08-07-2020||Noida||Two arrested for killing man over argument while gambling||Two men in their late thirties were arrested by the Bisrakh police on Monday night in connection with the murder of a 32-year-old man on July 4. On July 5, the body of 32-year-old man Subey Yadav was found in a field in the Bisrakh area with a bullet injury to the back. Upon identification, his family had filed a murder complaint with the police. The family had named one Vijay in their complaint and hinted at the involvement of others.Two more suspects involved in the murder are currently on the run.“The arrested suspects have been identified as Vijay and Arvind. The suspects and the victim were all known to each other and would often participate in gambling. There was an altercation between the two suspects and Subey after which he was killed. The argument revolved around the distribution of nearly Rs 2.5 lakh after a round of gambling. Two more suspects were involved in the murder and efforts are on to nab them,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.Police officers said that Arvind and Subey had clashed on earlier occasions as well. On the day of the murder, Vijay was losing money and left the game around 8.30 pm. “However, he was still upset about losing the money and following prompts from Arvind who also wanted Subey to leave, the two along with two more men confronted the victim. The matter escalated and ended with his death. One of the suspects in the run had pulled the trigger and the murder weapon is still missing,” a police officer said.Vijay has a criminal history and has been involved in several cases of robbery, gambling, offenses of arms act etc, the police said. The two suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-arrested-for-killing-man-over-argument-while-gambling/story-Kk9gxtBIIp8OcpyLtkFVFP.html
08-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Shops to shutdown for five days if found flouting social distancing norms||Over 42,000 samples have been tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Ghaziabad till date, according to the district health department. The sample collection that started in the district when the first case reported on March 5 has targeted at least 1% of the population here, officials said.“We are currently conducting about 3,000-3,500 tests per day using methods such as lab-based RT-PCR and rapid antigen test kits. Till Tuesday, we have collected samples of over 42,000 people which is about 1% of the population of the district which is estimated to be about 42 lakh,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. Of the total samples collected, 13,000 were collected for rapid antigen testing which started in the district on June 26. “With 2,430 total confirmed Covid cases on Tuesday, we have a positivity rate of about 5.78% in the district. The positivity rate for antigen testing currently is about 5-10%, while for the RT-PCR tests being conducted to find true negative of antigen test samples, the positivity rate is at about 15%,” Dr Gupta added.Ghaziabad’s positivity rate is more than 2 percentage points above the state average. According to state officials, the state overall has collected 9,22,049 samples till date and with total 29,928 cases, the positivity rate for UP stood at about 3.25%.According to the daily health bulletin released by the state control room released on Tuesday, one more death and 149 fresh cases were reported in the district. With the latest figures, the total cases in the district have gone up to 2,430 which includes 1,390 active cases, 63 deaths and 977 patients discharged so far.The district health department officials said that they now focussing more on antigen testing with about 3,000 overall tests getting conducted per day. A special 10-day surveillance drive that started on July 2 is presently underway. Officials, however, have raised concerns regarding many people who are getting tested for Covid-19 with the help of rapid antigen kits furnishing incomplete or incorrect contact details. It is observed that bout 5-10% of people who are giving their sample do not give correct phone numbers making it difficult to trace them if they are found positive later. “The testing teams have been told to get the ID proofs of all persons getting tested and also record their mobile numbers after proper verification. We have also directed the municipal corporation to coordinate with us for getting tests done for vulnerable sections like fruit and vegetable vendors and those engaged in the distribution of milk and groceries, ”district magistrate Ajay Kumar Pandey said.Meanwhile, with cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rising, officials of the district administration are pushing for stricter measures to ensure compliance with social distancing norms and curfew rules. The administration on Tuesday said that shops, where social distancing norms were not being followed, will be shut down for five days and legal action will be taken against shopkeepers.DM Ajay Shankar Pandey also directed the police to step up inspections in public places and impose a fine of ₹100 on those are found without a mask and double the penalty amount if the offense is repeated.The directives come after the district officials had a meeting with Senthil Pandian C, the nodal officer appointed by the Uttar Pradesh government.DM Pandey said that stricter measures are needed for strict compliance of social distancing norms to contain the spread of the infection. “I have directed the officials to ensure compliance of social distancing norms and curfew norms by shop owners. If they are found violating the norms, their shops will be shut for a period of five days and police will also ensure legal action against them under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). On the other hand, we will also felicitate market associations in they enforce social distancing norms effectively,” Pandey added.Under the guidelines issued for unlock 2, which kicked in on July 1 in the state, the UP government has enforced a night curfew in six districts of Meerut division, which included Ghaziabad, from 8pm to 6am. Following this, the district magistrate had recently directed the shop owners and business establishments to keep their shutters down by 7.30pm to 9am in order to strictly enforce the night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-shops-to-shutdown-for-five-days-if-found-flouting-social-distancing-norms/story-t2l9DeWYGmSuOXGOzj4SqN.html
08-07-2020||City||G Noida: Bizman goes missing on way to Delhi||Noida: A 22-year-old businessman from Greater Noida went missing on the night of July 5 while he was on his way to see the family of a relative in Delhi who had died of Covid-19, the police said. A missing person’s complaint has been filed at Kasna police station.The youth has been identified as Aditya Soni, a resident of Omicron 1 in Greater Noida, the police said. According to his family members, he owns a polishing business in Site 5.“Around 10.30pm, we spoke to him and he said that he would be home in a few minutes. However, around midnight he texted saying that he was in Delhi. His paternal uncle had passed away in a hospital in Delhi due to coronavirus and earlier in the day he had expressed interest in going to see his family. But when we asked our relatives in Delhi, they said he didn’t reach there,” said Neelu Soni, his mother.She said that despite multiple attempts, his phone was not reachable afterwards. The family has contacted his friends and other relatives but no one has heard from Soni, the police said. The family on Monday night approached the police and filed a missing person’s complaint.“It seems that he had left his factory around 8pm in his car. The family had been in contact with him till around midnight but there is no trace of him afterwards. We are working with his call records for now,” said Prabhat Dikshit, station house officer, Kasna police station.Police officials are working on tracing his last location. “He had expressed an interest in visiting his relatives in Delhi but he never reached there. There has been so sign of his car also. We have shared the details with other police stations and will locate him soon,” said the SHO.The officials said that all angles are being probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/g-noida-bizman-goes-missing-on-way-to-delhi/story-QPV6D8kvayl0DqjormlYjN.html
08-07-2020||Gurugram||Eight years after doctor’s murder, man held from Sohna||Almost eight years after a doctor was shot dead in Sohna, the police on Monday arrested a suspect, who had supplied the motorcycle used by assailants in the crime, from Sonepat. As many as six suspects have been arrested in the case so far.The victim, Dr Maha Singh, was shot dead allegedly by a group of people on August 7, 2012, in Silani village of Sohna, when he was lowering the shutter of his clinic to go to his house in Nuh. Police had registered a case and after investigation by state crime branch, an untraced report was filed by the police in 2015. The case was re-opened and marked to crime branch of Sohna, following which the police had arrested four persons- Rizwan, 34, Vikram, Jaydeep and Raju- from Sonepat in February and March 2019.The main accused, Dharambir, who is the former sarpanch of village Ahir Majra in Sonepat, was arrested from Kaithal in April last year for allegedly giving a contract of Rs 25 lakh to a group of people to murder Singh.The sixth suspect, Ramniwas alias Bholu, was arrested by the crime branch of Sohna from village Palri Khurd in Sonepat. He told the police during questioning that he and Raju had stolen a motorcycle from Sonepat and had handed it over to Rizwan, who had used it for the shooting.Police said the former sarpanch had animosity towards the doctor since he had illicit relations with the doctor’s wife, “During questioning, the suspects had revealed that they were contracted by Dharambir to kill the doctor and that he had paid an advance of Rs 2 lakh. They said that Dharambir had shown them the location of the doctor’s workplace and identified him,” said Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police.Dharambir had met the victim’s wife, Radha, when they were both pursuing JBT course in the same college in Ahir Majra in Sonepat in 2008-09. Radha got married to the doctor in 2010, but Dharambir and Radha had an illicit relationship, due to which there was discord between him and the doctor. Police said on two separate occasions, Dharambir and Maha Singh had fought including at the wedding of Maha Singh’s sister-in-law in April 2012, where Dharambir was in attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/eight-years-after-doctor-s-murder-man-held-from-sohna/story-sswbvu9tlIxceFeywpXGAJ.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||495 new infections push Haryana’s tally to 17,999||The number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana reached 17,999 on Tuesday following the addition of 495 new infections in the last 24 hours, said the health bulletin.Gurugram, Bhiwani and Kurukshetra recorded one fatality each, increasing the death toll to 279. Kurukshetra recorded its first Covid- 19 death on Tuesday after a 65-year-old woman from Pipli succumbed to the infection at PGIMER in Chandigarh.According to Kurukshetra chief medical officer (CMO) Sukhbir Singh, the woman was diabetic.Intensive samplings of Covid-19 through rapid antigen testing kits are being conducted in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar, the health department said.Haryana has fixed Rs 2,400 (inclusive taxes) as the price for each Covid-19 test in private labs. Even as Haryana’s patient tally stood at 17,999 on Tuesday, the number of active cases was 4,075 and of those recovered was 13,645. At least 310 patients were cured of Covid on Tuesday. Gurugram has the highest number of cases in Haryana, followed by Faridabad, Sonepat and Rohtak. As per the bulletin, Gurugram saw 125 new cases, followed by Faridabad (122). Other districts where fresh cases were detected included Bhiwani (45), Sonepat (29), Jhajjar (28), Mahendergarh (25), Kurukshetra and Panipat (21 each), Palwal (15), Jind (14), Rohtak (12), Hisar and Rewari (10 each), Yamunanagar (9), Ambala and Sirsa (3 each), Nuh (2), Panchkula (1).Meanwhile, Sonepat health authorities said 90 people were tested positive in the district. Sonepat DC Shyam Lal Punia said six members of a family were among the new patients. At least 15 people were also found infected in Karnal, raising the district tally to 434. Assistant registrar of Maharshi Dayanand University in Rohtak also tested positive for the virus, said officials on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/495-new-infections-push-haryana-s-tally-to-17-999/story-ksk0DAvqUTF93pXhmeZfxM.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Four new jumbo facilities take city’s bed capacity to 76,076||Four new jumbo facilities for Covid-19 patients, temporarily constructed in open fields, were inaugurated on Tuesday, adding 3,520 new beds, including 228 for intensive care units (ICU), to the city’s treatment facility. It has upgraded Mumbai’s bed capacity to 76,076, including those in hospitals, ICUs, with ventilators and oxygen points, and beds to quarantine non-Covid-19 people and high-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive patients.Of the 76,076 beds, 25,203 beds are for Covid-positive patients, and 50,873 beds for institutional quarantine of non-Covid-19 people, but high-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. Additionally, BMC has 23,840 inactive beds to treat asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, if the need arises. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated these facilities via video-conferencing. The facilities are located at Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg in Mulund (1,700 beds constructed with the help of CIDCO); Dahisar West (955 beds constructed with the help of Mumbai Metro); Mahalaxmi Racecourse with 700 beds constructed through corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds, and phase II of the facility at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) ground constructed with the help of Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) (figure of total beds not known). While the BKC facility has 120 ICU beds, the Dahisar facility has 108 ICU beds.These jumbo facilities will become operational from Wednesday.Speaking at the inauguration, Thackeray, according to a press release issued by the chief minister’s office on Tuesday evening, said, “These are state-of-the-art facilities and equate with the status of facilities at any hospital in the city, even though these jumbo facilities are temporary. We have to now focus on construction of permanent hospitals in Maharashtra to fight the spread of infectious and communicable diseases.”Mumbai’s Covid care facilities are divided into Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHC) for patients who are serious, critical, or showing severe to moderate symptoms, Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) for patients who are showing moderate to mild symptoms, and the Covid Care Centres (2) - (CCC2) for asymptomatic patients.Mumbai currently has 21,683 DCHC, DCH and CCC2 beds, including 1,606 ICU beds, 10,549 beds with oxygen points, and 942 ventilator beds. Another category of Covid Care Centres called CCC1 are for quarantining high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients. The total number of CCC1 beds is 50,873.Environment minister and guardian minister of Mumbai’s suburbs Aaditya Thackeray, guardian minister of island city Aslam Shaikh, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar and Mumbai’s municipal commissioner IS Chahal attended the inauguration via video-conferencing.Thackeray also said: “Maharashtra is the first state in the country to introduce the concept of state-of-the-art hospitals constructed in open fields. Maharashtra has set a record of setting up ICUs in such open space hospitals.”Aaditya Thackeray said, according to the press release, said: “We are attempting to bring robotic technology to these facilities. Care is being taken to ensure that doctors are safe.” While 500 beds at the Mulund facility are reserved for patients from Thane Municipal Corporation, 200 beds at the Dahisar facility are reserved for patients from Mira-Bhayandar Municipal Corporation.On Sunday, Dr Gautam Bhansali, chief coordinator of private hospitals and municipal corporation, had told Hindustan Times that a large number of patients admitted to Mumbai’s hospitals are from Mira-Bhayandar, Thane, Kalyan, and Dombivli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-new-jumbo-facilities-take-city-s-bed-capacity-to-76-076/story-paK4IYoVEbWuLYMmKOoADN.html
08-07-2020||Gurugram||2,000 people to be covered in second serological survey in Gurugram||To expedite the process tracing the prevalence of Covid-19 infection in Gurugram, the state health department has planned to expand the coverage of the second round of serological survey. The test, which helps to check undetected community transmission, will now be conducted among 2,000 people to check the presence of Covid-19 antibodies in their blood serum. The state health department officials are presently working on the details of the survey but said that the survey will start as soon the plan is ready. A serological survey is a tool used by the epidemiologists to study the prevalence of an infection within a community. Officials of the health department said the survey will cover people from different backgrounds, including cab drivers, people working in malls and shopping complexes and other sections of the vulnerable population, as per the guidelines of the Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR). “The sample size of the serological survey is being increased to 2,000. It will involve the use of 278 antibody kits that are yet to be utilised from the previous stock of 460 kits,” Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO), said. The district health department conducted the first round of serological survey on June 24 at the CMO office in the old Civil Hospital. At least 182 blood samples were collected mostly from police personnel, healthcare workers, etc. A total of 32 people tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 antibody. “A detailed plan will be prepared by the health department this week to conduct the survey in different parts of the city,” said Yadav.Following the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines on the serological survey, 20 categories, such as immunocompromised patients, healthcare workers, industrial workers, aviation staff, taxi and auto drivers, prisoners, staff members of urban local bodies (ULBs) and persons working with banks, post offices, couriers and telecom companies, among others, will be covered. A few other sections, such as preoperative patients, pregnant women and elderly people have also been included by the state government in the survey. Yadav said that these people will be covered in both containment as well as non-containment zones across the city. The survey will involve the use of an improved Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (Elisa)-based antibody kit. The IgG ELISA test has been approved by the ICMR because of it of its high sensitivity and specificity. Al least 50% of the kit will be used on patients, who have been tested positive within the last two weeks. The remaining kits will be used on those who have no history of contracting the Covid-19 infection. Studies show that the IgG antibodies start appearing after two weeks of the onset of infection. Even if the patients have recovered, the antibodies can last for several months. To conduct the test, the five millilitres of blood is collected, which is then separated into blood and plasma. The plasma is used to detect the antibodies developed against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The IgG test is not useful for detecting acute infection but indicates episodes of Covid-19 infection in the recent past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-to-cover-more-people-in-the-second-round-of-serological-survey/story-uPrw97bdqkg90UOkLrTcjP.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||A DU student is fighting two battles: Covid and the stress of online exams||A 21-year-old student of BA (Hons) in English at Delhi University’s SGTB Khalsa College is fighting two battles at the same time—the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and stress of the upcoming online open-book exams. Despite opposition from both teachers and students, the University is set to conduct open-book exams online for final-year students from Friday.While hundreds of students said they might boycott the online open-book exams after facing several technical issues during the mock tests, Gaurisha Kapila, who tested positive for Covid-19 on July 1, said that she does not want to miss future opportunities by skipping exams. The resident of west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar area is in home isolation. “I do not have a choice but to appear in the exams. The University is saying it will conduct another round of exams whenever the situation improves. But I cannot wait for my degree for an unknown period. There is so much uncertainty. If I wait, my graduation will be stuck and I will not be able to do anything else,” she said. Even as the Delhi University has said that it will provide students who could not appear in online exams with another opportunity, the University has not made specific announcements for Covid-19 positive students like Kapila. “I had contacted my college teachers and written to the college authorities about my situation. The college had forwarded my letter to the university administration. But there has been no response yet,” she said.Kapila said that she was already stressed about the online exams before she tested positive for Covid-19 on July 1. “I visited my aunt’s house in the last week of June. I wanted some change since I was anxious about the online exams. My aunt and her family live in the same neighbourhood. A few days later, my aunt and cousin both tested positive. I also developed symptoms, following which my parents got me tested from a private lab. My result arrived on July 1,” she said.Her father, who has diabetes, and seven-year-old brother shifted to her grandparents’ house in Faridabad immediately. Kapila, who is now living with her mother, said that a team from the District Surveillance Office (DS0) visited them the day she tested positive. “They put up a home isolation poster outside our house and gave us some medicines and an oximeter to monitor my oxygen level. Although I am feeling well physically, I’m very stressed out. I keep wondering what would happen if it also infects my mother. There is a table outside my room where she keeps my food and other stuff to avoid contact with me. I wash my dishes and clothes, and clean my room several times a day. How do I study amid all this and write exams?” she said. Kapila, who wants to pursue a masters degree in theatre from the National School of Drama, could not even appear in any mock online test the University conducted to familiarise students with the new format. Her mother Sonia Kapila said that the family is stressed about their daughter’s health. “How can the University put students under so much stress amid the pandemic? My daughter is fighting the virus, and she is so worried about her exams at the same time. I do not know how she will write the exams from Friday,” she said.Saikat Ghosh, an assistant professor at Kapila’s College, said that she contacted him when she tested positive for Covid-19. “She had also written to the college administration. The college administration had forwarded her letter to the University. We are yet to hear anything from them,” he said. The University Grants Commission (UGC) on Monday advised against the cancellation of final-year exams in colleges. The UGC recommended the colleges hold exams in any medium—online, offline, or mixed—by September 30. Despite several attempts, DU’s Dean of Examination Vinay Gupta and Dean of Students Rajeev Gupta did not respond to calls and text for comment. A senior University official, requesting anonymity, said, “The University will surely give another opportunity to students who will not be able to take exams now. In cases like these, the student should give priority to his or her health.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-du-student-is-fighting-two-battles-covid-and-the-stress-of-online-exams/story-OFATQ84Lry2mZUw8XWozBM.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Five days on, teething troubles at plasma bank||Confusion over procedures and paperwork was among teething troubles facing donors as well as prospective recipients at the country’s first plasma bank for Covid-19 patients, which was set up by the Delhi government five days ago to streamline access to one of the few effective treatments against the coronavirus disease. Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma, which contains virus-fighting antibodies, from a person who has recovered from the infection. When given to a patient with Covid-19, it has been established to help their immune system fight off the virus. Other states such as West Bengal and Goa have also decided to set up plasma banks. “There were several forms that had to be filled, and even if one column or stamp was missing, the applicants were asked to go back to the hospital. Apart from that, transporting the plasma is also the responsibility of the patient’s family. So, I had to go looking for an ice box,” said Sujeet Kumar, 35, who went to the plasma bank on Monday with a friend whose father needed the therapy.  Similar problems were faced by donors, who reported waiting for long waiting hours.Ravi Sharma, 33, was one of the recovered Covid-19 patients who registered as a convalescent plasma donor. Sharma, a Delhi government educator, left the Delhi Plasma Bank without donating after waiting for over six hours at the hospital.“After I registered on the website, I got a call from a doctor who told me about the therapy. Then, we fixed an appointment for Monday afternoon,” he said.The confusion started when he reached the hospital. “I was not told that I had to carry any document. But once I reached the hospital, they asked me to fill a form and provide my test reports – both positive and negative. I had the negative report on my phone but not the other one. It took two hours of back and forth for my sample to be taken,” he said.He left around 7pm after waiting in vain for his fresh test report. “I was the only voluntary donor at that time,” he said.“The process will definitely get streamlined in the next few days. It is a new process and we will take their feedback to make it as easy as possible. It is monitored directly by the CM and a dedicated team is personally reaching out to potential plasma donors to make the process smooth and convenient at the earliest,” said a Delhi govt spokesperson.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday had urged all recovered Covid-19 patients to donate plasma, particularly since the criteria for who can donate leaves many people out.The number of patients receiving plasma therapy has gone up with the Union ministry of health allowing hospitals to administer the therapy outside of a clinical trial in patients with moderate disease whose requirement for oxygen kept increasing despite being given oxygen therapy and steroids. So far, over 74,000 people have recovered in the city and many of them can donate plasma, health officials said. “So far, we have administered the therapy to 12 patients. However, its efficacy in treating Covid-19 is not yet proven,” said Dr Gauri Shankar, head of the department of critical care at Fortis hospital, Vasant Kunj. Max hospital, Saket, which was the first hospital in the city to administer the therapy, has been receiving increased requests and queries about the therapy.“We counsel all Covid-19 patients at the time of discharge to return in two weeks to donate plasma. However, we are not getting enough donations at the moment for us to create a plasma ban,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max Healthcare.“The delays could possibly be because people might come to the hospital without checking what papers are needed on the website. The process of plasmapheresis is meticulous. We are able to manage nearly 20 donors and recipients everyday and hope to get better with time,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences that runs the plasma bank. Around 200 patients in each of the two hospitals will receive the therapy under the trial.In two separate orders on Tuesday, the Delhi government directed all Covid hospitals in the city to obtain feedback of patients on prescribed proforma and ask them if they want to donate plasma. The government has also decided to put up boards at entry gates of all hospitals requesting recovered patients to donate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-days-on-teething-troubles-at-plasma-bank/story-qZzBdv36hXKZqmD4vOlBrL.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Mayur Vihar’s efforts to end containment rules end in police case||From lighting candles to marching their children wearing black bands, from banging plates to switching off lights, residents of a containment zone in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar have done it all over the past few days in an effort to get their neighbourhood unlocked. One such protest march on Saturday with lighted candles and torchlights ended in the police registering a case against them for allegedly violating social distancing norms. While the police action may have stopped further protest marches, it hasn’t stopped residents of A-3 pocket in Mayur Vihar Phase-3 -- a neighbourhood mostly inhabited by a large number of working professionals -- from continuing to draw the attention of authorities to what they term a “desperate situation in which people are losing their jobs”.“Today (Tuesday) evening, the children of our neighbourhood will stand outside their homes wearing black bands and holding placards. There has not been a single positive Covid-19 case in our neighbourhood after June 24, yet, we are being contained inside a small colony,” said the residents welfare association president, Rajkumar Upadhyay, who has been named as an accused in the police case. While the FIR mentions only Upadhyay’s name, the police said they have booked a host of unknown people as well, belonging to Group-13 of the A-3 pocket. The A-3 pocket consists of 128 houses and was turned into a containment zone on June 5, after nine residents tested positive for Covid-19. “By June 16, all infected persons tested negative for Covid-19 and, on June 24, antigen tests were conducted on all residents,” said Upadhyay.There are around 350 people living in the 128 houses, and about 275 of them took the antigen tests. “There were a few cancer patients, some senior citizens and a few children who didn’t take the tests. But at least one member from each occupied house took the test,” said Upadhyay. But the fact that a few chose not to take the antigen tests made matters difficult for the neighbourhood. A senior government official, on condition of anonymity, said some respite could have been given to the colony had every single resident taken the test.Upadhyay said while he would welcome the authorities getting all residents tested, those who didn’t go for the test were those who feared contracting the infection from the test centre. “These are people who have remained completely secluded all this while. They don’t want to risk catching the virus by visiting a testing centre,” said Upadhyay.In any case, the antigen tests results threw up one more positive case. While the new patient was sent to a quarantine centre in nearby Mandoli, the containment plan of the neighbourhood was extended by another 28 days in keeping with the government rules on de-containment. According to the rules, if a new Covid-19 patient is detected in a containment zone, then the containment plan starts all over again for 28 days. But this rule has left residents agitated. “If none of our residents was going out since the past 20 days, and if the infected patients have recovered nine days before the other residents underwent antigen testing, then the only way a person got infected was through the milk, vegetables and other ration that are being supplied to us. How do we know that our neighbourhood won’t be turned into a containment zone again and again?” said Upadhyay. But Arun Mishra, district magistrate of East Delhi, said the authorities were only going by the rules.“We are following the rules, but at the same time viewing their problems from a humanitarian point of view. We are discussing with higher authorities on ways to deal with such situations,” said the DM. Talking about Saturday’s march, Upadhyay said, about 50 residents held lighted candles and phone torchlights and marched towards the neighbourhood gates. “We maintained a gap of one metre between each person. Four people took turns to march till about 20 feet from the barricades and left our candles there as a mark of protest,” he said.But the police said there was no social distancing during the march. “One man was walking between the queues to click photos, not maintaining any distance in the process. We don’t mind them protesting inside houses and from balconies, but walking out in large numbers is against their own interest,” said a senior police officer, who didn’t want to be identified. Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (east), said a case under four sections of the Indian Penal Code and one section of the Pandemic Act has been registered at Ghazipur police station. “They were not maintaining social distancing,” said the DCP. The most stringent section under which the FIR has been registered is Section 270 of the IPC which pertains to “malignant act that can spread a disease”. If convicted for this offence, the maximum punishment is two years in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mayur-vihar-s-efforts-to-end-containment-rules-end-in-police-case/story-mLJzTp1mlLgFPqIibvbBEL.html
08-07-2020||City||Man who lost both parents to Covid donates plasma on his 54th birthday as a tribute to them||Subhash Nagpal lost his father to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on June 9. Five days later, his mother too succumbed to the disease. Nagpal neither got a chance to bid them goodbye nor could he cremate them. In home-isolation after six members of his joint family tested positive for Covid-19, he had mourned the loss in solitude.On Tuesday, Nagpal paid what he described as “shradhanjali” (tribute) to his parents. He landed at Delhi’s Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) and donated his plasma.The day happened to be 54-year-old Nagpal’s birthday. And it wasn’t a mere coincidence.“Whenever there was a birthday in our family, my mother would perform a ‘havan’. Today there was no such ritual and I missed her badly. I couldn’t control my emotions and decided to pay back to my parents by trying to save someone else’s life,” Nagpal said about what inspired him to make the donation at a time when the city is grappling with a shortage of plasma donors.Plasma therapy is a process in which blood rich in antibodies from a Covid-19 recovered patient is transfused into the body of someone still struggling with the virus to boost immune response to the virus.Nagpal, an engineer by education and owner of an insurance advisory firm, lived in a ten-member joint family in Faridabad Sector 28. It included his elderly parents, his wife and son, his brother’s family and a domestic help. “We were a blessed, happy family that looked out for each other at all times,” said Nagpal.Since March 19, Nagpal said, only the domestic help would leave the house once a week to bring essential items which would then be first left outside, and then ritualistically washed with turmeric water and dried in the sun before being used.The family still has no answers to how the virus crept into their household, given the fact that their domestic help tested negative for Covid-19.Nagpal’s 78-year-old mother, Kaushal who retired as a lecturer in Karnal, was the first to show symptoms. She had complained of weakness on May 31 and her subsequent blood test showed low platelet count. “We got her admitted to Apollo Hospital for treatment where her Covid test on June 1 showed she was infected with coronavirus,” said Nagpal.All other nine members of the family, including the domestic help, got themselves tested soon after. On June 4, when the test results arrived, Nagpal said it hit them like a “tsunami”. Nagpal, his father, his wife, brother and nephew were found to be infected.“Until then, the disease was just a statistic for us. We would see the numbers rise every day and think we were insulated from it,” said Nagpal.The other five infected members of the family did not have any severe symptoms and went into home isolation, but on June 8 his father, 84-year-old Prithviraj, began having difficulty breathing. The elderly man, a retired lawyer, was admitted to a private hospital in Faridabad.He passed away the next day. “It was so sudden and unexpected. We couldn’t even get to speak to him one last time,” said Nagpal.Over the next five days, the family prayed for the recovery of Nagpal’s mother who was on a ventilator at Apollo Hospital. “I had last spoken to her on phone two days before my father’s death. The call had lasted a minute and all I could tell her was to pray to god,” Nagpal said.But Nagpal couldn’t speak to his mother ever again. “There was no way to communicate with her. She was in the ICU and not in a position to speak over the phone,” said Nagpal.Nagpal’s mother passed away on June 14, in the absence of her family. Like her husband, she was cremated by some relatives even as their two sons suffered the agony at their home. The four infected surviving members of the family recovered from the disease by June 20, but life was never the same for them again. “There was a constant sense of regret,” said Nagpal.It was in those days of sadness and gloom that Nagpal read extensively on plasma donation. “There are so many myths about the disease. But as I read more and more, I realised that it is a harmless process for those without co-morbidities,” Nagpal said.On Saturday -- 14 days after he had recovered -- he dialled an NGO and offered to donate his plasma.While they told him that he would receive a call soon, Nagpal on Tuesday morning drove to the plasma bank recently established by the Delhi government at ILBS in Vasant Kunj. “I saw relatives of some patients literally begging doctors to arrange plasma,” said Nagpal.And true to what he had read up, Nagpal didn’t feel “an iota of weakness” after donation.Dr Meenu Bajpai, professor of transfusion medicine at ILBS, said she was overwhelmed on realising that a man who had lost both his parents to Covid-19 was out to donate his plasma.“He told me he had lost his own parents, but wanted to save someone else’s. It was a moment I felt inspired to work harder,” said Dr Bajpai.Having experienced the how safe the process is, Nagpal has now requested his brother and nephew to donate plasma. “The doctor told me that I would be in a position to donate again after 14 days,” said Nagpal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-who-lost-both-parents-to-covid-donates-plasma-on-his-54th-birthday-as-a-tribute-to-them/story-ODjlWBXxkK7m25ibeensZI.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Podar hospital gets robot to distribute food, medicines||To minimise contact between healthcare staff and people admitted in the quarantine ward at Poddar Hospital in Worli, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has acquired a robot named ‘Gollar’ for food, water and medicine distribution. The automated machine has several trays where items can be placed, and it is remote monitored to move around the room, where people in quarantine can come and pick up the items.This will limit the number of times health workers have to interact with quarantine patients, and reduce chances of nurses and hospital staff getting infected. According to Maharashtra Minister for environment, Aaditya Thackeray, the robot will also be used to distribute medicines and food to patients at the National Sports Complex of India’s (NSCI) stadium done in Worli, where a 530-bed jumbo facility is operational for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/poddar-hospital-gets-robot-to-distribute-food-medicines/story-SJhnEpQcIKr68s2XbJW3gO.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Jail inmates allowed to consult private lawyers via video conference||The Delhi government on Tuesday told the Delhi high court that inmates of city prisons can now consult their private or legal aid lawyers via video conference. The court was hearing a couple of pleas that had challenged the March 25 notification of the prisons authority, suspending all legal interviews and family visits to jails in view of the coronavirus outbreak.Additional standing counsel Satyakam for the Delhi government told a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan that the facility was earlier available only for consulting legal aid lawyers, but a circular issued on Monday allows all inmates to use it to even consult their private lawyers.Taking note of the submission made by the Delhi government’s additional standing counsel, appearing for the prisons authority, the bench said it was not going to interfere in the matter at this stage and issue any directions.The court was hearing two separate PILs moved by two lawyers -- Sarthak Maggon and Ajit P Singh -- challenging a March 25 notification of the prisons authority suspending all legal interviews and family visits in jails in view of the coronavirus outbreak.The court said the restrictions on legal interviews were put in place by the prisons authority to save the lives of the inmates and with the July 6 circular, the March 25 notification is no longer applicable.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Maggon, and advocate Lav Kumar Agrawal, appearing for Singh, expressed some reservations regarding the circular. They said privacy of privileged communication between an inmate and lawyer ought to be maintained and no jail official should be within hearing range of the video meeting.Satyakam said no jail official would be in hearing range of the video conference. Taking note of all the submissions, the bench asked the prisons authority to consider them as suggestions if and when in the future it decides to amend the circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jail-inmates-allowed-to-consult-private-lawyers-via-video-conference/story-AmeOzwB8gNA7Wqt9JM4QIJ.html
08-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi police crack down on snatchers as pandemic keeps crime low||A hard crackdown, coupled with the fear of an invisible but deadly virus, has given Delhi Police the opportunity of cleaning up the city’s streets like never before.If numbers could speak, then the ones accessed by HT from the police control room, would say that common street crimes in the city — like robbery and snatching — are at an all-time low , having dipped by around 60%, when compared to average number of calls received each month last year. Data accessed by HT shows that the police control room used to receive around 5,000 distress calls on an average every month.. The numbers have come down to less than 2,000 in the last few months. Senior Delhi police officers said that they had launched a massive crackdown in the last two months and a large number of people have been arrested for snatching and robbery . Snatching was one of the most common crimes last year.Senior police officers said all station heads have been directed to focus on street crime by police chief SN Shrivastava. The SHOs have been told to ensure that bikers do not have a free run and ensure that snatching cases do not remain unsolved. Between May and June this year, since the lockdown norms started to be eased, police have arrested 15,678 persons. During the same period last year, there were 11,250 arrests.“The number of calls received has gone down, which definitely means that the crime is coming down. From mid May to June, the lockdown norms have relaxed. People are back on the streets but the calls are reducing,” said additional commissioner of police(crime) MS Randhawa.Randhawa said that every police district has been told to focus on nipping street crime in the bud. “At every meeting, the district DCPs are told probe the whole gang involved in snatching — like people receiving/buying stolen property. The number of arrests has increased suddenly because after every snatching, investigating teams are arresting every person related to the crime to break the chain.”The officer cited the example of a cell phone repair mechanic in north Delhi, who was arrested on Saturday with 27 stolen phones. Police had then said that the man, bought snatched mobile phones and sold it in the market by tampering its IMEI number. The increase in the number of arrests has also prompted Tihar jail authorities to create more spaces for isolation wards to ensure social distancing in jails.Tihar has reported two Covid-19 deaths and 141 positive cases until Tuesday . The prison chief, director general Sandeep Goel said that while the situation is manageable currently, the department has written to the government requesting for a temporary jail to be built in the police colony at Mandoli. “There are around 350 flats in the police colony, which can house around 2000 prisoners and can be utilized for isolation of new inmates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-crack-down-on-snatchers-as-pandemic-keeps-crime-low/story-AGm4AjvKELT2QJFUXQqmIN.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College to bring students back from remote areas to facilitate online learning||Considering the plight of students who belong to remote areas and do not have access to the internet at their homes, Punjab Engineering College (PEC), a deemed to be university, has proposed to bring them back to the campus to facilitate online learning.PEC will begin online classes from July 27 for the next semester, as decided by the senate members of the institution in June.For inclusive online learning, PEC is planning to bring students from remote areas who do not have access to technology back to the campus.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi presented the proposal for the same during a meeting of the board of governors held on Tuesday. According to the proposed plan, the students will be accommodated in the institution’s hostels.Former Panjab University vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Grover, who is a member of the board, said, “The proposal regarding this was presented by the PEC director during the meeting and was appreciated by the board members.”It was also discussed in the meeting that PEC had placed students in various companies during an online placement drive held amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The students whose offers were revoked earlier have been placed in other companies.The members were also briefed about the recent National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings in which PEC went up ten notches. “It was discussed that despite the upward movement in the rank, the institution needs to strive for better quality in the future,” said one of the members.Last month, PEC had decided that the examinations for the next semester would be held offline in November, if the situation allows, following which the pending exams would be held in December after a three-week gap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-to-bring-students-back-from-remote-areas-to-facilitate-online-learning/story-FKRjAYLdbIKJP9HyhLmolI.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||80-year-old man from Sector 16 becomes Chandigarh’s seventh Covid-19 fatality||An 80-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19 after battling it for nearly a month, taking the death toll in Chandigarh to seven, on Tuesday. A resident of Sector 16, he had contracted the infection from his son, who runs a pharmacy in the same sector, and was admitted to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on June 11. A hypertension patient, he was having difficulty in breathing and fever at that time.In the PGIMER release, the cause of death was stated to be: “Cardio respiratory arrest, septic shock, pneumonia, hypertension and Covid-19.”Of the six fatalities earlier, four were senior citizens while one a three-day-old girl.Dr Pankaj Malhotra of the department of internal medicine said: “Patients with uncontrolled diabetes, uncontrolled blood pressure, obesity and cardiac problems are at higher risk. Covid-19 disease affects organs of the body and aggravates the manifestations.”Five more contract disease Meanwhile, five more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the number of confirmed cases to 492. As many as 84 of these remain active.Among those found infected are two family members of a doctor of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, who had tested positive earlier. Both are females, aged 14 and 49.A 35-year-old woman from Sector 40 and a 55-year-old resident of Sector 51 have also tested positive. The woman is a contact of a case reported in Sector 50 earlier. Police post, HC sections closedThe last case is of a 24-year-old son a of a senior constable. The police post of Sector 61, where the cop is posted, has been closed for two days for sanitisation. About 80% of its 55 staffers have also been quarantined.The Punjab and Haryana high court has also temporarily closed seven sections of its administrative unit after the husband of an employee tested positive. The employee will also undergo Covid test besides another male employee who has been hospitalised after complaining of fever, stated a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/80-year-old-man-from-sector-16-becomes-chandigarh-s-seventh-fatality/story-TRd1QnpfquEcs7aJigIH7N.html
08-07-2020||Pune||Serious lapses in ambulance service, bed availability in Pune hospitals, patients say||A day after a 68-year-old diabetic patient living in Wadgaonsheri succumbed to a heart attack as his relatives failed to first get an ambulance and then, ICU beds in various hospitals, another incident of a 62-year-old Covid patient succumbing to the contagion due to non-availability of a vacant bed has come to light. Besides these two cases, two more incidents of hospitals denying service to needy patients have come to light during the past two days, bringing into focus the shortage of beds in the city as the Covid tally surges ahead.In the 62-year-old woman’s case, she was initially asked by the administration since no bed was available for admission, she can stay at her house in Gujar-Nimbalkarwadi on the outskirts of Pune. However, on Monday, her condition worsened as she gasped for breath amid non-availability of a ventilator in the hospital situated in neighbourhood complicated the situation, said her kin.Vyankoji Khope, sarpanch of Gujar Nimbalkarwadi said, “The health department has not provided adequate facilities to us to fight Covid-19. The health department officials have still not visited our villages despite there being 10 positive patients. The villagers have to spend from their pockets, pay extra charges for vehicles and other facilities to save their lives. We are ready to give our halls for free for establishing Covid quarantine facility in the village.”After the incident, district health officer Dr Bhagwan Pawar promised an inquiry saying negligence will not be tolerated at any cost. “Special checking squads will be formed to check the spread of Covid-19 in Haveli area and all the grievances of the residents would be addressed,” said Pawar.In the 68-year-old Wadgaonsheri resident’s case, the deceased and the relatives had to go looking for a vacant ICU bed for two-and-a-half hours on Sunday, before the patient got a bed in the casualty of Sassoon Hospital, which also did not have a vacant ICU bed. Although the patient was suspected to be a Covid-19 person, he was never tested for the same.Anant Dudhane, brother of the deceased who was present with the patient said, “After rushing my brother to two hospitals early hours on July 5 and then inquiring for a vacant ICU bed in multiple other hospitals, we did not get any response. We first went to Ruby Hall Clinic, then to Inlaks and Budhrani hospital and faced a similar situation. On the way, we also made calls to Jehangir, KEM and Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital over the phone but we got to know that there are no vacant ICU beds. Finally at 5.20am, we admitted him at Sassoon hospital where he suffered a severe heart attack and breathed his last at 6am. Even at Sassoon, he was taken to the casualty ward and not the critical care centre as they too did not have any beds.”The patient also did not get a cardiac ambulance on time which would have helped save the golden hours, said Anant. “We had to take my brother in our own car as we did not get an ambulance. We were denied an ambulance at Ruby Hall and then when we called the government service at 108 they said they will call back but they never did. Although my brother had Covid-19 symptoms he was not tested for the same. Had those hospitals provided critical care at the right time, my brother would have survived.”The hospital in its clarification has stated that they did not have any vacant beds to accommodate the patient and so they stabilised the patient by improving the oxygen saturation, following which they were advised to take the patient for isolation ICU care. Dr Sanjay Pathare, medical director of Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “We had a patient named Tanaji Dudane who complained of breathlessness, fever with chills and was a Covid-19 suspect. His SPO2 or oxygen saturation was 80 per cent we gave him oxygen support on venture mask started with 5ltr. When the saturation reached 93 per cent saturation we asked them to take him to a hospital with a vacant ICU facility. We did offer them an ambulance but they denied it and took the patient in their own vehicle. With the current divisional commissioner’s dashboard, anyone can check for a vacancy on real-time bases so there is nothing to hide. We are having 130 plus patients admitted at any point in time.”Dr Dnyaneshwar Shelke, chief operating officer at BVG India for the Maharashtra emergency medical services (MEMS) which run the 108 ambulance service stated that they did get two calls with regards to this patient. He said, “We got a call from Ruby hall clinic but we do not provide ambulance services to private hospitals. The next call we got was from Sassoon but by the time the ambulance was dispatched, the relatives said that they do not require it anymore. Before we dispatch any ambulance we need to check the medico-legal part of it and the scope of the patient so we need to talk to the medical officer, nurse or the treating doctor.”He further added that every hospital needs to stabilise a person before sending them to a different hospital even if they do not have a vacant ICU bed. “The ambulance is not above hospital it is just transit care. Usually, the response time for urban areas is 20 minutes and for rural areas, it is 30 mins. We are integrating private ambulances too to increase our strength. Out of the current 937 ambulances we have, 440 are dedicated to Covid-19 and we cannot transfer a non-covid patient in that ambulance.”Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “We have formed a special committee to look into the complaints of overcharging, denial of the hospital facility and overcharging by ambulances. We have the power to impound ambulances and book them for denying service to the needy patients both COVID and regular patients.”As of Monday evening, only two hospitals showed vacant ICU beds with ventilators in PMC areas and only four hospitals showed vacant ICU beds without ventilators Difficulty in getting admittedA senior citizen from Kothrud had to face the worst ordeal of her life as several prominent hospitals denied her admission on the ground that whether her Covid-19 test was undertaken and the results had come. Her doctors advised treatment in a multi-speciality hospital as she was having breathing issues. Those patients who have Covid like symptoms and whose tests have not been done find great difficulty in getting admitted in prominent hospitals across the city, her family members said.Death at SassoonA diabetic died of a heart attack at Sassoon Hospital after he was denied a bed by hospitals in the city. The deceased developed severe breathing issues at around 3 am on Monday night, but despite requests for admission by relatives, a bed was denied to him. He was rushed to Sassoon hospital where he suffered a heart attack and died. His relatives alleged that the private hospitals were flatly denying hospital beds without any fear of action. Problems in rural areasNo dedicated quarantine centresDelay in testingFor 10 villages, one Covid centreDedicated fleet of ambulances is required which is currently missingDedicated team of medical professionals including doctors and paramedical staffComplaints of overcharging by private vehicles||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/serious-lapses-in-ambulance-service-bed-availability-patients-say/story-AA3Cmca9IyEcpizOXxMpCP.html
08-07-2020||Mumbai||State losing out on PM Gram Sadak Yojana funds, says Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition, Devendra Fadnavis in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday complained that the state government was likely to lose out on funds under the Centre’s PM Gram Sadak Yojana to build rural roads due to lethargy of the administration. Fadnavis in his letter said that the third phase of the Central scheme had been announced under which roads of 1.25 lakh kilometers would be built. “It had been decided that the state would get to build 6,550 kms of road and a proposal had to be tabled in January. But, so far, no such proposal has been sent to the Centre by Maharashtra. That is really unfortunate. Projects worth 17,000 kms have been approved of other states” states the letter. Fadnavis added that during the pandemic the road works under the Central scheme would have ensured jobs for rural unemployed, but the state government has been working at a snail’s pace, despite reminders by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-losing-out-on-pm-gram-sadak-yojana-funds-says-fadnavis/story-K5DBjhBJvqLaT550DtvpVJ.html
08-07-2020||Pune||Suspended constable, journalist and woman arrested in extortion case; RTI activist booked||A woman, a journalist formerly employed with a local daily, and a constable have been arrested on Tuesday by the Pune police in an extortion case. They were among the five people booked in the case for demanding extortion of Rs 2 crore from a builder.The arrested have been identified as journalist Devendra Jain, a resident of Sinhgad road; suspended constable Shailesh Jagtap, a resident of Bhavani peth; and a woman who is a complainant in a sexual assault case, according to the police. The complaint was lodged by a city-based builder Sudhir Vasant Karnataki (64) a resident of Shivtirthnagar in Kothrud.The other two persons against whom the first information report has been filed are RTI activist Ravindra Barhate and Amol Chavan.“The three have been arrested and will be produced in court tomorrow (Wednesday),” said inspector (crime) Kiran Balwadkar of Kothrud police station.Karnataki has claimed that he has known one of the accused, the woman since 2013, and they bought a house together in 2017 in Bavdhan. In November 2019, the woman allegedly threatened to file false rape charges against Karnataki if he failed to hand over the ownership of the house and Rs 6 lakh, of which he paid Rs 1,50,000 to her, according to his complaint.Futhermore, the five allegedly later increased the demand to Rs 2 crore and a property in Bhavani peth in order to save the complainant from getting killed or named in a false case.The complainant is an accused in a sexual assault case registered in Hinjewadi in January. Karnataki claims that he was wrongly accused in the sexual assault case as he did not pay heed to the extortion demand of Rs 2 crore, according to his complaint.A case under Sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 388 (extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life), 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion), 506(2) (criminal intimidation), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/suspended-constable-journalist-and-woman-arrested-in-extortion-case-rti-activist-booked/story-YG0cf4JG1zYJujHOmE2ZjJ.html
08-07-2020||Pune||Pune DLSA urges lawyers, applicants to use e-filing system||PUNE: The District legal service authority (DLSA) has urged lawyers to avail the e-filing portal facility launched by the Supreme Court in May in the light of Covid-19 lockdown.A letter sent to DLSA on June 23 reads, “In order to increase the response of advocates and litigants to the said facility, it is necessary to motivate them. You are therefore requested to motivate and request advocates in district and taluka courts for registering themselves on e-filing portal.”The required help can be found on efiling.ecourts.gov.in/help.An advocate or an applicant can register on the portal. For advocates, it is necessary for them to have their contact information — phone number and email address — to be registered with the court before registering with the application. Applicants in personal capacity can register using only their phone number and email address.“Around 7,100 lawyers are registered with Pune bar association. We could access the e-filing system only 10-15 days ago. The system has not reached the entire fraternity yet,” said advocate Ghanshyam Darade, secretary of the Pune Bar AssociationThe court had started functioning in two shifts from the beginning of June. However, later, the timing was reduced to one shift and for emergency matters only till July 31.“It will save time and avoid mishandling of documents. Most lawyers are not used to online process and are facing difficulties, but we will take adequate steps to ensure that all use the facility,” Darade said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-dlsa-urges-lawyers-applicants-to-use-e-filing-system/story-YRcEg5sYheqb0yxjEZIt9N.html
08-07-2020||Pune||Pune varsities prepare to hold final-year exams, student groups oppose UGC decision||With University Grants Commission (UGC) asking universities and colleges to “compulsorily” take final-year exams by the end of September 2020 in offline/online/blended mode, universities in Pune have started preparations. The UGC decision has evoked mixed responses from student groups.Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) board of examinations and evaluation department director Mahesh Kakade said, “We have already taken steps to conduct the exams according to the May 8 state government notification. As per the instructions of SPPU academic council and board of examination and management council, we had planned to conduct the exam. We are yet to get the UGC notification and will follow it as per the state government guidelines.”Dr Vidya Yeravdekar, pro chancellor of Symbiosis International (deemed university) and principal director, Symbiosis said, “We had conducted final-year exams for post graduate students before the lockdown was announced. Only undergraduate final-year students exams needs to be taken. We are in a continuous assessment evaluation mode and have a very large component of internal assessment. We have 60 per cent internal assignments and studies and 40 per cent for term-end exams. We take scores of semesters and internal assignments. We give online assignments and take vivas online.”Prof MM Salunkhe, vice-chancellor, Bharati Vidyapeeth (deemed university), Pune said, “The state government had directed us to not conduct final-year exams and yesterday UGC announced to hold exams till September. We have started preparations and will hold exams as we have students coming from across the country. The exams will be held online and many aspects need to be considered like device, connectivity and electricity supply.”MIT World Peace University (WPU) registrar Prashant Dave said, “We have been requesting the state government and UGC to hold exams for final-year students as it has a long term impact on their career. We will see whether it will be taken online or in blended model in compliance with the directives of state government.”Maharashtra Students Welfare Association has written to education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal demanding cancellation of exams. Vaibhav Edke, president of the organisation, said, “Students are never afraid of exams, but the current situation of pandemic has left us with fear of getting infected by the virus. Most of the students have returned to their hometowns or villages. We request the Centre and UGC to rethink on the decision or else we will have no option but to go on hunger strike and oppose it across the state.”Dayanand Shinde, president of Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) SPPU unit said, “It is a big risk to cancel the exam of final-year students as it will impact their career. We welcome UGC’s decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-varsities-prepare-to-hold-final-year-exams-student-groups-oppose-ugc-decision/story-sxRlW9SMWgZ5ug0EWLjOjO.html
08-07-2020||Pune||Lockdown restrictions go for a toss in Vadgaon Budruk, Pune||A strict lockdown was imposed by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for Vadgaon Budruk from July 4 to 11 after an increase in the number of Covid positive cases. However, in spite of lockdown orders, it was found that citizens in the area were violating rules, breaking barricades and walking out from the sealed areas and openly travelling through bikes and cars in the lockdown area.“Since May this year, the numbers of cases were on a rise in ward number 33 which consists of the Vadgaon Budruk area. On July 1, I personally visited the spot and as per the instructions given to us by the PMC commissioner on closing down an area if three or more positive cases are found, we gave orders for a lockdown in the gavthan part of Vadgaon budruk for eight days from July 4 to July 11,” said Sambhaji Khot, Sinhagad road PMC ward officer.Accordingly, the area is sealed with barricades and the essential shops are allowed to remain open from 7am to 1pm. Roadside hawkers are not allowed and all the residents in this area have been given a physical copy of notices to follow the lockdown strictly. Unless there is an emergency, people should not come out of their homes and use their vehicles.Despite all these precautionary measures and orders, on Monday it was seen that lockdown rules were violated by citizens. The vehicular movement inside the Vadgaon budruk area was in full swing. People were walking and travelling through the side parts of the barricades which were put to close down the area. Even some of the non-essential shops like mobile phones, clothes and electronics operated throughout the day.“If anyone is found violating the rules of the lockdown then action will be taken on them. I once again appeal to the citizens in this area please follow the lockdown rules, keep proper social distancing and take all the precautionary measures for your own safety,” added Khot.On the other hand, residents in the area are not happy with the lockdown imposed again.Rohan Nalawade a Vadgaon budruk resident said, “When we work then only can we earn bread and butter for our family, we have already suffered a lot during three months of lockdown. My family and I are following all the safety measures given by the government and we are aware of the rules of lockdown. But again closing down the entire area is not good.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lockdown-restrictions-go-for-a-toss-in-vadgaon-budruk/story-wAZ9c03Y1szplucIkg14mJ.html
08-07-2020||Pune||Pune markets filled with customers with a disregard for distancing norms, masks||In most areas of the city, people have been stepping out to visit market places in large numbers, ignoring masks and social distancing norms at a time when Pune’s Covid tally has reached 22,381 with 730 dead.At most places at Tilak road, Tulshibaug, Laxmi road and Fergusson college road, many were seen without protective gear to cover their face, forcing police to act against them. On Friday and Saturday alone, Pune police have fined more than 100 persons for not wearing masks. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has acted against 300 persons for not wearing masks and collected Rs 1.5 lakh.Taking into consideration the spike in people venturing out amid a lack of regard for social distancing norms and masks, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram warned of another lockdown in the district if the situation continues.Ashish Gaikwad, the owner of Style clothing, Tilak Road said while insisting a customer to wear a mask, “I have not seen people entering my store without a mask and I have seen them wearing a mask outside my door too. Most of the people do not wear a mask and tend to remove it while walking on the road.”Khushi Kundrani, manager at Cake Studio, stated: “People who enter the café do wear masks and follow social distancing even outside the café.”Neeraj, a shopkeeper from FC Road said, “I have seen residents wearing a mask but the nose is mostly not covered. I don’t understand how that is going to protect them from Covid-19”. Besides youngsters, teenagers were seen on roads in a group of six to seven without maintaining distance. Amit Dashanave, a resident of Erandawane and a regular on Fergusson college road said he sees many youngsters every day not wearing masks while standing at tea stalls.Taking serious cognisance of people’s increased movement and disregard for masks, Ram has threatened to re-impose lockdown in the entire district. During a recent meeting, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has also asked police to be strict in enforcing the mask and social distancing related guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/markets-filled-with-customers-with-a-disregard-for-distancing-norms-masks/story-eTd8ItoTXz2XPldxqXa4lI.html
08-07-2020||Pune||State approves TOD zone for Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar metro line in Pune||PUNE: The Maharashtra government has approved the transit oriented development (TOD) zone for the Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar metro line and has invited suggestions and objections from residents .The state government has declared the 500 metre radius area from metro station as the TOD zone where developers can use additional floor space index (FSI) to increase population density. Maximum four FSI has been allowed in the TOD zone — anyone having a 1000 square feet plot can construct up to 4000 square feet if the property falls in the TOD zone.The state had earlier approved the TOD policy for Vanaz to Ramwadi route and Pimpri-Chinchwad to Swargate metro lines. PMC city engineer Prashant Waghmare said, “Most of the part of Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar line is falling in PMC area and some part from Balewadi-Hinjewadi is under Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). The state released the notification as the revenue generated through this corridor would be shared by both the organisations and would be used for developing metro and transport related works. As the TOD zone has been declared, both the organisations would get more revenue through premium for additional construction.”Earlier, it was proposed that additional FSI would be allowed on both sides of the metro corridor, but instead of the corridor, the state has approved TOD zone in the 500 square metre radius area of the metro station.Waghmare said, “The town planning director has invited suggestions and objections and residents can do it within a month from the publication of the advertisement.”Some NGOs have opposed the issuance of additional 4 FSI on metro corridors. They state that it is wrong that the government is trying to improve public transport and it will lead to increasing population in the city. It will be additional burden on city’s infrastructure.City’s metro lines PCMC to Swargate metro line number 1Vanaz to Ramwadi metro line Number 2Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar metro Line Number 3TOD zone approved along the 500 metre radius of each metro stationCitizens can use up to 4 FSI on plots falling in TOD zoneState government approves TOD zone for all three lines and invited suggestions and objections for line number 3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tod-zone-approved-for-hinjewadi-shivajinagar-metro-line/story-GKpuudsvwzrF0oPG75dr0O.html
08-07-2020||Pune||74 PCMC teachers slapped with show cause notice for ignoring Covid-19 duty||The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) issued show-cause notices to 74 teachers over the past four months for ignoring Covid-19 duties.After the Covid-19 pandemic hit Pune, PCMC health department created a ‘Rapid Response Team’ to assist doctors and the healthcare workers. These teams included doctors and staff members from the health department and teachers from PCMC schools. However, many teachers submitted fake medical certificates to avail leave from work, according to PCMC officials. Duties of the team includes taking care of people at Covid care centres, door-to-door screening of residents, assisting hospitals performing Covid-19 duties and sending Whatsapp awareness messages to the public.“Right now, we are serving show-cause notices and once we get a response from them, we will decide on the penalty. If they were truly not well, then, we will not take any action against them. Every month, we are issuing such notices to teachers who are absent from duty,” said Manoj Lonkar, assistant commissioner, F Zone.Swati Shinde, a PCMC school teacher, who was served one of the notices, said,“I received the notice in May and I have not replied to them yet. My family was not willing to send me on Covid-19 duty and hence, I stopped going to work. The civic body should appoint other people for Covid-19 duty and not teachers. The civic body has sought the reason why I did not come on duty. Nothing else is specified in the show-cause notice.Sharad Javedkar, vice-president, Akhil Bharatiya Samajwadi Shikshan Haq Sabha, said,“We are not in favour of any organisation or the civic body allocating non-teaching work to teachers. When elections are conducted, teachers are called for duty and when the Census is conducted, teachers are called for duty. Now, even for Covid-19 duties, teachers are being appointed. How will they continue with their school work, if they do all this? I do not support the submission of fake medical certificates, but teachers should only be doing teaching work.”Rikibe Uja, Asha Maid, who has been on duty in Bhosari since the last three months, said,“PCMC teachers in Bhosari locality are doing their Covid-19 duty promptly. It is good to have them here as there is a shortage of people doing Covid-19 duty.” The teachers who have received notices are generally sports teachers and school clerks, according to PCMC officials. “With the rising coronavirus cases, I fear contracting the infection and hence, I was not doing the duty assigned to me by PCMC. I hope PCMC understands us,” said another teacher, requesting anonymity.Notices servedMonth- Number of teachersMarch: 22April: 11May: 14June: 27||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/74-pcmc-teachers-slapped-with-show-cause-notice-for-ignoring-covid-19-duty/story-Y0L4ftvzgEeNuInYOzZanK.html
08-07-2020||Pune||Six in custody for murder of garage owner in Pune||PUNE: Six persons were arrested by a Pune police Zone-3 team on Tuesday for the murder of a garage owner in Dahanukar colony area of Pune on Monday.The deceased was identified as Rakesh Yamunappa Kshirsagar (25) of Laxminagar area, Dahanukar colony, Kothrud.Inspector (crime) Kiran Balwadkar of Kothrud police station who is investigating the case said that six persons have been arrested. One person identified as Prashant Maruti Bavdhane (21) of Kondhwa Dhadawe in Uttamnagar area of Pune was arrested by Unit 3 of Pune police crime branch. The others are identified as Rahul Sarkar (19), Siddharam Manjile (20), Kiran Gaware (24), Ajay Suryavanshi (22) and Suresh Waghmare (21), according to the police.The accused were remanded to five days in police custody as the police are on a lookout for more accomplices in the case.The reason for murder was enmity between Manjile and the garage owner and they had fought in the past also, according to an official working on the case.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kothrud police station against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-in-custody-for-murder-of-garage-owner-in-pune/story-oVA7WN7VpL2iVVCmEWO5LN.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rebel SAD leaders appoint Dhindsa party chief of namesake political outfit||Rebel Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders floated a namesake party and appointed Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa as the new party chief at Gurdwara Shaheedan in Model Town on Tuesday.The leaders arbitrarily removed SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal from the party’s top post and appointed Dhindsa as the new party chief. Former MP Paramjit Kaur Gulshan nominated him for the post of president. The nomination was seconded by former minister Jagdish Singh Garcha, jathedar Seva Singh Sekhwan, Harjeet Kaur Talwandi (the daughter of jathedar Jagdev Singh Talwandi) and former MP Desh Raj Dhugga. Among those present were Balwant Singh Ramuwalia, Manjit Singh GK, Mann Singh Garcha, former deputy Punjab assembly speaker Bir Davinder Singh, Didar Singh. Ex-finance minister and Dhindsa’s son Parminder Singh Dhindsa and other leaders, including those from Haryana, were present. The leaders blamed Sukbhir for the 2017 election debacle and his dubious role in the probe of the sacrilege incident and police firing on peaceful protestors.(Clarification: Former MLA Mantar Singh Brar was not present in the Ludhiana meeting held by Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa as erroneously reported in the earlier version of this story which was uploaded on Tuesday).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rebel-sad-leaders-appoint-dhindsa-party-chief-of-namesake-political-outfit/story-oKKaIGahdfW4aleYovMmMN.html
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana ADC, Khanna SDM test positive for Covid-19; civil surgeon, other ADCs quarantined||Two bureaucrats, including additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Amarjit Singh Bains and sub divisional magistrate (SDM), Khanna, Sandeep Singh were among 78 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 as Ludhiana recorded its second highest spike in Ludhiana on Tuesday.With this, Ludhiana’s count has risen to 1,170 cases and 27 fatalities. Earlier on July 5, the city had recorded 84 positive cases, the highest so far in a single day.Top officials too who had come in contact with Bains and Sandeep Singh were home quarantined, including civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, who had held several meetings with Bains as part of their Covid-19 initiatives. Both Bains and Sandeep Singh were believed to be batch mates. They were suffering from influenza like illness (ILI) earlier and were admitted at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H).Bains and Sandeep Singh were the third and fourth high ranking officials from Ludhiana to have contracted the virus. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli died from Covid-19 on April 18, and deputy commissioner of police (DCP), law and order, Ashwani Kapoor, was undergoing treatment after testing positive in the last week of June.Bains had recently supervised the return of migrant labourers via train to their native states, including Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. He was also looking after ration distribution among labourers.Of late, both officials were camping at their offices and monitoring Covid-19 healthcare initiatives of the state government. FLUTTER IN BUREAUCRATIC CIRCLESThe news of the ADC and SDM testing positive created a flutter in bureaucratic circles and among employees of the deputy commissioner’s office.People they had come in contact with were home quarantined, including MC additional commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal, additional chief administrator, Greater Ludhiana Development Authority (GLADA) Bhupinder Singh, ADC (Jagraon) Neeru Katyal Gupta, SDMs Amrinder Singh Malhi and Dr Baljinder Singh Dhillon, secretary, Regional Transport Authority Damanjit Singh Mann, MC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh, and estate officer GLADA Sonam Chaudhary, among others.Dr Bagga and ADC Bains were part of several meetings conducted by the administration to spread awareness of Covid-19 under mission Fateh. DC Varinder Sharma, who tested negative in initial tests, advised all officials who had come in direct contact with Bains to get their tests done and proceed for home quarantine as a precautionary measure.OFFICIAL RESIDENCE ON MALL ROAD SEALED The ADC’s official residence on Mall Road was sealed with his family members as well as gunman, cook and driver asked to quarantine. The health department had also initiated processes to trace his contacts. Earlier, four members of family on Mall Road had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-additional-deputy-commissioner-tests-positive-for-covid-19-attended-meeting-with-dc-on-monday/story-ZkhzAZdYoPU4DK4mquD7LM.html
