09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fake Covid-19 reports: Probe transferred from state vigilance to Amritsar police, activists smell a rat||The investigation into the case of alleged preparing of fake Covid-19 positive reports by an Amritsar-based private laboratory in connivance with a hospital to fleece patients has been transferred from the Punjab vigilance bureau to the local police. A fortnight ago, the vigilance claimed to have unearthed the scam that involved swindling the rich, including foreign returnees, out of their money. It had registered a case against four doctors, including Dr Robin Tuli, owner of Tuli Diagnostic Center (TDC), under attempt to murder, fraud, criminal conspiracy and corruption on June 23. Also, the owner of EMC Super Specialty Hospital, Dr Pawan Arora, and a doctor were booked for allegedly colluding with the lab.In a letter, the state government has asked the additional chief secretary (home and justice) to take “necessary action” claiming that the vigilance has “decided to transfer the case to the police”. A senior VB official confirmed the development. Amritsar police commissioner Sukhchain Singh said he was not aware of it. “I have not received such order yet,” he said.Mandeep Singh Manna, a social activist, said, “The probe has been transferred with a clear motive to give clean chit to the accused. This is happening for the first time when the probe is transferred without the complainants’ intervention.”One of the complainants, Varinder Dutta, whose three family members allegedly contracted the virus from the EMC Hospital, expressed shock on the move. He said, “Before approaching the vigilance, we lodged complaints with the city police, but they did not act saying the issue pertains to the health department. The vigilance was conducting a fair probe, which was just about to complete. The move will help the accused get bail.” THE CASEThe fake Covid-19 report scam surfaced when some people who were found positive by the private labs turned out to be negative in retesting conducted at Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar.The bureau registered the case after receiving several complaints in this regard. In its FIR, it also suspected the involvement of government officials and health staff in the scam.It also found that some of those tested positive were admitted to the isolation ward of the EMC Hospital where Covid patients were being treated. At least three patients reportedly contracted infection due to this, it was claimed.A few days after the registration of the case, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had also started probe into the alleged nexus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fake-covid-19-reports-probe-transferred-from-state-vigilance-to-amritsar-police-activists-smell-a-rat/story-NdvAHYvIrFmuCs49HrXeUI.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Just 8% of construction workers out of nearly one lakh workers received financial aid||Just about 8 percent of construction workers in the city registered with the district labour department have received monthly financial aid of ₹4,500—announced by the state government in light of the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown—during the last three months, revealed an RTI reply. Only 7,720 construction workers out of 96, 593 workers registered with the labour department have received the monthly aid in April, May and June, the Gurugram labour department said in a reply issued on July 3 to an RTI (right to information) request filed by a city-based activist. The aid was paid to the workers by Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, an agency which works under the aegis of the state labour department.District labour department officials, meanwhile, said that the criteria for paying the aid to workers was finalised by the welfare board in Chandigarh and the relief money is being paid to only those workers who fulfil the eligibility criteria. “Registration of workers with the labour department alone does not mean that everyone is eligible for the financial aid, and also only one person in a family is entitled to the aid,” said Ramesh Singh, additional deputy director, industrial safety and health, labour department, Gurugram. The reason that less number of workers were paid relief is that a large number of registered workers don’t renew their registrations, and many have not paid their yearly registration fees, the official said.On March 23, the Haryana government had announced that workers registered with welfare board, but not registered under Mukhyamantri Parivar Samriddhi Yojana (MMPSY), would be provided with a sum of ₹4,500 per month from March 30 directly into their bank accounts.Across the state, around 3.5 lakh workers were benefitted by the scheme out of the 8.68 lakh workers that are registered with the department through the labour department portal, the reply said. Aseem Takyar, a city-based RTI activist, who had filed the RTI said that nearly one lakh construction workers are registered in Gurugram but relief has been given only to few. “The government must find out the reason for such low numbers and ensure more people get relief in the city,” he said. “Majority of workers who were found eligible for relief in Gurugram have received it already,” said RS Malik, deputy director, industrial safety and health, labour department, Gurugram. Trade union leaders, meanwhile, said that city construction workers were going through a very bad time as many of them had lost their daily wage jobs amid the lockdown. “Only a small minority has been able to get financial relief from the government and most of the construction workers are suffering due to lack of any financial and material help. Most of the migrant workers have gone home with whatever money they had and others are stuck here with little resources,” said Rajender Saroha, general secretary, Bhawan Nirman Kaamgar Union, Gurugram. As per trade union leaders around 2 lakh construction workers have left Gurugram for their home towns and very few have shown interest in returning despite the state government’s recent announcement on paying ₹1,500 as transport fare to construction workers who return to Haryana.Deepkamal Saharan, media coordinator, deputy chief minister Haryana Dushyant Chautala, said that the number of workers who have got financial relief in Gurugram as per the RTI figures is quite less. “The government will certainly look into this matter and find out the reasons for such low numbers which seem far behind the state average,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-just-8-of-construction-workers-out-of-nearly-one-lakh-workers-received-financial-aid/story-GzkXhB9BfTVSzYNv7Kt2jJ.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||FIR filed against private lab for misreporting Covid-19 results||Gurgaon Police on Thursday lodged an FIR against SRL Diagnostics, a private lab, for allegedly misreporting Covid-19 test results in April this year.The action was taken after Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Monday said that directions have been issued for lodging an FIR against the lab based in Gurugram, which in April had reported Covid-19 negative samples as positive in Ambala and other districts.Gurugram police commissioner KK Rao confirmed the development , “An FIR has been registered against SRL Diagnostics in sector 18 police station under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 . Necessary action will be taken based on the provisions of the Act for violation of norms.”.Contacted, SRL Diagnostics, however, in a statement said they had not received any information from the police in the matter. “Some media reports are citing that there has been an order to file an FIR against SRL Diagnostics owing to a discrepancy in Covid-19 test results. We haven’t received any official communication on this,” the lab’s statement said.On Thursday, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, wrote a letter to police commissioner Rao demanding an FIR and appropriate action against the lab for misreporting Covid-19 tests. “Based on investigations done by a committee constituted at the state level, the lab was found to have misreported Covid-19 test results. The FIR was lodged in Gurugram since the lab is based in the city,” said Yadav.On April 24, civil surgeon of Ambala, had called for an inquiry in the case after three people of a family were reported Covid-19 positive by the SRL Diagnostics. They were in contact with a positive case in Panchkula. They were asymptomatic when they got themselves tested and were confirmed positive by the private lab. Worried about their test result, they approached the civil surgeon Ambala for a re-test. Their samples were then sent to a government lab in Karnal, where they tested negative in 24 hours.In April, when private labs were allowed to conduct RT-PCR tests, Gurugram was the only district in Haryana where privately owned labs were functional. Samples, which could not be tested in the government labs due to capacity constraints, were sent to these private labs.The incident triggered a controversy when SRL diagnostics rubbished the government lab result and said it stood by its results, while stating that they had re-tested the samples using the RNA extract stored with them.The health minister later in April had ordered an inquiry into the case. The Director General Health Services (DGHS) constituted a committee of five doctors for conducting the probe. The team visited the diagnostic lab and enquired into the matter and found misreporting of Covid-19. The DGHS sought legal opinion from the Advocate General of Haryana, who in turn suggested that the lab be completely investigated.SRL Diagnostics confirmed that their Gurgaon Clinical Reference lab was visited by the state health department teams on multiple occasions between April and May this year and their team of doctors had been grilled on multiple occasions.“In April 2020, upon receiving notice from the Haryana Medical Service Corporation Limited, SRL had retested the preserved RNA of the cases mentioned by the Ambala civil surgeon office on an alternate FDA and ICMR approved RT PCR kit. The results, the lab said, were still positive. SRL Gurugram lab even today stands tall on the results that were released by us earlier,” reads the official statement by the lab.On July 6, Vij addressed the media at his residence in Ambala and said that instruction has been issued to lodge an FIR against the lab. He said, “Based on the complaint received against the SRL lab, a departmental enquiry was conducted. The samples claimed by the labs to be positive were found to be negative when tested in another lab.” Officials privy to the matter said that such discrepancy of the test reports has been reported from other districts too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fir-filed-against-private-lab-for-misreporting-covid-19-results/story-40IPve5SLFOPboYLe09mdI.html
09-07-2020||City||Two days of rain worsen leachate run-off at Bandhwari landfill||Gurugram Following fresh spells of rain on Tuesday and Wednesday, residents of Bandhwari and Mangar villages have reported large amounts of leachate run-off near the Bandhwari landfill site, located 20 kilometres from Gurugram city. The ‘leachate problem’ at Bandhwari is alleged to have caused severe degradation of the water table in the region and poses a risk to the health of local residents. The issue of landfill run-off in the area has persisted for close to a decade, and routinely worsens during the monsoon, experts and local activists said. During a spot visit to the Bandhwari landfill site on Thursday morning, an HT team found that at least five large ponds of leachate had breached near the landfill’s boundary wall. Sunil Harsana, an activist from Mangar village, located adjacent to the landfill, said that fresh pools of leachate had formed immediately after rains this week. “This is a clear violation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, and has been observed time and again ever since the landfill started coming up. There is already evidence of groundwater contamination in the region, based on multiple independent and government inquiries. We rely on this groundwater for our own sustenance,” said Harsana. Responding to timestamped photographs of the scene at the site taken by HT and shared with Ecogreen Energy, a company spokesperson said, “These pictures seem out of our plant (landfill) area. However, we will take a sample tomorrow from the picture area and send it to the lab. We will share the report with you once we receive it.”Ecogreen Energy, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s concessionaire for waste management in the city, is in-charge of daily operations at the landfill. When asked about the issue, Kuldeep Singh, regional officer (Gurugram), Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said, “We will look into the issue and take appropriate action.” Experts said that leachate problems usually worsen during the monsoon. “Landfills such as Bandhwari release more leachate during the rainy season because of direct exposure to atmospheric moisture and rainfall,” said Rekha Singh, an environment expert of the Quality Council of India, which is under the ministry of environment, forest and climate change. Over 250,000 tonnes of garbage, which has been dumped at the site since 2008, lie in the open, thereby exposing them to the rain, she said, explaining that rainwater seeps into the waste and leaches various harmful metals and elements from it. “This liquid is toxic and should not be allowed to come into contact with the surrounding environment,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-days-of-rain-worsen-leachate-run-off-at-bandhwari-landfill/story-Qifa3af841U939IuJCSgIO.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab babudom in a tizzy as 14 PCS officers turn positive||A sense of nervousness was palpable in Punjab’s bureaucratic circles after 14 Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officers were confirmed positive for the coronavirus over the last couple of days. All of them attended a meeting of their association in a Chandigarh hotel on July 3 to protest against the arrest of a fellow official, Tarsem Singh, posted as regional transport authority (RTA) in Faridkot, by the state vigilance bureau on corruption charges. Nearly 40 PCS officers were part of the meeting. The state health department has asked at least 300 of their direct contacts, including family members and government employees, to put themselves in home quarantine. The reports of five PCS officers are still awaited, said a senior health department official. All the 40 officials kept performing their duties till Tuesday when Ludhiana additional deputy commissioner (ADC development) Amarjit Bains, who was found infected with the virus. After the July 3 meeting, the officials also met chief secretary Vini Mahajan in the civil secretariat. A PCS officer posted as a deputy secretary in the chief minister’s office (CMO) also met them.Besides, they are learnt to have met their acquaintances in the state secretariat thereafter. By Wednesday, 11 officials were confirmed positive. PANIC AMONG PAYAL FUNCTION ATTENDEES The news of Payal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Mankamal Singh Chahal getting infected on Thursday sent shockwaves among some senior politicians as he was the main organiser of a state-level function July 5 in which health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu was the chief guest. Among those present in the function were Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha, Fatehgarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh, Samrala MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon, Khanna MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Bassi Pathana MLA Gurpreet Singh GP, former minister Malkit Singh Dakha and Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh. Most of these individuals have been meeting the public since, it is learmt.“I haven’t got any information from the administration yet but I will definitely take precautions as per the protocol,” Khanna MLA Gurkirat Kotli said. Another MLA said he has decided not to meet the public and will get his Covid-19 test done.Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said all social-distancing norms were followed during the July 5 function. “I haven’t received any official communication so far but I am ready to get tested for the coronavirus, if needed,” he said. “Soon after the chief secretary got information, she quarantined herself and got tested for the virus but was found negative on Wednesday evening. She is back at work,” a government official said. FAMILY MEMBERS, STAFF TO UNDERGO TESTSA senior health department official said all family members and employees posted in the offices of the PCS officers will be tested for the coronavirus. “We are even tracing members of the general public who met these officials for their routine work,” he added.Also, working in the offices of the officials found positive has been suspended till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-babudom-in-a-tizzy-as-14-pcs-officers-turn-positive/story-2YlCJu0Qfo8z0SE2izQoSM.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||Students of International Baccalaureate Board disappointed with final diploma programme results||Students and parents across the city have raised concerns about the International Baccalaureate (IB) result for diploma programme that was announced on Sunday. Many students say that there was a significant gap between their predicted score and the final score. With the drop in the scores, many students said that their admission prospects to a foreign university might be impacted. The IB is a Geneva-based international educational body that offers four educational programmes, one of which is the diploma programme meant for students who are between 16 and 19 years of age. A diploma examination is the international equivalent to an Indian Class 12 board examination, although the scores of IB are widely accepted across various universities in the world. There are at least 10 schools that offer International Baccalaureate Diploma Program.The IB was one of the first organisations to call off the diploma examination, which was scheduled between 30 April and 22 May, 2020, in view of the coronavirus pandemic. In the absence of the examination, the final grades were based on the student’s coursework throughout the two-year programme, predicted grades provided by affiliated schools, and historic assessment data, stated the IB. For the subjects where students would normally sit for exams, historic data was analysed to determine the relationship between marks of previous coursework and predicted grades provided by schools. A predicted grade is a grade likely to be scored by a student that is calculated on the basis of his/her past performance. Students, however, claimed that there was no transparency in the grading process and expressed their concerns. Mihir Sardana, an IB student from the city, said that he was disappointed with the results and was considering a revaluation. “There was a massive gap between the score that was predicted for me and the one that I got finally. As a whole, all other classmates of mine have seen a considerable drop in the results. There are two subjects where I missed the next level by a small margin,” said Sardana. Sardana said that the board had re-formulated the process of grade evaluation in an opaque manner in a year when the world is going through an unprecedented crisis. Sardana has applied to universities in Australia for further studies and has been able to secure admissions in most the courses of his choices barring some that he missed due to the drop in the IB points. “There was a course that I was very keen on taking up. However, I missed it by two points. I would have got it easily if my final score was close to my predicted score,” he said.Malvika Mathur, whose daughter Eesha is an IB student, said that there was no logic or transparency in the manner the evaluation was done. “My daughter is academically bright and had received a high predicted score. We are unable to understand how the final score was brought down so drastically,” said Mathur. Eesha said that her predicted score was 38 out of 42, but she ended up getting 36 out of 45, which was a significant dip by the standards of IB. “Coronavirus really changed the situation and we were told that we were being graded based on our internal assessment, predicted scores and past performances of the schools. The IA was externally graded and we were not aware about the system in place. We have not received a break-up. We don’t know what percentage of the grade is from what component,” said Eesha, who plans to continue further studies in the USA. She said that while her plans had not been affected, the drop in results has affected those who had secured a conditional offer from universities in countries such as the UK, where the past performance is taken into account.In an official statement shared with HT, the IB said that IB World Schools could request a re-evaluation of students’ work for the May 2020 session through the Enquiry Upon Results (EUR) services. “There are some changes to the EUR services in this exceptional session due to the fact that marks have been calculated in the absence of examinations in some subjects, and these have also been communicated to IB World Schools (sic),” the statement mentioned. The statement further mentioned that since the release of results, the IB had listened to its global community of IB students, teachers and IB World Schools. “The IB understands there have been mixed emotions and disappointment expressed by some. The decision to cancel the May 2020 examinations due to the Covid-19 pandemic was incredibly difficult, and as the IB responds to these exceptional circumstances, it has endeavoured to be as transparent as possible. The IB is confident that it has awarded grades in the fairest and most robust way possible in the absence of examinations, and the grades awarded to students are of equal value to those awarded in any other year (sic),” it said.The statement also read, “Prior to the attribution of final grades, this process was subjected to rigorous testing by educational statistical specialists to ensure our methods were robust. It was also checked against the last five years’ sets of results data, to ensure that it would provide reliable and valid grades for students. The stability of results for students has been maintained for the May 2020 session. The mean total points for May 2020 DP students show small increases in the average grade achieved compared to previous years. The grade distribution level is also in line with the previous four years of results data (sic).”Sudha Goyal, principal of Scottish High International School, said that children in her school had performed well. “Like every year, some students are happy while some are not. Our students have largely done well and there will always be someone or the other who is not satisfied with the process. So far, there hasn’t been much outcry in our school regarding the issue,” said Goyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/students-of-international-baccalaureate-board-disappointed-with-final-diploma-programme-results/story-itUCGSgBsC3vYjSSt9BxwJ.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Not my fault if Brahmpura’s aides joined me: Dhindsa||Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Thursday said there was no point blaming him if some associates of taksali leader Ranjit Singh Brahmpura joined his newly formed splinter group of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Brahmpura, president of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali), on Wednesday had strongly objected to Dhindsa’s move, saying he felt betrayed by the MP. Dhindsa, who was in Amritsar to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, said, “I don’t want to say much on the issue as I still respect him (Brahmpura). I fail to understand how I betrayed him?” “Actually, he put the condition of retaining the nomenclature of his party for unity. But my supporters were not willing to go by that name,” claimed Dhindsa, who was accompanied by former minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan, one of the founders of the SAD (Taksali). Dhindsa’s MLA son and former minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa also paid obeisance at the shrine.Sekhwan and former Punjab assembly deputy speaker Bir Davinder Singh resigned from the Brahmpura-led party to join the new outfit. Sekhwan said, “Four of the five core committee members of the SAD (Taksali) requested Brahmpura to go together under the leadership of Dhindsa. He had admitted to quitting as president but remained adamant on not dissolving the party. For the sake of the Panth, we had no option but to join Dhindsa.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/not-my-fault-if-brahmpura-s-aides-joined-me-dhindsa/story-pXnrcgTLD2JVf01zulOlvK.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Moga-based vehicle lifter’s joy ride ends with arrest in Chandigarh; six two-wheelers recovered||A man hailing from Moga who used to steal two-wheelers for joy rides was arrested and four motorcycles and two Activa scooters were recovered from his possession, the police said on Thursday.The accused was identified as Sukhwinder Singh, 23, of native Moga and resident of Sohana. He was arrested on the complaint of Shivu Ahamad of Phase 1, Mohali. Ahamad had told the police that his Activa was stolen from the parking of Sector-42 lake on July 8.Accused Sukhwinder was arrested while he was riding on the stolen Activa near Sector 35/36 chowk. While working as a helper in a spare parts shop in Phase 2, Mohali, the accused had been active in the city since March 2019 and used to steal two-wheelers for joy rides. Police said Sukhwinder targeted vehicles parked outside houses and in parking areas. He would dump the vehicles after the fuel would be used up before picking up another vehicle.With his arrest, the police claim to have solved two cases registered in March 2019 and July 8, 2020. Sukhwiner was produced before the court on Thursday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/moga-based-vehicle-lifter-s-joy-ride-ends-with-arrest-in-chandigarh-six-two-wheelers-recovered/story-YPyF0od5EaBAjtptD7F2HJ.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||Serological survey in Gurugram: Of 362 people tested, 49 found with antibodies||As of Thursday, the health department has tested a total of 362 people as part of the ongoing serological survey to ascertain the prevalence of Covid-19 among the district’s population. Of these, 49 people were found to have developed antibodies necessary to stave off repeat infection by the SARS-Cov-2 virus, said health department officials. A serological survey is an epidemiological tool used by health department officials to find out the prevalence of Covid-19 within communities. “A total of 362 people were tested for antibodies using IgG enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(Elisa) kits. Of them, there were 24 people who had already been confirmed positive by a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test earlier. As per the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), confirmed positives also need to be tested to see if they have developed antibodies or not. Out of the remaining 338 tests conducted on subjects whose history of infection was unknown, 25 people had a seropositive diagnosis,” said Dr Ram Prakash Sharma, district epidemiologist, Gurugram. “This is a good sign, especially since the samples were collected largely from areas, such as Dundahera, Sirhaul, Pataudi, and others, where there have been a large number of positive cases. A significant portion of the samples were taken are from local shopkeepers, who come into contact with lots of people daily,” said Dr. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram. He added that serosurveillance is going to become a routine practice in the coming weeks, with at least 400 tests to be conducted every month, as part of a larger, nationwide effort by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to understand the prevalence of Covid-19 in communities. Serological surveys make use of Elisa tests, and are conducted to estimate the proportion of a population which has been exposed to SARS-CoV-2 infection. “As of now, the results from preliminary antibody tests show that while there are undetected cases in Gurugram, the extent of the spread is not so much as we had initially feared,” said Dr. Prakash, adding that a wider sample, of about 2,000 people, would soon be tested for SARS-Cov-2 antibodies. “That should confirm more strongly that we have been able to prevent large-scale community transmission,” he added. The district health department is currently working on a plan to extend the coverage of the serological survey to 2,000 people. Experts, however, said that a sample size of 360 people for Gurugram, which has an estimated population of about 25 lakh people, is too small to give an accurate picture of what the prevalence of Covid-19 really is. Dr. Prabhakaran Dorairaj, vice president (research and policy) at the Public Health Foundation of India, said, “Even if the right kinds of subjects are selected, it will not adequately represent the whole of Gurugram’s population. If the goal is to get a correct picture of prevalence, then the department must first classify the district into two areas: old Gurugram and new Gurugram. Within these areas, you have to use socio-economic data at the ward level and census enumeration block level to create a sample representative group of the larger demography of the city. That will tell you how prevalent the disease really is in Gurugram,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/serological-survey-in-gurugram-of-362-people-tested-49-found-with-antibodies/story-Chq8YXQHNPDcPG4qKJ7bcI.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||MCG scraps waste treatment plant at Farrukhnagar||Giving into pressure from various quarters, the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Thursday decided to scrap its planned waste treatment plant that was supposed to come up at a landfill on the outskirts of Farrukhnagar.This now leaves the civic body with no place to treat Gurugram’s waste, as a result of which operations at the Bandhwari landfill will continue. Last year, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed both the MCG and municipal corporation of Faridabad (MCF) to stop dumping waste at the overfilled Bandhwari landfill, which was leading to various environmental hazards. It also directed both to find an alternative site to temporarily dump their city’s waste, while treating the 2.8 million tonnes of waste at Bandhwari. For this purpose, the MCG had, last year, identified a 25-acre plot at Chand Nagar Ki Dhani Road in Farrukhnagar, located around 30 kilometres from Gurugram, for processing city’s waste and the estimates for processing the waste were also duly approved by the Haryana government. The MCG had set up the necessary infrastructure at the site and was set to start treating the city’s waste from June-end. However, almost soon after the announcement, residents of 20 villages located over 5 km from the site, as well as local political leaders, protested. Despite a number of meetings between MCG officials and protesters, the plan could not move forward. Officials said they are now looking at possible sites in neighbouring cities.“We are looking at identifying panchayats in neighbouring cities that will permit us to use their land for setting up a landfill to transport Gurugram’s waste. We will be using a different strategy this time around, instead of first approaching the local civic body, we will instead get the consent of the people and then subsequently proceed with tying up with the concerned public body. This way the whole exercise will not be futile,” said Mahabir Prasad, additional commissioner, MCG.Prasad said that the MCG will first sensitise the residents of the area about the positives of setting up the plant.“Firstly, people need to know that the process of setting up a plant in their area is only temporary. We already have eight trommel machines that have started segregating waste at the Bandhwari plant. We are expecting 12 more such machines to arrive by November-end. The clearing of legacy waste would take us a minimum of six months or a maximum of 18 months. Once cleared, we will shift our entire operations back to the Bandhwari plant leaving the existing infrastructure behind for the local civic body of the particular city to use,” said Prasad. He also said that as a trust-building gesture the MCG will collect the waste from the area where the plant will be built, free of charge. Once they return to Bandhwari, the local civic body can then continue to use the facility.“Even at the finalised site, we will not be using the landfill to simply dump waste. We will be treating, and segregating waste there to derive three main materials- inert, compost, and refuse-derived fuel (RDF). Inert is used in construction projects, compost is used as fertilizers, and RDF will be used in the waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at Bandhwari for converting waste into electricity,” said Prasad.As per MCG officials, privy to the matter, the civic body has been offered land by a few local political leaders in Mewat, and they are exploring the possibility of setting up a plant there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-scraps-waste-treatment-plant-at-farrukhnagar/story-skR2RZKSHuwwY1Bk9N7KDN.html
09-07-2020||Noida||Noida officials inspect shopping mall after video of roof collapse goes viral||A team of Noida authority inspected the DLF Mall of India on Wednesday after a video showing a portion of the arcade’s roof collapsing went viral.According to officials, the demolition of the roof was pre-planned, controlled and permission had been sought prior. The Mall of India, located in Sector 38A, has been closed for the visitors ever since the lockdown was imposed in March in view of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.“We had inspected the shopping centre to confirm if it was an accident or a controlled demolition. There is some renovation going on and mall officials presented the approvals they took last month to perform such activities and dispose of the debris. They had also paid the Noida authority in advance to dispose of the debris likely to be generated, at our Sector-80 construction and demolition waste plant,” said Salil Yadav, senior manager (electric), Noida authority.He added that the renovations were being carried by the galleria to improve certain parts of the structure to avoid seepage, in a bid to save the fire alarm systems and projectors in multiplexes, which had been developing faults due to the gas emissions from the Shahdara drain flowing nearby.A DLF spokesperson had stated earlier that the collapse was part of controlled renovation work, adding that the video was from last month.The video that was circulated widely on social media purportedly showed a section of the roof collapsing, emitting a huge cloud of dust. The mall authorities have, however, asserted that the collapse of about 650 square metre of the roof was deliberate and part of renovation work.“We had commenced planned enhancement works in a part of The Mall of India, Noida, when the lockdown was suddenly implemented. During this time, a small portion, measuring approximately 650 square metres -- under 3% of total roof area -- was in the process of being prepared … The thunderstorm and extreme weather conditions that hit the city of Noida in June adversely impacted this portion of the roof in its vulnerable state. As a consequence of the damage suffered, a decision was taken to bring down that entire portion of the roof and rebuild it completely with enhanced standards,” said an official statement from the mall, adding that the enhancement work will continue in a safe manner and reopening of the mall is not linked to the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-officials-inspect-shopping-mall-after-video-of-roof-collapse-goes-viral/story-cyufRTLFvxN55WQRrHLGnK.html
09-07-2020||City||Gurugram: Health dept to take action against those getting repeated Covid-19 tests||Gurugram The district health department will take strict action against a person who is found getting tested for Covid-19 multiple times, officials said on Thursday. Clarifying that there is no objection to getting tested in case of being symptomatic or a high-risk contact of a Covid-19 patient, the health officials said that many people are repeatedly getting themselves tested through the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test and rapid antigen testing by manipulating their contact details.“Be it asymptomatic, symptomatic or those who have recovered, a number of people who are anxious and cannot await test results are going for both RT-PCR and antigen tests. Asymptomatic patients who have recovered are also getting themselves tested twice through either of the test,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO). It puts an additional burden on the testing infrastructure, he said, adding that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) does not allow repeated tests of an asymptomatic patient. Yadav said that action will be taken under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897. “Giving incorrect contact details is an offence punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code,” he said. Section 188 is the penal provision in case of failure to comply with official directives. It includes fine or imprisonment for a month. Since July 1, the health department has been conducting antigen testing in a campaign mode in large outbreak areas of the district. The campaign will run till July 14. When HT visited one such camp at Jyoti Park, several asymptomatic patients, who had tested positive almost 15 days back, were at the camp to get themselves tested for antigen detection. “Some residents are getting tested in Gurugram and Delhi by giving their wrong addresses or phone numbers. Sometimes they give same mobile numbers but wrong names or vice versa. On our data portal, our teams are trying to identify such duplicity,” said CMO, mentioning that the discrepancy is leading to data mismanagement. However, he did not disclose the number of such cases where duplicity has been reported till now.As per the norms, for an RT-PCR test, a person has to show an identity proof. The district administration officials have clarified that Aadhaar card is not mandatory as it gives the native address of the person instead of the temporary address. “People often give wrong address as labs and hospitals are now asking for current residential address. In a situation like this, misinformation adds additional burden to the existing machinery which is already under pressure for contact tracing and testing,” said Yadav. Meanwhile, Gurugram on Thursday reported 151 new cases, taking the total number of persons infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus to 6,467 in the district. Of the total positive cases, 987 are active cases while 5,377 patients have recovered, as per the official data. The Covid-19 toll in the district stands at 103. At least, 741 patients are under home quarantine, the officials said. According to the officials, in Gurugram, 54,724 people have been tested through RT-PCR and antigen testing till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-health-dept-to-take-action-against-those-getting-repeated-covid-19-tests/story-2XexFLJcSIvZTsqqjg5U1M.html
09-07-2020||Noida||162 new charging stations for electric vehicles in Noida soon||Over 160 charging stations for electric vehicles (EV) are set to come up soon here, with the Noida Authority and the Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) signing an agreement for it on Thursday, officials said.The move is aimed at promoting electric vehicles by installing public EV charging stations and developing related infrastructure here, they said. This agreement builds upon a memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed between the EESL and the Noida Authority last year, which led to the installation of 20 EV chargers in the city, the officials said.Thirteen of those EVs have been commissioned while seven are yet to be functional. These EV chargers were installed at prominent places of Noida such as Ganga Shopping Complex (Sector 29), near the Electronic City Metro Station (Sector 63), opposite Shopprix Mall (Sector 61), near RTO office (Sector 33), Advant Chowk (Sector 142) and the main market of Sector 50, among others.Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari on Thursday said developing a sustainable landscape with strong supporting EV infrastructure is the key to cultivating consumer confidence in electric vehicles and will significantly enhance consumer convenience as well.“With increasing penetration of EVs, the local pollutants emission levels are also expected to reduce, leading to cleaner air and several public health beneﬁts,” Maheshwari said in a statement.The agreement was signed for the Noida Authority by its General Manager Rajeev Tyagi and Amit Kaushik, Executive Director (Growth) of EESL, a joint venture of public sector undertaking (PSUs) under the Union Ministry of Power.“Electric vehicles are at the forefront of the world’s agenda to move towards a sustainable future and EESL is proud to be progressively leading initiatives to promote EV adoption in India under its national e-mobility programme,” EESL’s Kaushik said.According to the agreement, the EESL will make an upfront investment on services pertaining to the agreement along with the operation and maintenance of public charging infrastructure by qualified manpower, while the Noida Authority will be responsible for the provision of space for the work.“The initiative is estimated to save over 3.7 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions per e-car per year,” according to the statement.The Noida Authority has been sanctioned 162 public EV charging stations, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/162-new-charging-stations-for-electric-vehicles-in-noida-soon/story-kQrl0R5IsaUjmDaUa3nBhK.html
09-07-2020||Noida||Sunder Bhati gang member arrested||Noida Police on Thursday morning arrested a member of dreaded gangster Sunder Bhati gang from near City Centre. The suspect was identified by his first name as Brajesh (35), a native of Ghangrola village in Kasna.According to police, they were tipped off about the suspect’s movements.“He was wanted in cases of extortion in the national capital region and is a member of the Sunder Bhati gang. He had gone to jail on earlier occasions as well for extortion and was also wanted under the gangster act from Site 5 police station jurisdiction,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, sector 39 police station.Police officials also recovered a countrymade pistol from the suspect.Following the Kanpur incident of June 2 in which eight police personnel were killed by notorious criminal Vikas Dubey, police across the state have been cracking down on known gangsters and their associates. Dubey was arrested on Thursday from Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain.Noida police commissionerate has also been actively working on nabbing known mafias while efforts are also being carried out to attach movable and immovable assets of known criminals under section 14 of the gangster act.On Wednesday, assets worth ₹77.7 lakh were attached in zone 3 of the commissionerate. Earlier, properties and other assets worth more than ₹13 crore were attached in various belts across zone 2 and 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sunder-bhati-gang-member-arrested/story-UYjpqTMJD0FS9zfr0nrExK.html
09-07-2020||Noida||Noida’s Iskcon temple opens doors for devotees after four months||After being closed for almost four months, the Iskcon temple in Noida opened its doors for the public on Thursday.Places of worship in Gauatm Budh Nagar had closed on March 18 in light of the coronavirus pandemic. However, following state guidelines under unlock 2.0, the district administration had allowed them to open from June 8 and had directed them to follow social distancing norms. However, the Iskcon temple, located in Sector 33, had remained closed and is open now.The temple has, however, restricted entry of devotees to four hours. “The temple opened today (Thursday) after more than 110 days of lockdown. The timings have been restricted to only four hours per day – two hours in the morning (10 am to noon) and two hours in the evening (4.30 pm to 6.30 pm). Devotees coming to the temple would first have to register themselves on our online portal and will be permitted to come inside the temple premises on as per the slots given to them online,” said Ekant Dham, spokesperson of the temple.The spokesperson said as per state guidelines, only five people are permitted inside the temple at a time. Devotees won’t be allowed to enter without face masks, and sanitisation measures have also been taken up at the temple. “There is a sanitisation tunnel at the entrance to the temple, and a small pool of water has been created for the worshippers to rinse their feet before entry. Barricades have been erected to keep people from crowding and maintain social distancing norms,” said Dham.In addition, facilities for sanitising hands have also been set up in addition to markings on the floor to ensure social distancing at all times. All the devotees are required to install the Arogya Setu mobile application.Children below the age of five and people older than 65 years of age will also not be allowed entry to the temple as they belong to high-risk category groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-iskcon-temple-opens-doors-for-devotees-after-four-months/story-INRZVTjQ8X42WPKmDrjXzH.html
09-07-2020||City||Noida: Rain likely only after July 15||Noida Though monsoon has arrived in Noida and adjoining areas, the region will be deprived of rains for at least a week due to unfavourable weather conditions, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday.According to the weather department, the region will have clouds and some areas may see light rainfall or trace- level drizzling on July 11, but the overall rainfall situation seems bleak due to the change in weather conditions.“There will be a break in the rainfall despite the monsoon. We can expect rain on July 11 but even for that the chances are very less or it might be mere drizzle. The low-pressure monsoon trough line that passes through Punjab and West Bengal keeps oscillating. It has now shifted towards northern foothills and mountain states, so the parts of foothills in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and Uttarakhand will see heavy rainfall but not the western UP, including Noida and Ghaziabad. It’s only after July 15 that the trough line may oscillate again and come back to western UP, which will lead to moderate or heavy rainfall in the region,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.So far, the region has seen only two days of proper rainfall – the amount of rain which could be measured – 34.8 mm on July 5 and 0.6mm on July 7, while on July 4 there was a trace which means rainfall was too low to measure. According to the IMD records, in July last year too, the region only recorded continuous rainfall from July 15 with cumulative rainfall of 199.2mm in that month. The rainfall below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5mm is moderate and above 64.5mm is heavy.The IMD said that due to the absence of rains, the region may see marginal rise in the temperature, while the humidity levels will be between 50% and 90%. On Thursday, the maximum humidity in the city was recorded at 92%.“The sky will remain cloudy, so there will be no major rise in the temperatures. However, the maximum temperatures will hover around 39 degrees Celsius for the next seven days,” said Srivastava.On Thursday. the maximum temperature was recorded at 37.8 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season’s average, against 37 degrees a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 27.4 degrees, same as a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-rain-likely-only-after-july-15/story-oUYnsqXvW4X4G7Dfxe3yxN.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to reduce syllabus for Classes 9 to 12||The Board of School Education Haryana will reduce the syllabus of Classes 9 to 12 for the current academic session of 2020-2021, said state education minister Kanwar Pal. “In order to reduce mental pressure on students, the state government has decided to curtail the syllabus for the academic session 2020-21 in schools affiliated with the Board of School Education Haryana following the pattern of CBSE,” the education minister said.The minister said the state government has made adequate arrangements to impart online education during the lockdown amid Covid-19 pandemic. Kanwar Pal said to reduce the syllabus, the state government has instructed the school education board to set up a committee by coordinating with SCERT, Gurugram, and put up the proposal within a week after exploring all possibilities in this regard. He said that till now, the lessons that have been taught online to the students of Classes 9 to 12 should also be included in the syllabus in order to benefit the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-reduce-syllabus-for-classes-9-to-12/story-w6Hi68c7FwC3p7F4EP6lfN.html
09-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Fearing FIRs, three doctors, two nurses resume duties at pvt hospital||Three days after the Uttar Pradesh government said that it can lodge cases against doctors and health care workers who decide to quit their jobs amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, three doctors and two nurses—who had been stopped reporting to work for nearly a month at a private hospital in the district— resumed their duties on Thursday, the officials said.Seven doctors and 47 nurses of Sharda Hospital had resigned last month without offering any explanation, said hospital authorities.Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said the three doctors and two nurses of the Sharda hospital, resumed their duties after the administration had decided to book health care workers who quit their job during the ongoing public health emergency situation. “I am sure that very soon other doctors and nurses, who had quit their jobs recently, will also join their duties,” he said.The DM further said that any dereliction in the duties during the pandemic will not be tolerated. “We have cancelled all the leaves of government employees in the district till further notice. They have been asked not to leave their establishments (areas of posting) without my prior permission,” he said. When contacted, the spokesperson of Sharda hospital said that three out of seven doctors, including four anaesthesiologists, and two out of the 47 nurses, who had stopped coming to work last month, resumed their duties Thursday. “I hope very soon the remaining doctors and nurses will also join us again,” he said.On Monday, additional chief secretary (health education) Rajnish Dubey, in a meeting with senior district officials in Noida, had expressed concern about the rising tendency of escapism among doctors during the pandemic situation. In context with the reports of health workers quitting their jobs at Sharda hospital, Dubey had said that the government will first warn them for dereliction of duty. “If they’ll still do not resume their duties, FIRs will be lodged against them and they can even be jailed for violation of rules under the Epidemic Act,” he had said in the meeting.NOIDA COUNT REACHES 3,182At 172, Gautam Budh Nagar recorded its highest single-day spike of coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the total to 3,182. One more death was recorded, raising the fatality count to 31 in the district, the officials said.According to the daily health bulletin released by the state control room, a total of 2,136 people had been discharged, including 125 on Thursday, in the district so far. “As a result, the district now has 1,011 active cases,” the bulletin stated.On the other hand, the district achieved less than 60% of its target of collecting 4,000 samples in a day on the seventh day of the 10-day massive surveillance drive on Thursday.GB Nagar acting district surveillance officer Dr Manoj Kushwaha said that they were targetting their samples, which was 2,310 on Thursday, using different methods, including on-site rapid antigen kits, TrueNat machines, and lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-fearing-firs-three-doctors-two-nurses-resume-duties-at-pvt-hospital/story-CzvYDn3JFEXKKkKQqMg5VJ.html
09-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad proposes Haj House as 1,200-bed Covid care centre||In order to deal with rising number of cases, the Ghaziabad district administration has sent a proposal to the state government for converting the Haj House, located adjacent to GT Road on the banks of river Hindon, into a Covid care centre with 1,200 beds.The officials said the facility is proposed to be converted to a L1 category hospital for about 1,200 non-critical patients. Due to rise in number of Covid-19 cases, the health department has opened L1 category hospitals in Niwari and Modinagar and planning to open two more. However, none of the hospitals has more than 400 beds and there is a need to have more facilities as cases in July are being reported at an average of 114 a day.“Due to a rise in the number of Covid-19 patients, we have decided to convert the Haj House into a Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients. We have proposed 1,200 beds and all other infrastructure will be arranged soon. A proposal has also been sent to the state officials. I have directed the municipal commissioner to make the arrangements,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.Earlier in March, there were plans to use the Haj House as an isolation facility but no formal proposal was sent to the government.“The building is located away from city limits and also has a boundary enclosed space. Apart from the officials of the municipal corporation, I have also directed the officials of the minority department, electrical safety department and officials of the UP Jal Nigam to ensure that all facilities are in place within 10 days,” Pandey said.The Haj House had been marred in controversy since its inauguration in 2016 and could not be made operational as activists moved the National Green Tribunal seeking its demolition saying that it was located in the floodplains of river Hindon.On February 6, 2018, the NGT had dismissed the petition saying that the facility cannot be demolished as it does not fall in the flood plain zone. However, the tribunal directed its sealing in the absence of a specific capacity sewage treatment plant (STP).The tribunal had further directed the UP Haj Committee to ensure that there is STP to treat the domestic effluent of 136 KLD (kilolitres per day) installed and commissioned at the site as per the requirement of the UP pollution control board (UPPCB). The STP was installed and made operational as per directions.“All the legal issues are now resolved and the facility can be opened up,” Pandey added.Dinesh Chandra, municipal commissioner said that the corporation will soon take up all arrangements.“The basic arrangements will be taken up at the earliest. Since, this will be a big Covid-19 facility, we will require additional funds for putting in the required infrastructure. We will seek some funds from the district magistrate,” Chandra said.The district administration of Lucknow have also decided to convert the Maulana Ali Miyan Memorial Haj House on Kanpur Road in Sarojini Nagar area, into a Covid-19 care unit. Lucknow’s district magistrate Abhishek Prakash, who inspected the Haj House on Wednesday, said the decision had been taken in view of the rise in the number of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-proposes-haj-house-as-1-200-bed-covid-care-centre/story-IAe93bndASp8GGtY49rK6K.html
09-07-2020||City||Kurukshetra woman ASI among two held for taking bribe to settle molestation case||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Kurukshetra police and a complainant were arrested for taking ₹30,000 in lieu of settling a molestation case.An official spokesperson of the Kurukshetra police said ASI Kailash Kaur and Bala Devi were caught red-handed at the former’s residence by a team led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ravinder Singh Tomar in the presence of duty magistrate Jaivir Singh Ranga. He said Bala had filed a false complaint of molestation against a man from Kacchwa village of Karnal to blackmail him and later, with the help of the ASI, she demanded ₹30,000 from him to withdraw her complaint. Following the complaint of the victim’s son, Kurukshetra police formed a team and the two women were arrested for blackmailing the Karnal man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kurukshetra-woman-asi-among-two-held-for-taking-bribe-to-settle-molestation-case/story-MkRswm6rbZjnFnIpR3YYhL.html
09-07-2020||City||Gzb health dept finds anomalies in Covid-19 count as hospitals don’t update data on state portal||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad health department has found that a number of the district’s inactive coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases were still reflecting as active cases on the state portal even though they had been cured and discharged from hospitals, its officials told HT.During an exercise conducted Wednesday, health department officials contacted about 450 patients, which were listed on the state portal as active Covid-19 patients, and found that a majority of them had already been discharged from hospitals but still reflected as active patients in records. These records are accessible to every hospital in the district via login IDs and passwords, and have to be updated daily with the number of patients admitted or discharged. Till July 8, the Ghaziabad district had the most number of cases among all 75 districts in Uttar Pradesh, with 1,477 active Covid-19 cases, according to the state portal. According to the report of the state control room on Wednesday, the district was the only one in the state to have more than 1,000 active cases to its tally and accounted for almost 14% of the 9,980 active cases in the state, till July 8.“The alarming rise in the number of cases was a growing concern. So, we roped in a team and pulled out a list of about 450 patients from the portal, who were slated to be at certain Ghaziabad hospitals. Then, we began telephoning the patients. We were surprised when they told us that they have already been discharged and are at home, which is how we came to know that some government and private hospitals in the district are still not updating data of discharged patients on to the portal,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.He said now, officials are taking up corrections and updating the figures on the state portal. He added that when teams spoke to patients, they found that some had been discharged as far back as 15-20 days ago.According to the latest discharge guidelines issued by the state government on June 19, if any asymptomatic patient shows no symptoms, he/she can be discharged without undergoing any test on the tenth day from their date of admission. However, such patients will have to remain in home quarantine for seven days after being discharged from the hospital.According to officials, the recovery rate of L1 category patients ranges from eight to 16 days while the L2 and L3 patients, having moderate to critical conditions, need full recovery before they can be discharged.“Since all government and private hospitals have login IDs and passwords over the portal, they are supposed to make immediate entries. Now, we are trying to rectify the anomaly and hope that our discharge rate goes up and the number of active cases comes down. If need be, we will also issue show-cause notices to the concerned officials and hospitals otherwise the issue could be repeated in future,” Dr Gupta added.Going by the health department’s figures for Ghaziabad, from a discharge rate of 66.66% discharge rate with a total of 66 patients up to April 30, it came down to 41.04% with a total of 2,612 cases till July 8. Likewise, the rate of active patients, at 33.33% till April 30, climbed to 56.54% by July 8.On the other hand, the rate of discharge of patients for the state stood at 65.25% out of a total of 31,156 cases till July 8, according to state figures.“Apart from this, we received complaints from some asymptomatic patients who were lodged at private hospitals that they were kept in hospitals for a period of about 14-15 days. After one such complaint was received recently, I intervened and asked the hospital authorities to discharge the patient immediately, as the guidelines state that asymptomatic patients need to be discharged after 10 days from their date of admission. The hospitals must avoid any such issues as it puts additional financial burden over the patient,” Dr Gupta added.The Ghaziabad district at present has total of 63 Covid-19-related deaths and the prime focus is now on reducing the death rate. The officials said that early tracing and testing of people having symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and their immediate referral to appropriate Covid-designate hospitals is now being taken up.The district reported four deaths till May 31 while 51 were added in the month of June alone. In the ongoing month, eight deaths have been added so far, till July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-health-dept-finds-anomalies-in-covid-19-count-as-hospitals-don-t-update-data-on-state-portal/story-s9MD5klQU9IQJHTPvfqb7H.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Wrong contact info makes tracing uphill task in Haryana||Haryana’s health department is facing a new challenge: incorrect details furnished by patients. Officials, especially in NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak and Sonepat, are dealing with inaccurate and misleading personal details such as phone numbers, names and addresses provided by patients who appear for Covid-19 tests. Rohtak civil surgeon Dr Anil Birla said, “We have provided a list of five untraceable patients to local police and they are making efforts to find them. Every day, we see four to five reports where initial details for verification are missing. Most of the patients give wrong contact information. Now, we have asked the testing employees to verify the contact number and address of all people appearing for the Covid-19 test.”Sharing his experience with such patients, he said a doctor couple from Delhi had appeared for Covid-19 test last month and was found infected.“They claimed that they hailed from Rohtak. After their report arrived, we called on their number, but it was invalid. Then we contacted the Indian Medical Association and enquired whether they were registered with them or not. The medical body shared their address which was in Delhi’s Mayur Vihar. We informed the Delhi health department, following which they were hospitalised and their area was declared as a containment zone,” Birla said. Sonepat civil surgeon Dr BK Rajoura also raised similar concerns. He said they had been witnessing at least 10 such cases on a daily basis. A health department official, who didn’t want to be named, said across the state, there were over 2,500 corona patients who had given wrong information and many of them were yet to be traced. Dr Ramesh Punia, a biologist who is also Covid-19 quarantine in-charge in Hisar, said they trailed at least 150 people who had attended a wedding in Hisar last month after the groom’s father tested positive for Covid-19.“We managed to trace the guests with the help of the wedding photographer. Nearly 20 of them were found infected. In another case, a Hisar-based youth, who had tested positive, gave the wrong number and address. We had to track him on Facebook and contact his online friends before we could find him in person,” Punia added.In another case, Hisar health officials had to scan footage of 200 CCTV cameras to trace a 20-year-old shopkeeper, who had given lift to an infected transport company worker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wrong-contact-info-makes-tracing-uphill-task-in-haryana/story-0iCQ72siCw6k8VMdYkzEoJ.html
09-07-2020||City||Trade licence made compulsory by Ambala City MC||The Ambala City municipal corporation has made trade licences essential for all trade owners under its jurisdiction.As per officials, a trade licence is a means to ensure a business is being carried out in accordance with relevant rules, standards and safety guidelines.Licences may cover various types of properties like banks, ATMs, food eateries, private markets, hospitals, restaurants, hotels, etc. for which applications are available online on the Ambala MC website.City project officer Anil Rana said, “It has been observed that property owners never apply for a trade licence with the MC. For this, we have issued notices to many property owners. We’ll issue three notices every week and even then, if they don’t apply, action will be taken.”“The fee for the licence is very nominal and depends on their turnover. We checked our records and found that only two parties had renewed their licence with us this year. Every trader has to apply for the licence which will be valid for one year and has to be renewed thereafter,” Rana added.MC commissioner Parth Gupta said, “This is an old practice and essential for traders. Normally, they don’t apply for one, but now they have to.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trade-licence-made-compulsory-by-ambala-city-mc/story-O2MFP4d8fYNux718Dxp6RJ.html
09-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi reports 2,187 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deaths||With 2,187 Covid-19 new cases and 45 deaths reported in Delhi on Thursday, the total number of positive cases in the national capital reached 1,07,051.According to the official data, the total number of positive cases includes 82,226 recovered/discharged/migrated and 3,258 deaths.At present, there are 21,567 active cases in the national capital.Meanwhile, the Delhi government said that 9,719 RT-PCR tests and 12,570 rapid antigen tests conducted today.“A total of 7,24,148 tests done to date,” the government said.India has reported the highest single-day spike of 24,879 new positive cases and 487 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the country to 7,67,296, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Out of the total number of cases, 2,69,789 are active, 4,76,378 have been cured/discharged/migrated and 21,129 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-reports-2-187-new-covid-19-cases-45-deaths/story-SWr7amJANUasv6Gw612eCM.html
09-07-2020||Dehradun||With 47 new Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand’s tally rises to 3,305; over 2,600 recover||With 47 new Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand’s tally rose to 3,305 on Thursday. These include 558 active cases and 46 deaths due to the disease, according to the state health department bulletin.Thursday’s cases included two health care workers from Dehradun district while three patients were close contacts of earlier detected positive patients. The others had returned to the state from places like Delhi-NCR, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Kuwait and Haryana.Of the 47 patients, the maximum 20 were from Dehradun district followed by 12 from Naintal, five cases each from Pauri Garhwal and Tehri Garhwal, , three from Udham Singh Nagar and two from Champawat district.A total of 22 patients were discharged from hospitals in the state during the day. Overall, 2,672 people have recovered in the state.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 60.66 days, with a recovery rate of 80.85%.Uttarakhand has so far tested over 86,000 samples of which results of over 5,500 are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/with-47-new-covid-19-cases-uttarakhand-s-tally-rises-to-3-305-over-2600-recover/story-wKt7ZBkYNh1tABj47uTe7N.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Six IAS, 26 PCS transferred in Punjab||The Punjab government on Thursday issued transfer and posting orders of six IAS and 26 PCS officers with immediate effect.DPS Kharbanda, director, sports and youth affairs, has been given the additional charge of commissioner, gurdwara elections. Parampal Kaur Sidhu, special secretary, water resources, has been given the additional charge of member secretary, Punjab State Women Commission, whereas Vineet Kumar is now additional secretary, personnel. Hargunjit Kaur, additional secretary, personnel, has been posted as additional secretary, cooperation, and managing director, Punjab State Cooperative Bank Limited, in addition.Amrit Singh, additional deputy commissioner (ADC), development, Ludhiana, is now additional managing director, Markfed. Sandeep Kumar, ADC, general, Muktsar, has been posted as ADC, development, Ludhiana, in his place. Charandeep Singh, PCS, is the new ADC, general, Muktsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-ias-26-pcs-transferred-in-punjab/story-eUjvNejTUo4MeHRqUS7QnL.html
09-07-2020||City||Clarify stand on Covid test for pregnant women: HC to Delhi govt||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Thursday admonished the Delhi government for not clarifying if every pregnant woman who goes to a hospital for delivery or urgent treatment is required to undergo a Covid-19 test, symptomatic or not, while remarking that a genuine problem has been turned into a “bureaucratic nightmare”.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said if a test is required, then sample collection and declaration of results should be done in a minimum period of time. It said despite giving four-five opportunities to the Delhi government, it still has not clarified the grievances in a plea that had sought testing and results of pregnant women.“A genuine human problem has been made into a bureaucratic nightmare. It is totally inexplicable. How long do we wait? Four to five opportunities have been given to address the issue since the filing of the petition,” the court said.The court said officials appeared to be “confused” and were “unable to understand that pregnant women do not go to a hospital 48 hours before the delivery”.“When a pregnant woman goes for delivery or surgery, they cannot wait for 48 hours for a result. Sometimes they go at the last moment. Your (Delhi government) secretaries should understand that pregnant women do not go 48 hours before delivery. …..As per your status report, they will be kept in isolation till the declaration of results without a family member close by. What kind of society are we living in?” the court said.The observations came after the Delhi government told the court that it had passed an order on July 5 on testing of high-risk patients and shared a status report. However, the court said the July 5 order does not include pregnant women, even though it has been mentioned in the status report.“Your July 5 order and status report are entirely contradictory,” it said while stating that there is a contradiction with regard to whether asymptomatic pregnant women need to undergo rapid antigen test.The court directed the Delhi government to correct the contradictions and clarify if asymptomatic pregnant women have to undergo Covid-19 testing before being admitted.“If yes, then the Delhi government should ensure the time taken for sample collection and declaration of results should be minimum,” the bench said while observing that pregnant women are being made to wait for 24-48 hrs for the reports.The Delhi government did not respond to requests for a comment.With these observations and directions, the court listed the matter for hearing on July 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/clarify-stand-on-covid-test-for-pregnant-women-hc-to-delhi-govt/story-gskwdM1xutsSN1ttyCYoSO.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi duo booked for duping Ludhiana man of ₹47 lakh in lieu of medical admission||The police have booked two Delhi-based agents for duping a Jamalpur resident of Rs 47.5 lakh on the pretext of facilitating his daughter and niece’s admission into a medical college in Delhi.The accused have been identified as Lucky and Rinku Singh.The accused were operating from office number 34, third floor, Sewak Park, Uttam Nagar, in Delhi. They have been booked under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.The victim, Prem Chandra Sinha, who is working as a general manager in a steel unit here, told the police that he had come in touch with the duo in June 2018 after reading an advertisement in a leading English daily.“The duo assured admission for his daughter and niece under ‘national quota’ in a reputed medical college in Delhi,” said Sinha. The accused demanded Rs 50 lakh for the seats. However, the deal was struck at Rs 47.5 lakh.Prem said by July he had paid the amount through bank transactions, cheques and cash.“The duo had even presented documents proving that the names of both, my daughter and my niece, had appeared in the list of a noted medical college for MBBS and BDS courses,” said Sinha.Few months elapsed and they kept dilly-dallying the issue on the pretext of some technical glitch.When Sinha visited the college, he was shocked to find out that the list shown to him was fake and the admission process was long over.“The agents later visited the city and submitted in writing to the police that they had taken money for admission. They assured the return of money and gave cheques that were also dishonoured on presentation. The duo finally stopped answering calls afterwards,” said Sinha.He said he approached the police again and a case was registered at the Moti Nagar police station.Investigating officer Gurjeet Singh said the accused will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-duo-booked-for-duping-ludhiana-man-of-47-lakh-in-lieu-of-medical-admission/story-qFCuJR2ELxMs8cjb5NyqXM.html
09-07-2020||City||Unable to pay rent during lockdown, Ludhiana man ends life; house owner booked||A resident of Santokh Nagar in Shivpuri Area has been booked for driving his 65-year-old tenant to suicide by forcing him to pay the rent arrears.The senior citizen had jumped from the second floor of the house on Monday.His son complained to the police that they had not been able to pay rent for the past three months due to losses in business amid the Covid-19 lockdown.However, their landlord, Shivam Malhotra, kept pushing them to pay the rent, and recently also snapped the water and power connections.Exasperated by his constant harassment, his father ended his life, the complainant alleged.Police have registered a case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code against Malhotra. He has yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unable-to-pay-rent-during-lockdown-ludhiana-man-ends-life-house-owner-booked/story-SUW5QDvTPiFH3k5tqPAAKK.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mewat court gives relief to Muslim foreigners, asks authorities to send them back safely||Giving relief to 57 Muslim foreigners booked by Haryana Police for alleged malignant acts likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life during Covid lockdown and violations of the Foreigners Act, a sessions court in Mewat has upheld the decision of the trial court to strike down the charges slapped on the foreign nationals. The Muslim foreign nationals were residents of Bangladesh, Indonesia, Thailand, Sri Lanka and South Africa.The court of additional sessions judge, Mewat, Prashant Rana in its July 6 order said none of the accused knew that they had coronavirus infection. “Their testing was conducted after the registration of the first information report (FIR). Even the investigating officer came to know about the infection of nine accused two days after the registration of FIR. Offences under sections 269 and 270 of the IPC were added merely on the basis of apprehensions and imaginations of the investigating officer,” the court said, puncturing the police theory.The judge held that all foreigners had valid passports and tourist visas. “There is no documentary evidence with the prosecution or any witness, who would say that the accused persons were holding Tablighi jamaat in any village. It does not amount to violation of any condition of their tourist visa. The accused had permission to visit India, travel across the country and stay here, in a legal manner, which they did. Hence, no offence under sections 14(B) and 14(C) of the Foreigners Act was made out,” reads the order. The court also asked the authorities to ensure safe return of the foreigners to their countries.The caseThe police had on April 2 booked 57 Muslim foreign nationals under sections 269, 270, 188, 120-B of the IPC and sections 14(b), 14(c) of the Foreigners Act. The prosecution said these foreigners were propagating religious teachings in a ‘Tablighi Jamaat’ without visa permission. The prosecution said the foreigners could not produce permission for religious teaching and their passports were seized.Nine of them were found to be coronavirus positive following their medico-legal examination. The accused though were not arrested being foreigners and from a particular religion, the prosecution said. Trial court struck down all charges except oneThe trial court, however, chargesheeted the accused for commission of offence under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and struck down the sections pertaining to negligent and malignant acts likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life and violations of the Foreigners Act. The court on May 22 sentenced the accused to pay a fine of Rs 1,000 each for commission of offence under section 188 and directed the state to send them back to their respective countries. Aggrieved by the trial court’s orders of framing of charge under section 188, the Haryana government had filed a revision plea before the Mewat additional sessions judge, which was dismissed. Box: Additional sessions judge’s rulingForeign nationals have not done any act detrimental to the society or security of the nationThey are peace-loving tourists, visiting different parts including the masjids, which cannot be termed as violation of any statuteThey were guests of the nation, who were granted permission to visit and travel by the embassy concerned and the ministry||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mewat-court-gives-relief-to-muslim-foreigners-asks-authorities-to-send-them-back-safely/story-G99Zv4aZ6PAcQtqGRBlWhI.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||679 new infections take Haryana’s tally to 19,369||Five Covid-19 patients succumbed to the illness on Thursday in Haryana, taking the number of those dead to 287. As per a medical bulletin, the state reported 679 fresh cases from 17 districts on Thursday, which pushed the patients’ tally to 19,369. Among the dead were one person each from Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Sirsa and Yamunanagar.The number of active cases on Thursday was 4,572. The bulletin said that 404 infected persons were cured on Thursday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 14,510. There were 71 critically ill patients, including 20 on ventilator support, at medical facilities across Gurugram (11), Faridabad (8) and Rohtak (1). 4,501 patients had mild symptoms. While the national capital region (NCR) districts of Faridabad (182), Gurugram (151) and Sonepat (85) collectively accounted for 61% of the fresh cases reported on Thursday, Bhiwani (51), Rohtak (46), Ambala (34), Palwal and Karnal (24 each), Panipat (21), Jhajjar (16), Sirsa (14) and Nuh (13) were also major contributors to the tally. With 1,023 active cases, Faridabad has overtaken Gurugram, which has 986 active cases. Sonepat district is at number three with 594 active cases, followed by Rohtak (330) and Rewari (284).Among the other districts, Jind reported seven fresh cases followed by Fatehabad (5), Panchkula, Kaithal and Yamunanagar (2 each). Hisar, Mahendragarh, Rewari, Kurukshetra and Charkhi Dadri did not report any fresh cases, the health bulletin mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/679-new-infections-take-haryana-s-tally-to-19-369/story-gcGZrmjeiBH9FkUZlMBNVN.html
09-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi University ‘playing with the lives of students’, says HC, demands date-sheet before July 14||The Delhi High Court on Thursday came down heavily on Delhi University for its repeated postponement of the final-year students’ Online Open Book Examination (OBE) and directed the varsity to file an affidavit detailing the schedule of the examinations.The varsity, on Wednesday, through a notification, had pushed the date beyond August 15 after considering the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines and the complaints received by the students regarding the mock test in the last two days.On Thursday, a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad, while hearing a bunch of pleas challenging the OBE exams, lambasted the university and said that the careers of thousands of final students were at stake and “turning turtle”. The court sought to know the reason for the postponement stating that DU was “dying to conduct the exams”.“We are not impressed and take everything with a pinch of salt. We all have gone through the examination process, which is nerve-wracking for students, more so during the times of the Covid-19 pandemic,” the bench said.“Why are you pushing the exams to a date beyond August 15, knowing that the careers of thousands of students are at stake? If you keep changing the date, where will the students go?” the court remarked.It asked that when the varsity was more than prepared as claimed by DU counsel Sachin Datta, then why were the exams being postponed even after August 15.Despite several attempts, however, DU’s Dean of Examinations Vinay Gupta did not respond to calls or text messages for comment. A senior official, though, on condition of anonymity, said: “The university will discuss the dates of the exam and inform the court in due time.”“You (DU) only see your own difficulties and not that of the students who might be suffering from Covid-19 or have infected family members. But you postponed the exam just because one of your officers was affected, without even worrying about thousands of students and their families. Their careers hinge on the exams,” Justice Hima Kohli said.Following this, the court asked the University’s counsel, senior advocate Sachin Datta, to file an affidavit detailing the schedule for the final-year undergraduate exams which have been postponed from July 10 to beyond August 15. The court also asked the varsity to explain in the affidavit as to how it proposes to conduct exams —online, off-line or both modes, besides the complete date sheet, providing clarity to students.The bench directed DU to file the affidavit by July 13 while asking it to mull over the schedule given by UGC and to come back with a firm datesheet and examination schedule.In the affidavit filed by DU on Thursday morning, it was averred that a meeting of a High-Powered Committee of the university took place on July 7 at 9.30pm to discuss exam-related matters and take stock of the developments pursuant to the revised guidelines issued by UGC on July 6.During the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was representing the UGC, informed the court that on July 6 and July 8, it had issued a circular/ guidelines to all universities informing them that the examination process for final-year students must be completed by the end of September and the mode of conducting examination could be online, offline or a blend of both methods.On being asked by the court as to whether UGC insisted that exams be conducted to promote students, Mehta said exams were compulsory for final-year students and the process had to be completed by September 30.The matter will be now heard on July 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-university-playing-with-the-lives-of-students-says-hc-demands-date-sheet-before-july-14/story-ourGCM6wT8fLA8xmTOvaRI.html
09-07-2020||City||Consider Maulana Azad junior resident’s death as Covid fatality, demand Delhi doctors||New DelhiSeveral doctors’ associations have demanded that the death of a junior resident from Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Science be considered to be a Covid-19 fatality even though he tested negative for the infection.The resident doctors’ association of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Thursday wrote to the director general of Indian Council of Medical research, Dr Balaram Bhargava, demanding that an expert committee be set up to conduct an enquiry into unexpected and unexplained deaths during Covid-19 and reconsider the case of Dr Abhishek Bhayana.The negative test means that the doctor will not be eligible for the R 1 crore compensation that the state government has announced and another health insurance of R 50 lakh by the Centre.“As per literature, sensitivity of none of the tests performed for Covid-19 diagnosis is 100%. This has led to the alleged misdiagnosis of some health care workers who succumbed to Covid-19-like illnesses. Late Dr Abhishek Bhayana’s death summary clearly mentions manifestations consistent with Covid-19 – tachypnea (shortness of breath), tachycardia (racing heart beat), reduced saturation of oxygen on room air. The diagnosis of the health-worker turned patient should be made taking Covid-19 into consideration until and unless proven otherwise,” the letter reads.A similar letter addressed to the chief minister by the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association has asked for an expert committee to determine the cause of death. It says, “The young doctor was posted to the out-patient department of MAIDS. He developed sore throat, which was diagnosed as chest infection on X-ray and he tested negative for Covid-19. He succumbed to Myocardial Infarction (heart attack) as per the death summary of the hospital on July 2. Myocardial Infarction is a cardiovascular disease affecting the elderly and is unlikely in a young 26-year-old person,” the letter on Wednesday said.Dr Vijay Gurjar, assistant professor of geriatric medicine at AIIMS, has also come forward in support. “There was an 80-year-old woman in our hospital who tested negative for Covid-19 four times, she was treated as a Covid-19 patient as per clinical diagnosis. She had Covid-19 antibodies. The clinical judgement should be followed.” HT was unable to reach the woman in question. “Dr Abhishek Bhayana ... fell ill while on a visit to his home town in Rohtak. He reported last on duty at MAIDS on June 23. It has been learnt from the family of the deceased that his Covid-19 test reports were negative. MAIDS is a non-Covid-19 hospital and takes utmost care to screen and triage patients prior to rendering necessary patient care. Further, the institute takes adequate precautions in maintaining hospital infection control, providing regular training of healthcare workers of the institute,” a release from the director of the institute Dr Sangeeta Talwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/consider-maulana-azad-junior-resident-s-death-as-covid-fatality-demand-delhi-doctors/story-ounUWaWE1K7YeFD4DimhaK.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dip in Haryana crime graph in first six months as compared to last year: DGP||Between January and June 2020, Haryana Police registered 49,978 cases under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against 51,928 FIRs in the corresponding period of 2019, Manoj Yadava, director general of police (DGP) said, adding that the overall crime was reduced by 3.75%. Almost 85% cases of murder, 100% of culpable homicide, 92% of attempt to murder, 98% of hurt and 84% of kidnapping/abduction were successfully solved in the first six months of 2020, the DGP said in a statement.There was a decline in the number of heinous crimes such as murder, attempt to murder, robbery, kidnapping for ransom in the first half of 2020, Yadava said, pointing out that in overall terms, crime against persons went down by 4.06% during this period.While the number of murder cases registered between January and June were 488 compared to 590 in 2019, the cases of attempt to murder also went down from 467 to 449 during the same period.The DGP said there was a massive fall in cases of wrongful confinement of persons as from 5,155 in 2019, the cases went down to 4,198 in 2020, registering 18.56% dip. Similarly, there was a drop of 23 cases of criminal trespass during the same period. The cases of kidnapping/abduction of males went down to 88 cases in the first half of 2020 as compared to 350 cases in 2019, a dip of 25.14%. “There was a drastic fall in the number of theft cases which reduced from 11,794 to 8,123, a sharp drop of 31.12%,” said the DGP.The number of robbery cases came down from 667 to 500 and against 1,023 cases of snatching reported last year, 670 cases were registered during the same period this year.The DGP said cases under section 188 of the IPC, which deals with wilful violation of lawful orders, has seen a sharp increase (from 98 cases in 2019 to 4,189 cases in 2020).“Increased police presence and checking during the Covid-19 situation also contributed to reduction in the crime as criminals and habitual offenders were forced to stay at home during lockdown,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dip-in-haryana-crime-graph-in-first-six-months-as-compared-to-last-year-dgp/story-0uAwBg0q3LUyDtyYEVedzJ.html
09-07-2020||Delhi||Mentally ill people in hospitals, shelters are traceable, why do they need IDs for testing, asks Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday sought to know from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Delhi government why homeless mentally ill people needed to submit an identity proof in order to get tested for Covid-19 in the national capital.The court asked why there was a need for homeless mentally ill people to produce identity papers and valid phone number when many of them were institutionalised or in shelter homes and therefore, traceable. The court was hearing a PIL by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal seeking directions to the ICMR and the Delhi government to suitably modify guidelines for Covid-19 testing of mentally ill homeless persons in Delhi.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan said such people (mentally ill who are institutionalised) should not be left out of the testing ambit and they, along with the mentally ill homeless persons on the streets, should be looked after.The court asked the additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, appearing for ICMR, the apex research body in the country, to consult its officials on what can be done to address this issue.“Once addressed, the same should also be communicated to all hospitals,” the bench said and gave the ICMR time till July 24 to find a solution and inform the court.The order came after the Institute for Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS), represented by advocate Tushar Sannu, told the court there were two hurdles in testing mentally ill persons admitted at IHBAS. Sannu said that according to the ICMR advisory of June 19, every person who is to be tested for Covid-19 has to provide a government issued identity proof and should have a valid phone number for tracing and tracking the individual and his/her contacts.He said a majority of mentally ill persons would not be able to satisfy either of these conditions and therefore, they cannot be tested for Covid-19. IHBAS suggested that the ICMR guidelines be suitably modified to address the hardship faced by mentally ill homeless persons.In its response to the plea, ICMR has said in its advisory, dated June 23, point of care diagnostic assay in combination with gold standard RT/PCR test is recommended for persons with neurological disorders, whether hospitalised, seeking hospitalisation or residing in hot spot areas.Delhi government, in its affidavit, said it was adhering to the ICMR advisory of June 19 which mandates that all patients being tested by any method must furnish a government-issued photo identity proof and a mobile phone number.It also said that “in the absence of any specific guidelines or rules for testing of homeless mentally ill or suspected mentally ill persons, the Delhi government was trying its best to do all that is necessary for such persons” .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mentally-ill-people-in-hospitals-shelters-are-traceable-why-do-they-need-ids-for-testing-asks-delhi-hc/story-wilVTdKvYapxiFY9g8LB0K.html
09-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police ASI succumbs to Covid-19||A 53-year-old assistant sub-inspector with the Delhi Police succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at a private hospital in the national capital on Thursday morning, taking the total number of known deaths due to the disease in the police force to 13. He had received plasma from a colleague, but the therapy did not work on him. The policeman, Jeevan Singh Bisht, was posted to the motor transport department of the Delhi Police’s Special Branch. Its office in central Delhi’s Asaf Ali Marg has been part of a containment zone for over a month. “A total of 30 police personnel deployed at our office have tested positive so far, but this is the first death in our department,” Suman Nalwa, the deputy commissioner of police (Special Branch), said. Bisht, who lived in Noida with his wife, teenage son and 22-year-old daughter, was in charge of maintaining official vehicles. His daughter, who works for a private firm, said that he was a physically healthy man who had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 21. Neither the family nor the police know exactly how he got infected, but police officers said that he would visit the Special Branch office on alternate days for work. Initially, Bisht was admitted to a quarantine centre in Noida, but when his family realised that he wasn’t receiving food and water on time there, they got him moved to a private hospital in Lajpat Nagar the next day. “Here, he initially displayed no symptoms, but began facing breathing issues some days later. Doctors said the oxygen level in his blood was falling and he needed plasma treatment. Since that facility wasn’t available there, he was moved to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on June 27,” DCP Nalwa said. A head constable from the Special Branch office donated plasma to him, but Bisht did not recover. His daughter said that their remaining family quarantined itself at home after his hospitalisation. “We had mild symptoms, but we didn’t get ourselves tested. Instead, we stayed in home isolation,” Bisht’s daughter said. The family last spoke to him over a video call on the day he was moved to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. “He couldn’t speak properly due to breathing issues. We asked him to rest instead of talking, but he kept asking about us,” his daughter said.Bisht, who was in the intensive care unit, passed away on Thursday morning. So far, the virus has infected more than 2,200 Delhi Police personnel. Of them, over 1,400 have recovered from the viral infection and resumed their duties, a Delhi Police spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-asi-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-YCLhHWAnH5I8WQNb39cEsL.html
09-07-2020||City||EPCA starts early review of measures to curb farm fires in view of Covid-19||New Delhi: Ahead of winter, the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Thursday asked officials of Delhi and its neighbouring states of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh to submit a status report of measures being taken by them to curb stubble burning this year. The status report is to be submitted every two weeks until October, the Authority said.Bhure Lal, EPCA chairman, said this year, they have started reviewing the measures being taken to prevent agriculture residue burning early, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, as a collision of these two could turn out to be a cause of public health concern. Both, the fumes resulting from the stubble burning and the Sars-Cov-2 virus affect the lungs.Farm fires from neighbouring states have been a major contributor to high levels of air pollution in parts of north India, including the National Capital and its surrounding areas, during winter months.“The states have been asked to ensure farmers have all the necessary tools to do away with paddy straw, which is otherwise put to fire to clear the fields. This time, with the pandemic still raging, states must ensure burning is minimised,” said Lal. The EPCA chief met officials from the states as well as those from the Union agriculture ministry via video-conferencing. He added that every two weeks until October, they will have a digital meeting with the four states to take stock of preparations to prevent the farm fires.“Enforcement has to be stepped up by all agencies. While in Delhi, which bears the impact of the fumes travelling from neighbouring regions, there is no crop residue burning reported as such, the major problem is of waste burning, which needs to be monitored closely,” said Lal.In addition, the respective state pollution control boards have been told to make extensive use of remote sensing technology to monitor incidents of crop stubble burning and take timely action, Lal said.Farm fires are at their peak during October and November, which is when paddy varieties are harvested and fields are cleared to be readied for sowing of Kharif crops. Delhi sees peak pollution levels during this period because of a combination of geographical factors, local emissions and fumes from farm fires in neighbouring states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/epca-starts-early-review-of-measures-to-curb-farm-fires-in-view-of-covid-19/story-MQHQSuCXs3nh0Q3pPjaijL.html
09-07-2020||Delhi||Citing Delhi’s high GDP and per capita income, Sisodia woos e-commerce players||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia invited retail and e-commerce players to invest in Delhi, citing the capital’s GDP for seven years and per capita income data, while speaking at a global investment forum through video conferencing on Thursday.Sisodia, who is also the state finance minister, said the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy will be more long-lasting than its health effects. Delhi is gearing up to revive its economy despite facing many challenges in the aftermath of the pandemic, he said.“Delhi is a city of opportunities. Our state GDP has doubled in the past seven years and we have a per capita income of ₹3,89,000 which is three times the national average. We also have an effective people-centric government under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The highest growth on all economic indicators have been made possible due to the honest and progressive government which was re-elected for a third time with an overwhelming majority,” Sisodia told delegates at the Invest India Exclusive Investment Forum.Delhi’s GDP is around ₹8.56 lakh crore currently, as compared to ₹4.04 lakh crore seven years ago. The capital city’s current per capita income is ₹3,89,145 compared to the national per capita of ₹1,35,050, government data showed.Stressing on the range of trade and service sector opportunities for investment offered by the Delhi government, Sisodia said, “Contrary to public opinion, Delhi has a substantial land bank for investment in sectors such as tourism and hospitality, automobile parts, handloom and handicrafts, gems, jewellery and perfumes, packaged foods, leather goods and garments, steel fabrication, e-commerce, retail, and information technology. The upcoming industrial hubs in Ranikhera Mundka, Baprola and Kanjhawala along with the Mundka North Warehousing Cluster have ample capacity available and makes Delhi an ideal destination for companies looking to set up retail or sourcing operations.”The forum was attended by investors from 30 countries. As many as 20 industry sectors, including apparels, automobiles, e-commerce, health care and sportswear from countries such as the USA, Japan, Germany, the UK, Switzerland and Australia participated in the webinar on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/citing-delhi-s-high-gdp-and-per-capita-income-sisodia-woos-e-commerce-players/story-SFW5bNsSSLs1XmiiCcwmyK.html
09-07-2020||Delhi||Gangster who threw chilli powder at Delhi cops nabbed after 29 months in Siliguri||One of the Capital’s most wanted gangsters, who had fled from Delhi Police’s custody in 2018 after his associates allegedly threw chilli powder in the eyes of police personnel and exchanged fire at a government hospital, was arrested from Siliguri in West Bengal on Wednesday ending a 29 month-long search.Senior police officers on Thursday said the arrested gangster, Sandeep alias Dhillu, is a key confidant of jailed gangsters Neeraj Bawana, and Sunil alias Tillu Tajpuriya. Involved in nearly two dozen crimes, including murder, kidnapping, robbery, extortion, and attacking police personnel, Dhillu carried a reward of ₹2 lakh on his arrest. This was the highest reward announced by the Delhi Police on a wanted criminal after the arrest of another gangster Jitender alias Gogi against whom a reward of ₹4 lakh had been declared. According to the police, Dhillu’s group had a longstanding rivalry with Gogi and their enmity allegedly led to several murders in the national capital in the past five-six years. Gogi was caught along with his three associates from an apartment in Gurugram on March 3.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said several teams had been looking for Dhillu since he fled from police custody in February 2018. He had allegedly shot Gogi’s gang member, Monu Nepali, outside the Rohini court on directions of Tajpuriya (who was in jail) a month after fleeing, the police said.“Our team was tracking Dhillu’s movements since a long time, but he managed to give the police the slip. To avoid police attention, he had been using the latest communication and social media techniques to talk to his associates,” said Kushwah.In June, the DCP said, a team had raided his hideout in Rajasthan but Dhillu had escaped before the police could reach the spot. The team continued collecting intelligence about his latest hideouts and on July 5, the team learned about Dhillu’s hideout in Siliguri. Accordingly, a team was sent to arrest him. “On July 8, our team members spotted him in a market in Siliguri and caught him after a brief scuffle. His transit remand was secured and he has been brought to Delhi,” the DCP said.Originally from Haryana’s Jhajjar, Dhillu was first arrested in 2003 for his alleged involvement in the case of an attack on a police party and another case of murder and criminal conspiracy. Since then, Dhillu has allegedly been active in criminal activities in Delhi and Haryana, said a special cell officer associated with the operation, asking not to be indentified.Dhillon was last arrested in 2015 in a murder and assault case, and was lodged in Mandoli jail. On February 19, he was brought to Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences in Central Delhi’s Daryaganj for a dental check-up by police personnel. Around 11.20am that day, Dhillu’s associates arrived on three motorcycles, and allegedly threw chili powder on the personnel, using the cover of the commotion to escort him away from police custody.An exchange of fire between the personnel and Dhillu’s associates also took place and no one was injured in the incident, which took place barely a kilometre from the then Delhi Police headquarters. The three policemen who were escorting Dhillu were suspended.“As Dhillu continued his criminal activities after the escape in an organised manner, a case under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) was also registered against him,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gangster-who-threw-chilli-powder-at-delhi-cops-nabbed-after-29-months-in-siliguri/story-4OjkyWAdH70wP2fT5MsHQJ.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||5 killed as tanker-truck collides head-on with car in Bathinda||Five people were killed when a speeding oil tanker collided head-on with a Maruti Swift car near Ramnagar of Maur sub-division in the district on Thursday afternoon.Harman Singh, Harmanjit Singh and Arman Singh of Jajal village, Manpreet Singh of Malkana and Dineshwar Singh of Jogewala village in the district died on the spot. The accident took place on the Rampura Phull road. The victims were friends and were returning to their villages after shopping from Bathinda.Maur deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rashpal Singh said another occupant, Sukhdeep Singh, was rushed to the Bathinda civil hospital in a critical condition. The DSP said the driver of the oil tanker fled the spot after the accident and efforts are being made to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-killed-as-tanker-truck-collides-head-on-with-car-in-bathinda/story-gUMcQLiVtak7Dcx4knlEVM.html
09-07-2020||City||Fake T20 scandal: Mohali police sends notice to online streaming apps||Four days after the arrest of the kingpin in the fake T20 league matches, police have sent legal notices to all online streaming applications that aired the match.Mohali superintendent of police (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said, “Legal notices have been sent to each app owner, asking them on what basis they verified the match for telecast. We have started the forensic probe in the matter.” The apps which streamed the match include FanCode, Diamond, Sky, Lotus, Tenbet, Spin and Punjab Exchange. The accused Ravinder Dandiwal and his accomplices Pankaj Kumar Arora and Rajesh Garh alias Raju had organised the matches at a ground in Sawara village near Chandigarh and passed these off as matches played in Srilanka. They were planning to make money by facilitating betting on these matches. Police have recovered the banners and jerseys used in the match and also recorded the statements of the players, most of them small-time players at the village’s cricket academy.Meanwhile, two accused, Pankaj Kumar Arora and Rajesh Garg, were released on bail on Wednesday after they filed double bonds.The case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, and 13A-3-67 of the Gambling Act at the Sadar Kharar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-t20-scandal-mohali-police-sends-notice-to-online-streaming-apps/story-6k6OZp4zu1tu0NxVKfNzhP.html
09-07-2020||City||Two minors booked for sodomising 12-year-old boy in Ludhiana||Two minors have been booked for allegedly sodomising a 12-year-old boy in Ludhiana and filming the act, police said on Thursday.The incident came to light on Wednesday when the minors sent the video to the boy’s father. The boy said that the minor boys took him to a field where they sodomised him and filmed the act. The investigating officer said that both the accused are also minors and the efforts are on to nab them.A case under Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, Section 377 (unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code and various sections of the IT Act has been registered against the two minors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-minors-booked-for-sodomising-12-year-old-boy-in-ludhiana/story-cfLETQGMHwHComRD7pnuvI.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||5 more die of Covid-19 in Haryana, 679 new cases||Haryana on Thursday reported five more coronavirus deaths as 679 new cases took the total number of infections to 19,369.One death each was reported from Sirsa, Yamunanagar, Palwal and worst-hit Gurgaon and Faridabad districts, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.    Click here for full Covid-19 coverage   The Covid-19 death toll in the state has risen to 287.The districts which reported fresh cases included Faridabad (182), Gurgaon (151) Sonipat (85), Bhiwani (51), Rohtak (46), and Ambala (34) among others. The number of active cases in the state is 4,572 while 14,510 people have been discharged after recovery, the bulletin said. The state’s recovery rate on Thursday was 74.91 per cent, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/5-more-die-of-covid-19-in-haryana-679-new-cases/story-0gr1TQ9b1rJcCMekFfVaSO.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to set up plasma bank, start rapid antigen testing in five districts||Even as the state authorities are prepared to launch rapid antigen testing in five of the worst-affected districts from Friday, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday gave the go-ahead for establishment of a plasma bank to facilitate Covid plasma therapy treatment. The treatment is already being carried out as an ICMR trial project in government hospitals.Chairing a video-conference review meeting on the Covid-19 situation, Amarinder approved the establishment of the plasma bank under the supervision and guidance of Dr Neelam Marwaha, former head of blood bank and transfusion medicine, who is already involved in and guiding the plasma therapy trials. The plasma bank would serve as a ready inventory source for seriously ill patients or those at risk of severe disease, and thus will enable a wider range of adults to be treated with convalescent plasma, according to an official release.In total, 15 patients have been recruited for the trial, of whom eight were given plasma and rest seven had been placed in control arm as per randomisation by the ICMR. Five patients have recovered completely and will be discharged soon.CM TO WRITE TO PARTY CHIEFS ON GATHERINGSExpressing concern over the increasing violations of safety norms in the state, many of them by political parties, the CM said he will write to the presidents of all the registered political parties to seek their cooperation in checking large gatherings. Director general of police Dinkar Gupta also said the police had registered cases against some of the political parties for violation of Covid safety norms and his department was also planning to write to all the parties not to indulge in such acts.SOPs TO BE ISSUED FOR GOVT OFFICERS’ MEETINGSPointing out that 258 cases, including 11 PCS officers, were reported on Wednesday, the CM stressed the need to raise the guard even further. He asked chief secretary Vini Mahajan to issue SOPs for government officers’ meetings, visit to other offices etc, making it clear that spread of infection among critical manpower due to casual attitude was not acceptable.Underlining the need for stricter enforcement of the safety rules, Amarinder directed the DGP not go soft on challans against violators. The meeting was informed that as many as 4,882 challans were issued on Wednesday alone, mostly for not wearing masks. The DGP said that in view of the increase in number of cases, directions for sample testing in prisons had been issued.He further revealed that the e-registration process that started from midnight on Monday for inbound travellers had already seen 31,959 registrations, of which 4,277 were from the hotspots, mainly Delhi.Adviser, health, medical education & research, Dr KK Talwar said Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mohali and Patiala districts were identified for the pilot rapid antigen testing. On finalisation of rates for private hospitals, he said two rounds of meetings had already been held with the hospitals and another was scheduled for Monday, after which the rates can be fixed.Principal secretary, medical education, DK Tiwari, in his presentation said the state’s mortality rate was currently 2.6% as against India’s 2.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-to-set-up-plasma-bank-start-rapid-antigen-testing-in-five-districts/story-UC2O3UAeSRYPQsltuGK9CI.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Beant Singh assassination: HC notice to Chandigarh Police on withdrawal of security to prime witness||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday put the Chandigarh Police on notice on a plea from Balwinder Singh, an eyewitness in the 1995 assassination of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh, alleging withdrawal of security cover.The high court bench of justice Raj Mohan Singh has sought a response by July 28. The petitioner had told the court that he was provided security cover after a review in February 2011. It comprised three personnel from Chandigarh Police and two from Punjab Police, along with escort of PCR motorcycle and round-the-clock PCR patrolling at his house. However, after he remained under 14-day quarantine due to Covid-19 in May, the security cover by Chandigarh Police was withdrawn. Now, onus had been put on the Punjab Police alone, even after completion of the quarantine period on May 14, he had submitted.Rather, the Chandigarh Police, in a May communication, stated that Mohali police should arrange the security as he lived in Nayagaon, he informed the court..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/beant-singh-assassination-hc-notice-to-chandigarh-police-on-withdrawal-of-security-to-prime-witness/story-4pdWBZWIbzavwYBLq4eeiL.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab crosses 7K-mark in 122 days, death toll reaches 183||With 197 fresh Covid-19 cases, Punjab on Thursday crossed 7,000-mark in 122 days. The state also reported five deaths, taking the toll to 183. The total case count in Punjab has reached 7,140, according to the media bulletin released by the state government. Payal SDM Mankanwal Singh Chahal has tested positive of Covid-19, while two patients, one from Sangrur and another from Ludhiana, succumbed to virus in Mohandai Oswal Hospital and Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) respectively, confirmed civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.The death toll in Amritsar due to Covid-19 reached 50 on Thursday as a 55-year-old man of Dilbagh Singh Nagar, succumbed to the disease at a local private hospital, health officials said.The district also reported 12 fresh cases of which 10 are new community transmission cases while the remaining two are close contacts of the Covid-19 patients. Also, five fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Gurdaspur district on Thursday. The total cases in Gurdaspur are 290, of which 49 are active Covid-19 patients isolated at hospitals.STEEPEST SINGLE-DAY SPIKE IN PATIALAIn its steepest single-day spike, Patiala district reported 45 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said of the total cases, 35 patients are from Patiala city itself, three from Samana, six from villages across the district and one from Rajpura.Twenty of the 45 people tested positive during contact tracing of coronavirus patients. Two of the positive patients are undertrials in jail, four are pregnant women, five are inter-state travellers and three are nursing staff members of the local Government Rajindra Hospital. With this, the district’s coronavirus case count has gone up to 484.The district recorded 230% jump in Covid cases in the past one month. On June 9, the district recorded 147 cases, while on July 9, the district tally rose to 484.After sanitary inspector of Patiala municipal corporation tested positive, the authorities have sealed corporation office till Monday. The authorities have decided to stop public entry into the corporation office from Monday onwards and set up a single-window system for public. Shopkeepers, including the Patiala Cloth Merchants’ Association and Behra Road Association have volunteered to keep their shops shut for three days.FEAR OF QUARANTINE MAKES VISITORS HIDE TRAVEL HISTORYThe civil surgeon said: “Inter-state travellers coming from Delhi and Haryana are turning out to be the main reason behind spike in Patiala district. People coming from these states are not informing health authorities about their visit. The fear of being quarantined makes visitors hide their travel details. Some turn violent and abuse health workers when they are identified.”In neighbouring Sangrur district, 14 people tested positive on Thursday, while a 59-year-old resident of Ahmedgarh town succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Ludhiana on Wednesday.Health department officials said the patient was suffering from fever, cough and breathlessness. With his death, the toll of Covid-19 patients from Sangrur district has reached 17.Dirba SDM Manjeet Singh Cheema also tested positive for Covid-19. The health department officials said that Cheema attended PCS executive meeting on Friday. JALANDHAR SSP, SDM AMONG 32 TEST POSITIVE Jalandhar SSP Navjot Singh Mahal and Shahkot, besides 30 more people tested positive for Covid-19. Besides, holding meeting with senior police officers, the SSP has attended a function in which commissioner of police, MLAs and some other senior officers took part. Seven persons tested positive in Bathinda, four in Kapurthala and three in Moga. Besides, a doctor posted at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, 11, including 8 BSF men in Ferozepur also tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-crosses-7k-mark-in-122-days-death-toll-reaches-183/story-yPnlqEMJVl6HNCIKdCUjaO.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Consider claim of 7 retd HFS officers for grant of IFS induction benefits: Tribunal||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has directed the Union government to consider the claim of seven retired Haryana Forest Services (HFS) officers for grant of benefit of induction into Indian Forest Services (IFS) against their relevant select lists. The applicants had sought directions to the Union government to consider their case for induction into IFS as per the selection lists of 2008-2009.“Applicant Balbir Singh joined Haryana forest department as forest ranger in 1982 and was inducted into HFS from January 12, 2001 and April 1, 2001 and confirmed as such with effect from November 1, 2008 and December 1, 2009,” it was mentioned. As per IFS Regulations, 1966, an SFS officer becomes eligible for induction into IFS against promotion quota after eight years of service. The applicants claimed that despite availability of vacancies and their eligibility, recruitment to IFS by way of promotion could not be finalised for the years 2008-2015 primary due to disputed seniority lists and court cases.It was following high court’s direction that seniority list was issued in 2015 and meeting of selection committee for induction of SFS officers into IFS was held in 2018 for years 2008-2015. By this time, the applicants had retired.However, the Haryana government proposed to the Union government that all 16 HFS officers, including applicants in selection lists of 2008 to 2015, may be appointed as IFS officers.The Union government issued notification in May 2020 appointing various persons as IFS officers, but applicants’ names were missing. Following this, they moved tribunal. The tribunal chaired by Sanjeev Kaushik and Ajanta Dayalan observed, “It is undisputed that state of Haryana has specifically recommended 16 HFS officers (including the applicants) may be induced to IFS. It is also not in dispute that at relevant point of time, the applicants were eligible, available and within the zone of considerations.”“The applicants cannot be made to suffer on the part of delay caused by the authorities...on the relevant date they were in employment and as such cannot be denied appointment to IFS,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/consider-claim-of-7-retd-hfs-officers-for-grant-of-ifs-induction-benefits-tribunal/story-ifHZhdI7xO4lqtpqwcT2mO.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana residents stage protest over contaminated water supply||Irked by contaminated water supply during the rainy season, the residents of ward number 91, Nidhan Singh Nagar, staged a protest against area councillor Gurpinder Kaur Sandhu and the municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday. The residents said that they have been facing trouble due to the problem for over three years, but the authorities have failed to find a concrete solution.Sunil Sondhi, a resident of the area, said, “The sewer lines get choked during the rainy season, following which the sewer water gets mixed in the water supply line. Complaints are made every season and the authorities clear the sewer lines as a temporary solution, but no concrete steps have been taken to avoid the problem.”However, councillor Sandhu said, “A complaint was received in the past, but the problem was resolved. No fresh complaint has been received from the area and if the residents are still facing a problem, I will get it resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-residents-stage-protest-over-contaminated-water-supply/story-suEVT6VIOCVtkm5WDTaROP.html
09-07-2020||City||Four booked for jumping home quarantine in Mohali||Police have booked four persons for jumping home quarantine, while 26 others have been issued warnings.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the FIRs were lodged under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269, 270 and 271 (acts likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.Dayalan said those under quarantine were tracked through the Cova App. “A warning is issued for the first offence, and repeating it invites an FIR,” he added.The DC exhorted residents to follow all safety protocols, as their support was essential to effectively combating the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-booked-for-jumping-home-quarantine-in-mohali/story-8LTrORfmpv9ncQa4bKHaMM.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||No eligible person to be devoid of pension: Punjab health minister||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that no needy person should be devoid of pension and all eligible people should be provided pensions at their doorsteps. Various public welfare camps were organised in 50 wards of Mohali wherein pension forms were filled and sanction letters were distributed among eligible persons.Sidhu was speaking at a camp held in front of Gurudwara Sri Kalgidhar Singh Sabha, Phase 4.The minister added that sanction letters concerning aged persons, widow/widower, disabled, and dependent children pensions were disbursed in the camps. The Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna cards were also distributed.The minister also visited the camps organised at Phase 2 and Madanpura Chowk and distributed the pension sanction letters. He said that as people are afraid to go to government offices owing to the pandemic, the government is organising camps to provide the facility at their doorsteps. The occasion also saw the distribution of sanction letters concerning the pensions sanctioned by the social security, women and child development department.The minister exhorted people to take precautionary measures such as wearing masks, washing hands as often as possible, and maintaining social distance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-eligible-person-to-be-devoid-of-pension-punjab-health-minister/story-6P9bFnauuXCjJWelkLdysN.html
09-07-2020||City||STF chief inspects demarcation process of Buddha Nullah; seeks report on scattered dairy, dyeing units||With Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) commencing the process to demarcate Buddha Nullah to remove encroachments, head of Special Task Force (STF) constituted to clean the nullah, Satguru Uday Singh inspected the ongoing work on Thursday. The residents have been demanding the removal of encroachments after the demarcation of Buddha Nullah for a long time, claiming that the width of the nullah has decreased due to encroachments. As a result, it overflows during monsoon and residents have to bear the brunt after sewer water enters their house.The STF chief also conducted a meeting with officials of different departments at Zone D office of the MC and directed the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) officials to conduct a final survey of dairy and dyeing units in the city including the scattered units, so that the government could take a final decision on how to deal with the pollution being created by these units. A meeting of the STF is expected to take place on July 20 in Chandigarh.Sources in the civic body said that the MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also slammed the PPCB officials for not being able to conduct a survey of scattered units till this time.On the demand of Punjab Dyers Associations, directions were also issued to the PPCB officials for taking action against the scattered dyeing units, if the owners fail to get these units attached with Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETP) and continue dumping untreated waste in the nullah. Ashok Makkar, Bobby Jindal and Vijay Mehtani represented the dyers in the meeting and said that the construction work of CETPs for units at Tajpur road and Focal point would be completed within three months.Sabharwal said, “The demarcation process has been commenced and officials of the irrigation and revenue department are also involved in the same. It will be completed in 15 days. After identifying the encroachments, notices would be issued and encroachments would be removed for beautification and widening of the nullah.”“When we visited Bhaimiyan village to inspect the demarcation process, I saw around a dozen dairy units dumping waste in the nullah in Bhamiyan village, but the PPCB officials have not planned to deal with the issue,” said Sabharwal.Spokesperson of Naamdhari sect, Sukhvinder Singh Lyall said, “Satguru Uday Singh has sought a final survey report on dairy and dyeing units in the city including the scattered units from PPCB within a week. The reports would be tabled in the next meeting of STF, which is also mulling shifting of dairy units outside the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stf-chief-inspects-demarcation-process-of-buddha-nullah-seeks-report-on-scattered-dairy-dyeing-units/story-UT3Oss29IX80XJTkNBrSpL.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Confusion over new Himachal BJP chief after Vijayvarigya’s congratulatory tweet||Rajya Sabha member Indu Goswami was mistaken to be Himachal’s new BJP chief after the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvarigya congratulated her for being appointed to the post on Twitter.“Congratulations and Best Wishes!!! Congratulations and best wishes to Indu Goswami for being appointed as Himachal BJP President,” Vijayvargiya wrote on his official twitter handle at 10:46pm on Wednesday.Since speculations were already rife that Goswami may be the new BJP chief of the state, people took Vijayvarigya’s tweet as confirmation.Goswami’s supporters, BJP workers and some lower rung leaders flooded her Facebook page with congratulatory messages.However, the state party executive denied having information about Goswami being appointed as the new state chief.Confusion prevailed for over 12 hours until Vijayvargiya deleted the tweet on Thursday afternoon and clarified that his team had tweeted the message by mistake on the basis information received from a news link.“My team wrongly tweeted about Indu Goswami being appointed as new Himachal BJP on the basis of a link. In fact, no one has been given the responsibility of the state yet. Error is regretted” he tweeted.He also tagged national president JP Nadda, union minister Anurag Singh Thakur and party general secretary Arun Singh in the tweet.SHIP WITHOUT CAPTAIN The Himachal BJP is without a captain since May 27 after then president Rajeev Bindal resigned after his name cropped up in a scam in the state health department.Bindal was appointed on January 18. Indu Gowami is a front-runner for the post given her organisational skills and her links in the power corridors in Delhi.Hailing from Baijnath in Kangra district, Indu Goswami started her career as a student leader. She worked with Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he was in-charge of party affairs in Himachal in late 90s.Goswami served as the chairperson of the Himachal Pradesh State Commission for Women from 1998 to 2000. She was the chief of state Bharatiya Janata Mahila Morcha from 2016 to 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/confusion-over-new-himachal-bjp-chief-after-vijayvarigya-s-congratulatory-tweet/story-zIPEsuDsosyxqFurXz8JSO.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||39 people test positive in Himachal, pushing Covid-19 count to 1,140||Thirty-nine people, including 29 workers of a textile company, tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday, taking the state’s Covid-19 tally to 1,140.Thirty-three cases were reported in Solan, three in Shimla, two in Una and one in Mandi.As per reports 29 workers of Sara Taxtile Ltd located in Nalagarh, an industrial area in Solan, tested positive.Earlier, one employee of the company had tested positive after which samples of his primary contacts were collected.Four more cases were reported from Arki and Jharmajri areas.THREE TEST POSITIVE IN ROHRUThree cases were reported from Rohru area of Shimla district.Rohru sub-divisional magistrate BR Sharma said, “Two of the patients had returned from Jammu and Kashmir. They had been institutionally quarantined at the Food and Civil Supply Corporation hut.” The third patient has a travel history to Delhi and was institutionally quarantined at the Public Works Department’s rest house.Two cases were reported in Una and one in Mandi.RECOVERY RATE 73%The recovery rate in Himachal Pradesh is around 73%. Till date 833 people have recovered and 283 cases remain active. The death rate is around 1% with nine casualties recorded so far.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 298 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 268 cases. Una district recorded 133 cases, Solan recorded 159 cases, Chamba 58 cases, Shimla 52 cases, Bilaspur 48 cases , Sirmaur 41 cases , Mandi 38 cases, Kinnaur 34 cases, Kullu seven cases and Lahaul-Spiti four cases.CHINESE TOURIST REACHES KANGRA, QUARANTINEDLocal authorities have quarantined a Chinese tourist who reached Kangra on Wednesday.Kangra superintendent of police Vimukt Ranjan said the tourist had all valid documents, including visa and passport. He, however, did not have a Covid-19 negative report nor any advance hotel booking as has been made mandatory by the state government for entering Himachal, said Ranjan.The SP said the tourist has been institutionally quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/39-people-test-positive-in-himachal-pushing-covid-19-count-to-1-140/story-9jG6schBJ4AGiLRXW3yO9N.html
09-07-2020||City||LIT removes encroachments in Model Town extension area||The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) razed encroachments from around 1.25 acres of land in the Model town extension (part 1) area on Thursday amid heavy rainfall.A heavy police force was deployed during the anti-encroachment drive to avoid any untoward incident. Last week, LIT executive engineer Jagdev Singh was manhandled when the trust made an attempt to raze the encroachments. The LIT officials also suspected that the encroachers might create a ruckus to avoid action. The drive continued till evening and the LIT officials postponed the drive to vacate another chunk of land (1800 yards) in the same area after the residents and local Congress leaders claimed that the residents have proof of ownership. The residents have been given time to present ownership documents, otherwise, encroachments would be removed.LIT chairman, Raman Balasubramaniam said, “The land has been encroached upon for over two decades and the shanties established at the site have been razed in a peaceful manner in presence of police force. Few residents claimed that they have ownership documents pertaining to a chunk of land and they have been given time to produce the documents, otherwise action would be taken against them.”The LIT had made an attempt to raze the encroachments last week, but a resident Ravinder Sonu manhandled executive engineer Jagdev Singh. The situation went out of control and LIT had to postpone the drive. The police had booked Sonu and raids were being conducted to nab the accused.Around 60 families left homelessThe drive conducted by the LIT left around 60 poor families homeless, which have been residing in the shanties for over two decades.The labourers said they have nowhere to go to amid the pandemic and their goods and furniture, kept in open, would also get damaged due to rainfall. One of the labourers, Rakesh said, “We are left homeless, and finding a place on rent amid the pandemic will prove to be a herculean task. We were living here for around 25 years.” The labourers rued that they cannot even move back to their hometowns and would be forced to sleep on roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lit-removes-encroachments-in-model-town-extension-area/story-ywGshemIewH7X3umxLetFI.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||33 Ludhiana students clear Punjab state talent search exam||Only 33 out of the total 2,739 students from the district, who appeared for the Punjab state talent search examination (PSTSE), were able to clear it. Of 33, 20 are girls.The result was declared by the State Council Educational Research and Training (SCERT) on their website ssa.org. punjab on Thursday.These students will get Rs 200 as stipend per month from Class 9 to 12.Ektapreet Kaur, a student of Shaheed-E-Azam Sukhdev Thapar Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar, scored 144 marks which is the highest in the district.Sindhu Kumari of Government High School, Pondari, scored 136 marks, while Gurbachan Singh of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Miller Ganj, secured 135 marks in the test. District topper Ektapreet Kaur, said, “I worked hard and my teachers also guided me which led me to score well in the exam. I have opted for non-medical stream in Class 11 and have taken admission in Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University.”Aiming to become an engineer, Kaur said, “I will save the scholarship amount to pursue higher studies after Class 12.”Her father, Gurpiar Singh, is a carpenter and mother, Simran Kaur, is a homemaker. Swaranjit Kaur, district education officer, secondary, Ludhiana, congratulated the students for clearing the exam and lauded the efforts made by the teachers and principals for motivating the students to appear in this scholarship exam.“This stipend will enable my students to continue with their studies in future,” she added. Three students of Shaheed-E-Azam Sukhdev Thapar Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar, and two students each of Government Senior Secondary School, Uksi; Government Senior Secondary Smart School, PAU; Government Senior Secondary School, Kundanpuri; and Government Model Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, cleared the exam. A total of 476 students from across the state cleared the exam which was conducted on February 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/33-ludhiana-students-clear-punjab-state-talent-search-exam/story-w2PXyEYZSxWGePWn6cOAUP.html
09-07-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh orders 2-day weekend lockdown from today evening||Uttar Pradesh on Thursday announced a complete shutdown for 2 days starting from Friday 10 pm till Monday 5 am as Covid cases in the state continue to rise. All offices, markets, urban and rural haats, grain markets, and commercial establishments will remain shut. During the lockdown period, the state will run a sanitisation and drinking water supply consolidation drive across Uttar Pradesh. Late Thursday evening, the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari issued an order that said, “Considering the current Covid-19 situation after a review that state government for containment of Covid-19 and some vector-borne diseases such as encephalitis, malaria, dengue, kala azar, the state government has imposed certain restrictions from 10 pm onwards from July 10 to 5 am on July 13.”Also read | On India being third worst-affected by Covid-19, Harsh Vardhan points to cases per millionListing the restrictions, the order said during the 2-day lockdown period, all offices, urban and rural haats, markets, grain markets, and commercial establishments etc will remain shut. All essential services such as health services, essential commodities supply will operate as before and there will be no restriction on movements of such people working in these places including corona warriors and door-step delivery persons.Railways will continue to operate the way it has been and the UP roadways would make arrangements to operate buses to ferry the passengers who arrive at the stations. However, barring these, UPSRTC buses would not operate anywhere in the state. Apart from this, the goods transport will have no restrictions and traffic will be allowed on the national and the state highways.Also read | WHO launches review of Covid-19 pandemic response after Trump criticismIn the order, the UP chief secretary also said the state would run an extensive sanitisation and drinking water supply consolidation drive and all the officers and employees related to the drive would be exempt from the restrictions. At the same time, the ongoing door-to-door Covid surveillance drive would continue unhindered and the industrial units in the rural areas and the continuous process establishments too would operate but with social distancing and associated Covid safety measures.“The office identity card would serve as Covid pass for those people who are exempted from the restrictions,” the order read.Also read | Is Covid-19 airborne? Indian experts react to latest finding, say there is no need to panicThe ongoing large-scale construction activities such as expressways, big bridges, road, PWD’s big projects, government buildings and private projects too would continue to function.The government has ordered all the district magistrates and police officers to ensure adequate surveillance and patrolling for adherence to the restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-orders-2-day-weekend-lockdown-from-tomorrow-evening/story-85qzm3lFAOW1k8uoPLBLYI.html
09-07-2020||City||Car driver fires in air after vendors open attack in Phase 7||Two roadside vendors were arrested for allegedly pelting a car with stones at the Phase 7/8 lightpoint in Mohali on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The car driver, Arun Chaudhary, told the police that he was forced to fire in air in self-defence.The two accused have been identified as Sunil and Kaka, both migrants.Mataur station house officer Rajeev Kumar said that Chaudhary, a resident of Sector 71, was returning home from Phase 8 when the incident took place. Two groups of vendors were having a brawl and when the complainant’s car reached the spot, they thought it was sent by their rivals, and started hurling stones. This prompted Chaudhary to open fire in the air following which they fled the spot. Chaudhary, who suffered minor injuries in the attack, was sent to the Phase 6 civil hospital for treatment.Police have recovered two cartridges from the spot.A case has been registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful retrain), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code at the Mataur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/car-driver-fires-in-air-after-vendors-open-attack-in-phase-7/story-6cGUWaFLO1zIxndpcTqNgI.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||16 Covid-19 cases crop up in nine sectors of Chandigarh||As many as 16 new Covid-19 cases surfaced in nine different areas of the city on Thursday, taking the tally to 523. Also, four nursing officers were quarantined at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research after they were exposed to a Covid-19 patient. The fresh cases were reported from Sectors 19, 27, 38, 40, 45, 51, 52, 55, besides Sector 13 (Manimajra).In Sector 19, a 45-year-old man tested positive for the virus. His wife, who works at Panjab University, has been quarantined and is being sampled, health officials said. Two men, aged 32 and 37, from Sectors 52 and 27, respectively, have been found infected, while in Sectors 40 and 51, two females, aged 11 and 80, respectively, have contracted the infection. In Sector 55, two men, aged 65 and 31 years, have picked the infection, while in Sector 38, four members of one family have been found positive. A 31-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman have also contracted the virus in Sector 45. Similarly, in Sector 13, an eight-month-old girl and two females, aged 32 and 17, have tested positive. They are family contacts of positive cases from the same building.In all these cases, around 20 contacts have been tested. The results are awaited.Of the 523 confirmed cases in Chandigarh, 403 have recovered and seven have succumbed to the virus, leaving 113 active cases.A PGIMER spokesperson said a 70-year-old Ropar man, who was admitted in Advanced Trauma Centre on July 6, was confirmed Covid positive on Thursday. On contact tracing and risk assessment, four nursing officers were quarantined, the spokesperson added.Mohali PCS officer positive: Sector 42 hotel sealedAfter a Mohali sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), along with several other PCS officers across Punjab, were found positive for Covid-19 over the past few days, authorities have sealed a hotel in Sector 42 where the officers attended a meeting on July 3. Four employees of the hotel have also been quarantined. Officials said around 35 persons were present during the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/16-cases-crop-up-in-nine-sectors-of-chandigarh/story-KeZxLoW0DmSYdhrkmob8PM.html
09-07-2020||City||Dinner with Tejashwi, tea with Manjhi, Cong sues for peace in GA||PATNA: The food was plain and simple and the talks too were straightforward. The ongoing rumblings in Grand Alliance (GA) in Bihar with regard to seat sharing and other related issues brought the two main parties of the alliance, the RJD and the Congress, on the dinner table on Wednesday night, but it failed to break much ice.The Congress team comprised AICC in-charge for Bihar, Shaktisinh Gohil, BPCC president Madan Mohan Jha, Rajya Sabha MP Akhilesh Prasad Singh and Congress Legislature party leader Sadanand Singh while RJD was represented by leader of opposition in Bihar assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and former CM Rabri Devi.The “dinner diplomacy”, which continued well past 10 pm on Wednesday, veered around talks related to seat-sharing and role of smaller parties in the alliance.Sources in the Congress said that though the talks were held in cordial atmosphere, the RJD has been communicated that the oldest party of India would “not accept anything less than an honourable settlement.”“We are not prepared to be meted out with old treatment,” said a Congress leader, wishing not to be quoted.A senior Congress leader said that party wanted to contest at least two seats every district, which puts the total seats to 76. “The JD(U) had contested on 100 seats when it was part of the Grand Alliance, so we would definitely like to get a majority share of its seats, plus would like to retain our winning seats,” said a party leader.The Congress had contested on 41 seats in 2015 and won 21, with a vote share of 6.7%, while the RJD had contested on 101 seats and won 80 seats with a vote share of 16.8%.The Congress delegation also tried to convince the RJD leaders to “respect and take along other alliance partners together.”Congress leaders, in a bid to prevent desertion from alliance, also held a meeting with HAM-S president Jitan Ram Manjhi on Thursday evening and tried to convince him not to take “any drastic step.”Sources said Manjhi was informed by the Congress leaders about the concerns of smaller parties to the RJD, which has assured to look into their grievances. If sources are to be believed, Manjhi also told the Congress about the “immature” behaviour of leader of opposition. The meeting with Manjhi lasted more than an hour.Manjhi’s party, which contested the Lok Sabha elections as part of the Grand Alliance, had demanded a discussion on the forthcoming polls on issues of seat adjustment, candidates, etc. It had also demanded immediate need for a co-ordination committee in the GA by June 25.Senior BJP leader and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi took a dig over internal rumblings in GA. “The number one party of GA (RJD) has rejected demands of co-ordination committee, and has even ignored senior Dalit leader’s ultimatum. The number two party has virtually become spineless, while other parties are like slaves,” said Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dinner-with-tejashwi-tea-with-manjhi-cong-sues-for-peace-in-ga/story-yMsUbed2PVNJrUoElECJcN.html
09-07-2020||City||94 stranded Indians, 77 Pak nationals return home via Attari-Wagah border||As many as 94 Indians and 77 Pak nationals, who were stranded in Pakistan and India, respectively, have returned to their native countries via the Attari-Wagah border on Thursday.On July 2, Pakistan’s interior ministry wrote to the director general of Pakistan Rangers informing him about the repatriation of 114 stranded Indians on July 9. On July 6, the Indian ministry of external affairs facilitated the movement of 82 Pak nationals through Wagah on July 9 on request of the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi.Those who could not return due to certain reasons will get the permission once again in the coming days.“On Thursday, of 114 Indians, 94 returned. Similarly, of 82 Pak nationals, 77 could return,” said Shiv Raj Singh Bal, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM-2).PAK NATIONAL’S BODY HANDED OVER TO THE RANGERSThe BSF personnel handed over the body of a Pak national, who had died in Amritsar Central Jail to the Pakistan Rangers.Jail superintendent Arshdeep singh Gill said deceased Khadim was arrested in 2018 for illegally crossing the border. The prisoner had been suffering from TB and died on June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/94-stranded-indians-77-pak-nationals-return-home-via-attari-wagah-border/story-lTGzQgDG09ZItKVTpwMpOM.html
09-07-2020||City||Businesswoman duped of Rs 14.49 lakh in KYC fraud||PUNE A 38-year-old woman from Kothrud has been duped of Rs 14.49 lakh in a KYC (know your customer) fraud.According to police, the complainant owns a business in the city.“The complainant received a call on her mobile number in the first week of June. The caller claimed to be an official from the bank. The caller then said that the complainant’s KYC needed to be updated,” said police inspector Vijaykumar Shinde of the cyber police station who is investigating the case.“She received a call saying her KYC needs to be updated and then the money was transferred,” said PI Shinde.In order to do so, the caller asked for the complainant’s bank account details. Later, an amount of Rs 14,49,443 was transferred from the complainant’s account.A case under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Cyber police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/businesswoman-duped-of-rs-14-49-lakh-in-kyc-fraud/story-C0EIrEtdRPNk94ujwAoiyL.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two cases of theft reported in Chandigarh||Two cases of theft were reported in the city in the past 24 hours.Munish Mittal of Sector 17, Panchkula, reported that an air-conditioner was stolen from his store, Mittal Cera Sanitaryware, in Manimajra. A case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Manimajra police station. In another complaint, Vikram Sharma of Dadumajra Colony, Chandigarh, reported that somebody stole his HP printer, his Maruti Alto car’s battery and also broke the car’s side-view mirror while it was parked in front of his house on Tuesday night. A case under Sections 379 and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC was registered at the Maloya police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-cases-of-theft-reported-in-chandigarh/story-aIaJxpDDYVn10RzdAjoO2I.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four Bawaria gang members nabbed in Chandigarh, four snatching cases solved||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police claim to have solved four cases of gold chain snatching with the arrest of four members of Bawaria gang.Police have also recovered two stolen motorcycles from the accused, identified as Ajay Kumar, 29, of Ludhiana, and Rajiv, alias Raju, 32, Anil, 28, and Hari Parkash, 31, all three hailing from Shamli, Uttar Pradesh.They were previously booked in four snatching cases registered at the police stations in Sector 31, Sector 11, Sector 39 and Manimajra.They were arrested on a tip-off about members of a gang involved in about a dozen snatchings in Delhi having shifted to Chandigarh since the Covid-19 lockdown was relaxed.Police first arrested Anil and Hari Parkash from near Shiv Mandir, Phase 2, Ram Darbar. They revealed that their two accomplices were also in city, and using a stolen motorcycle with a fake number plate.During checking of vehicles near the Under Bridge in Sector 11, Ajay Kumar and Rajiv were also apprehended while crossing the area on a motorcycle bearing a Haryana registration number.On the verification, it was found that the motorcycle was stolen in Delhi on June 26. Police said all accused were unemployed and school dropouts. While Anil and Hari Prasad studied till Class 8, Ajay and Rajiv had left school after Class 5.They were produced before a court that sent them to four-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-bawaria-gang-members-nabbed-in-chandigarh-four-snatching-cases-solved/story-a690iw3IIqOs6pIb9cUinO.html
09-07-2020||Kolkata||Bengal registers highest single-day spike with over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases||West Bengal registered 1,088 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, making it the highest single-day spike recorded in the state till date. The state also registered 27 deaths, which is the highest single-day spike in death toll. The number of Covid cases in West Bengal has been hitting new highs over the past few days. The previous high of 986 was recorded on Wednesday.With Thursday’s spike, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has shot up to 25,911 out of which 8,231 were active cases. The total death toll in the state now stands at 854.Kolkata recorded 322 cases on Thursday taking the total number of cases in the city to 8,368.The state administration has enforced strict lockdown in 25 containment zones across the city. In the three adjoining districts of South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas and Howrah the government has identified more than 200 containment zones where lockdown would be enforced from Thursday 5 pm.Kolkata along with the three adjoining districts accounts for 70% of the cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-registers-highest-single-day-spike-with-over-1-000-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-MREmbJ1hUAa9dMsp8JRNBJ.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH’s new emergency-cum-trauma centre expected to come up by February 2022||Work on the long-pending new emergency-cum-trauma centre at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, has picked up speed, with the UT engineering department recently floating the tender for construction. After selection of a private firm for the project, the allotment of work is scheduled to be done by July 20. UT administration has set a deadline of 18-months from allotment of work till completion. If work proceeds as planned, the building may be ready by February 2022.The 280-bed facility, spread over 1.4 lakh square feet, will come up in place of the covered parking block in front of Block-A.The UT administration in November last year had approved Rs 52 crore for the project. In addition to the construction costs, the allocated funds include cost of new medical machines.“The engineering department, in the tender floated recently, has invited private firms to complete works worth Rs 36.93 crore, which include Rs 33.59-crore civil works, Rs 1.22-crore public health works and Rs 2.11-crore electrical works,” said a senior UT official.The creation of the new facilities will be a major upgrade for GMCH, an exercise pending for at least a decade. Earlier, there was a plan to make a separate trauma centre in Sector 53.However, it was dropped after it was suggested that a standalone trauma centre was not possible. Thus, a composite facility comprising emergency and trauma centre were finalised.Since its inception in 1996-97, GMCH-32 has been catering to patients from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and other even farther states. At any given point, there are at least 350 patients admitted in the emergency.FACILITIES PLANNEDThe new building will have five operation theatres (OT) and one minor OT. A 24-bed state-of-the-art intensive care unit (ICU), a 64-bed ward for stable patients, two isolation wards with 33 beds and a 47-bed ambulatory care ward are also part of the plan. There will also be space for around 400 attendants of patients at two levels.Around 87,000 square feet will be devoted to the operational part, while there will also be a two-level basement of around 55,000 square feet.The facility will have space for wheelchairs, stretchers, ambulances, entrance-exit, waiting area, medical officer/duty doctor/nurse rooms, medicine store, mortuary, laboratory, X-ray room, plaster room, ramps and lifts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmch-s-new-emergency-cum-trauma-centre-expected-to-come-up-by-february-2022/story-spEOw9PPR5N8PluHJ99ZrN.html
09-07-2020||City||Applicants have to wait 2 months to get driving licence in Jalandhar||People applying for licence at Jalandhar transport office will have to wait for at least two months before they can apply online as no slots are available till September.Before lockdown, a learner’s licence applicant had to apply for appointment. Others did not require an advance appointment. But now, the authorities have made appointments mandatory to apply for learner’s, permanent or renewal of licence.The transport department had fixed a limit of 40 appointments for permanent licence and 30 for learner’s from the previous 130 per day, said an official.“Recently, the department had claimed to provide licences to applicants on the same day in Jalandhar. However, now the applicants are not even getting appointments. Whenever, a person opens the website all driving test slots are booked,” said Amarjot Singh, a Jalandhar resident, who is not getting an appointment since June 1.As per the revised norms, each applicant has to book a slot online to appear for the mandatory written test, driving test for permanent licence or renewal after which he/she is given a learner’s licence by the district transport office.Jalandhar track in-charge Maninder Singh said the sudden spike in applicants has led to a wait period of two months for securing appointment. RTA secretary Brajinder Singh could not be reached for a comment as he is under self-quarantine after attending a meeting in Chandigarh recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/applicants-have-to-wait-2-months-to-get-driving-licence-in-jalandhar/story-h7JEX3izeT6W5A5jqENlGN.html
09-07-2020||Noida||3 inmates of Noida, Ghaziabad jails test positive for Covid-19||Three inmates of prisons in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad have contracted Covid-19 and are undergoing treatment, officials said on Thursday.Of the three prisoners, two are inmates of Dasna jail in Ghaziabad and one of Luksar jail in Gautam Buddh Nagar, a senior official said.While one of the prisoners tested positive for the viral infection on Wednesday, the other two were found to have contracted the disease earlier this week, he said.Vipin Mishra, the superintendent of both Dasna and Luksar prisons, told PTI: “On Wednesday, we got Covid-19 test reports of 148 inmates from Gautam Buddh Nagar and all of them were negative. There were 76 samples from Ghaziabad and one of them was positive.” There were two more instances of the coronavirus infection from prisons of the adjoining districts in western Uttar Pradesh, but those inmates have now recovered and returned to the jails, he said.Prison authorities have stepped up precautionary measures and introduced quarantine system for new prisoners, and started offering inmates ‘kaadha’ -- a traditional concoction of herbs and spices -- to boost their immunity and check the spread of the infection.“Screening is done regularly and any inmate with symptoms like cough or fever is isolated. They are also offered ‘kaadha’. New prisoners are kept in temporary jail in quarantine for 14 days unless they test Covid-19 negative,” Mishra said.Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad are two of the districts worst-hit in Uttar Pradesh by the pandemic. The two districts, adjoining Delhi, together have nearly 2,500 active cases of Covid-19 and recorded 93 deaths, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/3-inmates-of-noida-ghaziabad-jails-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-oO3KzpD0PGWywY3wSF4wdL.html
09-07-2020||City||Introduce vehicle scrappage policy to boost automobile sector: CICU urges Centre||The automobile industry which is reeling under massive sales downturn has urged the Centre to introduce vehicle scrappage policy in order to boost the sector. In a letter sent to the Prime Minister’s office, the industrialists stated that the policy will not only help owners to get an incentive for old polluting vehicles with low value but will also boost the automobile sector which is facing a crisis due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. President of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU) Upkar Singh Ahuja and general secretary Pankaj Ahuja said, “The announcement of the policy is hanging fire for a long time and if introduced, it would bring some relief to the automobile sector which is reeling under slowdown.”CICU organising secretary, JS Bhogal said, “The vehicle scrappage policy would reduce old polluting vehicles on roads. With the resale value of vehicles beyond 15 years being extremely low, these vehicles can be sent to scrap yards with some sort of monetary compensation to owners which could ensure two benefits - an incentive for owners to get rid of such vehicles and putting these polluting vehicles out to save the environment.”Further reusing/recycling of scrap material like steel and aluminium can be used for manufacturing new vehicles. The scrap can also be made available to the steel industry, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/introduce-vehicle-scrappage-policy-to-boost-automobile-sector-cicu-urges-centre/story-8V0XTcpkmk5nLtDvtijJvJ.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Graft case: Suspended cop Jaswinder Kaur files anticipatory bail plea, says she was framed||Filing an anticipatory bail plea in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) special court on Thursday, graft accused, suspended inspector Jaswinder Kaur, 40, said that she was framed at the “whims” of some police officials who were opposing her as she was not part of any “lobby”.Jaswinder had been booked along with an alleged conduit, Bhagwan Singh, under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and Section 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, on June 29 on charges of seeking Rs 5 lakh bribe from a Manimjra resident, Gurdeep Singh. Gurdeep had told the CBI that he had already paid Rs 2 lakh to Jaswinder for not lodging a cheating case against him and was to pay Rs 3 lakh more.In her application, the suspended cop stated that when she was posted as the station house officer (SHO) of Manimajra, a complaint was received against Gurdeep and his wife that they had allegedly duped one Randhir Singh of Rs 30 lakh on the pretext of a government job. She said that on June 21, a compromise was brokered between them by Bhagwan Singh and the money was part of the compromise between the two parties.In her application she said there was no proof of any demand of bribe. “The CBI has registered an FIR on distorted facts. Even the 14-page long recorded conversation between Gurdeep Singh and Bhagwan Singh, has no mention of the bribe,” the application stated.She stated that Gurdeep is a man with a “chequered past” and is an accused in a job- for-money scam. “He is facing trial and Randhir Singh is the witness against Gurdeep in the case,” the cop stated in her application, adding that Gurdeep was even interrogated with regard to his role in the JBT scam at Chandigarh.In her plea, Jaswinder said that she apprehends arrest “because of the mounting pressure and media reports”.The court has asked the CBI to revert by Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/graft-case-suspended-cop-jaswinder-kaur-files-anticipatory-bail-plea-says-she-was-framed/story-WyK27uXqlYIrzAq28QFEZN.html
09-07-2020||City||Tenders for dairy products to Pune firm as per rules: SGPC||AMRITSAR A day after Punjab cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa wrote to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), requesting it to review its decision of procuring desi ghee and skimmed milk powder for gurdwaras from a Pune-based firm and not Milkfed (Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers Federation Limited), the gurdwara body on Thursday said the tenders had been awarded as per rules and any controversy on the issue is uncalled for.SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta and other office-bearers said the sangat (community) was being misled over it. “The SGPC invites bids through advertisements in newspapers and the firm with the lowest bid is selected,” he said.“SGPC invited bids on June 26 for supply of desi ghee and skimmed milk powder from July 1 to September 30 for Golden Temple langar (community kitchen) and other gurdwaras under it. Pune-based firm Sonai Cooperative Society quoted ₹315 per kg (desi ghee) and ₹225 per kg (milk powder). Milkfed quoted ₹399 per kg and ₹250 per kg, respectively,” the SGPC office-bearers said.Mehta said, “Had we allotted the tender to Milkfed, the SGPC exchequer would have spent ₹5.2 crore extra in three months.”He also said, “Tender allotted to Milkfed for the supply of Verka fresh milk at ₹38 per litre expired on March 31. Due to the lockdown, we asked the Milkfed to continue the supply of milk at the same rate. However, they jacked up the rate to ₹42 per litre even as milk prices came down.”The SGPC office-bearers said they received 41kg less desi ghee in 37 tins a few months back and when the matter was brought to the notice of the Milkfed managing director, he termed it a technical fault. “Randhawa should remove the shortcomings in his department, instead of targeting the SGPC,” Mehta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tenders-for-dairy-products-to-pune-firm-as-per-rules-sgpc/story-aMYx4u9LmOYlTxgeSYrmuN.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Jai Ram inaugurates Rs 44-crore projects in Shimla rural constituency||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of projects amounting to Rs 44 crore in the Shimla (rural) constituency (LAC) through video-conference. He inaugurated the Rs 17.49-crore Government Degree College, Dhami; Rs 1.11-crore additional building of Government Senior Secondary School, Rampuri Keonthal; Rs 2.95-crore building of Government Senior Secondary School, Oukharu; and the Rs 1.58-crore Government Senior Secondary School, Ougali. “The development projects dedicated to the area are a befitting reply to those who allege the area is being discriminated against,” he said, adding that the projects will be completed within the stipulated time period.“The Shaili Mata Temple will help boost tourism,” he said. Thakur laid the foundation stones of the Rs 4.17-crore Gharog-Nalta link road, Rs 5.41-crore Baag-Kyalu link road and Rs 1.90 crore Shaltu (Nehra)-Dargot Primary School that will be constructed under NABARD. He also laid the foundation stones for the upgradation and metalling of the Baag-Kangari (Gharatnala) link road, which will cost of Rs. 4.83 crore and upgradation and metalling of Basantpur-Naltu link road that will cost Rs 4.10 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana.The CM said developmental projects worth around Rs 41 crore were being executed in Shimla (rural) LAC during the present tenure of the state government. He said the SDM office and block medical office was also opened in Sunni whereas a mini secretariat was being constructed at Dhami, which will cost Rs 6.66 crore. He said the ITI buildings were constructed at Dhargi and Sunni by spending Rs 5.45 crore and Rs 5.14 crore, respectively.Thakur said that to solve the drinking water problem of the area work on the Rs 15.74-crore Garog-Ghandal water supply scheme from Sainj khad was in progress. He said the building of the Government Senior Secondary School, Shoghi, has been constructed for Rs 8.79 crore whereas the bus stand at Sunni has been completed at a cost of Rs 8.53 crore.Thakur said the government will ensure adequate availability of staff in health and educational institutions in Seraj constituency of Mandi.Interacting with people of Balichowki, Seraj, the CM directed officers to ensure time-bound completion of ongoing developmental projects in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jai-ram-inaugurates-rs-44-crore-projects-in-shimla-rural-constituency/story-5xOqC5aPm3EqH2TuAVb7BO.html
09-07-2020||Lucknow||I found out about his arrest through television: Vikas Dubey’s mother||Sarla Devi, mother of Vikas Dubey, the main accused in the murder of eight policemen in Kanpur, on Thursday, said that she found out about his arrest through the television.“The kids were watching TV and I overheard his name and found out that he had been arrested,” Sarla Devi told ANI.She also said that his in-laws are in Madhya Pradesh and added, “He visits the Mahakal Temple every year. Lord Mahakal has saved his life.”When asked if she had an appeal for the authorities on what to do with Dubey, Sarla Devi said, “It doesn’t matter what I say, the government is going to do what is appropriate.”Kanpur encounter main accused Vikas Dubey was arrested in Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh earlier today.Bahua Dubey and Prabhat Mishra, close aides of Dubey, were killed in separate encounters in Etawah and Kanpur respectively. Shyamu Bajpai, also an aide to Dubey, was arrested by Chaubeypur police following an encounter on Wednesday. He carried a reward of Rs 25,000.Uttar Pradesh’s Special Task Force (STF) had gunned down Vikas Dubey’s close aide Amar Dubey in Hamirpur district, earlier on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/i-found-out-about-his-arrest-through-television-vikas-dubey-s-mother/story-m8zOBclTIsTr7RorIH3mKP.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Patiala leads door-to-door Covid-19 survey, Amritsar, Ludhiana lag behind||Despite being one of the worst hit districts, Amritsar and Ludhiana are lagging behind in the door-to-door Covid-19 survey while Patiala has made the most progress in the state.As per the state health department, Patiala had surveyed 6,25,930 people till July 6 while Ludhiana had reached out to 3,90,864 people and Amritsar had examined 3,87,984 people.Jalandhar has surveyed 2,07,097 people while Sangrur has examined 4,50,314 patients.LIMITED RESOURCESDespite limited resources and only 1,321 ASHA, anganwadi workers and volunteers Patiala has managed to make the most headway.In comparison, Ludhiana has 1,697 workers and Amritsar has 1,513 workers.Under the directions of Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra, ASHA and anganwadi workers and volunteers have reached out to 6,25,930 persons in just 25 days as house-to-house survey began in Punjab on June 11.As per the health department, Ludhiana district had recorded 1,182 Covid-19 positive patients, Amritsar 976, Jalandhar 941, Sangrur 588 and Patiala 440 till July 7.CIVIL SURGEON LEADS FROM THE FRONT Dr Malhotra says, “I am personally involved in conducting and monitoring the survey.”“The survey will help us contain further spread of Covid-19 and provide treatment to people. We are also collecting data about TB, diabetic and patients of hypotension.”State Covid-19 nodel officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “We have fixed July 20 to complete the house-to-house survey and directed all district to survey each person in their respective districts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patiala-leads-door-to-door-covid-19-survey-amritsar-ludhiana-lag-behind/story-LqWyqt6PwHBnvvCS9L3eyI.html
09-07-2020||City||Heavy rain lashes Himachal, more likely for next three days||Heavy rainfall lashed isolated places of Himachal Pradesh and light to moderate rain was witnessed in other parts of the state on Thursday. The state meteorological department has issued a yellow weather warning for middle hills for July 10 and for lower and middle hills of the state for July 11 and 12. State MeT director Manmohan Singh said due to a fresh western disturbance, rainfall is very likely to continue throughout the state till July 15.Shimla district’s Jubbar Hatti recorded 40.0 mm rain followed by Nadaun in Hamirpur district and Una which witnessed 18.0mm rain. Besides, Manali received 17.0mm rain, Sujanpur Tira 16.0mm and Shimla received 8.9mm rain.Minimum temperatures were normal in the state while maximum temperatures were three to four degrees below normal. Maximum temperature in Shimla was 25.7°C and 15.8°C in Kufri. Manali recorded 20.0°C maximum temperature and Dalhousie in Chamba district 21.9°C. Maximum temperature in Dharamshala was 30.8°C, Solan 31.0°C, Bilaspur 33.5°C, Hamirpur 33.2°C and Nahan 29.1°C.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded 26.0°C maximum temperature.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest at 10.6°C while Una was the hottest place at 34.8°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rain-lashes-himachal-more-likely-for-next-three-days/story-27MZYA47GpvjvBLPXzG45J.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Youth Akali Dal leader holds fuel langar to protest price hike||Two days after several leaders of his party were booked for violating social distancing norms across Punjab while demonstrating against the recent fuel price hike, Ludhiana district Youth Akali Dal (YAD) president Gurdeep Singh Gosha came up with a rather innovative way to register his protest, by offering langar (free supply) of petrol and diesel to commuters.Gosha said he along with social activist Bittu Gumber and their supporters distributed slips of one litre petrol and diesel among people visiting the fuel station near the railway station. “We distributed 513 litres of petrol and diesel to commuters,” he said, adding both the central and state governments should reduce the tax on fuel to provide respite to residents during the Covid-19 pandemic.“Our faith teaches us to help the humanity in the time of crisis. The langar of diesel and petrol was a symbolic protest to wake the state government up from its slumber and think about the plight of the farmers and middle class,” Gosha said.SAYS NO PERMISSION NEEDED FOR CHARITYAsked if he had taken the permission from authorities to hold the langar, he said, “No one needs permission to do charity. I have been doing langar sewa for four months.”Station house officer (SHO) of Division No 1 police station Harjit Singh said that no permission was sought to hold the event. He said that Gosha has been asked to report at the police station.Gumber, who helped in the distribution of fuel slips, said, “We have been distributing ration for four months and today we distributed fuel for free to register our protest. We appeal to the government to bring down taxes on fuel and help check the rising prices.”COMMUTERS MAKE MOST OF THE OFFERPardeep Kumar, an autorickshaw driver from Salem Tabri area, said that the pandemic led to a drop in the number of passengers but now he is also struggling to make ends meet due to the fuel price hike. “I saw Gosha and his supporters offering slips of one litre of diesel for free. I did not waste time and took the slip to save Rs 70 on diesel,” he said.Ankur Sood, a commuter, said, “I came on a motorcycle to fill petrol when I saw the langar. It was a golden opportunity but the government should cut the fuel prices.”Gosha had earlier organised a langar of milk in front of liquor vends to register his protest against the state government for allowing liquor shops to operate during the Covid-19 curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-youth-akali-dal-leader-holds-fuel-langar-to-protest-price-hike/story-QG75I6wiKoGpzwntqTVCUO.html
09-07-2020||Lucknow||Right now Vikas Dubey is in SP, says mother; party denies claim||Gangster Vikas Dubey’s mother Sarla Devi on Thursday said that her son, arrested for the Kanpur ambush, is with the SP, a claim denied by the party. Dubey was arrested in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain on Thursday after a six-day manhunt following the Kanpur ambush in which eight policemen were gunned down.Earlier, in a 2017 video seen on social media, the gangster is heard claiming that two BJP MLAs helped him in the past. On being asked what should be done by the government after her son’s arrest, Sarla Devi said, “The government should do whatever it feels appropriate (sarkar jo uchit samjhe, woh kare).” “At this time, he is not in the BJP, he is with the SP,” she told reporters. Meanwhile, an SP spokesman said Vikas is “not a member of the party” and strict action should be taken against him. His call record details should be made public as demanded by party president Akhilesh Yadav to expose his links, added the party spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/right-now-vikas-dubey-is-in-sp-says-mother-party-denies-claim/story-YZrfWvQs52vLPHgVNJABxK.html
09-07-2020||Pune||Pune collector bans pvt diagnostic lab from conducting tests after discrepancies||Naval Kishore Ram, Pune district collector, on Wednesday, banned Thyrocare, a private diagnostic laboratory, from conducting Covid-19 tests after a series of complaints about “serious discrepancies” and a delay in reports.“I have received many complaints regarding Thyrocare. It is a private lab which is conducting the Covid-19 diagnostic tests and it has shown many negative cases as positive. After we rechecked the reports with the National Institute of Virology (NIV), we found the reports to be negative,” said Ram, who issued an order late on Wednesday. “We have not received any notice or any intimation so far so. We need to first understand what exactly is the issue and then only, can we comment on this. We will find out,” said Chandrashekhar Mani, vice-president (Operations) of Thyrocare.The action against laboratory came after Ram, during his visit to Gujar-Nimbalkarwadi on Wednesday, found that Thyrocare did not share the swab test reports of the 62-year-old woman who died on Monday, as her relatives struggled to find an ICU bed for her.The lab also did not share the woman’s swab test report with her family till the end. Earlier in Mumbai, Thyrocare was served a notice by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation for delays in submitting reports.According to the district collector, most complaints against the laboratory have come from Haveli taluka. In some cases, the administration found the report to be “false positives,” said Ram.Besides Thyrocare, there are eight private laboratories and seven government institutes allowed to conduct the Covid-19 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-collector-bans-pvt-diagnostic-lab-from-conducting-tests-after-discrepancies/story-EE8IscN51xPDpY2JgA9cgI.html
09-07-2020||Patna||749 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Bihar; Patna, other districts announce lockdown||Rattled by the biggest single-day spurt yet in Covid-19 cases, Bihar on Wednesday announced fresh lockdown in several regions, including the worst-hit Patna district, that will come into force later this week. Other districts which will go into varying degrees of lockdown are Nawada, West Champaran, East Champaran and Bhagalpur. According to the state health department’s update of the day, 749 people tested positive for the coronavirus in 24 hours, raising the tally to 13,274, while the death toll also touched the three-digit-mark with two fresh casualties.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage One death each was reported from Araria and Bhagalpur districts though details like age, sex, co-morbidities and the time of death of the patients were not known immediately. More than a quarter of the fresh cases were from Patna district alone, which saw its tally rise over the previous day by 235 to 1,351. The district also accounts for 12 casualties so far, the highest number for any district, while the number of active cases stands at an alarming 698. Invoking powers granted under the Bihar Epidemic Disease Covid 19 Regulation, 2020, Patna District Collector-cum-Chairman, district disaster management authority, Kumar Ravi ordered a lockdown from July 10 to July 16 in the entire Patna district. As part of the containment measures, all government and private offices, except those involved in essential services like electricity, water, sanitation, banks, ATMs, telecommunications and petrol pumps shall remain closed for the seven-day period. The notification issued to this effect also made it clear that “all places of worship shall be closed for public” and “no religious congregations will be permitted, without any exception”. Medical establishments, both government and private, and shops dealing in essential items like dairy products, grocery, fruits, vegetables, meat, fish etc. will be allowed to do business during stipulated hours. In Bhagalpur, the second worst- affected district with a tally of 693, including 215 active cases, and six casualties, the restrictions will come into force from Thursday and continue till July 13. Although the notification issued by the Bhagalpur administration did not use the term “lockdown”, the restrictions, imposed under the Regulation, were tantamount to the same. In Nawada, Additional District Collector Om Prakash announced at a press conference that a three-day lockdown will be in force from July 10-12 in view of the worsening situation. Lockdown in West Champaran district will begin on Thursday and continue for a week, while in East Champaran it will come into force on July 10 and remain in place till July 14. In a statement, Anupam Kumar, the states secretary for Information and Public Relations Department, said that “at a meeting of crisis management group headed by the Chief Secretary, Deepak Kumar, it was decided that all District Magistrates shall be empowered to take measures for preventing the spread of Covid 19”. He also said that the DMs have also been authorized to grant a Covid 19 patient the option of “home isolation” instead of institutional quarantine, provided he or she has the necessary resources. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said the state at present has 3,632 active cases, while 9,541 patients have been discharged, till date, upon full recovery. He also underscored the fact that the states recovery rate, 71.88 per cent, was higher than the national average and better than that of most states. The number of samples tested so far is 2.75 lakh, while 6,277 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. On Tuesday, opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav had alleged that the Nitish Kumar government had deliberately kept the number of testing low so that the extent of spread of the contagion in the densely populated Bihar was not known to the people. Welcoming the “proactive measures” by districts, JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad and BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand flayed the RJD leader for his “irresponsible comment”. Meanwhile, a niece of the chief minister, who had been staying at his official residence here, has now tested negative for the virus, an official statement said. She was taken to the isolation ward of a hospital on Monday after found positive. In accordance with the medical advise, she will stay in home quarantine, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/749-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-bihar-patna-other-districts-announce-lockdown/story-0knYasWNEZuJF6YVyfXc2I.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal government in no hurry to open temple doors||Though Himachal has opened its borders to tourists, the state government is not in favour of opening its temples, which have been closed since March due to the pandemic, just yet.Education minister Suresh Bhardwaj said, “The state government is in no hurry to open temples. The shrines in Himachal draw hoards of devotees and as such maintaining social distancing will be a tough task.” “The pious month of ‘sawana’ has begun but people are advised to pray at home. Only priests will be allowed to perform a daily puja at temples and entry of common people will remain barred,” he said. “Temples will be opened once the situation prevailing due to Covid-19 is under control,” he said.Meanwhile, additional chief secretary language art and culture RD Dhiman said the government also consulted deputy commissioners of districts and they were against opening its doors.The monsoon season sees increased religious activities in the form of fairs, festivals and pilgrimages.Kullu district authorities have already cancelled the yatra to the 18, 000-feet high Shrikhand Mahadev peak in Nirmand area of Kullu district in the wake of Covid-19.The yatra is held from July 15 to July 30 every year. Hundreds of pilgrims undertake the pilgrimage that involves a 32-km long tough trek, passing through dense forests, glaciers and deep gorges. Similarly, Kinnaur district authorities have a Kinner Kailiash pilgrimage that is held from August 1 to 11 ever year.Last year, the yatra was cancelled due to inclement weather. Doubts also hang over the Minjar fair and Manimahesh Yatra of Chamba district.Minjar fair is held last week of July and ends in August while Manimhesh Yatra starts late in August and ends in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-government-in-no-hurry-to-open-temple-doors/story-fMW6xpgJeZv6Ytw8LthY1J.html
09-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka HC stays state government’s order banning online classes by schools||The Karnataka High Court has stayed the Karnataka government’s order banning conduct of online classes by schools stating that banning it encroaches upon the Fundamental Right to Life and Education. The State government had passed orders on July 15 and 27 imposing a ban on conduct of online classes from LKG to Class X. “The executive orders passed by the State Government cannot curtail the fundamental rights under Articles 21 and 21A of the constitution,” a division bench noted in its interim order. The court observed that the academic year has already started and the only way to provide education is through online teaching. The bench also noted that denying online classes on the ground that certain sections of the society do not have the facility was not a reason to impose restrictions. The court, however, made it clear that the order should not be perceived that the schools have the right to make online education mandatory or collect extra fees in the name of online classes. Two days ago, the expert committee formed by the Karnataka government to look into the modalities of online classes during the Covid-19 pandemic,submitted its report. It gave a slew of recommendations and fixed the time slot for the online classes. After receiving the report, Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said the government would review the recommendations and take a decision accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-hc-stays-state-government-s-order-banning-online-classes-by-schools/story-y4kh3nM5tIfO1NFIrDyueI.html
09-07-2020||Pune||Maximum family members to benefit from PMC health scheme||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is planning to extend its health scheme for urban poor by giving maximum benefit to the residents amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Under this scheme, PMC shares 50 per cent of the total private hospital bill cost and the rest 50 per cent should be paid by the residents.Shekhar Gaikwad, municipal commissioner, said, “As per the existing norm a family can take the benefit of up to Rs1 lakh per annum under this scheme. But if one member tests positive for the virus there are chances that others might also test positive so we will cover maximum family members under the scheme.”“Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol is also positive about the move,” said Gaikwad.”We will come up with new guidelines soon after consultation with elected members,” said Gaikwad..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maximum-family-members-to-benefit-from-pmc-health-scheme/story-8ngJggSQe9TfaAtWo4W51O.html
09-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka CM to hold Covid review meeting with BBMP corporators on Friday||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has scheduled a meeting for Friday with all 198 corporators of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to review the Covid-19 situation, informed the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) on Thursday.According to the CMO, the main agenda of the meeting is to bring under control the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka and to discuss the duties of the corporators as Covid warriors in light of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.“The state’s Health Department, ASHA workers and all other Covid warriors will support the corporators of the wards to ensure the treatment and recovery of Covid patients. Action will be taken against officials who do not cooperate,” said the CMO.As per the data from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Karnataka now has a total of 28,877 Covid-19 cases, including 16,531 active cases and 11,876 recoveries.470 people have died of the infection in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-to-hold-covid-review-meeting-with-bbmp-corporators-on-friday/story-EDxJi8Y3oFckBeObxlKS5K.html
09-07-2020||Pune||Jail staff member off-duty booked for assaulting fellow official on duty in Pune||A jail staff member was booked on Tuesday for assaulting his colleague who was deployed at a check post outside the jail staff quarters.The injured man has been identified as police constable Rajendra Khairnar, while the accused has been identified as Premnath Wadikar, both residing at jail staff quarters in Yerawada.According to police Khairnar has sustained a fracture in his arm and has injuries on his eye, face and body from the fight that broke out between the two.Wadikar was heading home after work around 8:15 pm on Monday in his car, according to the complainant.“The complainant was on duty and the accused was not. He was annoyed at being stopped at the check post. They must have known each other as acquaintances as they live in the same area. The accused is not traceable after the incident. We are looking for him,” said police sub-inspector Dinesh Gurjar of Yerawada police station.A case under Sections 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 333 (voluntarily causes grievous hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking a breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code is registered at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/jail-staff-member-off-duty-booked-for-assaulting-fellow-official-on-duty-in-pune/story-QBwDnwkIEgCttxR65AHObL.html
09-07-2020||Pune||Pune woman duped of Rs 43.35 lakh by man who befriended her on social networking website||A 51-year-old woman was duped of Rs 43.35 lakh by a person who befriended her on a social networking website.According to police, the incident happened between March 9 and May 25 and the complainant works in the private sector.The woman is a resident of Katraj and became friends with a man on a social networking site in January 2020. The man claimed to be a foreign national. After communicating for a few days the man promised to send her valuables through a parcel.The man called her from a number with country code of the United Kingdom, according to details provided by the complainant.The man had promised to send an expensive watch, gold chain, bracelet, and an iPhone along with foreign currency through the parcel. However, he told her that she would need to pay money to get it cleared from customs.So between March 9 and May 25, the woman transferred a total of Rs 43,35,000 through 39 different transactions in multiple banks.During the period, a man claiming to be a manager from the Reserve Bank of India and a woman claiming to be from customs had called and sent emails to the woman. They promised her that the money she was paying would be provided back to her, according to the complaint.As the complainant went to her bank to get the money back, the bank told her that she had been defrauded.The accused then stopped answering her calls and messages.A case under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(c), 66(d) of Information Technology Act is registered at the cyber police station against unidentified persons.Police inspector Santosh Barge of the cyber police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-woman-duped-of-rs-43-35-lakh-by-man-who-befriended-her-on-social-networking-website/story-wR8LIUeKHnrfBCVgxXKIdJ.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services preliminary exam date postponed to September 13||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) has put off the tentative date of the Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services (HPAS) Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination, 2019, to September 13 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier, the tentative date of the HPAS exam was fixed for September 6.In a notification, the HPPSC said that the preliminary examination will be conducted on September 13 subject to the availability of venues and conducive conditions in view of the pandemic.Earlier, the examination was scheduled to take place on April 26 but was put off due to the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus.The HPAS preliminary exam is an objective type examination having questions of aptitude and general studies, with each subject carrying 100 marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-administrative-services-preliminary-exam-date-postponed-to-september-13/story-CRYToE2phDH2p3QZjMJlLM.html
09-07-2020||Pune||20 areas in rural Pune declared as containment zones||The district administration, on Wednesday, has announced 20 areas on the city’s outskirts as containment zones after fresh Covid-19 cases have been reported from these parts in the past few days.Most of these areas, which are governed by gram panchayats and have been merged into municipal limits of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, were sealed since Wednesday midnight as per orders by Sachin Baravkar, haveli sub-divisional officer .Among these areas include Manjri, Kadamwakvasti, Narhe, New Kopre, Khanapur, Shevalewadi, Wagholi, Gujar-Nimbalkarwadi, Khadakwasla, Kirkitwadi, Pisoli, Wadali wadi, Bhilarewadi, Urali Kanchan, Loni Kalbhor, Nanded, Manjri, Kunjirwadi, Kondhwe-Dhavade and Dehu.“There areas are being declared as containment zones from June 8 midnight whereby all the entry and exit points will be sealed. The residents of these areas have been asked not to step out of the house except for essential services,” stated the order by Baravkar.The administration has allowed essential services like milk distribution and vegetable sale between 10 am to 2 pm. “The restrictions will be in effect till next notification,” stated the order.Most of the rural and semi-urban parts if Pune district has reported a surge in Covid-19 cases in the past one week. As on Tuesday, rural parts of the district have reported total 2,666 cases of Covid-19 positive patients while Pune city has seen total 23,021 cases.Taking cognisance of the rising number of cases, Pune district collector said, any village which has reported more than five cases will face restrictions on activity.“We cannot afford to allow a surge in cases. Therefore I have asked sub-divisional officers to announce containment zones if fresh cases are reported,” said Ram.A large number of people from these areas, which has seen massive construction in the past few years, come to the city for work. Ram said, To bring Covid under control, some strict measures are being taken.”Sealed areasManjri, Kadamwakvasti, Narhe, New Kopre, Khanapur, Shevalewadi, Wagholi, Gujar-Nimbalkarwadi, Khadakwasla, Kirkitwadi, Pisoli, Wadali wadi, Bhilarewadi, Urali Kanchan, Loni Kalbhor, Nanded, Manjri, Kunjirwadi, Kondhwe-Dhavade and Dehu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/20-areas-in-rural-pune-declared-as-containment-zones/story-iaqGyFCx05GkqzwR1sV9qL.html
09-07-2020||Jaipur||Parts of Rajasthan receive light to moderate rainfall||Light to moderate rainfall was recorded in several parts of Rajasthan in the last 24 hours, the Meteorological Department said on Thursday.Heavy rains lashed Alwar and Nagaur in the last 24 hours till Thursday morning.Mandawar in Alwar received 86 mm rainfall and Jayal in Nagaur 74 mm in this period, it said.The weatherman has forecast rainfall in eastern parts of the state in the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/parts-of-rajasthan-receive-light-to-moderate-rainfall/story-I9NB2wwU0vrN7HZjPAmd1I.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University to offer MTech in automotive engineering in collaboration with ARAI||Chitkara University on Thursday announced that it will offer a master in technology course in automotive engineering in collaboration with the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), a Pune-based apex government automotive research and testing organisation.As part of the programme, students will get an opportunity to undergo one-year immersive training at ARAI’s Pune campus as a part of their course. Chitkara University pro-chancellor Dr Madhu Chitkara said, “The two-year MTech programme in automotive engineering is an outcome of Chitkara University’s relentless focus on offering programmes closely designed and delivered in conjunction with industry leaders, and contribute in nation building by developing indigenous talent. Chitkara University affirms its support to Prime Minister’s mission of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’.”Students pursuing the degree will study life-cycle support (design, manufacture, performance and durability testing) of vehicles; from on-road and off-road vehicles to race cars, vans and trucks. They will also get to learn about the application of mechanical, thermodynamic, pneumatic, hydraulic and electrical principles with an aim to resolve engineering problems, thus preparing them to solve complex problems in a real context. Students will get an opportunity to supervise and inspect installation, modification, and commissioning of mechanical systems at industrial facilities or plants. They will undergo a special module on introduction to hybrid and electric vehicles (HEVs), dedicated to designing sustainable vehicles that meet stringent emission norms along with the ever-increasing safety and performance standards, in a cost-effective way.During their first year at Chitkara University, students will also get to put theory into practice with an opportunity for industrial training with the Formula Student Race Car, Supermileage Vehicle, and Baja Vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-to-offer-mtech-in-automotive-engineering-in-collaboration-with-arai/story-xLNkPNz84yqZCtpirVfxTM.html
09-07-2020||Noida||Counselling centre set up to nip domestic conflicts: Noida Police||In a bid to resolve marital and domestic conflicts, a ‘Family Dispute Resolution Centre’ (FDRC) has been launched in Gautam Buddh Nagar where aggrieved persons can seek counselling by jurists and clinical psychologists, officials said. The FDRC, located at the Knowledge Park police station in Greater Noida, was inaugurated by Police Commissioner Alok Singh on Wednesday, the officials said. “To give professional counselling a primal place in conflict resolution, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police is partnering with domain experts from the Sharda University to resolve cases of marital and relationship discord at its new Family Dispute Resolution Centre,” Deputy Commissioner of Police, Women Safety, Vrinda Shukla said. The centre aims at providing effective intermediation with the participation of experts in matters of familial conflicts and domestic disputes, according to a police spokesperson. “At this centre, efforts will be made to resolve cases of domestic and family disputes and other similar conflicts by mediation of clinical psychologists, psychiatry, law experts and police personnel so that maximum number of families can be saved from bickering,” the spokesperson said. Amid changing environment of family and social values, domestic disputes are “increasing rapidly” among the couples in a family, which often turn into criminal cases, the police said. “Every year thousands of families get split, which weakens our society and takes it back. This increases the burden on the criminal justice system,” the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/counselling-centre-set-up-to-nip-domestic-conflicts-noida-police/story-K73pGxtvX4Lu2wK37DzcjP.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt revises lease rent for food vendors at Mumbai’s Juhu beach||The Maharashtra government has decided to revise the lease rent for food vendors operating on its land at the Juhu beach in Mumbai.The decision, taken at the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday, will reduce the government’s annual revenue by Rs 6.38 crore, the government said in a statement.The Airports Authority of India (AAI) owns 794 sqm area at the Juhu beach while 489.6 sqm comes under the jurisdiction of the state government.Out of the total 80 stalls there, 42 operate in AAI’s area, while 38 stalls are located on the state government’s land.The co-operative society of stall owners had earlier moved the Supreme court, saying the lease rent charges at the Juhu beachwere high.As per the SC order, the stall owners’ society held a meeting with AAI and agreed upon a lease rent. Accordingly, the state government agreed on the lease rent fixed by AAI, the statement said.The cabinet also approved a proposal to extend till July 31 the scheme to convert additional milk stock into milk powder.In April this year, the government decided to convert 10 lakh litre of additional milk into milk powder, considering the increased milk demand during the lockdown period.The scheme was implemented for two months.Now, the government has extended the scheme and as part of it, 1.6 crore litre milk will be procured in one month and Rs 51.22 crore has been sanctioned for the purpose, the government said.In the wake of the lockdown, the daily sale of milk came down by17 lakh litre due to the closure of shops, hotels and sweet marts.The cabinet also gave a go ahead to the implementation of the Centre’s ‘Jal Jeevan Mission’ in the state.The scheme aims to provide 55 litre water per day to each family with individual water supply connection by 2024.At present, out of 132.03 lakh families in the state, 50.75 lakh haveindividual water supply connections.In the next four years, 89.25 lakh more connections are targeted at an expected expenditure of Rs 13,668.50 crore, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-revises-lease-rent-for-food-vendors-at-mumbai-s-juhu-beach/story-O6ytINwoHtBgGY0XoP7WiK.html
09-07-2020||Noida||Gangsters’ assets worth over Rs 77 lakh attached: Noida Police||Properties of gangsters worth Rs 77.7 lakh were attached by the police on Wednesday in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar, as crackdown on the mafia continued in the region, officials said. The clampdown on the mafia in the district in western UP started on July 4 in line with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s directives which came close on the heels of killing of eight policemen in Kanpur by henchmen of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey, they said. “Three trucks worth Rs 36 lakh belonging to Sumit Bhati, two trucks and a scooter totalling Rs 29.70 lakh of Satbir Bansal and a truck of Sinhraj which is pegged worth Rs 12 lakh were attached by the police on Wednesday,” a senior officer said. So far, properties, including land and vehicles, worth around Rs 14 crore belonging to dreaded gangsters of the Sundar Bhati and Anil Dujana gang, and others have been attached in the latest clampdown, according to police officials. The crackdown is being carried out chiefly under the Section 14(1) of the Gangsters Act, which allows attachment of illegal properties, in order to effectively curb gangsters, mafias and criminals and their associates, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gangsters-assets-worth-over-rs-77-lakh-attached-noida-police/story-OEBA1K9yWOlHmTVpBxWWcM.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Patiala district sees steepest single-day spike of 45 new Covid-19 cases||Patiala: In its steepest single-day spike, Patiala district reported 45 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said of the total cases, 35 patients are from Patiala city itself, three from Samana, six from villages across the district and one from Rajpura.Twenty of the 45 people tested positive during contact tracing of coronavirus patients. Two of the positive patients are undertrials in jail, four are pregnant women, five are inter-state travellers and three are nursing staff members of the local Government Rajindra Hospital. With this, the district’s coronavirus case count has gone up to 484.FEAR OF QUARANTINE MAKESVISITORS HIDE TRAVEL HISTORYThe civil surgeon said: “Inter-state travellers coming from Delhi and Haryana are turning out to be the main reason behind spike in Patiala district. People coming from these states are not informing health authorities about their visit. The fear of being quarantined makes visitors hide their travel details. Some turn violent and abuse health workers when they are identified.”Dr Malhotra said though vigil has been stepped up at inter-state borders but frequent travellers sneak in through link roads.A health department official admitted that more than 60% of cases are of inter-state travellers and their contacts. The cases started increasing after the lockdown restrictions were relaxed by the Centre.The Punjab government has started e-registration of inter-state travellers from July 7. Patiala senior superintendent of police Mandeep Singh Sidhu said check-posts have put up at Shambhu on the national highway and other points in Samana, Patran and Ghanaur.“We are not letting any visitor to enter Punjab without e-registration on COVA app. Even transit vehicles and transport vehicles are covered under this process,” he said.SANGRUR MAN DIES COVID-19, 14 TEST POSITIVEIn neighbouring Sangrur district, 14 people tested positive on Thursday, while a 59-year-old resident of Ahmedgarh town succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Ludhiana on Wednesday.Health department officials said the patient was suffering from fever, cough and breathlessness. With his death, the toll of Covid-19 patients from Sangrur district has reached 17.Of the 14 positive cases reported on Thursday, five are from Amargarh block and are all contacts of coronavirus patients; four are from Sangrur, comprising two contact cases, a police personnel and a prisoner; two are from Fatehgarh Panjgrain, and one each prisoner from Malerkotla and Dhuri; and one resident of Dirba.Sangrur district has reported 607 Covid-19 patients so far with 131 active cases.(With inputs by Avtar Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-patiala-district-sees-steepest-single-day-spike-of-45-new-covid-19-cases/story-eJlzq0mcg3Md8fh5LpAzbK.html
09-07-2020||Lucknow||Should clarify whether Vikas Dubey surrendered or was arrested: Akhilesh Yadav asks UP govt||After gangster Vikas Dubey, wanted in connection with the Kanur ambush in which eight police personnel were killed, was nabbed in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain, Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav asked the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday to clarify whether it was a “surrender” or an “arrest”.“News is coming that the main accused in the Kanpur case is in police custody. If this is true, the government should clarify whether it was a surrender or an arrest. Besides, the CDR (call details record) should be made public so that those hand in glove with him could be exposed,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.Dubey, who was on the run since the Kanpur ambush on Friday and who carried a reward of Rs 5 lakh on information leading to his arrest, was nabbed in Ujjain on Thursday morning.Also read: Gangster Vikas Dubey, wanted in killing of 8 UP cops, arrestedMadhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra confirmed the development, saying the gangster was in the custody of the state police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/should-clarify-whether-vikas-dubey-surrendered-or-was-arrested-akhilesh-yadav-asks-up-govt/story-iqXA7uFTVcS4LN3t9uvfVJ.html
09-07-2020||Ranchi||Workers divided into ‘Pod’ at Jamshedpur Tata Steel||Tata Steel has rolled out a novel system called Pod that will minimize the number of workers at a given time and place to reduce the risk of infection among them, company officials said here on Tuesday.This apart, the steel giant has also brought in scientific contact tracing through a ‘Suraksha Card’, CCTVs, drone cameras, crowd sensing (assemblage analysis), face detection and social distancing checks and replacing biometric attendance by thermal scanning and radio frequency identification (RIFD), ending all possible manual touch interactions in its Jamshedpur, Kalinganagr and Angul plants.“We are first among the corporates to develop and design a novel Pod system in partnership with Boston Consulting Group (BCG). It has been implemented across Jamshedpur, Kalinganagar and Angul. It can be best described as a multilayer protection to break the chain of transmission. These measures are beyond the stipulated SOPs and MHA guidelines, which are, anyway, being strictly followed by the organisation,” Kulvin Suri, Tata Steel chief (corporate communication), said.As the name suggests, the Pod concept is modularization of the workforce into pods. The idea is to divide the staff seating arrangement into small units, called pods, thereby restricting inter-pod movement. The factory workforce has been divided into hundreds of pods across locations and departments.“Each pod can have a maximum of 10 workers with a self-contained set of skills so that they do not have to depend on anyone outside their group for closing an assigned job. Additionally, to reduce the risk of contamination across shifts, a 30-minute air gap is maintained between two shifts and it also enables easy and prompt contact tracing,” said Runa Rajeev Kumar, Tata Steel corporate communication head here.“Fifteen minutes before the shift ends, each work area and tools are sanitised. Exit is only allowed through designated gates. Employees of the next shift enter 15 minutes later through a separate gate and again clean the work area and tools before usage,” she added. Another measure introduced by the company is real-time workforce tracking through ‘Suraksha Card’, a device which can communicate using Long Range Wide Area Network. Its features have been further enhanced to sense (spot and record) a gathering of large group of people in any section of the workplace through the crowd sensing (assemblage analysis) solution and it detects violation of social distancing at shop floors, canteens and on roads inside the factory premises.With historical data, the Suraksha Card enables scientific contact tracing. Additionally, Suraksha Card bar code scan provides the risk profile of the person with respect to their travel history, contact history or proximity to any Covid patient during the course of work inside the workplace. A centralized portal and a mobile-based app has been developed to monitor the safe working of the workforce .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tata-steel-splits-workers-into-pods-scientific-tracing-to-contain-covid/story-zdXLQBHI8ps9kfDZ5OTojN.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Stop Punjab Police SIT probe into sacrilege cases, CBI urges Mohali court||Chandigarh/Jalandhar: Two days after a special investigation team (SIT) named Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim as an accused in the 2015 theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib, the CBI on Wednesday moved a Mohali court, urging it to stop Punjab cops from carrying out a “parallel probe” in the sacrilege cases.The CBI plea, filed by the additional superintendent of police Anil Kumar Yadav, claims that the agency is still conducting a probe in these cases and there can’t be two simultaneous investigations by two agencies in the same cases.The parallel investigation conducted by Punjab Police, amounts to violation of established procedure of the law, the plea said.The special CBI court has issued notice to Punjab and others parties and according to the defence counsel, Vivek Gulbadhar, and the next hearing will take place on July 10.After outrage over three sacrilege incidents in 2015, the then SAD-BJP government had handed over the probe to the central agency.TWISTS AND TURNS IN THE CASEOn July 4, 2019, the CBI had filed a closure report giving a clean chit to some dera followers who were named as sacrilege accused by the deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra-led SIT in the chargesheet.The Same accused were arrested by Khatra-led SIT a few days ago.“We had filed a closure report but on July 29, 2019, when the agency got a letter from the special DGP, Bureau of Investigation of Punjab Police (Parbodh Kumar was holding this charge that time), in which some fresh leads related to the case were shared and he requested the CBI undertake further investigation,” the CBI plea said.In pursuant of the letter, an application was filed in the special CBI court in Mohali on August 26, 2019, to keep the closure report in abeyance till conclusion of further investigation, said the plea.The court on November 20, 2019, directed the CBI to file the status report of investigation and the same was filed on January 8 this year.In September 2019, a Punjab government notification withdrew consent to the CBI to probe the case. The CBI challenged it in the Punjab and Haryana high court, which in December 2019 upheld the state government’s notification.The agency challenged the order in the Supreme Court. The top court in February dismissed the CBI’s plea against withdrawal of consent by Punjab to probe cases.CASES STILL WITH CBIIn Wednesday’s application, the CBI claimed that the apex court dismissed its special leave petition (SLP) on the ground of delay in filing it but has left the ‘question of law’ open.The CBI claimed it also challenged the apex court’s decision by filing a special leave petition on March 5, 2020, and the same is pending before the apex court.The plea said the CBI has not been denotified by the Government of India from these cases and the notification of empowering the agency to investigate these cases still exists.“The Punjab government had requested the Centre on a couple of occasions to hand over the investigation of these cases to the state. The last such letter was sent by Punjab on May 14 and the decision to return these cases is yet to be taken by the CBI. These facts show that the investigation has not been handed over to Punjab and the cases are still with the CBI,” reads the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stop-punjab-police-sit-probe-into-sacrilege-cases-cbi-urges-mohali-court/story-sgbaSuEIUoq2x9ni7MkxAM.html
09-07-2020||Bangalore||15 more cops test positive for coronavirus in Bengaluru||15 police personnel from Bengaluru’s Whitefield division tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Out of these, 12 are from the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) police station, sources said.A total of 27 police staff of the Whitefield division have tested positive so far and five have been discharged. The HAL police station closed on June 27 after one police staff tested Covid positive. All personnel of the police station were tested in the following days and 12 tests returned positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/15-more-cops-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-bengaluru/story-OsRIYXWTYztyGD30ZcYTLL.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab has been a CSR-deficit state, it’s time it got its fair share||For the past three decades, Dr Sandeep Goyal has worn many hats – a veteran adman, entrepreneur, investor, author, and head of a think-tank – but he has always been itching for new challenges. Goyal has taken up the unenviable task of helping his home state Punjab get its “fair share of CSR spends”. HT spoke to the first CEO of the newly constituted Punjab CSR Authority about the task at hand and challenges ahead. Excerpts: What made you take up this assignment? I am a Chandigarh boy – St John’s High School and DAV College – but have been away from the city for nearly 40 years now. I took up this assignment last month purely as “give back” to my home state. I am working pro bono for the government and will try to use, and leverage, my 36 years in corporate India to the state’s advantage. I have been Group CEO of Zee, and founder chairman of Dentsu India among other assignments over the years. I have had the privilege of working with large corporates. I am hoping to use some of that outreach to advantage in my new role. Punjab has a minuscule share of less than 1% of the total CSR spending by industry. How do you plan to improve this? Yes, Punjab has been a CSR (corporate social responsibility) deficit state. The state does not get its fair share of CSR spends. The state ranks quite low on India Inc’s priority list for CSR. The state has received just Rs 234 crore of the total Rs 42,467 crore of CSR spending by industry across all the different states and UTs between 2015-16 and 2017-18. There are no easy answers on how to channelize more funds except that I am preparing an action plan for Punjab domiciled companies, to focus their spends in the state. Also, I am starting to get in touch with the BSE 100 companies across the country that have substantial CSR budgets, and a Punjab presence of some size, to get them to consider some of their CSR allocations to Punjab. What special efforts are being planned? We are working on a destination for CSR funds for these companies prioritised along the lines of actual spends of BSE 100 companies in sectors such as education and skilling so that there is synergistic opportunity for fund allocation. We have already written to Punjab companies to understand how current CSR monies are being spent and what the state government can do to ensure there are no external leakages. Also, efforts are being made to reach out to corporates to support start-ups in the state by supporting incubators and accelerators as multipliers of business opportunities. How will you persuade companies in times of Covid-19? The present situation in corporate India is grim. Covid has played havoc with revenues and profits this year. I doubt there will even be any surpluses to actually support CSR allocations in most companies. The situation is likely to remain gloomy for quite some time. CSR is voluntary, not mandatory. There are no compulsions in the law. No penalties, only guidelines. My job is to do the best with one-on-one persuasion by reaching out and getting better sense to prevail. Punjab companies are also spending more CSR funds outside the state. What can be done to change this? The best we can do is to request, and persuade, Punjab companies to not take their funds outside. So far, that has perhaps not been proactively done. Owners and managements have perhaps not been sensitised that they need to help the state and not take their benevolence outside. I am hoping my meetings and appeals will help. Still, it is the choice and discretion of individual companies. What steps have been taken so far? No magic wand as yet. I am trying to prepare the action plan to put a method and purpose into the entire system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-has-been-a-csr-deficit-state-it-s-time-it-got-its-fair-share/story-27Y9D2cLeXYohsarvbJmMP.html
09-07-2020||Jaipur||659 new cases take Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally to 22,063||A total of 659 new Covid-19 cases, 291 discharged and 10 deaths were reported in Rajasthan on Wednesday till 8:30 pm, according to the State Health Department.With this, the total number of cases in the state is now at 22,063, including 4,715 active cases and 482 deaths.India reported a spike of 22,752 Covid-19 cases, taking the country’s coronavirus tally to 7,42,417 on Wednesday, informed the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Out of the total cases reported, 4,56,830 patients have been cured/discharged from the disease while one patient has been migrated, the Health Ministry informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/659-new-cases-take-rajasthan-s-covid-19-tally-to-22-063/story-A19SAHIoX4c1328aKI7PhJ.html
09-07-2020||Delhi||Major fire in West Delhi warehouse: Official||A major fire broke out at a warehouse in West Delhi’s Mundka area on Wednesday night, a Delhi Fire Service official said. No casualty has been reported so far, he said. A call about the fire was received at around 10.23 pm and 34 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Atul Garg, Delhi Fire Service Director. It is suspected that the warehouse had medical equipments, he said, adding the fire-fighting operations are underway to bring the blaze under control. The cause of fire is not known yet, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/major-fire-in-west-delhi-warehouse-official/story-fUiIs8mmcFM26iTBMne0dJ.html
09-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwala: Billi with no distancing manners||The cat quietly ambles towards him, circles around his feet—slowly and thoughtfully—as if she were an elderly neighbor taking a walk in the park.The masked man in red sandals doesn’t seem startled by the cat’s proximity to his person. “We meet everyday,” he says in a tone that hints a wide smile.The cat lives on the pavements of this quiet part of south Delhi’s East of Kailash. It is difficult to find out where exactly she sleeps at night, but during the day she is always seen loitering about the neighborhood’s popular Mother Dairy milk booth—one of the few places that stayed open during the strict lockdown months triggered by the coronavirus pandemic. The aforementioned man is a customer waiting for his turn in the queue. He stands responsibly inside one of the (already fading) yellow circles drawn on the pavement to maintain physical distancing.It turns out that the cat knows many regulars to the milk booth. Now another man appears and she lunges towards him. She settles down on his shoes as if it were her living room sofa. The man—he too is in a mask—mutters some indecipherable words to her. He says it’s French language—he’s from France, currently living in Delhi, he explains. The Frenchman now turns his attention back to the cat and speaks some more French words to her. One doesn’t know if this cat can understand any human language, but she seems absorbed by his white mask.Nobody seems to know about the cat’s background. Not the pavement tailor nearby, not the pavement vegetable seller (who gives huge bundles of green chillies and dhaniya leaves for free with every purchase), not the security guard outside the ATM, not the police constable standing with a notepad, not even the person manning the milk booth, who says—“I know her, we are friends.” The gentleman informs that the cat has a name. “She’s called Billi.”But Billi is simply the Hindi for cat.The man shrugs.The milk booth customer in red sandals butts in, saying, “Yes, many people in the area call her Billi.” He also says that the milk booth owner feeds her regularly with.... well, milk of course.Handing over a yoghurt packet to a customer, the milk booth man looks conscious and smiles out of embarrassment, as if wishing his tender side hadn’t been outed.Indeed, there are many such tender-hearted people in this stretch, including tea stall owner Mayawati, who would regularly walk from her faraway home—even during the lockdown—just to feed a stray dog in the area.Some minutes later the customers leave. Nobody is to be seen. The man at the booth disappears somewhere inside his booth. It is deathly still. Billi, the cat, ambles back to where the customers were standing in a queue some minutes ago. She circles around one of the empty yellow circles. Who can tell if she is enjoying the circle’s emptiness, or missing the usual pair of human legs standing inside it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwala-billi-with-no-distancing-manners/story-GjvcNmBCK46AYMtl5jUyjL.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Education department to reduce syllabus soon||After the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced reduction in syllabus owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, the Maharashtra education department on Wednesday said that it is also working to reduce the syllabus of the state board. Dinkar Patil, director, Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT), said, “A decision with the details will come in the next few days.” A senior official from the education department said, “We have been working on syllabus reduction since the past two months, way before the CBSE and CISCE announced their decisions. A final outline of the reduced syllabus will be out soon.” On Wednesday, fake messages claiming to have details of the revised syllabus were doing the rounds on social messaging applications. CISCE, which governs the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and Indian School Certificate (ISC) exam, on July 2 announced a reduction in syllabus for Class 10 and 12 by up to 25% for the academic year 2020-21. Five days later, on July 7, CBSE announced up to 30% reduction in the syllabus for Classes 9 to 12 for the current academic year. Some of the chapters removed from the syllabus include secularism, nationalism, federalism, demonetisation, GST, India’s foreign relations with neighbouring countries and citizenship. Experts said the state board needs to announce a reduction in syllabus soon to ease the stress on students. “We demand an immediate reduction in the syllabus for Classes 9 to 12 because a lot of teaching hours are lost due to the prevailing situation,” said Anil Bornare, coordinator of the BJP teachers’ cell. Vaishali Bafna, from Pune-based think-tank SYSCOM, said the department should ensure that the syllabus is not reduced too much for Class 11. “Class 11 is a preparatory class for Class 12, and omitting key concepts would affect students next year,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/education-department-to-reduce-syllabus-soon/story-eKjYvxX3Hb5niBh97M7JsO.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Jagdeep, Bollywood’s ‘Soorma Bhopali’, passes away at 81||Veteran actor Jagdeep, best known for his comic roles in iconic Hindi films like Sholay, passed away on Wednesday from age-related issues. He was 81. The actor is survived by his two sons, actors Jaaved Jaaferi and Naved. Born Syed Ishtiaq Jafri, the actor took on the stage name Jagdeep and began his film career as a child artist in BR Chopra’s Afsana. As a child artist, he also appeared in Amar Kumar’s Ab Dilli Door Nahin, Guru Dutt’s Aar Paar and Bimal Roy’s Do Bigha Zamin among other films.“He passed away at 8.30 pm at his residence in Bandra. He was not keeping well due to age-related issues,” producer Mehmood Ali, a close family friend, told news agency PTI.Jagdeep would go on to be cast in films such as Bhabhi, Barkha and Bindiya, but it was as a comedian that he achieved fame. His first role as a comedic character actor was in the Shammi Kapoor-starrer Brahmachari. Jagdeep is best known for playing the role of Soorma Bhopali in Ramesh Sippy’s Sholay, following which he became one of the most sought-after actor for comic roles.In a career spanning more than five decades and a filmography of over 400 films, Jagdeep worked in many genres. He appeared in a number of horror films, including Ramsay Brothers’s Purana Mandir and 3D Saamri. Other memorable films of Jagdeep are Andaz Apna Apna, China Gate and Bombay To Goa. He also directed a film titled Soorma Bhopali, in which his character from Sholay was the protagonist.Jagdeep’s film was the 2012 film, Gali Gali Chor Hai, starring Akshaye Khanna.He will be buried in the Shia cemetery in Mumbai today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagdeep-bollywood-s-soorma-bhopali-passes-away-at-81/story-iimMJwrxaTmGVywxzxv70K.html
09-07-2020||City||‘Global Hub Covid Hospital working with 30% staff’||The recent confusion about patient’s identities at the newly set-up Covid hospital at Global Hub in Balkum, Thane has brought to the fore the dearth of manpower in the hospital. While the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) is increasing the number of beds in their jurisdiction, there is limited number of medical staffers in the city. The dearth of staffers is adding pressure on those who are currently on duty. Global Hub Covid Hospital, a 1,024-bed facility, currently has patients in 50% of total beds while the manpower is mere 30% of the total requirement. The city recorded 410 new positive cases and 17 deaths on Wednesday, taking total cases to 11,308 and death toll to 430. The city has seen a sudden spike in cases since June, with the number of cases jumping from 3,271 on June 1 to 11,308 on July 8.The hospital has been in news this week following a mix-up about a patient’s identity wherein a family was informed that the patient was dead while he was actually seeking treatment.The deficit of manpower is making it harder for the current medical staff. “We are working in shifts and have a lot of patients to attend to. It becomes physically and mentally exhausting as we have to be in PPE kits through the shift. Around 680 beds in the hospital are occupied at present. On some days we have to extend our shift timings to be able to check on all patients,” said a doctor at Balkum’s Global Hub Covid Hospital.Apart from doctors, the hospital is also in need of more staffers including receptionist, nurse and ambulance drivers. In view of this, TMC has sought help from the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to get additional doctors for the hospital. Dr Dinkar Desai, president, IMA Thane Chapter, said, “The Global Hub facility at present has 75 doctors while the requirement is of around 150 doctors. We are coming up with two more Covid facilities consisting a total of 1,500 beds for which 300 more doctors will be needed for smooth management.”He added there are around 200 doctors working with private hospitals across Thane city while civic hospitals have 30 doctors and another 100 doctors are part of the Thane Rapid Action Team.Eknath Shinde, guardian minister of Thane, said they are working to meet the requirement. “The Indian Medical Association’s Thane Chapter provided us with additional 50 physicians and 7 intensivists from Monday onwards. We have also asked all general practitioners to start their clinics to help ease the load on Covid hospitals. The doctors will also be provided with all necessary care if they contract the virus,” he added.TMC, on the other hand, said the situation was manageable. “Although there has been a spike in positive cases, most of them only require isolation at Covid care facilities. Hence, we are able to manage with the current medical staff. However, it is true that we are making provisions to rope in additional medical staff and infrastructure facilities,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/global-hub-covid-hospital-working-with-30-staff/story-E7uOlcA0e1jMGsUQ16EJ8N.html
09-07-2020||City||Thane mix-up: Two cremations for a man, other’s kin don’t get to see him even once||Thanks to the mix-up by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), the family of a 67-year-old patient from Kopri conducted his last rites the second time in a week on Wednesday. The family had earlier cremated a 72-year-old man, whose body was handed over to them by the Covid hospital at Global Hub in Balkum. The 67-year-old died late on Tuesday night after his family members met him in the hospital. The family of the 72-year-old Kalwa resident, which has been looking for him for five days, is distraught as they could not complete the last rites of their father. The Kopri family allowed the family from Kalwa to attend their father’s funeral as a goodwill gesture.TMC chief Dr Vipin Sharma spoke to both the families about the mix-up, while the medical health officer, Dr Charudutta Shinde, has been released from his duties as official to specifically handle the pandemic and in-charge of the Covid hospital in Balkum. Shinde had joined on June 11.On Monday, the 72-year-old’s family had filed a missing person’s complaint. The police investigation showed the man had died on July 3 and his body was handed over to the Kopri family. “We are awaiting video footage or some documentation as evidence for the mix-up. The hospital is yet to submit a final report on the incident,” said A Deshmukh, senior inspector, Kapurbawdi police station.A family member of the 72-year-old man said, “We have been running from pillar to post searching for our father, while he passed away on July 3. We could not even complete his last rites due to the lackadaisical attitude of the corporation.” The family of the 67-year-old, too, was shocked on knowing this. “We had no idea that we cremated someone else. The past few days have been a roller coaster of emotions for us. We invited them to be a part of the funeral and join us in the last rites and consider our father as their own,” said a relative. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “Our three-member committee is yet to submit a report and their inquiry is underway.”Ex-MLA Kirit Somaiya, said, “I will meet the Governor to discuss the situation in Thane.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-mix-up-two-cremations-for-a-man-other-s-kin-don-t-get-to-see-him-even-once/story-pSS2wklcNWeE53nLKUpBeL.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Allow us to ferry all passengers, hike fare: Auto, taxi unions to state||In the second meeting of autorickshaw and taxi unions with the transport task force via video-conferencing on Wednesday, unions urged the state government to allow autorickshaws and taxis to carry regular passengers. AL Quadros, leader of the city’s largest taximen’s union — Mumbai Taximen’s Union, represented other taxi and autorickshaw unions. Quadros asked the state government to provide financial relief to taxi and autorickshaw drivers along with allowing additional passengers. “It has been an extremely difficult time for taxi and autorickshaw drivers in the state. Business has been completely down, and allowing only essential passengers has made it even more difficult for us. We have asked the government to allow us to carry normal passengers. We have also sought financial aid of ₹10,000 per month to the drivers during the lockdown,” he said.Autorickshaw and taxi unions have also asked for an increase in fare. Taxi unions have asked to increase minimum fare from ₹22 to ₹25 and the same for autorickshaws from ₹18 to ₹22. Auto unions also urged the state to release seized autos and to cancel e-challans during lockdown along with waiver of the interest of loans taken by autorickshaw drivers in Maharashtra.A 13-member transport task force, headed by transport minister Anil Parab, was formed on June 25 to address transportation issues in the state and to suggest measures on effective operations during the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/allow-us-to-ferry-all-passengers-hike-fare-auto-taxi-unions-to-state/story-OMQgVLZ64ChmRLiIZYYirK.html
09-07-2020||Lucknow||Border face-off: UP govt treads cautiously on Chinese investment||The faceoff between India and China on the border, followed by a ban on Chinese apps, has put the state government in a dilemma over the large investment that Chinese companies are making, or have already made, in the electronics manufacturing sector in Uttar Pradesh.Although Chinese companies are making investment in accordance with policies of the union government and provisions of Uttar Pradesh Electronics Manufacturing Policy-2017, the authorities are treading cautiously in view of the tension on the border that may even have an impact on the process of investment by Chinese companies in the state.“We are treading cautiously. A large investment of about Rs 15,000 crore to Rs 20,000 crore is being made by the Chinese companies that are setting up their units in electronics manufacturing sector in the state. Many of these companies are already here and have made make-shift arrangements to start their production. Large incentives have been promised to them. We are now adopting a wait and watch policy before pushing ahead the process of investment that includes giving them a letter of comfort,” said a senior functionary dealing with foreign investment in electronics manufacturing sector in the state.“Major Chinese companies in the process of making investment in the state include Haier Appliances (Rs 2,800 crore), Holitech Technologies (Rs 1,700 crore), Sunwoda Electronics (Rs 1,500 crore) and Vivo (Rs 7,000 crore). We have not yet issued them letter of comfort,” said a senior officer of the state government on condition of anonymity.“After the tension of the border everything has slowed down. We will expedite the processes once the border tension is over,” said the functionary, adding, “Another Chinese company Oppo has already made an investment of Rs 2,000 crore and proposes to make an additional investment of Rs 1,500 crore in the state. There is a long list of Chinese companies that have started production or are in the process of making small investments.”Minister for industry Satish Mahana said many Chinese companies have already started production in Uttar Pradesh and the state government would act only in accordance with guidelines from the union government on the issue. “Various incentives are promised to companies that propose to make investment in the state under the provisions of Uttar Pradesh Electronics Manufacturing Policy-2017. Chinese companies are obviously here to take advantage of the policy and have been given subsidised land to set their units in accordance with the policy,” said the functionary, adding, “UP’s development authorities, including Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority, Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority and Noida have given 25 per cent rebate while providing the land to foreign companies. These include the Chinese companies. The state government is committed to reimburse to the development authorities a subsidy of about Rs 200 crore given to foreign companies.”Other incentives to be given to companies making investment as per the provisions of electronics manufacturing policy include 100 per cent exemption on stamp duty, capital subsidy on fixed capital, 5 per cent per annum subsidy on interest for seven years, 100 per cent reimbursement of actual filing costs on awarded patents, 100 per cent state GST reimbursement for 10 years. Special incentives on case to case basis are also promised to companies making investment of more than Rs 200 crore with approval by the empowered committee and the state cabinet.Meanwhile, professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department political science, Lucknow University, said: “There is definitely a need for caution. We need to keep a watch on Chinese investment and taken action on economic front, too, besides countering China politically. The union government should take whatever action is required to safeguard India’s interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/border-faceoff-up-govt-treads-cautiously-on-chinese-investment/story-Ns8duyGASgac21rnUBPW9I.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Textile workers’ lung diseases make them vulnerable to Covid’||Cities from Maharashtra known for textile industries – Solapur, Malegaon and Bhiwandi – have higher fatality rate than the state, according to the data. Civic authorities from these cities have identified occupational lung diseases among textile workers, comprising a majority of the fatalities, as one of the reasons. The authorities are now actively tracing and targeting workers to reduce the fatalities.As of July 7, Solapur city has reported 2,825 cases and 285 deaths, with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 10%. Malegaon’s CFR is 7.14%, as it has reported 82 deaths and 1,147 cases. The Bhiwandi-Nijampur Municipal Corporation has 2,620 cases and 140 people have died with a CFR of 5.34%. The state’s CFR stands at 4.22%.Most textile workers suffer from byssinosis, a lung disease caused by inhalation of cotton dust, which makes them more vulnerable to infections. Besides the textile hub, Solapur city also houses the beedi industry. Beedi workers, too, suffer from respiratory ailments. Solapur has 60,000 beedi workers and 30,000 textile workers. Many patients, who died were found to be textile or beedi workers.“Besides the compromised immunity due to weakened lungs, they do not pay proper attention to their diet and medical treatment. The symptoms for Covid-19 are reported late, making it worse, while treating and saving lives. If not treated in time, the risk of spread is also high. We have identified 60,000 such workers and people with comorbidities. We are carrying out aggressive screening and testing to reduce the death rate,” said Dr Pradeep Dhele, civil surgeon, Solapur.Dr Amol Annadate, who has worked with the Malegaon Municipal Corporation to reduce the cases, said, “Many textiles workers suffer from tuberculosis and pneumoconiosis. Their respiratory system works at half of the capacity, making it difficult to treat them for Covid-19. Some patients come very late and in some cases, the lungs are badly damaged. One of the lessons Covid-19 has taught us is the need to relocate highly populated towns like Malegaon and restructure the textiles industry,” he said.Dr Jaywant Dhule, medical officer of health in Bhiwandi, said 30% of the patients are employed in textile industries. “Besides respiratory problems and comorbidities, the workers live in highly dense areas, mostly slums, where vulnerability increases rapidly. We have started mohalla clinics to reach out to them and reduce the fatality rate by earlier identification,” he said. While the death rate in textile towns is high due to the occupational hazards, the spike in the cases in Jalgaon is because of the high rate of inter-state transportation for banana trade. ‘Banana belt’, where migration from other states is high, is cited as the reason for the fatality rate of 6.40% in Jalgaon, where 4,712 cases have been reported so far. “Another reason is the traffic movement as three national highways pass through the district,” said a state government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/textile-workers-lung-diseases-make-them-vulnerable-to-covid/story-PTPDBUiYvv3hQnLVZ6BnTM.html
09-07-2020||Lucknow||Indo China stand-off: Chinese buses may not ply in 14 UP cities||Amid ongoing tension on the Indo-China borders, the state government is mulling cancelling the deal to operate 700 electric buses with ‘China connect’ in 14 major cities of Uttar Pradesh, said a senior officer on condition of anonymity.A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed with the PMI Electro Mobility Solutions Private Limited having collaboration with the Foton Motor Company of China early this year to operate the buses in major cities on public private partnership (PPP) model under the scheme to strengthen the urban transport in state’s major cities with a total estimated cost of about Rs 965 crore.“We have received a request from the China’s Foton Motors to allow time of six more months to operate buses in the state in view of Covid-19 pandemic. But, we are seeking legal options on implications of cancelling the deal. A final decision on the issue will be taken at the top level,” said Deepak Kumar, principal secretary, urban development department.Kumar though refused to elaborate further, those aware of the unfolding developments said the state government was unlikely to heed to the request for more time made by the Chinese company.Those aware with the developments said under the provisions of MoU the company was expected to invest about Rs 560 crore to provide 700 electric buses for operation in the major cities.Also read| Border face-off: UP govt treads cautiously on Chinese investmentCost of each bus was estimated to be about Rs 1.25 crore and the Centre under the Phase-II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles (FAME) was expected to give Rs 45 lakh per bus.The state government was expected to set up bus stations and charging stations to start the plying of buses in Lucknow, Varanasi, Meerut, Agra, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Moradabad, Aligarh, Jhansi, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Shahjahanpur, Mathura and Vrindavan.The proposal to operate these 700 electric buses in 14 cities was approved by the state cabinet on October 1, 2019.The operation was to start later this year after the completion of the biddings process, which was carried out in December last year. The PMI Electro Mobility Solutions Private Limited Consortium was picked to ply 700 electric buses.PMI Electro Mobility Solutions Private Limited and Foton Motors company could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/chinese-buses-may-not-ply-in-14-up-cities/story-nNcsK12mtnr1IToywCSPFJ.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||5-year-old thanks cops for their efforts in battling Covid-19||A 5-year-old girl from Shellar Naka in Dombivli (East), who knows little about Covid-19 but has heard a lot about the police, doctors and nurses performing their duties during the pandemic from her parents, made a thank you card for the police personnel in her area.“They protect us from coronavirus; they are my superhero. I wanted to make them happy and I made the card just to say thank you,” said Shipra Upadhaye, a student of Little Aryans, Dombivli.She wrote thank you on four small square-shaped papers with the help of her mother. She also drew a smiley and wrote her name below. “Since the past two months, through TV channels and our conversations she has been hearing how the police, medical and paramedical staff are helping us battle this global pandemic by standing on the roads, controlling mobs, treating patients and sacrificing their family time,” said Tanaya Upadhye, 30, Shipra’s mother.“She asked me if we can say thanks for their hard work and prepared the notes. Her idea amazed us. I gave the cards to the police personnel on duty,” she added.The police personnel were touched by the gesture. “It came as a surprise to us when the parent came to us and handed us the cards. We are glad to know that even a child has realised our efforts to keep them safe,” said AR Kharat, a police constable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-year-old-thanks-cops-for-their-efforts-in-battling-covid-19/story-8LQkScH8SfR8NQXqRo87ZO.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Final-year exams: UGC’s latest orders leave students, teachers in a fix||University Grants Commission’s (UGC’s) decision to hold the exams of final year students in universities and colleges by September 30 has come as a surprise to many. Thousands of students as well as their teachers are now in a fix as the government had earlier announced that such students would be promoted on the basis of their performance in previous semesters. Even the educational institutions are concerned and waiting for the state government’s decision in this regard. “We are waiting for the complete set of UGC guidelines besides directions from the state government (about conducting exams). The decision will be taken accordingly,” said Kurukshetra University vice-chancellor Nita Khanna. Students not in favour of examsRising Covid-19 case count clubbed with incomplete syllabus has evoked a sense of fear among students. “This decision is shocking. How can we appear in exams when the number of coronavirus cases are multiplying?” asked Nishika, a final-year student pursuing bachelor’s degree in mass communication from Kurukshetra University. It is pertinent to mention here that earlier in June, the Haryana government’s notification directing the higher and technical education institutions to conduct exams of final year students in July had drawn criticism. Kurukshetra University had even written to the government about the issues raised by at least 6,000 students in their final year. On June 23, the government had decided to promote the final-year students without conducting exams. Then the latest directions came on Monday regarding the September-30 deadline to conduct final-year exams in either pen and paper mode, online, or a combination of both as per the feasibility and suitability. “Conducting exams will be challenging at this stage, but we will follow the guidelines and arrangements will be made as per the government’s orders. There are 1,000 final-year students in our college,” said Abha Khetarpal, principal of DAV Girls College, Yamunanagar.New guidelines, but same old concernsTeachers have also expressed concerns over holding exams in the prevailing situation. “How could the exams be conducted now? There is no clarity on the transportation and accommodation of students coming from other parts of the state and country,” said a senior professor of Kurukshetra University, who sought to remain anonymous. “It would be very risky for students to appear in exams as the case count in most of the districts of the state is on its peak,” he added. Officials in the state’s higher education department have meanwhile confirmed that a meeting will soon be convened and new directions will be issued to the universities as per the decision taken in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/final-year-exams-ugc-s-latest-orders-leave-students-teachers-in-a-fix/story-XJCumttotKN7eHKxIWqJ7I.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||42 pvt hospitals notified for Covid-19 treatment in state: Haryana to HC||The Haryana government on Wednesday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that 42 private hospitals have been roped in to provide Covid-19 treatment in the state.The response came on a petition filed by Sameer Vashisht, a Gurugram resident, who in his public interest litigation had raised several issues regarding shortage of testing labs, masks, beds, and ventilators in private and government hospitals in Gurugram. The state’s additional advocate general, Deepak Balyan, told the high court bench of Chief Justice RS Jha and Justice Arun Palli that Covid-19 tests are being conducted for free in government hospitals while the prices have been fixed for the private labs. Keeping in view the possibility of high number of patients which may occur, 42 private hospitals have been notified for treatment, he told the court, adding that for testing, eight labs have been approved by ICMR in addition to 12 government labs. Of these, one government and seven private labs are in Gurugram, he further submitted. In Gurugram, rapid point-of-care antigen tests have been started, he added. The Haryana government also denied that there was shortage of N95 masks and other requisite equipment. The court disposed of the plea observing that it was apparent that government has addressed most of the issues raised in the plea. The court, however, asked the petitioner to submit representation to the government, in case he had further suggestions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/42-pvt-hospitals-notified-for-covid-19-treatment-in-state-haryana-to-hc/story-4aW6WsvCHEc3DvOQmKljrO.html
09-07-2020||City||MBMC chief in home quarantine||The newly appointed Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) commissioner Dr Vijay Rathod is on a 14-day home quarantine after his deputy tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. A swab sample of the civic chief has been collect and the report is awaited. MBMC headquarters has not been sealed yet but many of the staffers have been advised to go in home quarantine.So far, Mira-Bhayander has seen 4,808 cases, with 175 cases on Wednesday, and 176 deaths. Former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis had visited MBMC headquarters on Monday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mbmc-chief-in-home-quarantine/story-OS7CuOCfNWpRxsBminQ5kL.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Teenager stabbed to death in Dharavi||A 17-year-old fruit vendor was stabbed to death by three persons in broad daylight in Dharavi area on Wednesday.According to Dharavi police, the victim lived with his parents at Subash Nagar area. Three unknown persons stabbed the minor with knives when he was sitting alone at around 1.30pm.People who witnessed the incident informed the police and rushed the victim to Sion Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, said a Dharavi police officer.“The victim and accused live in the same vicinity, but the reason for the attack is still not clear. Police officers are inquiring about the incident. None of the accused have been arrested yet. Dharavi police has registered a case of murder against unknown persons and are trying to identify the accused,” said deputy commissioner of police Pranaya Ashok.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teenager-stabbed-to-death-in-dharavi/story-EgsnxL9VWpljHph5RGBsoN.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||HC reprieve for 62 textile units in Malegaon||In a major reprieve for 62 textile units from Malegaon engaged in sizing of yarn used for manufacturing of grey cloth, the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday stayed notices issued by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) that refused to grant consent to operate the units.The bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Riyaz Chagla also restrained the regional offices of MPCB from taking any coercive steps, such as disconnection of electricity, water and other basic amenities, against the textiles units pursuant to the notices issued on May 18, 2020.MPCB had issued the notices primarily on the grounds that the 62 units were located in non-conforming zones, and asked the owners of the units to submit adequacy reports either from NEERI or Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay. The unit owners were also asked to submit no-objection certificate issued by the city engineer of the Malegaon Municipal Corporation with recommendation to operate the industry at their present location, as a pre-condition for granting consent to operate.The unit owners have moved HC contending that the notices were illegal, arbitrary and oppressive. Their counsel, advocate Manoj Harit, claimed that they had not violated any of the conditions imposed while granting consent to operate.That apart, Harit said, the issuance of the show-cause notices with only a 15-day period to reply during Covid-19 pandemic reflected a mechanical approach. “Getting reports from NEERI or IIT within such a short span of time during this pandemic is impossible and therefore, the notices are required to be stayed,” he added.Advocate RV Govilkar, representing MPCB, opposed the prayer and submitted that the notices were issued in compliance with the principles of natural justice. He added that the petitioners must respond to the show-cause notices and satisfy the statutory authority about the fulfilment of conditions to get consent to operate. The bench found substance in the argument advanced on behalf of the petitioners. It said MPCB has the powers to direct closure or regulate operation of an industry under section 33A of the Water Act and section 31A of the Air Act, but these powers are subject to provisions of the respective Acts, and the authority will have to follow other provisions of the Acts, before invoking the powers. “It is not an unguided power to be exercised dehors the provisions of the two Acts.”Besides, the judges noted that the Malegaon Municipal Corporation had not yet submitted its reply regarding verification of the industrial units within non-conforming zone. “That being the position, a prima facie view can be taken that the impugned show-cause notices have been issued without jurisdiction, and that too hastily,” said the bench while staying the notices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-reprieve-for-62-textile-units-in-malegaon/story-Up1SApbb8iz8ZB8J5dnw2K.html
09-07-2020||City||KDMC ropes in 100 volunteers to carry out Covid-19 survey||More than 100 volunteers joined hands with the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) to conduct door-to-door survey to check residents for symptoms of Covid-19, screen them and report to the civic body.In the past two days, volunteers have screened temperature and oxygen level of 10,000 residents.“Our team checks a person for symptoms like fever and oxygen level fluctuation. If a person is found with these symptoms, we record their details and send it to the nearby KDMC primary health centre. Following this, the civic body conducts rapid antigen tests on them the next day,” said Nilesh Kale, a volunteer.The volunteers, aged between 20-40 years, have been divided in three teams, two teams deployed at Dombivli and one at Kalyan, to carry out the survey for four days. “After four days of carrying out survey, they will be asked to be quarantined for the next four days at the school. They will be tested if required and given treatment if tested positive,” said Kale.“The volunteers will work on ground-level to help identify more Covid patients and treat them on time. This will help curb the spread,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner.“Those patients detected through this survey will be tested for the infection with the use of rapid antigen test kits. NGOs or social groups willing to help in the survey can come forward,” said Suryavanshi. The civic body has recently acquired 10,000 rapid antigen kits for mass testing.KDMC recorded 471 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths on Wednesday. The number of cases has crossed the 10,000-mark with the total number at 10,351 while death toll stood at 158.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-ropes-in-100-volunteers-to-carry-out-covid-19-survey/story-cRDavKHbptTBOvSOHkfyBP.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||BMC calls Fadnavis’ claims of reduced testing ‘baseless’||After leader of Opposition in the state assembly Devendra Fadnavis criticised the civic body for inadequate Covid-19 testing, BMC denied the allegations, saying that daily testing has only increased by introducing antigen tests and easing testing conditions in private clinics. “It was relieving to see yesterday’s Covid cases in Mumbai coming down to 806 until I realised that only 3300 samples were tested. Are we playing with the lives of Mumbaikars?” Fadnavis had tweeted on Wednesday. In a clarification issued later the same day, BMC said, “All such claims are baseless.” The civic body said that nearly one lakh antigen tests are being conducted, and by allowing testing in private clinics without any prescription, it has increased the daily testing average from 4, 000 daily tests earlier, to 5, 500 daily tests as on July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-calls-fadnavis-claims-of-reduced-testing-baseless/story-tMiGF1boslEh26pRi2lRdL.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Infection curve to rise as contagion spreads to other districts in Haryana||In a worrying sign, forecasts made by the Haryana health department have indicated a rise in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the next 10 days.This despite the fact that the number of new infections in the last two weeks — from 3,427 (June 15-21) to 3,194 (June 22-28) to 3,176 (June 29-July 5) — has declined.The fresh calculations peg the number of cumulative infections at over 23,000 by July 18. The projections are on the basis of July 7 data by taking into account an average increase of about 453 infections every day. However, on a brighter note, the forecasts also indicate an improvement in the number of patients cured of the infection — pegged at 19,156 — and a dip in the number of active cases per day — predicted to be 3,853 — by July 18.Top health officials attribute the predicted spike to wider resumption of normal day-to-day activities and movement of a large section of population across several districts. Officials said gradually, the infection will also move towards the north from the southern districts.“The number of cases in Gurugram and Faridabad has stabilised at a particular level and the districts throw up almost identical numbers everyday. However, there are other districts like Rewari and Rohtak which are witnessing a spurt,” said additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora. He said industrial zones such Rewari’s Bawal and Dharuhera, where economic activity has resumed and transportation of men and material is in large numbers, are the key contributors to the infection tally. “What eventually matters is the number of active cases and not the cumulative infections. If the number of active cases is below 5,000, then there is not much to worry about,” Arora said. Slow contact tracing in Gurugram, FaridabadAs per the health department statistics, Haryana has done well overall in tracing the contacts of infected persons across the state, achieving a success rate of 72%. However, it needs to pull its socks up in the troublesome districts like Gurugram, where contacts of only 56% cases have been traced. “There still are 2,611 patients of whom the authorities have not been able to trace contacts. Considering the fact that there are less than 1,000 active cases in Gurugram and many of the patients whose contacts could not be traced would have recovered or died, the authorities need to get their act together,” said an official.Contact tracing in Faridabad, another hotspot district, is about 76% with the authorities not being able to trace contacts of 1,055 patients. “We will be focusing more on contact tracing efforts in these two districts and our success rate will improve,” said another official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/infection-curve-to-rise-as-contagion-spreads-to-other-districts-in-haryana/story-OJiFLtaFkei80F9zuModpL.html
09-07-2020||City||1 held for vandalism at Dr Ambedkar’s house||Matunga police on Wednesday detained one person in connection with the vandalism at Rajgruh, the residence of Dr BR Ambedkar in Dadar. On Tuesday evening, at around 6pm, someone trespassed into the Rajgruha compound and caused minor damage to the property. A complaint was filed by Bhimrao Ambedkar, one of Dr Ambedkar’s three grandsons. State home minister Anil Deshmukh immediately ordered an inquiry and the police detained one person on Wednesday afternoon.“The detained suspect looks similar to the one whose image was captured in the CCTV installed at the house, while he was damaging the plants in the compound of the house. We are questioning the suspect. He will be arrested if his involvement is found,” said Viresh Prabhu, additional commissioner of police (central region).The city police have already registered a first information report (FIR) against an unidentified person under section 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 447 (criminal trespass) of the Indian Penal Code.The accused, who was barefoot, entered Rajgruh premises through a three-foot-high gate which was unlocked. He damaged potted plants and broke some window panes when he threw stones at them. No CCTV cameras were damaged, a senior police official said.This is the second time that an unidentified person has been seen loitering around Rajgruha, according to the complainant Bhimrao. On July 6, Bhimrao had seen someone who ran away when confronted. Bhimrao had told police that the person caught on camera resembled the man he’d seen earlier, Prabhu said.The heritage structure of Rajgruha has a museum, Dr Ambedkar’s library of more than 50,000 books, and a memorial on the ground floor. Dr Ambedkar’s family live in other parts of the bungalow.Soon after the incident, a crowd of approximately 200 reached Rajgruh and were eventually dispersed by the police. Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader, Prakash Ambedkar in a video statement appealed to followers of Ambedkar to remain calm and maintain peace.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray described the incident as shocking. “Rajgruh is a revered place not just for followers of Dr Ambedkar, but for all communities. We will not tolerate anyone insulting Rajgruh and I have ordered the police to take strict action,” Thackeray said on Wednesday. Leaders from other political parties also expressed their shock at the incident, including housing minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Jitendra Awhad, who went to Rajgruh to meet the Ambedkar family members on Wednesday morning, on instructions from NCP chief Sharad Pawar.The former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis also spoke to Bhimrao after the incident. Bhimrao appealed to everyone to observe restraint and has demanded police security. “It will be better if a police guard is stationed here to protect the books,” he said. Police security has been assigned to Rajgruh since Tuesday evening.With inputs from Naresh Kamath||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-held-for-vandalism-at-dr-ambedkar-s-house/story-UG1k9N9OUg2cDCEH8rBdXN.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh: SFI protests against UGC, MHRD’s decision to conduct exams||Students’ Federation of India (SFI) on Wednesday staged a protest at Himachal Pradesh University against the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the ministry of human resource development’s (MHRD) decision to conduct exams.They demanded that the MHRD and the UGC should reconsider this decision and promote all students. During the protest, SFI members burnt a copy of the guidelines to express their displeasure. SFI has accused the central government of being incapable of controlling coronavirus spread and said that it was because of this that the educational institutions had to remain closed.SFI state secretary Amit Thakur said that more than 20,000 cases of Covid-19 are being reported throughout the country every day and if the exams are conducted then crores of students and lakhs of teaching and non-teaching staff will be at risk.He added that the classes were not being conducted as educational institutions had been shut since the last four months and online classes were being conducted as a ‘formality’.The decision to conduct examinations is their way to avoid their responsibilities, he added.Students are not mentally prepared for exams due to the ongoing pandemic and conducting exams in such a situation is nothing but an invitation for a community spread among students, he said.SFI has also appealed to students to share their opinions and suggestions in an online poll started by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-pradesh-sfi-protests-against-ugc-mhrd-s-decision-to-conduct-exams/story-zza3O2OAoRBshogIEotErJ.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana logs biggest single-day spike with 691 cases||Haryana on Wednesday registered the biggest-ever single-day surge in Covid-19 cases with 691 fresh infections, the health bulletin said. Three patients – two in Faridabad and one in Ambala – lost their lives to the virus, pushing the death toll to 282. The number of Covid-19 cases reported in the state stood at 18,690 on Wednesday.According to the health bulletin, Faridabad logged the maximum (156) fresh cases, followed by Gurugram (133) and Rewari (81). Among other districts where infections were detected included Sonepat (66), Rohtak (57), Hisar (38), Jhajjar (27), Panipat (21), Sirsa (20), Bhiwani (18), Mahendergarh (15), Ambala (14), Karnal (13), Palwal and Nuh (7 each), Panchkula (5), Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra and Kaithal (3 each), and Charkhi Dadri and Jind (2 each).While there were 4,302 active cases in the state, 461 patients recovered from the disease on Wednesday, taking the tally of those cured to 14,106.Among the worst-hit districts, Gurugram has 986 active cases and 6,316 cumulative Covid-19 cases, closely followed by Faridabad with 980 active and 4,926 total cases. Similarly, Sonepat has 509 active and 1,643 total cases, Rohtak and Rewari districts each have 284 active cases. At 89, Charkhi Dadri has the lowest active cases.As per the health bulletin, the doubling rate on Wednesday was 19 days, while the recovery rate was 75.47%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-logs-biggest-single-day-spike-with-691-cases/story-02X3mZs3s1rCbBmC0lZhsM.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Find ways to reduce waste dumped in mangroves: NGT||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the state bodies to come up with an action plan to reduce waste that is affecting mangrove forests and coastal wetlands along Mumbai.NGT’s principal bench passed an order on Tuesday, which was published on Wednesday, directing the state to report on the extent of garbage and develop a mitigation plan for its removal in six weeks.“We direct the divisional forest officer of the area and the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to submit the remedial measures which are required to be taken to solve the problem,” the order read. The next hearing date is scheduled on October 7.The bench was hearing an application by environment group Vanashakti on coastal water pollution and the impact of solid waste entering the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS). “If the matter is not addressed, TCFS and our mangrove forests will become garbage dumps very soon,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.The mangrove cell under the forest department had informed the NGT during an earlier hearing that 8,000 tons of garbage were removed from different mangrove forests in successive clean-up operations. The cell estimates Mumbai’s mangrove forests (6,600 hectares) have around 50,000 tons of plastic waste strewn due to improper waste treatment.“An action plan based on NGT’s orders will be prepared. We have already developed a strategy to tackle waste at TCFS under the sanctuary’s recently approved management plan,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell). According to MPCB, creeks, rivers and the sea along Mumbai’s 437.71 sq km coast is under threat from municipal waste including plastic that is directly discharged into nullahs. Untreated domestic waste accounts for 93% pollution for these water bodies, wetlands and mangrove areas, MPCB said.“Over 25% of total sewage (2,600 million litres per day) generated in Mumbai enters the sea without treatment. We have highlighted this to the NGT. While the forest department will develop the mitigation plan, it will be implemented by BMC, and monitored by us,” said YB Sontakke, joint director (water quality), MPCB. “Repeated reminders and directions for adequate waste management to BMC over the years have not been attended to.”BMC denied MPCB’s submission while stating that Mumbai’s eight sewage treatment plants (STPs) at marine outfall and lagoons were being upgraded as per the Centre’s latest norms. “Work at the Colaba STP has been completed. Tenders for six other STPs have been issued while one remaining will be completed within a month. It will take at least three years to enhance the treatment system. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, work slowed down. However, cognisance of previous NGT orders have been taken,” said Atul Rao, chief engineer, BMC’s Mumbai Sewage Disposal Project.Counsel for petitioners, Zaman Ali said as per an Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay report Mumbai needed 37 STPs for a lasting solution to this pollution. “MPCB had highlighted this to NGT. The bench during Tuesday’s hearing indicated that this needs to be considered in the remedial plan along with short-term and long-term measures,” he said.Stalin added, “Our suggestion before NGT for installing nets to strain solid waste from stormwater drains was accepted by state and Central agencies but the BMC has conveniently ignored it.”Sanjay Sadashiv, under-secretary, state environment department said, “Making use of nets as suggested by petitioners can solve this crisis much faster. BMC is duty-bound to stop waste from entering the sea, and is currently not implementing the Maharashtra Non-Biodegradable Garbage (Control) Act, 2006.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/find-ways-to-reduce-waste-dumped-in-mangroves-ngt/story-eC1jVWohvcHxd7MgSmM9KP.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Result of Mission Zero will show in 10 days, says BMC||Even as data shows the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) ‘Mission Zero’, a rapid action plan to check Covid-19 cases in Mumbai’s six suburbs, has brought down the numbers marginally, civic officials say it will take another 10 days for the situation to improve.The 36-day plan was launched on June 22 to focus on Mulund, Bhandup, Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli and Malad, with door-to-door screening, fever camps and mobile ambulances. The work kickstarted the next day. These areas contribute to more than half of Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases. The six wards are Malad (P-North), Borivli (R-Central), Dahisar (R-North), Kandivli (R-South), Bhandup (S) and Mulund (T). These areas now have a growth rate of over 2%, with the R-Central ward topping the list at 3.2%, followed by T ward with a growth rate of 3.1%. This is much higher than Mumbai’s average growth rate of 1.54%. When ‘Mission Zero’ was launched two weeks ago, all six wards had a higher growth rate with the highest in R-Central ward at 3.8%, followed by T ward at 3.7%. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s health department, said, “It is my estimate that situation in these suburban wards will improve in the next 10 days. Now, we have started antigen tests for high-risk contacts, which has increased the number of people we test.”Vishwas Shankarwar, deputy municipal commissioner of zone 7, who is in charge of R-Central, R-South and R-North wards, said, “Cases in my areas are stagnating since the rapid action plan started. There is a small reduction in cases as well. We have started rapid antigen testing also. High-risk contacts who are in quarantine facilities are tested on the 10th day of their quarantine. So far, we have observed 4% positivity. That means transmission is not high from the index patient. It is good news.” In the three wards, 579 rapid antigen tests have been conducted, of which 25 tests have shown positive results, while 554 have tested negative.‘Mission Zero’ also mandated BMC to trace up to 20 high-risk contacts per positive patient, as opposed to Mumbai’s average of 13 contacts for every positive patient. Assistant commissioners and deputy municipal commissioners in charge of the remaining wards could not be reached for a comment on Wednesday. On the other hand, the previously known hot spot of Dharavi (G-North ward) in the island city recorded three new cases on Wednesday. On Tuesday, Dharavi recorded only one case, its lowest since the day a case was first detected in this slum on April 1. The tally stands at 2,338, with 329 active cases.Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 1,347 new cases, and 62 new deaths. The case count is 87,856, and toll 5,064. Of the total cases, 23,543 are active. The fatality rate is 5.7% and doubling rate is 45 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/result-of-mission-zero-will-show-in-10-days-says-bmc/story-5OKrHMWabl3CnCTDmql8XJ.html
09-07-2020||City||7-month child dies of sudden infant death syndrome in Palghar||A seven-month-old tribal boy on Tuesday died of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) in Koch village, Mokhada in Palghar. The SIDS is an unexplained death of a child under one years of age and such a case is called crib death or cot death where the death is usually reported between midnight to early morning hours, said a doctor. The toddler was breast fed by his mother the same evening and later both went to sleep on Tuesday night but when his parents tried to wake him up, the boy was motionless. Post-mortem report of the child is awaited.The toddler was given the polio vaccination on Tuesday noon, but suddenly the boy died the same night. Dr Mahesh Patil, medical superintendent (MS) of Rural Hospital in Mokhada said, “The boy may have died due to SIDS and is quite rare. We conducted the post-mortem and have also sent the viscera for forensic analysis to the Kalina lab. The report is awaited.”The toddler was breast fed by his mother the same evening and later both went to sleep on Tuesday night but when his parents tried to wake him up, the boy was motionless and had passed away, said Dr Patil. The Mokhada police have registered a case of accidental death said PI Sanjay Ambhire of Mokhada.Vivek Pandit, ex-MLA and chairman of the government-appointed committee to check the status of the schemes for tribals, has asked the district health officials to probe and submit the reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-month-child-dies-of-sudden-infant-death-syndrome-in-palghar/story-6Ah3uidfoVKMr7fPQKEKIJ.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Did NCP just show the mirror to CM Thackeray?||The friction between the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), ruling partners in the state, seemed to have ended on Wednesday, as five Sena corporators from Parner town in Ahmednagar, who had joined the NCP, returned to the party.The development came after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar had a telephonic conversation in front of all corporators at the latter’s residence on Wednesday. On Tuesday evening, both the leaders also had a two-hour-long meeting at the mayor’s bungalow at Dadar, the proposed site for Bal Thackeray memorial. The corporators went to Matoshree, Thackeray’s residence in Bandra, and re-joined the party in the presence of the CM on Wednesday afternoon.Earlier, they had joined the NCP in the presence of Ajit Pawar in Baramati on Saturday.The transfer of 10 deputy commissioners of police (DCP) in Mumbai and poaching of Sena corporators by NCP had angered Thackeray, who heads the Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra. “It is not like our ministers were unaware of the consequences of the two moves on the coalition government, but it was done to point out that the chief minister should take all parties together. If he takes unilateral decisions while running the government, we can do so too and then there will be free for all,” said a top NCP functionary, wishing not to be named.What was the NCP upset with Thackeray?NCP leaders said the discontent among ruling partners was brewing for over two months over several transfers of senior officials such as municipal commissioners and collectors by the chief minister’s office and that too without keeping in loop the guardian ministers of the district. Not only the NCP, but Congress ministers and legislators, too, were unhappy. “The ministers were upset as they were unaware about what was going on in their own districts,” he said.The CM was very upset after Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh decided to transfer the 10 DCPs. Although Singh has the transfer powers, the Sena claimed the norm of consulting the CM was not followed. The home department is with the NCP and Singh had reportedly kept home minister Anil Deshmukh in the loop. Thackeray has not only stayed the transfers, but also directed the police officers to resume work in their original positions.When the issue was raised by the chief minister in his meeting with the NCP leadership on Monday evening, the latter pointed out all transfers made by the CMO in the last two months without informing the ministers concerned, said an NCP insider. On May 29, Solapur municipal commissioner Deepak Taware was transferred and guardian minister Dattatray Bharne wasn’t informed about it. Earlier, Parbhani municipal commissioner Ramesh Pawar was replaced by Devidas Pawar and guardian minister Nawab Malik did not know about it. This, despite Parbhani municipal corporation being ruled by the NCP, said another NCP leader.There has been a demand that transfers of all IAS and IPS officers be discussed in the coordination committee of the three parties, while transfer of officers from the rank of deputy collectors and others be made after consulting with the guardian ministers concerned. But the demand was overlooked conveniently, he added. However, all matters concerning the ruling partners have been resolved in the meeting held at Thackeray’s residence, stressed the NCP leader.Nilesh Lanke, NCP MLA from Parner Assembly constituency, who was leading the corporators to join his party, said the decision was taken as it sends a “wrong signal”. “Ajit dada held a meeting with the corporators and convinced them to return to their original party, as they are in a coalition government,” Lanke said.The Sena said the corporators returned to the party-fold as Thackeray was upset and the Sena had initiated action against them under the anti-defection law. Anil Desai, Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament, said, “All administrative decisions taken by the government are in coordination with all ruling partners. Uddhavji wasn’t happy with what had happened. We issued show-cause notices to all corporators asking why action can’t be taken against them under the anti-defection law. Following stern action taken by the party, they decided to come back to the party fold.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/did-ncp-just-show-the-mirror-to-cm-thackeray/story-3pawDJlzWl82uCZi2OUe7H.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Drop in rain intensity as Mumbai passes 1,000-mm mark for season||Even as the city and suburbs witnessed a drop in rain intensity on Wednesday with intermittent sunshine after a week, both south Mumbai and the suburbs surpassed the 1,000mm mark for the season.From June 1 to July 8 (8.30pm), the Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 1,005.2mm. In June, the weather observatory had recorded 524.5mm rain which was 97% of its monthly rainfall. In July so far, south Mumbai has received 480.7mm of 711.6mm of rain or 67% of its monthly average in the first eight days.Though monsoon onset was declared on June 14, India Meteorological Department considers seasonal rainfall from June 1, including pre-monsoon showers. This means Mumbai surpassed the 1,000mm mark in just over five weeks. Last year, Mumbai crossed 1,000mm on July 3 itself after 375.2mm rain was recorded in 24 hours.The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 1002.9mm rain from June 1 to July 8 (8.30pm). The suburbs had received its lowest June rain in five years at 395mm against the monthly average of 505mm or 78%. However, in July, the weather station has already received 72% of its average rain with 607.4mm rain against 840.7mm mean rain for the month in eight days.With intense rain activity between July 3 and 7, the suburbs and island city have recorded 30% and 28% excess rain for the period June 1 to July 8. Other than Mumbai, Thane (1,149mm), Ratnagiri (1,339mm), and Sindhudurg (1,634mm) have all recorded over 1,000 mm rain along the Konkan coast.On Wednesday, sporadic spells of light to moderate showers were witnessed both in the city and suburbs with pockets of sunshine during early morning and afternoon. Between 8.30am and 8.30pm Wednesday, the suburbs recorded 17.4mm rain while 5.8mm was recorded in south Mumbai.Meanwhile, after a drop in rain intensity on Wednesday, the IMD downgraded its forecast and removed rain warnings for the coming days for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar. On Tuesday, IMD had issued a yellow alert for all three zones from Thursday to Saturday. However, heavy rain warnings persist for south Konkan districts.“With few spells of intense rain, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region on Wednesday observed moderate rain over 12 hours. This trend is expected to continue on Thursday,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD. “After the active spell over Maharashtra, the well-marked low pressure moved further north towards the Gulf of Kutch and surrounding areas, marginally reducing the intensity of active monsoon conditions for the north Konkan coast. However, the offshore trough extending from Gujarat to north Kerala will lead to heavy to very heavy rain for south Konkan districts,” Hosalikar said.With a drop in rain activity, the day temperature in the suburbs on Wednesday increased 1.5 degrees Celsius above normal to 32.1 degrees Celsius while south Mumbai recorded 30.8 degrees Celsius, 0.4 degree Celsius above normal. The minimum temperature was close to the normal mark. Humidity was 92% in south Mumbai and 88% in the suburbs.The city and suburbs can expect cloudy conditions with the possibility of intermittent moderate showers on Thursday and Friday, predicted IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drop-in-rain-intensity-as-mumbai-passes-1-000-mm-mark-for-season/story-W2XM0CJOlTi66SwiwI9slL.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Thackeray approves new members of State Board for Wildlife||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray’s approval of new members led to the reconstitution of the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL) on Tuesday late evening. The new-look 29-member board was formed eight months after the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government came to power last November.SBWL is responsible for taking key conservation-related and policymaking decisions for all 49 wildlife sanctuaries, including six tiger reserves, five national parks, and protected forests in Maharashtra. It also issues clearances for development projects, suggests wildlife mitigation measures, and is the recommending body for notification of new protected areas. The board will be able to exercise powers in line with the Wildlife Act, 1972. SBWL authorities had last met in December 2018, due to which several key decisions, including translocation of big cats, the fate of big-ticket development projects, and wildlife measures have been on hold over the past 18 months. On Tuesday evening, the Maharashtra government announced and published a government resolution (GR) that the CM would be the chairman of the board, with forest minister Sanjay Rathore as vice-chairman.Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) (wildlife), was appointed the member secretary of SBWL starting July 7, a post which has a fixed three-year tenure.HT had reported on May 17 that the state chief wildlife warden had written to the Maharashtra government, drawing attention to the defunct SBWL and requesting its immediate reconstitution.SBWL is the nodal authority that takes decisions on major research projects in wildlife zones.“It is an important body for all wildlife-related activities in the state. The reconstituted board will give an impetus for wildlife conservation in Maharashtra,” said Kakodkar.SBWL’s new meeting date is yet to be announced. “We hope a meeting is convened urgently to take several pending decisions on the lines of similar exercises that have been undertaken by the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL), under the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), via video-conference links because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic,” he added.SBWL’s final recommendations on key development projects such as the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train; wildlife mitigation measures for Mumbai-Nagpur expressway (Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg); 126km-long Virar-Alibag multi-modal corridor; railways’ dedicated Delhi-Mumbai freight corridor; Goregaon-Mulund tunnel which will pass through the boundaries of Sanjay Gandhi National Park and Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary, and two interstate irrigation projects Pranahita Chevella and Chanaka-Korata between Maharashtra and Telangana have been pending since December 2018.Other members of SBWL include state environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray; minister of state (forests) Dattatraya Bharane, and Dheeraj Deshmukh, a member of the Maharashtra legislative assembly (MLA).Environmentalist Bittu Sahgal from Mumbai; Kishor Rithe from Amravati; Anuj Khare from Pune; Vishwas Katdare from Ratnagiri; Kundan Hate from Nagpur, and Suhas Waingankar from Kolhapur are among the non-government members of SBWL.The board will also include a representative each for the MoEFCC, Maharashtra Police, Indian Army, Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), Botanical Survey of India, Bombay Natural History Society, Wildlife Institute of India, Wildlife Conservation Trust, and commissioners of both state fisheries and animal husbandry departments. “SBWL is the highest wildlife policy-making body in the state. Maharashtra has followed several good practices since 2010 while dealing with the negative impacts of infrastructure projects. The new-look SBWL will take this work forward. Besides, CM Thackeray himself is a wildlife lover,” said Rithe, a non-government member of the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thackeray-approves-new-members-of-state-board-for-wildlife/story-BsPXXQ3LGGH4cYMCKZqz0M.html
09-07-2020||City||Overworked doctors at Panvel hospital write to civic chief for reinforcements||Overworked and short-staffed, the doctors at the sub-district hospital in Panvel – a dedicated Covid-19 hospital (DCH) – have written to the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) commissioner complaining about the shortage of manpower to deal with coronavirus cases at the facility. At least six doctors on bond have also complained of not receiving their salary for the past two months.The 150-bed Dr Nanasaheb Dharmadhikari Sub-District Hospital is the only civic-run DCH in the PCMC jurisdiction apart from the trust-operated MGM Hospital in Kamothe. Five other private dedicated Covid-19 health centres (DCHC) and two Covid-19 care centres (CCC) have also been established.The hospital, which requires 30 staff members, including 18 medical officers, is currently operating at a strength of 10 to 15, with merely six medical officers, as per a letter written from the hospital to the Raigad collector and civic commissioner last week. Moreover, at least three doctors from the hospital have been re-assigned to work at Konkan Bhavan – the divisional office of the five districts of Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, and a fever clinic.“We are working for over 60 hours a week with little rest. We are not shying away from our duty, but it has ultimately taken a toll on us. Three of our doctors are aged over 55 years and suffer from diabetes and hypertension. They are working despite the high risk because we have no choice,” said a doctor from the hospital, requesting anonymity.The doctor added that only one physician is available, and to make up for the shortage, gynaecologists and paediatricians are performing the physician’s duties.“While we understand these are exceptional times, one physician cannot possibly look after 150 patients. Many patients are admitted with 30% saturation of oxygen levels, and they need immediate intensive care. We have eight ICU beds, which are occupied at all times,” he added.Another doctor at the hospital said that at any given time, at least 40 patients are on oxygen support. Additionally, only six doctors are available per shift, and they are pulling extra night shifts. The doctors are further stretched thin as the DCH is also a swab collection centre.A 27-year-old doctor from the hospital tested positive last week, after which the hospital superintendent Dr Nagnath Yempalle wrote to PMC commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh highlighting the doctors’ issues.Confirming the shortage of staff, Dr Yempalle said, “We currently have 14 doctors, and all of them are overburdened. We have requested reinforcements and additional staff. Regarding ventilators, we only have a capacity of 10 and are properly equipped on that front. We handed over five extra ventilators to MGM Hospital in Kamothe.”Meanwhile, a senior doctor privy to developments on the matter, said they are planning to advertise for the recruitment of additional doctors at the hospital.“We are trying for three to four extra doctors, which will be advertised and decided based on applications,” he said.Six doctors on bond have not received remuneration for the last two months. The hospital administration informed them that the government has not cleared the grants, so the salaries are stuck. Bonded doctors are required to work at a government-run hospital or medical facility for a stipulated period after graduating from government medical colleges.Civic commissioner Deshmukh said, “The head of the department should talk to me. If some doctor is not paid, their salaries might be in the process and they will be paid. They will not be made to work for free.”The commissioner refused to comment on the shortage of doctors at the hospital and said it is an administrative matter which will be dealt with internally.Despite its staff shortage, the Panvel DCH has reported a good recovery rate so far. Since the start of the pandemic, 1,180 patients have been admitted there, of which 914 have recovered and been discharged. Twelve patients have died, including positive and suspected Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/overworked-doctors-at-panvel-hospital-write-to-civic-chief-for-reinforcements/story-dK7hXy9QXJFAIdd9bt5V3M.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Cabinet empanels 15 district co-op banks, 2 regional rural banks, IDBI for government salaries, pension, investment||After withdrawing its accounts from six private banks after the new government came to power, the state cabinet on Wednesday allowed the empanelment of 15 district cooperative central banks (DCCB), two regional rural banks (RRB) and IDBI for government investment and salary accounts.The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, had scrapped its agreements with six private banks in March. The earlier government’s decision to rope in certain private banks had led to allegations of favouritism.The MVA government published the list of nationalised banks with which agreements were made for salary and pension accounts, and investment. The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to include the DCCBs, RRBs, and IDBI in the list of banks through which it would be conducting transactions. The cooperative banks are the backbone of the rural economy, while the other two banks have state and central government stakes, the statement by the government mentioned.“The finance department enters into a contract with these banks with conditions related to the interest rates and service charges on salary and pension. We had already finalised contracts with nationalised banks in March this year. There will be fresh contracts with these banks added on Wednesday,” said an official from the finance department.The state cabinet also decided to revise its lease rent levied for 490 sqm allotted to the food court at Juhu Chowpatty according to a Supreme Court order. Of the 80 stalls at Juhu Chowpatty, 38 are on state government land, while 42 are on 794 sqm owned by the Airport Authority of India (AAI).AAI had reduced the rent as per the court order. The state government has now brought it down at par, a move that is expected to lead to revenue reduction by ₹6.39 crore.The state cabinet has also decided to keep the rate of Shiv Bhojan thali at ₹5 for three more months till September. The rate was reduced on March 30, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Additionally, the cabinet gave its approval for the conversion of excessive milk into skimmed milk powder to avoid losses to dairy farmers. The demand for milk has reduced by 17 lakh litre a day, owing to the Covid-19 lockdown announced in March.Cabinet to amend MRTP Act for extra time to work on DPThe Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to amend the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices (MRTP) Act, to seek extra time lost during the lockdown for the completion of procedures related to development plans (DP), excluded parts (EPs) and regional plans.Section 148-A of the MRTP Act gives powers to municipal corporations to extend the deadline for the process in case of a lapse of time because of the code of conduct or court orders. “This will help in the extension of the deadline of the EP for Mumbai and Shirdi, and DP of Aurangabad, Beed, and Nanded,” said an official from the urban development department.The official, however, clarified that the period of the lockdown is yet to be decided as it still has not ended.‘Give extension to all development boards’Congress leaders Ashok Chavan and Nitin Raut demanded that extension be given to the Vidarbha Development Board, Marathwada Development Board and Development Board for the Rest of Maharashtra on an urgent basis. While the five-year extension to these boards, meant for equal distribution of development funds to all regions, ended on April 30, the extension proposal has been put on hold as the MVA government wants to appoint representatives from three parties. The government is also considering separate boards for north Maharashtra and Konkan regions. It is also planning to add the word ‘statutory’ in their names as it was dropped by the previous Fadnavis government. Congress ministers said that the decision should be taken at the earliest as sentiments of the people from Vidarbha and Marathwada are linked with the boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cabinet-empanels-15-district-co-op-banks-2-regional-rural-banks-idbi-for-government-salaries-pension-investment/story-3PJAIta1KBy2FCLrjs77HI.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||6,603 new cases take Maha Covid-19 count to 223,724||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count reached 223,724 on Wednesday after 6,603 new infections were reported, even as hotels and lodges reopened their shutters. The number of new cases rose after recording relatively fewer fresh cases for three consecutive days till Tuesday. The state has 91,065 active cases, according to the health department. The number of recovered patients also increased to 123,192 after 4,634 patients recovered and were discharged from various hospitals across the state. The recovery rate of the state has improved to 55.06%.Wednesday’s single-day jump was the second highest after Saturday, which saw 7,074 cases. Maharashtra crossed the grim 2-lakh case mark in 17 weeks since the first case was reported on March 9. The state on Wednesday recorded 198 more deaths, pushing the toll to 9,448, health officials said. The highest one-day toll of 295, too, was reported on Saturday.Mumbai’s case tally reached 87,856 after 1,347 cases were reported in the past 24 hours. The city has 23,543 active cases. On Tuesday, the city had recorded 785 cases, lowest single-day spike in the last 57 days. Mumbai’s toll stands at 5,064 after 62 deaths were reported. On June 27, Mumbai reported its highest single-day spike of 2,077 cases. Health experts said that the decline in new cases will have a significance only if it sustains for 10-14 days. After the single-day spike in cases crossed the 7,000 mark, the state reported a relatively lower increase in new cases — 6,555, 5,368 and 5,134 — on July 5, July 6 and July 7, as against 7,074 cases on July 4. “Though it is a good sign, the three-day period actually has no significance. In case of such a pandemic, we will have to monitor the trend for over a period of seven to ten days and if it continues to reduce for 14 days, then we will be in a position to say that it is a very good sign,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, public health expert, who is also heading the communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state.In the past eight days (since July 1), the state recorded 48,965 cases, as against 302 cases in March, 10,196 cases in April, 57,157 cases in May and 102,172 cases registered in June. It means, on an average, the state is getting as many as 6,120 cases per day.Before that, a sharp surge in cases was observed in the previous 12 days — as on June 24, the state had 3,890 cases, which rose to 4,841 the very next day. It then recorded over 5,000 cases for five days and over 6,000 cases for two days and crossed 7,000 on July 4.The state is also wary of the surge in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). In the region, the cases have increased to 138,695 cases (on July 8) from 55,086 cases on June 3, when the state decided to provide relaxations in red zones, which includes MMR.Along with spike in cases, the state is also facing a large number of deaths on a daily basis. In the past eight days (since July 5), it has recorded 1,442 Covid-19 casualties.The state has recently decided to form task-force of expert doctors in all districts to control the situation.With 9,448 deaths, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded as 4.22%. It is second highest in the country after Gujarat where CFR is 5.26% with 1,977 deaths (37,550 cases) till Tuesday, according to statistics shared by the state medical education department.Maharashtra still has highest number of deaths across states in the country.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that they are focusing on reducing CFR and for this they have decided to increase daily number of tests in the state. “We have decided to conduct more testing so that more people can be traced and CFR as well as positive rate against total testing can be reduced and be brought under 10%,” Tope said.Currently, the positive rate against total tests is 18.77% as 223,724 tests were found positive out of total 11,91,549 samples tested so far.He said that the state is doing more tests than the target of 140 per day against per million population in each district set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Currently, 47,072 people have been kept in institutional quarantine and 6,38,762 people have been put under home quarantine across the state. The health minister said the existing institutional quarantine facilities in Metro cities need to be augmented, considering aggressive contact-tracing in slum areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-603-new-cases-take-maha-covid-19-count-to-223-724/story-5Cmgzdw88rTOIGSaWKbfKP.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Act against government officials shirking Covid duties: HC||Coming down heavily on negligent and errant officials who have been shirking their Covid duties, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has sought criminal proceedings against such officials. The court, while hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL), was informed that though the court in an earlier hearing on July 3 had issued strict orders to public servants to do their duty diligently and report to work, the situation remained unchanged.A division bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice SD Kulkarni, while hearing the report of advocate Rajendra Deshmukh, senior counsel appointed as amicus curiae, was informed that despite the court’s order, there was still no discipline among public servants and many in charge of Covid-19 control programme were not reporting on duty.Public prosecutor DR Kale submitted a compilation of details on actions taken against errant officials, as sought by the court. The suo motu PIL had been initiated by the court after concerns were raised over the spike in Covid-19 cases and lack of coordination between various authorities in Aurangabad. Kale further submitted that Aurangabad city would go under a strict nine-day lockdown from July 10 and all necessary steps would be taken to contain the spread of the virus.After perusing records submitted by the district superintendents of the police, the court noted that show-cause notices were issued to private hospitals, but their replies were not produced. The court said, “The authorities are expected to take further criminal action against those hospitals not complying with the orders, as only after that the beds will be made available for patients.”With regards to the errant officials, the court observed, “If the public servants, to save their own lives, are shirking responsibility, then it can be presumed that there is no use of them in the system. After taking criminal action against them, they can be removed, and this way the system can be cleaned.” The court then posted the hearing on July 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/act-against-government-officials-shirking-covid-duties-hc/story-8u5TSTRIYaiT35ZoWUhoMP.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Private schools violate SOPs, conduct online classes for lower grades: Parents||Even as the state education department has banned online learning for students up to Class 2, parents said that several private schools affiliated to boards like Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) are still conducting sessions with students in these classes. On June 15, the state government issued a set of standard operating procedures (SOP) to bring in some uniformity and regulation regarding online learning across schools in Maharashtra. As per the SOPs, schools cannot conduct online classes for students up to Class 2. Even after the guidelines came into effect, several private schools are reportedly conducting online learning sessions with children, according to parents. “The school has started conducting a few Facebook Live sessions for students, which are not made mandatory. But the fact that teachers are conducting these sessions is pushing most parents to attend them to ensure that their kids do not lose out on anything,” said the parent of a student from a school in Andheri.Aditi Save, whose son studies in a Thane-based school, said that teachers had circulated links to the classes on parent WhatsApp groups. “When a few parents tried to point out the rules, they told us that the SOPs do not apply to non-state board schools,” said Save.Vishal Solanki, education commissioner confirmed that the SOPs were framed for all schools in the state. “They are binding on all schools of all boards across the state,” he said.An official from the education department said parents who wish to complain about schools violating SOPs, can write to the department. “They can write to the nodal officers who have been appointed by the state to hear complaints,” said the official.Meanwhile, over 800 parents in the state have signed an online petition urging the state government to conduct an audit of private schools that were charging more than ₹30,000 as fees during the current academic year.“Some schools are also charging transport fees and various activity fees at a time when students are at home. They are charging exorbitant fees and the government needs to look into it,” reads the petition started by Anubha Sahai, president of the India Wide Parents Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/private-schools-violate-sops-conduct-online-classes-for-lower-grades-parents/story-7j2El1lt6FbUpUQB64LqbJ.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||30% hotels resume business after government partially opens up sector||Barely 30% of hotels and establishments providing accommodation facilities resumed business on Wednesday in Maharashtra after the government announced on Monday that it would allow them to reopen amidst the lockdown.The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), an apex body of hoteliers, said around 3,192 of the total 10,643 hotels restarted their businesses on Wednesday.Most five-star hotels like Taj Mahal Palace, ITC Grand Central, and Trident hotels started their operations on Wednesday. There was, however, a lukewarm response from patrons.Since the state government has mandated hotels to resume their operations with 33% capacity, many establishments have opted to stay shut and wait for conditions to improve.Many blamed shortage of staff, lack of travel facilities, and the unviable proposition to operate at 33% capacity.According to Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president, HRAWI, there were multiple reasons for such a weak response. “Many of the hotels don’t have staff as their workers, who were migrants, have not yet returned. Another problem is that since the establishments were closed for months, hoteliers have monetary issues and instead of starting in a huff, are choosing to wait and watch for some days to see how things unfold,” said Kohli.Kamlesh Barot, who manages Empresa Hotel at Andheri, also contended he received no bookings on Wednesday. “This was expected as flights have stopped,” said Barot. “However, we had to start,” he added.Juhu Residency did not open its establishment on medical safety grounds. “We feel that Covid-19 is still an issue, and hence, we are not ready to put both our patrons and staff at risk,” said Sujay Shetty, director of the hotel.As a part of Mission Begin Again, the state government on Monday unveiled rules for hotels to conduct business. It notified that restaurants at hotels and guest houses will be available only for resident guests. The swimming pools, gymnasiums, playing areas, gaming arcades are to be closed to all guests, and gatherings of more than 15 people at these hotels have been prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-hotels-resume-business-after-government-partially-opens-up-sector/story-fRoKpKceEvV7YcPlIu06IM.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 impact: A contactless common mobility platform on cards||With authorities exploring the potential of contactless ticketing, Covid-19 may change the way Mumbaiites use public transport. In a meeting held on Tuesday, chaired by the state’s urban development minister Eknath Shinde, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) approved a revised proposal to create a “journey planner”, which is a mobile application under MMRDA’s integrated ticketing services (ITS) project. The authority is likely to invite bids to develop the application so that it can be rolled out in December. Once operational, Mumbaiites can use the application to plan their journey by making a payment on the app, which will create a QR code that can be used for the journey. The app will work across the Metro, the monorail, buses operated by the Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking, aggregator-managed cabs and suburban railways. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “It is an innovative product that we have been working on during the lockdown. Contactless ticketing is the future of transit, especially after a pandemic when we do not want to take any risks by making use of single-use tokens or tickets.” Currently, each mode of public transport in Mumbai – suburban trains, the Metro One, the monorail, BEST buses, autorickshaws and taxis – has its own ticketing and payment system and some of these must be done with cash. A commuter who wants to travel by a BEST bus, local train or app-managed cab can purchase tickets by generating three QR codes which can be shown at the start of the journey, making it completely contactless. The app would be similar to Finland’s Whim application, started in 2016, which allows commuters to plan and pay for trips across multiple modes of transport. Across the world, metropolitan cities have single or common mobility cards — London has the Oyster Card; Hong Kong, the Octopus card; Sydney, the Opal card; Toronto has Presto; and Manila has the Beep card. Amit Bhatt, director of transport, World Resources Institute, said, “Digital payment is a significant reform in public transport as it plugs the revenue loss in addition to providing much needed data for transit availability and demand. This coupled with paperless tickets will greatly mitigate the Covid risk.”Along with railways, the authority had been debating on either introducing an account-based system, in which a user’s account balance is on the server or a store-value card-based system, in which the balance will be stored on cards. The project also hit a stumbling block when the Central government stressed on the one nation, one card system. Under the revised proposal, MMRDA officials said, that commuters can also get a card, which will be made compatible with the National Common Mobility Card, and the RuPay card launched by the National Payment Corporation of India. Last year, MMRDA had also finalised the designs for the card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-impact-a-contactless-common-mobility-platform-on-cards/story-rr2wbwr9ym7oLIXPwIB0zH.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Multani disappearance case: Can’t share status report, it’s ‘internal communication’ with HC, says CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has reiterated its statement that it cannot share any records with the Punjab Police in connection with a 1991 case of alleged abduction and fake encounter of Balwant Singh Multani, involving former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini.The CBI also questioned the territorial jurisdiction of the application moved by the Punjab Police and refused to share the status report, saying it was an “internal communication” between the CBI and the high court. The case will now come up for hearing on July 14 when the Punjab Police will file a reply.Multani, who worked as a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO), was picked up, allegedly by police after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then Chandigarh SSP. Later, the police claimed that Multani, son of a former IAS officer, had escaped from the police custody and his whereabouts were not known.Last month, a case was registered against Saini and seven others in Mohali on a complaint from Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh.On June 6, the Punjab Police moved an application in the CBI court, Chandigarh, seeking documents of the preliminary probe as the case was initially investigated by the CBI in 2007.In its reply, the CBI had stated that though it registered an FIR on the directions of high court and conducted a preliminary inquiry, but the FIR was quashed by the Supreme Court in 2011. As the CBI keeps records of old cases only for five years, it weeded out the same.On June 8, the police filed another application, submitting that in 2016, the High Court had returned a status report to the investigating agency, which also included the documents, which they now want in the wake of an FIR.On Wednesday, in its reply with regard to the additional application moved by the Punjab Police, the CBI told the CBI court that it “does not possess any record” with regard to the case. With regard to the status report, the CBI stated that, firstly, it is “not traceable” and, secondly, it’s “internal communication” between the investigating agency and the high court and cannot be shared.The CBI also raised questions on the territorial jurisdiction of the application moved by the Punjab Police in the Chandigarh CBI court. It questioned the rationale behind Punjab Police filing applications in Chandigarh CBI court when the FIR was registered in Mohali.BoxEx-DGP Saini’s interim bail extended till July 10The court of additional district and sessions judge Rajnish Garg on Wednesday extended the interim bail of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini till July 10 in the Multani disappearance case. The case was registered against Saini on May 6 this year. Saini’s counsel APS Deol could not appear in the court citing personal reason, following which the judge extend the bail till July 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/multani-disappearance-case-can-t-share-status-report-it-s-internal-communication-with-hc-says-cbi/story-6ianed8FILDxFZHAoIdvxK.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Acute shortage of remdesivir and tocilizumab in Mumbai’||Anti-viral drug remdesivir and tocilizumab (a drug that modifies the immune system or its functioning), both prescribed for Covid-19 patients in the moderate to critical stage of the illness, are in short supply with chemists and distributors in the city, according to doctors and patients. They claim that drugs are available at five to 10 times the cost in the black market. The cost of remdesivir is between ₹5,000 and ₹5,500. The printed price of tocilizumab is around ₹92,000.HT has accessed the prescription of a Covid-19 patient admitted in a hospital in Navi Mumbai dated July 5, when the doctor prescribed two vials of remdesivir. Relatives of the patient said the drug was unavailable at the hospital. “We’ve been running from pillar to post to get the drug, but with no success. It’s not available anywhere,” said a relative, on the condition of anonymity. They’re still looking for the drug three days on.Remdesivir is the only drug approved by the United States food and drug administration for treating Covid-19 patients. While tocilizumab is still imported, remdesivir has now been certified to be manufactured by two Indian companies Cipla and Hetero Drugs. According to DR Gahane, joint commissioner of the state’s food and drug administration, Hetero has supplied two or three batches of the drug in Maharashtra and around 7,500 units in Mumbai. Cipla’s first batch is yet to arrive in hospitals.“The demand is much higher than supply. Even people in places of power are not able to procure drugs,” said Dr Jalil Parkar, pulmonologist at Lilavati Hospital. He said that doctors prescribe at least six vials of remdesivir to treat a “moderate-to-critical” patient. “Two vials are administered on the first day and one each for the next four days,” he added. Kin of patients are supposed to check at the hospital for the availability of the drug and then look for it outside.With patients running from pillar to post, the shortage has given rise to a black market, said Abhay Pandey, president of the All Food and Drug Licence Holders’ Foundation.“It is a nexus. Black-marketeers are getting these drugs prescribed for asymptomatic patients on hospital letterheads without any signature of the doctor. They stock the drugs and sell it for around ₹25,000,” he said. The foundation has written to Maharashtra FDA to investigate the matter. However, the FDA has not come across any black-market complaints. “Our inspectors are reaching out to recovered Covid-19 patients to find out where they procured the drugs from. So far, we have not come across any patient who purchased the drug from the black market. But we are following the matter and if we find such a nexus, we will organise a raid and take necessary action,” said Gahane. Meanwhile, the FDA is monitoring the manufacture and dispatch of the drugs from the units of Cipla and Hetero. “Our focus is to improve production,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/acute-shortage-of-remdesivir-and-tocilizumab-in-mumbai/story-J6wpJCOtW34p0NhXWkTzuN.html
09-07-2020||Mumbai||1 more Mumbai cop dies of Covid; death toll in Maharashtra Police rises to 72||A 46-year-old naik attached to the Bhandup police station died of Covid-19 on Tuesday night, three days after he first showed symptoms of the virus. With this, the death toll in Mumbai Police has reached 44 while the total number of police personnel who succumbed to the virus across Maharashtra has risen to 72.According to police, the naik was active till July 4 when he felt a little uneasy, and on July 5 he took sick leave.On July 6, his son rushed him to Mulund’s Agrawal General Civic Hospital after he developed a serious breathing problem. He was not immediately tested for Covid. However, on seeing his condition, the doctors suspected him to be infected and treated him accordingly. Later, he was shifted to Gurunanak Hospital, Bandra, and his swab sample was collected for testing.“His oxygen saturation was very low. On Tuesday late night he succumbed. He was diabetic for the last four years. On Wednesday, his report revealed that he was Covid-19 positive,” said Paramjit Singh Dahiya, deputy commissioner of police, zone (VII).The naik’s colleagues who were in close contact with him at the police station have been asked to home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-more-mumbai-cop-dies-of-covid-death-toll-in-maharashtra-police-rises-to-72/story-50NDRV6YCxq7JsUSfNofeI.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||Special unit of traffic police, GMDA officials to check waterlogging||The traffic police have joined forces with Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to keep a watch on the waterlogging situation in the city through a multitude of CCTV cameras to prevent flooding in the city. The action by the civic agencies comes after waterlogging was witnessed in several parts of the city during the recent spell of heavy rainfall that battered the city earlier this week. A special flood control unit of the Gurugram traffic police has been set up for this purpose this year that will work along with MCG and GMDA officials. These officials together will keep a watch on over 300 cameras installed across the city. They will keep a special eye out for waterlogging, sewerage leaks, traffic breakdowns and jams. The flood control room will become operational from Monday.Chander Mohan, DCP, traffic Gurugram, who has charge of additional CEO, mobility GMDA, said that the special traffic police team will coordinate with other civic agencies to manage the situation during monsoon. “Areas where waterlogging takes place will be identified with the help of CCTVs and alert messages will be sent to teams deployed on ground. Immediate action would be initiated to fix the issues,” he said. The Gurugram traffic police has put 12 recovery vehicles, some ropes, and a crane on standby to ensure that vehicle breakdowns and similar matters can be resolved on the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/special-unit-of-traffic-police-civic-body-officials-to-check-waterlogging-this-year/story-mTRjuVC4sxjgomvsotV9QM.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||Week after reopening, malls bear deserted look in Gurugram||Though it has been a week since malls reopened in the city, business is yet to pick up, say managers of stores and malls, with the overall footfall remaining 15-20% of the usual. Factors such as cinema halls, which bring their own set of footfall, still being closed, apprehensions about venturing outdoors as number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases rise, and a lack of awareness about malls having reopened, due to absence of proper advertising, may be why patrons are keeping away, they said.The district administration ordered malls to shut down from March 18 when the city’s first Sars-Cov-2 cases began to surface. The government’s order, however, said that cinema halls would continue to remain closed, which, according to which mall association members and shopkeepers, is affecting their business.“The government has not given us permission to reopen cinema halls. The food court and the limited number of restaurants at our mall are also yet to reopen. As a result, there is no major draw for people to come. Although more than 90% of stores of the mall have now reopened, people are visiting only to purchase specific things from selected stores. Our footfall, hence, continues to remain extremely low and as of now is around 15% less than usual,” said Aman Bajaj, a member of the MGF Metropolitan Mall Association. The shopping centre is located on the Mall Mile.He added that the decision of reopening of malls by the government was sudden and gave them less than five days to prepare.“In the five days between reopening the mall, we were busy ensuring all shops are properly disinfected and sanitised, apart from ensuring that necessary safety equipment is procured and the staff is well informed about the enforcement of safety protocols. We are still getting used to this. As a result, we have had no time to advertise and inform people that malls have reopened. Without any advertisement and marketing, many people may not even be aware that we are open,” said Bajaj.On the first day of reopening, around 30-40% of stores were closed across all arcades in the city.Arjun, a member of the management at the CCDS store, which sells baking and kitchen goods at South Point Mall located on the Golf Course Road, said business as of now is at less than 20% of what it was earlier. He added that with the building not having any food court or cinema hall even prior to the lockdown, those who visited were a niche crowd.Apart from this, at least eight stores here have closed down during the lockdown. Barring two supermarkets, the rest of the plaza appeared to be deserted, with most shops having little to no visitors.“We anyway had a very niche crowd of visitors, even before the lockdown. Now, due to the disease outbreak, almost everyone is reluctant to step outside and, as a result, there is barely any footfall here. We saw a marginal improvement of about 5% in sales over the weekend but our business continues to be at 20% of what it used to be. We are not expecting the situation to improve anytime soon,” said Arjun.At the city’s popular Ambience Mall, despite seeing higher footfall than other plazas on weekends, business is far below the usual mark. Officials of Ambience Private Limited, though, said that with the “right kind of marketing” and more stores reopening by next week, they are hoping to attract more visitors.“Since reopening, on weekdays, we are witnessing an average footfall of 5,000-6,000, and over the weekend it is around 12,000-15,000. Prior to the lockdown, we used to have an average of 35,000-40,000 on weekdays, and around 75,000-90,000 on the weekends. As of now, only 60-70% of the shops have reopened and by next week we are expecting nearly 90% stores to reopen here, which includes food outlets and various brands through which we are expecting to generate a higher footfall. Simultaneously, we are also working on different marketing strategies to first inform people that malls have reopened and that necessary safety protocols are being followed,” said an official representative of Ambience Private Limited, asking not to be named.The few who have been to the arcades over the last week, however, maintain that despite the fact that they saw precautionary measures in place, they are still apprehensive to venture outdoors unless absolutely necessary.“I only visited one of the shopping centres on MG Road as I had to replace some parts of my mobile phone from the store I had purchased it from. Although necessary safety measures such as social distancing, temperature and mask check, hand sanitisers at all entry points, etc., were being followed, I am apprehensive from revisiting any time soon as I fear catching the Covid-19 disease. It will take me some time to readjust to the new norm before venturing outdoors more regularly,” said Manish Sinha, a resident of Sector 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-week-after-reopening-malls-bear-deserted-look/story-Oxo0OhyTMMpi2HkeUfjvfN.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||Web portal launched for all Covid-19 info from Gurugram, Haryana||The district administration on Wednesday launched a web- portal, coronaharyana.in, for all Covid-19 related information and data from the district and entire state. The portal has been built by Gurugrm Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) and contains details like availability of isolation and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds at different hospitals, test reports, number of cases in large outbreak areas, among other features.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe website will help citizens in getting access to all healthcare facilities at a time when coronavirus cases in the city have crossed the 6,000 mark. Through the portal, people can get details on all helpline number, isolation centres, quarantine, hospitals and laboratories for Covid-19 testing, a statement released by the district administration said on Wednesday. Locating hospitals will be easy as the portal has GPS coordinates of all health facilities and isolation centres. There are 42 isolation centres in the city and 40 hospitals in the city, where 1,486 beds have been reserved for Covid patients.To facilitate expat population living in the state, especially in Gurugram, the portal can be accessed in 108 languages, as per the statement. It also provides information like if a person is tested positive then what precautions should they take and who should they contact for further treatment. An official spokesperson said, people who have given their samples can check their reports online. Citizens can access the dashboard to see the Covid 19 affected areas in their cities and the number of cases in each of these areas. The deputy commissioner of each district has been appointed as nodal officer for the website||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/web-portal-launched-for-all-covid-19-info-from-gurugram-haryana/story-D177RDpukCVTh1TxxCttYP.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Use your ‘friendship’ with Trump to protect Indian students in US: Bhagwant Mann to Modi||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state chief and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Wednesday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to leverage his friendship with US President Donald Trump for the benefit of millions of Indian students studying in the US so that they are not made to leave the country.In a statement issued here, Mann said Trump administration’s decision to ask more than 2.5 million Indian students in the US to leave the country was disastrous.Terming the decision as shocking, Mann said foreign students studying in the US had paid large sums of money in fee to various colleges and universities and asking them to leave will cast a shadow on their future, besides the economic losses.Mann said he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and external affairs minister S Jaishankar, urging them to immediately get in touch with the White House to protect the interests of Indian students in the US.He said if Trump could authoritatively import hydroxychloroquine tablets from India, why couldn’t our Prime Minister exert pressure on the US to allow the hassled Indian students to stay back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/use-your-friendship-with-trump-to-protect-indian-students-in-us-bhagwant-mann-to-modi/story-igZy1jprAagaIfx8a99s4I.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram hospitals grapple with shortage of remdesivir||City hospitals are fast running out of the injectable antiviral drug remdesivir that is administered to moderately ill patients in emergency situations. The district administration said the supply of the drug is unable to keep up with the demand.A 100mg vial of the drug costs ₹5,400 and is manufactured by USA-based Gilead Sciences and is distributed in India by Hetero Healthcare Limited. Recently, two other companies were given approvals to sell the patented drug to hospitals in the country by the Drug Controller General of India. According to doctors treating Covid-19 patients, district drug control officials and the chemist association of the city, the availability of remdesivir in Gurugram is rather poor. “Currently, there are 250 vials available in the city in at least three-four big hospitals. The demand is high and supply is less,” said Amandeep Chauhan, district drug control officer, adding that only Hetero was currently supplying the drug to Gurugram.Medanta Medicity, which is treating at least 134 Covid-19 patients, said their stock of around 100 vials at the beginning of the week has run out. Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, critical care, Medanta Hospitals, said, “We don’t have any vials at present. There isn’t enough supply of the drug. The hospital sources it directly from the manufacturing company. If unavailable with us, patients will have to arrange it by themselves. We give them the prescription and the contact details of the person concerned with the manufacturing company in Maharashtra to provide the injection.” At Medeor Hospital in Manesar, a designated Covid-19 hospital. doctors are reluctant to prescribe the drug. “The supply chain of remdesivir is not robust, which raises questions on the quality of the drug,” said Dr Manoj Sharma, senior consultant and incharge – internal medicine. “The drug has been used in 3-4 patients earlier, where kin of the patients were asked to arrange for the drug on their own. A prescription was given to them with the hospital seal on it,” he said, adding that due to the hassle the family has to go through they hardly prescribe the drug. Dr. Manoj Goel, director of pulmonology at Fortis Memorial Research Institute, on the other hand, said that the hospital currently had the drug. Sharad Mehrotra, president, Gurugram Chemist and Drug Association, said, “We are getting lot of enquiries for remdesivir. There are no distributors of the drug in the city and so people are arranging it from Delhi-based distributors.” He said that the association has written to the manufacturing companies, and the state government to put into place a proper distribution policy.Dr. Saket Kumar, managing director, Haryana Medical Services Corporation limited, said, “The department is ensuring the supply is not affected by coordinating with manufacturing companies.” A spokesperson for Hetero Healthcare Limited said, “Vials have been provided to hospitals that have placed their requirement with us. On June 20, the company received the approval from the government for manufacturing the drugs. 3-4 days later, 20,000 vials were given to different hospitals in the country. To address the shortage, we have asked private and state-run hospital to furnish the drug stock with them. From July 13, sufficient stock will be available.”PREVENTING BLACK MARKETING With the possibility of hoarding and black marketing of the drug, the district drug control department has been on high vigil. On July 6, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (enforcement division) directed all state drug controllers to ensure remdesivir is not sold on the black smarket. “We have written to company to deploy their distributors in Gurugram. Hospitals are directly procuring the drug from manufacturers,” said district drug control officer Chauhan. “We have asked the hospitals to share the availability of remdesivir vials on a regular basis to ensure there is no scope for black market.”‘Not a cure’ Senior doctors of private hospitals, who have been treating critical patients said that remdesivir is not a cure. “As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guideline it is an experimental medicine. It is only given to Covid-19 patients who are moderate to severely ill, especially those who are fresh admission to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). It is not injected in patients who are in ICU for a long time,” said Mehta. Since the drug impacts liver and kidney, doctors prescribe the drug only after proper investigation. “After that, if the patient requires remdesivir we ask the family to sign a consent form as it is an experimental drug,” said Dr. Manoj Goel of Fortis Memorial Research Institute, adding that the drug is given to patients who have oxygen saturation level below 94%. “Data suggests that the drug improves the recovery rate by 31% but does not improve the mortality rate. It is effective only in the initial phase of infection,” said Goel, who has used the drug in over 15-20 patients who were critical.Ggm tally over 6,300As per the district health bulletin on Wednesday, 133 new cases were reported, taking the total count of infected person to 6316. Of which 987 are active case, 5227 have recovered, while 102 have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-hospitals-grapple-with-shortage-of-remdesivir/story-ahFUYjEAIpv6hJoDWjhOrN.html
09-07-2020||Delhi||In a month, Delhi increased ICU beds three-fold||The number of intensive care unit (ICU) beds in the city to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients have more than tripled in a month — from 582 on June 8 to 1,995 on Wednesday, government data showed.The 115 private hospitals in the city that had Covid-19 wards accounted for 1,325 ICU beds, almost double the number in the 11 public hospitals. The public hospitals include five each under the Delhi government and central government and one under a municipal corporation. The numbers include ICU beds with and without ventilators.As of Wednesday, there were 23,452 active cases of Covid-19 in the national capital, and 4,859 are in hospital. Private Covid hospitals in the city also have a higher occupancy rate of ICU beds. As on Thursday, government data showed around 66% of such beds in private hospitals were occupied, as against 40% in public hospitals.ICU beds with ventilators too have increased during the same period — from 507 to 955 — with almost 54% of them in public hospitals.ICU AUGMENTATIONSenior Delhi government officials said ICU beds were ramped up after roping in more hospitals, as part of a health care infrastructure augmentation plan put in place after a spike in Covid-19 cases. On June 19, Delhi deputy chief minister health minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds temporary charge of the health ministry, asked an advisory committee set up by the Delhi government to focus on ICU beds as the number of cases continued to grow. Since then, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has on multiple occasions stressed that Delhi needed more such beds. Covid-19 treatment rates in the city’s private hospitals were capped last month as well.On Wednesday, Sisodia told HT, “Delhi has set an example in the fight against Covid-19. When the number of Covid cases was increasing in June, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal left no stone unturned to bring the Centre, municipal corporations, NGOs, volunteer doctors and all resources together to enhance the health infrastructure in Delhi. He directed the health department to immediately ramp up the number of ICU beds in government hospitals.”“As a result, the ICUs at three main Delhi government hospitals Lok Nayak Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital were not only scaled up to almost triple their capacity, but the services in terms of patient care provided in the government hospitals is also at par with the private hospitals. Today we are in a comfortable position to tackle any emergency situation,” he said.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, said: “There was a shortage of ICU beds in Delhi before the Covid-19 pandemic hit the city. Now that the ICU capacity has been augmented, it should be permanent. They are needed to tackle day-to-day medical emergencies in Delhi other than potential waves of the pandemic in future.”“The occupancy rate of ICU beds in private Covid hospitals is higher because of two reasons — first, they offer more beds in general and, second, there is a perception about quality of service among people. In terms of patient care, government hospitals in Delhi have witnessed significant changes in the last few years, but there is still large room for improvement,” he added.The Delhi chief minister’s office on Wednesday also said the government planned to add 500 more ICU beds in Covid hospitals by the end of July.Gagan D Bharti, manager of Charity Beds, a non-profit organisation that has been helping people in Delhi avail beds during the pandemic, said: “In the last one month, Delhi has seen some stability in terms of demand for hospitals beds for two reasons. First, the number of total beds and ICU beds have increased. Second, people have also become more aware that not all Covid cases need hospitalisation.”“Delhi, however, needs a proportionately higher number of ICUs. It is because only severe Covid cases are landing in the hospitals and a large number of them would potentially need ICU. General beds’ availability would remain static even if there is a spike in cases again because most mild and moderate cases are isolated at home. In the last one month, 9 out of 10 people we helped with a hospital bed ultimately required ICU,” said Bharti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-a-month-delhi-increased-icu-beds-three-fold/story-WPnn75EO7sNGUFuKDQscJJ.html
09-07-2020||Delhi||Hashtags replace placards as dharnas go online||Being the national capital and seat of power, Delhi attracts all manner of dissenters from across India to places like Jantar Mantar and Ramlila Maidan, the country’s most famous protest venues. Through the year, the venues are alive with a cacophony of competing voices making themselves heard on megaphones.This year has been different. The coronavirus disease pandemic, ensuing lockdown and restrictions on public gatherings have confined the protestors indoors, leaving Jantar Mantar and Ramlila Maidan desolate. The demonstrators haven’t been silenced, though -- they have moved online with their placards and other paraphernalia of protests.Innovating and adapting, they now organise e- dharnas, e- strikes, e- memorandums and e- rallies—many of them on Zoom, their “Zantar Mantar.” So, you have traders seeking duty waivers from the government, staff protesting against employers for non- payment of salaries and students demanding scrapping of Delhi University’s online exams – all live on Zoom, Facebook and Instagram -- from their homes, placards in hand.Many take pictures or record videos of their at-home protests and post them on various social media platforms. And this trend of virtual protests, which started in April, is only picking up pace, what with the continuing curbs on large public congregations.Even activists opposed to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, have continued their protests online. They organised a three-day All India Online Protest Conference, in which students, artists, social and political leaders participated in a slew of curated events in mid-June.One event was billed “Artivism,” an online gathering of artists raising their voice against the CAA. Another was called “Shaheen Bagh Zinda Hai “(Shaheen Bagh is alive), named after the venue of a long-running protest against the law, in which women leaders from across the country spoke about how to take forward their campaign.“A lot of people were asking about the future of the anti-CAA movement, the idea behind the event was to send out the message that we may have been forced off the streets by the pandemic, but our democratic and peaceful model of protest is alive. We will be back on the streets once the coronavirus crisis is over,” said Aysha Renna, who represented Shaheen Bagh at the All India Online Protest Conference.“Corona is speeding up the shrinking of democratic spaces all over the world, and pro-democracy voices must find new ways of expressing themselves,” says Fawaz Shaheen, a Delhi-based lawyer and one of the organisers of the online event.Students at the vanguardThe most vocal and vociferous participants in these virtual protests have been students, who are organising online meetings, mass e- mail campaigns, and Twitter Storms ---with hashtags such as PromoteStudentsNotCorona; DUAgaisntOnlineExams; ScrapOBE, #EducationWithoutExclusion --- against DU’s decision to hold final-year exams and to demand an alternative evaluation scheme.On Monday, their two-month-long virtual campaign received a jolt when the ministry of home affairs (MHA) permitted universities to hold final-year examinations by September-end. Delhi University submitted to the Delhi high court on Wednesday that it had postponed the open book exams (OBE) for final-year students until next month. “We will continue our fight. The pandemic has greatly affected the mobilisation of people for protests. During our ongoing protests against DU authorities against online exams, we also protested in small numbers in front of the VC’s (vice chancellor’s) office with placards and then amplified these physical protests online. We have adopted a hybrid model of offline and online protests,” said Sumit Kataria, president of Students’ Federation of India (SFI), Delhi, a left-wing student organisation. “We firmly believe that given the worsening Covid-19 situation in Delhi and mental state of the students, it is wrong to hold exams.”Anil Sethumadhvan, a final year student of Ramjas College in Delhi who often participated in students’ and farmers’ marches before the pandemic, is currently part of a core group of students spearheading virtual protests against Delhi University authorities.He has not yet lost faith in digital protests. “Online tools, though not a replacement for physical protests, can be very effective. Look at the role they played in fuelling the recent Black Lives Matter movement across the world, ” said Sethumadhvan.Migrant crisis the triggerOnline campaigns have to be well- planned and require sustained effort to have any meaningful impact on the social and political processes, experts said.“The idea of online assembly has got a major boost during the ongoing Covid crisis, with civil society and activists adopting it like never before. But sustained efforts and dedicated campaigners are required to ensure these expressions of dissent are channelised into institutional change,” said Apar Gupta, executive director of the Internet Freedom Foundation, a Delhi-based digital rights advocacy organisation.Veteran activists said that what really fuelled online activism during the coronavirus crisis was the plight of migrants workers walking and cycling hundreds of kilometres to their homes in the hinterlands after losing their livelihoods in the cities during the lockdown enforced on March 25.“All activism remained suspended during the initial days of the lockdown, but the migrant crisis prompted activists across the country to go digital,” said Rajendra Ravi, an environment activist and a national convener of the National Alliance of People’s Movements, a coalition of people’s organisations across the country.“While online protests are important, they are as not participatory and democratic as physical protests because of low- digital literacy and lack of access to technology. You can tag a minister or any authority for that matter during a Twitter campaign, but he can easily ignore (you); it will be difficult for him to ignore a protest outside his office,” said Ravi.He also cautioned about virtual protests giving rise to armchair activists. “People may feel that by creating a few compelling social media posts, they have made their contribution. I believe that digital activism can play only a limited role in our country’s socio-political and economic context.”Shaheen agreed. “ We organised an online protest conference as we had no other way of expressing our dissent, but I think online protests are pushing dissenting voices into isolated echo-chambers; you end up talking to people who think like you. There is not much opportunity to persuade new people to join your cause,” he said, “Besides, there is the worrying issue of surveillance by authorities.”Gupta of Internet Freedom Foundation has a different take: “I think Jantar Mantar and other spaces of protest across India will renew and replenish after this pandemic is over with a new generation of tech-savvy activists,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-times-of-social-distancing-demonstrators-and-dissenters-move-online/story-Ec0m8iHEZT15o1S8Y3u5IO.html
09-07-2020||Delhi||To deal with home isolation violations, admin spares the fines, uses counselling||With nearly 14,651 Covid-19 patients being placed in home isolation in the national capital, the major challenge facing the administration is on how to deal with the numerous violations of home isolation guidelines. District officials say the violations are plentiful and range from offences such as tearing off stickers denoting the isolation term, stepping out of homes during the quarantine period, and not answering calls from officials calling to check on patient’s daily health status. Instead of penalising such patients and their family members, which seems harsh given that they are already battling a dreadful virus, the district administrations are now trying to counsel them. Health officials managing Covid care helplines across seven districts of Delhi said since the number of patients being placed in home isolation is increasing, violations of guidelines are also being reported.Data procured by districts shows that every day, at least 20-25 calls are received on their local helpline numbers reporting such violations.“We have given out helpline numbers on which any resident can call and report a violation. If they see a patient or a family member outside the house, they can report the incident. When we get such complaints, we get in touch with the patient or their caretaker. This is also followed by a detailed session of counselling of family members -- we inform them how their actions can affect the health of their neighbours,” said a helpline operator.The operator also said the counselling sessions are either conducted by health department officials or civil defence volunteers.Shashi Kaushal, district magistrate (northeast), said since most of the asymptotic patients are kept in home isolation, the violations, too, are numerous. The administration, she says, prefers to handle them tactically instead of penalising patients or initiating legal action against them.“There have been instances of either the patient or a family member tearing off the home isolation sticker or stepping out of the house. We send our volunteers to counsel them and make them understand the importance of home isolation and the seriousness of the pandemic. The Covid-19 patient and his/her family members are already going through a lot and subjecting them to harsh punishments is not right,” Kaushal said.Nitin Shakya, Covid-19 nodal officer in the New Delhi district, said though there are provisions to take legal action against violators, in most cases, counselling works. “The Epidemic Act allows the administration to lodge an FIR against repeat offenders and/or a fine of ₹500 for offences such as not wearing masks, but this step is hardly considered against patients in home isolation. We have seen that counselling works well to make patients and their families understand what they should not do,” he said.Tanima Sarkar, a resident of south Delhi’s Kalkaji, who completed her home isolation along with two others of her family on Friday, said they were reported by a neighbour after her brother stepped outside to dispose of trash.“While our waste was collected as biomedical waste, the garbage from the rest of the house was accumulating. My brother had tested negative for Covid-19 and we had zero interactions with him. After the complaint, we had a session with officials and we explained the reason for him stepping out, and the administration arranged for sanitation workers to pick up our garbage. This 14-day isolation is not easy for anyone but the health teams were cooperative,” she said.A senior official of the central district also said any penal or legal action is generally avoided. “Patients are already going through a lot of pain and social stigma and booking them for violations will only make things worse. We stick to counselling and persuade them to follow rules for the greater good of society,” the official, on condition of anonymity, said.Two health officials from east and south districts, who have been handling such complaints, said apart from talking to patients in case the violations continue, patients are referred to get professional help.“Many patients are emotionally affected on testing positive for the virus. There is a sense of shame, guilt and also frustration. Many tear off the posters and stickers only because they do not want neighbours to know that they have contracted the infection, fearing the stigma. When we speak to patients, some have also shown violent tendencies and in such cases, we have to involve a professional psychiatrist, who then conducts sessions simultaneously during the course of the Covid-19 treatment,” an east Delhi health official, on condition of anonymity, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-deal-with-home-isolation-violations-admin-spares-the-fines-uses-counselling/story-UKTCbaWqOwcz56cBgJnjwL.html
09-07-2020||Education||DU postpones final year online open-book exam till August 15||The Delhi University (DU) on Wednesday postponed the online open-book exams (OBE) for the final year undergraduate and postgraduate students till August 15. This is the second time within a month that the university has postponed the exams with the teachers and students demanding cancellation of exams in the prevailing situation due to the coronavirus pandemic. Despite protest from teachers and students, the university had announced to conduct the online open book exams as a one-time measure amid the Covid-19 pandemic for around 210,000 final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students. The exams were scheduled to begin from Friday.In a notification issued on Wednesday evening, DU Dean of examination Vinay Gupta said, “It is hereby notified for information to all concerned that the Open Book Examination (OBE) for all streams of final year/Semester/Term of undergraduate and postgraduate students including SOL (School of Open Learning) and Non Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB) scheduled to be held from 10th July, 2020 stands postponed. The OBE will now start after 15 August, 2020, whereas the revised date sheets and other relevant information will be notified in due course of time.”Earlier on Wednesday, the university had informed the Delhi High Court that it has decided to postpone the exams till August 15. The university has cited two reasons behind the decision to postpone the exams --- the recent guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the complaints received from students on the issues they faced during the mock online tests in the last two days. The UGC on Monday directed all the universities and colleges to “compulsorily” hold final-year exams by the end of September 2020 in offline/online/blended mode.While hearing the plea filed by several DU students, seeking cancellation of the online open-book exams, Justice Pratibha M Singh was told that the university’s high-powered committee on Tuesday night held a meeting and resolved that there was a requirement of a comprehensive review of the arrangements for the online open-book exams.According to the DU council, the committee had received several complaints about students facing issues while taking online mock tests that had begun Saturday. “The committee has noted that there is a need to spread greater awareness about the OBE examination so that there are no misgivings either about the credibility of the examination process or about its efficacy,” senior advocate Sachin Dutta, appearing for DU, told the court “Taking into account all aspects and circumstances, it is decided to postpone the holding of examinations after August 15,” Dutta said, reading from the minutes of the meeting during the court proceedings via video conferencing.HT had on Sunday reported that hundreds of DU students had complained about technical glitches while appearing for the online mock tests. Responding to this, the court remarked, “See how you are playing with the lives of the students. Look at the careers of the students….When you said that you are ready, then why are you postponing the exams”. The court sent all the matters in connection to the DU online examination to a division bench, which was already hearing a matter with respect to the difficulties faced by visually-impaired students in taking online open-book exams. Criticising the university’s decision of postponing exams, teachers and students said that the exams should have been cancelled considering the prevailing situation. Mehak Garg, a final-year Bcom student at Gargi College, said, “The university is playing with our future by further postponing exams. They should have cancelled the exams and promoted students based on the internal assessment. Further cancellation will affect our future choices. We cannot even give any job interview until the exams happen or take admission in postgraduate courses. Who will hire us without a degree?”Delhi University had earlier scheduled final semester examinations from July 1. The exams were postponed by 10 days owing to the prevailing situation. Abhijeet Shukla, a final year BA (Hons) Political Science student at Maharaja Agrasen College, said, “How can the university be sure that the students will be equipped with devices and proper internet connection by August 15? The university is not considering that the students are going through immense mental pressure due to the delay in getting their degrees.”Pankaj Garg, an associate professor at Rajdhani College, said, “It is going to further aggravate the problems of students. The only solution is to cancel the exams and declare the results of students on the basis of past performance and current session internal assessment. The way Covid 19 cases are increasing every day there would be no improvement in the situation by August 15.”Despite several attempts, DU Dean of Exams Vinay Gupta did not respond to calls and texts sent for comment. A senior official, requesting anonymity, said, “The university might go for a blend of offline and online exams, if the situation allows, in August. We are considering all possible ways to conduct exams of final-year students, as mandated by the UGC’s recent notification.”The matter would be heard on Thursday by a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-postpones-final-year-online-open-book-exam-till-august-15/story-Qkzn3nTeyHjfRNSCUskimI.html
09-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to enrol at least one lakh more people under food security scheme||The Delhi government’s food and supplies department has restarted the exercise to clear all pending ration card applications in order to extend the benefit of the free ration scheme to more number of people. There are 1.61 lakh application clearances pending with the department of which 13,131 are awaiting approval after completion of field verification, a senior official said, on condition of anonymity. The Delhi government on Tuesday had decided to extend the free ration scheme till November. It also directed the food and civil supplies department to start ration distribution for July in a phased manner from Wednesday, the government said in a statement.“Last week, orders were issued to all food and supplies officers to clear all pending applications. We are currently processing those applications in which the field verification has already been done,” the official quoted above said.“The processing of applications for new ration cards, additions, deletions, transfers, etc., was resumed in circle offices along with work related to servicing containment zones, distribution of ration under the public distribution system (PDS), Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, and Aatma Nirbhar Bharat, among others. The department officials are being provided with necessary protection measures, including face shields, when they go out on field verifications,” another senior official, also on condition of anonymity, said.The approval of new ration cards was put on hold on account of the nationwide lockdown, as field verification was not possible during that time. A food and supplies officer, requesting anonymity, said, “During the lockdown, we were busy distributing rations to schools where temporary shelters had been set up. It was not possible to clear the pending applications then as we could not carry out field verifications. We have now started the process again.” The beneficiary limit under the government scheme is 72.78 lakh people of which 71.54 lakh are already enrolled and currently availing of the benefits. “We have the scope to register nearly one lakh more people. This means we can approve around 25,000 applications as, on average, each applicant family has four members. Moreover, a ration card is a dynamic process and the number of beneficiaries keep changing due to births and deaths in a family,” a fourth senior official said.A week ago, on June 30, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the extension of the government’s free ration scheme, Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, till November-end.According to department officials, the national food security beneficiaries are provided 5kg of foodgrains every month, including 4kg wheat and 1kg rice.A Delhi government spokesperson said, “Issuing ration cards is a continuous process, but it was stalled due to the lockdown imposed because of Covid-19. We have started the process to issue new ration cards now. During lockdown, we were providing ration to all the existing beneficiaries and also to those who are not registered with the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-enrol-at-least-one-lakh-more-people-under-food-security-scheme/story-AmgXrqHXJSBkkH7LnJGePP.html
09-07-2020||Pune||Pune hits highest spike in Covid-19 cases, 1,147 positives reported||The city reported another grim on Wednesday as the highest number of Covid-19 cases, 1,147, reported in 24 hours taking the progressive positive count to 24,168. The city also reported 19 deaths taking the death toll to 770 and seven out of PMC limits deaths reported in city hospitals. According to the state health department, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation reported 1,347 cases while the Pune counterpart’s count is 1,147 cases which is only 200 short of one of the worst affected cities in the country. Currently there are 8,400 active cases out of which 401 are in critical condition with 79 on ventilator and 322 in ICU. Also 587 people were discharged after being declared as cured taking the count of such people to 14,998. A total of 4,727 samples were collected out of which 777 were tested through the rapid antigen testing kits. A total of 145,944 samples have been collected till date by the PMC. While 19 deaths were reported of residents living in PMC limits, seven were reported of people living outside civic limits reported dead in city hospitals.Plasma Bank should be set up: divisional commissionerIn a series of meetings with administrative officials from PMC, PCMC and rural Pune and also with nodal officials, divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “A plasma bank should be set up and those recovered must come forward to donate blood for the same. Plasma therapy is found to have been an effective treatment for Covid-19, but donors are not coming forward which is required to treat critical patients. The donor must be 18-60 years of age. The donor would be thoroughly checked before the plasma is retrieved from the blood and retransferred into the person’s body. The entire process takes about 2-3 hours and the person does not experience any weakness. We need enough donors so that we can set up a plasma bank.”After a meeting with private laboratories, Mhaisekar added that the they must provide reports within 24 hours. “The private laboratories must compulsorily provide reports within 24 hours to their respective health officers. All reports of samples taken till 6 pm must be provided to the nodal officers without fail. The data must be uploaded on Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-hits-highest-spike-in-covid-19-cases-1-147-positives-reported/story-UkkQJcPiwLtC4Z86XN4gHN.html
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER, IIT Ropar develop safety devices to minimise contact||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), in collaboration with IIT Ropar, has develop two low-cost devices, “Medi-Sarathi” and “Al-Powered Trolley”, to minimise healthcare workers’ contact with infected Covid-19 patients and contaminated surroundings.GD Puri, dean (academics) and head, department of anaesthesia and intensive care, PGIMER, who ideated and conceptualised the devices along with researchers from IIT Ropar, said, “We were brainstorming about multiple affordable options to ensure better safety for our Covid-19 team in addition to SOPs being followed. That’s how ‘Medi-Sarathi’ and ‘Al-Powered Trolley’ came about. These are special, affordable and customised solutions for our local needs, which have already been rigorously tested at PGIMER’s labs before being launched.”“Medi-Sarathi is a drone-based device, which can be used to transport articles between buildings,” he added.Rohit Sharma, associate professor at department of electrical engineering, IIT Ropar, said, “Medi Sarathi is equipped with complete remote access, thermal RGB cameras for human body temperature and sanitisation capability.”“With artificial intelligence (AI), the remote trolley can be deployed autonomously in the high-infection zone to deliver essential supplies. The features of the trolley include detection of obstruction and medical personnel’s movement,” Sharma added.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said, “The health and safety of our front-line corona warriors has become all the more challenging with the surging Covid-19 cases. It is always our utmost priority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-iit-ropar-develop-safety-devices-for-front-line-covid-19-workers/story-sGHERunGeMLQNaayIcnMOK.html
09-07-2020||Pune||Denied entry into Junnar village, couple consumes pesticide; woman dies||Pune A 40-year-old woman died after she and her husband consumed pesticides after police denied them entry into a containment zone in Junnar. The 50-year-old man, a vegetable vendor, is undergoing treatment in hospital.The incident took place on Tuesday evening when the couple got into an argument with on-duty police personnel who suggested them to take an alternative route to reach their home in village Umbraj under Junnar taluka, according to the police. The restriction was imposed after four positive cases were reported from the village.According to superintendent of police (Pune rural) Sandip Patil, the couple was involved in a squabble with police in the past also, but this time they threatened to commit suicide when stopped from removing barrier and asked to take an alternate route. The couple was carrying pesticides with them in the tempo with vegetables. The deceased and her husband, according to police, were on their way to Umbraj when they were stopped by the police patrol during nakabandi on Tuesday. A war of words broke out between the police and the couple who were returning home after selling vegetables in other villages. The deceased drank poison from a bottle while her 50-year-old husband immediately spat it. The woman was rushed to a nearby hospital but was proclaimed dead on arrival. The quarrel between the couple and police was captured on video by locals in which the husband is seen demanding entry to the village saying that others were allowed. “I am merely asking for entry as others were allowed. I was asked about documents while denying entry,” the man was heard telling grampanchayat member. Junnar sarpanch Sapna Dangat said nakabandi was in place as a precautionary move to check virus spread.According to Patil, the policemen had suggested them to avoid the containment route as it was closed with a barricade. “The police requested them to take an alternate route but they did not listen. Even the gram samiti members tried to convince them. The husband pulled out a pesticide bottle, took a sip and then vomited it, but his wife gulped it. We did not wait for ambulance and took her to the hospital, but unfortunately she died,” he said. The police have lodged a case against the couple under IPC 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and IPC 309 (attempt to commit suicide). The SP said that the family had alleged that the police beat them up, but police personnel did not use any force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/denied-entry-in-junnar-village-couple-consumes-pesticide-woman-dies/story-4Gql67ha7r9dtlzGdnM7xJ.html
09-07-2020||Pune||Pune hospitals report shortage of remdesivir, tocilizumab amidst rise in number of critical patients||Multiple city hospitals are reporting shortage of crucial drugs used for the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients. Nikhil Kumbhar, a resident of Pune was about to leave for Mumbai to get remdesivir vials for his uncle, undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospitals. The patient had been admitted to Noble Hospital on June 30 and on July 4, doctors informed the family that there is a shortage of remdesivir. “Before leaving for Mumbai, I tried to reach out to multiple hospitals in the city, but none of them responded positively. Finally, when I got in touch with a few retailers in Mumbai who had the vials. I got permission for an e-pass from the Pune police, however, fortunately, the hospital got its vials which they had ordered before and resumed the treatment,” said Kumbhar. Dr HK Sale, executive director of Noble hospital, said, “Despite making a full advance payment to the dealer for about 96 vials of remdesivir, we received only 56 of them. Each patient requires nine doses of the vials which means, I can treat only nine patients. There is surely a shortage of the drugs and the supply is also irrational. Another important drug for Covid-19 treatment, tocilizumab is in shortage.” As of Tuesday, PMC reported 385 critical patients of the 7,859 active cases in the city. Of the 385 critical patients, 63 are on ventilator while 322 are serious in the ICU with comorbidities and undergoing oxygen treatment. Remdesivir and tocilizumab, are two drugs, used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients who require oxygen supply in the city. Only two companies as of now produce the drug in India, namely, Hyderabad-based Hetero and Cipla. Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, civil surgeon and nodal officer for Covid-19 in Pune, said, “The approval to use remdesivir for Covid-19 patients came only a few days ago and we are now placing orders for the same, but we are yet to get the supply. There is a delay in the supply and we require it for government hospitals.” Dr Parikshit Prayag, consultant at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said, “We are facing a shortage of remdesivir and it has shown some promising results in patients who require oxygen treatment. It shortens the duration of the illness. However, no significant benefit has been found in mechanically-ventilated patients. We have so far used it for 15 patients and it’s too early to comment on its efficacy. But the supply has been inconsistent. Tocilizumab supply has been much better , and now we are also using subcutaneous tocilizumab which requires a smaller dose and has been shown to be comparable to intravenous tocilizumab.” Nikhil Chopra, executive vice-president and CEO-India Business, Cipla, said, “We are proud to commercially launch CIPREMI on Tuesday; amongst the lowest priced globally, we aim to supply over 80,000 vials within the first month itself. To further ensure equitable distribution, CIPREMI will be available via government and hospital channels only. Cipla will also be donating some amount of the drug as part of its efforts to support the community in this time of need.” Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director, Sahyadri hospitals, said, “Earlier, we were not getting the dose of remdesivir, but now the supply has somewhat stabilised. In fact, we have been told by chemists and traders that in a few days there will be an overflooding of remdesivir as more pharma companies are racing in to produce the drug. However, now we are facing a shortage of tociluzumab. It has shown some promise in the treatment of patients. It prevents patients from becoming critical moderately ill to critically ill. Each vials costs around Rs 40,000 and we currently have vials remaining for only one or two patients in all our hospitals. We are hoping to get the supply consistently, but the timing of providing the drug for treatment is essential and we cannot afford to lose those precious hours or days.”One dose of remdesivir costs around Rs 5,400 plus GST, according to doctors. The Pune division health department has sent a demand to the state government on July 3 for a total of 1,850 vials of injection tocilizumab (400 mg) and 7,100 injections of remdesivir (100 mg) for government hospitals in Pune and hospitals in Satara and Solapur, which are yet to be supplied. Of this stock, 500 vials of injection tocilizumab (400 mg) and 2,000 vials of injections of remdesivir (100 mg) has been reserved for PMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-hospitals-report-shortage-of-remdesivir-tocilizumab-amidst-rise-in-number-of-critical-patients/story-e12arkwpWrsFlFFWGM9gVI.html
09-07-2020||Pune||300 SPPU students to participate in antigen test initiative||Around 300 students of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will join Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in its Covid testing initiative. They will carry out rapid antigen-based tests of residents after undergoing training by the civic administration. The students will be provided stipend, protective gears and medical insurance cover.SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “Pune is one of the worst Covid-19 affected cities. To check the virus spread, testing capacity needs to be increased as limited testing has increased the burden on quarantine. In this context, PMC requested me to help deploy on-site point-of-care rapid antigen detection test for Covid-19 in several selected areas of the city. Accordingly, our 300 students have volunteered to be part of the initiative. They are students pursuing undergraduate and post-graduate courses, mostly from the Science stream and others are from other departments.”“They will be trained by PMC this week and carry out field testing from next week. PMC will provide them medical insurance and stipend. It will be the first opportunity where SPPU students will be working for a social cause on the field during the Covid period,” Karmalkar said.“I personally appealed to UG, PG and PhD students, staff, teachers and researchers from colleges and universities of the city for their voluntary participation in this cause,” said Karmalkar.PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal, who supervises PMC health department, said, “We are involving SPPU students for our rapid antigen detection testing. The first webinar training for the students will begin from tomorrow (July 9). Three students will be deployed at each antigen testing centre (ATC).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/300-sppu-students-to-participate-in-antigen-test-initiative/story-axt00P7llf8KIt6vR7D03L.html
09-07-2020||Pune||Mall owners in Pune look forward to resume business||The wait to reopen malls continues in the city as “Unlock 2.0” does not bring any relief to its owners.Mall owners have kept standard operating procedures (SOP) ready and have already made a representation to authorities under the aegis of Retailers Association of India (RAI) and Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI).“We believe malls are far better placed to enforce SOPs, ensure crowd control and social distancing compared to other establishments that have resumed business. We have reassured the state government of support from the industry to operate in a safe and hygienic environment,” said Amitabh Taneja, chairman, Shopping Centres Association of India.Mall owners are looking forward to resume business after the government allowed hotels and restaurants to operate from Wednesday.“We are ready to open our malls even tomorrow if government gives us the permission. Wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and sanitisation of hands are the three most important aspects to be followed and we are ready for it,” said Arun Arora, centre director, Pheonix Market City.“We have put foot markers on floors and footfall density tracker have also been placed. Total count of visitors will be displayed on boards. If customers cross the limit, then we will ban entry till people exit,” he said.“We need customers to believe that malls are safer social spaces than the conventional high streets. We will maintain regulated and monitored environment, adhering to high standard of safety and hygiene combined with social distancing precautions and technology driven solutions,” said Mahesh M, CEO Creaticity.Many owners have urged authorities to reopen malls like other states.“Malls across India have reopened and no Covid-19 case has been reported from these shopping centres. Maharashtra is the only state where malls are closed. Every mall employs 6,000 to 8,000 people and their jobs are at stake,” said Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, CEO, Amanora Mall.“Once the malls are allowed to reopen, retailers will go for discount sales to clear their pending stock. There will not be any immediate price rise from shop owners,” Rajpurohit said.Malls across India see 77% fall in sales: RAI surveyAccording to a Retailers Association of India (RAI) survey, between June 15-30, 77 per cent decline in business has been noticed in malls because of lockdown as compared to last year. For retailers, there has been 67 per cent decline in business.“Although the quantum of de-growth marginally reduced in June 2020, The first quarter of FY21 continued to witness de-growth of 74%. The figures depict a grim situation for not just retailers but the entire economy as retail is the backbone of consumption. The policymakers too need to ensure uniform opening of all kinds of retail across the country,” said Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO, Retailers Association of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mall-owners-in-pune-looking-forward-to-resume-business/story-OFq6VwnXtA2GVmwhpiWm4L.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||Illegal arms manufacturing unit unearthed in Nuh||In a major crackdown on illegal weapons, the Nuh police on Sunday unearthed an alleged manufacturing unit in Ferozepur Jhirka, Nuh.The police said they recovered raw material for over 500 countrymade pistols and seized three countrymade pistols. The unit allegedly manufactured rifles, pistols, revolvers, double-barrel shotguns, semi-finished arms and cartridges besides other tools used to make them.Narender Bijarnia, the superintendent of police, Nuh, said that assistant sub-inspector Ajit Singh of crime investigation agency and the station house officer of Ferozepur Jhirka informed him regarding the manufacture of illegal arms and ammunition in Bhakroji village, following which they formed 10 teams. “The teams raided the unit on the outskirts of the village. The suspects had been manufacturing illegal arms and ammunition in the unit for over three years. An informer told us that if we raided the place, we could arrest over 10 persons from the spot. Thereafter, we conducted a surprise raid on Sunday, but the suspects fled the spot as soon as we got there,” he said.Bijarnia said they had identified other locations in Nuh where such illegal arm manufacturing units are set up.The weapons manufactured in these units are sold in Haryana and the National Capital Region, which includes Delhi, Noida and Gurugram, Bijarnia said. “Most of the gangs busted in the past few months had bought weapons from people in Nuh. We started connecting the dots—from where these gangs bought weapons and whom they supplied to. We were keeping a strict vigil across the district,” Bijarnia said.The Nuh police are preparing a database of recently busted gangs, and the weapons recovered from them, they said.Bijarnia said that the average price of each of the weapons ranged between ₹5,000 and ₹35,000. “The arms maker would increase the price depending on the demand and urgency shown by the criminals at the time of procurement. These people specialised in making countrymade pistols,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/illegal-arms-manufacturing-unit-unearthed-in-nuh/story-wWEZGSzMYvMbxhP8WxvQdL.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||Motorcycle borne snatchers steal phone in South City-1||Two persons on a motorcycle allegedly snatched a man’s mobile phone when he was returning from a hospital in South City 1 area on Saturday. Police are yet to identify suspects in the case. According to the police, the incident took place around 8.40 pm when the victim, a resident of sector 45, was waiting for a cab outside the hospital after a consultation.A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “A motorcycle, on which two men were seated, went past him and the pillion rider snatched his phone. The complainant said that he could not note down the registration number of the vehicle.” A case was registered against the suspects under section 379 A (punishment for snatching) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at sector 40 police station, said police.On Friday evening, snatchers had allegedly snatched a phone from a Ghanian national in sector 17 C. Police said the incident was reported at 7.30 pm when the victim, a student, was walking to his house. According to the police, two suspects on a motorcycle waylaid him and snatched his phone and fled. No arrests have been made in the case. A case was registered under section 379 of IPC at sector 17/18 police station.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), said, “The modus operandi in the two cases is identical. The police teams are checking the footage of CCTVs in the area to identify the suspects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/motorcycle-borne-snatchers-steal-phone-in-south-city-1/story-Euy88uZqEONOt6QAAhHxOM.html
09-07-2020||Gurugram||Haryana Police launches software to digitise criminal records||The Haryana Police has launched a new software application, named Police Artificial Intelligence System (PAIS), which will allow the police to digitise and centralise all criminal records and quickly match the details of a suspect with a centralised database during an investigation. According to the police, PAIS is an advanced artificial intelligence-enabled software technology to identify any criminal uniquely with the help of facial recognition and textual search. This technology will be made available to police officials of the state through both mobile and web-based applications. The application has been developed by the Digital Investigation Training and Analysis Centre (DITAC), which was set up in 2016 in the Traffic Tower in Sushant Lok-1 to promote digital investigation and training in a bid to enhance cyber policing and monitor social media content, said the police. Anil Rao, the additional director-general of police, Criminal Investigation Department (CID), said that they have launched the PAIS application to support police personnel during field investigation via innovative features, such as gang analysis, phonetic and textual searches and more. “The application has advanced features, such as facial recognition. The mobile application will receive information about criminals from the central database on a real-time basis. It will also create an online dossier that will help in police investigation and apprehension of criminals,” he said.The technology is divided into two components: one is a web-based system that can run on desktops and the other is a mobile application that needs to be installed on phones. Rao said the server for the application has been installed at the command centre of the DITAC. Although the software is ready, the final testing part, known as VAPT or vulnerability assessment and penetration testing, and the training ton how to use the software is still pending. The software has a centralised data bank of criminals, miscreants and history-sheeters that will help the police to nab the proclaimed offenders and bail jumpers, said officials.Each district will train one team, which will further train others. Following the period of training, each police officer will gain access to the PAIS software either through desktops or through mobile phones. Police officials using this software for registration of criminals or for search will be required to log in via a unique password, said the police.Rao said the OTP-based authentication process for profiling or searching criminals will ensure maximum security. “This app will provide matching details from the centralised criminal database within seconds, offering far more accuracy than any other existing criminal recognition system,” he said.Officials said police officials will no longer need to physically go through the register to trace the criminal history of a suspect. This will make the entire process of criminal recognition and registration seamless and digital.Rao said with the help of the application, a police officer can take a photo of a suspect from his camera and upload the same on the application. The application will then search the database and instantly display the name and details of the suspect if matching records are found. In case matching records are not found, the application will then redirect to a criminal information page, where the officer concerned will be able to add the details. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said the criminal record officer underwent training for a day and will train others regarding the functions of application. “The application will be fully operational within a month and the process of collecting the criminal records has already started. The application will be particularly helpful in Gurugram, which has a high density of population,” he said.This is not the first time that an advanced criminal recognition system has been used. Earlier in 2018, the Punjab Police had launched a similar PAIS application and have successfully nabbed several criminals with its help. BOX:What is a PAIS application?PAIS or Police Artificial Intelligence System is an AI-enabled software technology compatible with both desktops and mobile phones that enable police officers to recognise criminals through facial recognition and textual search.Features in PAIS1. Criminal record creation and search module development via mobile phones and web dashboards2. AI-enabled facial recognition technology3. AI-powered criminal link analysis4. AI-powered phonetic search5. Textual search option6. AI-powered automated data quality check7. Offline data addition module8. Mobile application for data creation and search for police officers working on the field9. Web dashboard for criminal database monitoring, admin control, access management, report generation, analytics, user activity monitoring on app, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-police-launches-software-to-digitise-criminal-records/story-cIDD7VhECJ1iZcpM9VMKFO.html
09-07-2020||India||Aravalli Biodiversity Park reopens: Eager visitors venture wilderness with masks, follow social distancing||Face masks, social distancing, avoiding large groups, careful on the benches, no-eatables, one-way signages — visiting the popular nature spot Aravalli Biodiversity Park, during the ongoing pandemic era, won’t be the same considering the new rules put in place to avoid the spread of coronavirus. Gurugram’s favourite spot has reopened, on July 1, and Gurugrammers are kicked to visit even if it means following some strict guidelines. “The park is finally open after the lockdown,” says Priti Sanwalka, one of the board members, adding, “It’s a great time to be at the park and enjoy its flora and fauna; there is a burst of activity on all fronts and lots of flowering, fruiting and bird activity to enjoy. And to ensure the safety of all visitors and our staff, we have put in place measures as per the unlock guidelines of Ministry of Home Affairs.”Latika Thakral, co-founder of the NGO, iamgurgaon, says, “People were eagerly awaiting for the park to reopen and some even checked on call... Now that the park is open, we have arrows put up to identify one-way movement in the main stretch. It’s very difficult to control (once visitors start coming), but we are assuming that people will follow the rules.” Among those who are regular visitors at the park is photographer Dinesh Khanna, who visits with his pets. He says, “Considering the circumstances, I think these are excellent rules and will, hopefully, be adhered properly by all walkers. I definitely will make sure to be responsible as it’s in everyone’s interest.” Another park regular and Gurugram resident Sarika Panda Bhatt says, “We Gurugramers were eagerly waiting for BDP to open! Unfortunately, the Covid-19 crisis is here to stay for some time as we don’t have a cure or a vaccine. A number of studies from around the world have shown that when people maintain the rules of hygiene and protection — like wear face masks, avoid large gatherings, and maintain physical distancing — then the chance of catching the infection is negligible. Therefore, the new regulations at the park are a welcome step. We definitely need outdoor activities to fight with other health issues and going to the forest is the best remedy.”Ecologist Vijay Dhasmana says the place is a “delight” for any nature lover. “The park has been thriving with this year’s early rains. Monsoon is a most productive time, with caterpillar, bugs, and flowering. At the park too, many plants are flowering and fruiting. Unfortunately, people could not witness the spring flowering this year. But now birds are nesting and you can hear the jungle with crickets, cicadas sounds. Lockdown has been tough on people. So when they will now get to go in the wilderness, it will give them positivity and hope. There is so much life happening there; people who understand nature will get to witness all that.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/aravalli-biodiversity-park-reopens-eager-visitors-venture-wilderness-with-masks-follow-social-distancing/story-F4nLmbQ7zhv0fiDy1NUVxM.html
09-07-2020||City||Couple attacked over property dispute||Gurugram: A couple sustained serious injuries after they were allegedly attacked by a group of people over an alleged property dispute in Bilaspur, police said on Monday. Police have booked five persons including some members of the couple’s family in the case. According to the police, the incident took place on Saturday when Ramesh Chandra, 44, who is a farmer, and his wife, Anju Devi, were returning from their farm on a motorcycle. Police said a car, which had at least five men, rammed into the motorcycle. The suspects then got out of the vehicle and started assaulting Chandra, who was lying on the ground after the collision, with rods, the added. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said the woman was dragged into the car by the suspects. “The man was severely beaten up and attacked with a sword. When his wife tried to save him, she was also beaten up. As some villagers rushed to save the couple, one of the suspects fired a gunshot at the man who was able to dodge the bullet. The suspects then fled from the spot,” the police officer said. The couple was rushed to Sector 10 civil hospital and later referred to a private hospital and their condition is said to be stable. The police said Chandra and Devi suffered serious injuries on their arms and legs. In his complaint to the police, Chandra alleged that his nephew and some members from his extended family had threatened to kill him and his relatives to usurp his property. The police said the suspects have been identified, but are yet to be arrested. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 379 B (snatching), 506 (criminal intimidation), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Arms Act at Bilaspur police station, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-attacked-over-property-dispute/story-46z2VDIBnssZ9nM9rBADvL.html
