11-07-2020||Chandigarh||16 vehicles impounded, 21 held for violating night curfew in Chandigarh||In compliance with the UT administrator’s directions to impose a night curfew in the city, 16 vehicles were impounded and 21 persons were arrested, the police said on Saturday.The cases were registered between 10pm on Friday and 5am on Saturday. All those arrested were later released on bail.The action came after UT administrator VP Singh Badnore took to Twitter and issued the directions for a night curfew in wake of the rising number of Covid-19 positive cases. Badnore directed the police to impound all vehicles moving during curfew hours except those on essential duty. Chandigarh DGP, Sanjay Baniwal, had assured strict compliance.More than 100 vehicles were turned back from the city borders after 10pm to prevent unauthorised entry in the night. Apart from impounding vehicles, police also imposed a fine of ₹1.44 lakh on 287 persons for moving without masks and violating other restrictions during a special drive carried out on Friday between 6pm to 10pm.EXCUSES GALOREFrom after dinner strolls to purchasing medicines or getting late at work, city residents are giving all kinds of excuses after being caught by the police. “The most common excuse is going out to buy medicines. But most of them are unable to show prescriptions or even the medicines they purchased,” said a police personnel on duty at IT park.The maximum number of cases (5) were registered in Sector 26 and Industrial Area. In Sector 26, most cases were registered for violating the night curfew at Bapu Dham Colony.“‘I was out for a stroll after dinner’ is the most common excuse which the residents of Bapu Dham give on being caught. Some say they get late coming back from work in Mohali,” added a police official posted at Bapu Dham Colony. If caught without a mask, the residents will blame their forgetfulness even though wearing a mask while stepping out of the house is mandatory.From June 25 to July 7, the police issued 2,075 challans and collected a fine of ₹10.56 lakh from people for various violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/16-vehicles-impounded-21-held-for-violating-night-curfew-in-chandigarh/story-MSIyTuoxft1EBVufkUY6vK.html
11-07-2020||City||Aaditya Thackeray says Dharavi’s ‘Chase the virus’ model will be implemented in Mumbai Metropolitan Region||Maharashtra environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray said that Dharavi’s ‘chase the virus’ pattern, which helped in bringing down the Covid-19 cases at Dharavi, will be strictly implemented in the rest of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region too. The Worli legislator made the statement at the Kalyan sports complex on Saturday in a meeting held to review the Covid-19 situation at Kalyan-Dombivli, Bhiwandi, Mira Bhayander and Navi Mumbai.The meeting was attended by the civic commissioners of all corporations within MMR. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC’s) G-North ward (which includes Dharavi) who played a key role in bringing the spread of the virus under control, was also present for Saturday’s meeting.“If the spread of the virus can be controlled in Dharavi, it can be curtailed at Kalyan and Dombivli too. We need to impose “chase the virus” pattern here to achieve the purpose. There is a need to push contact tracing, increase testing and isolation.”The “chase the virus” pattern, which was introduced by the state in May, focussed on increasing the high-risk contact tracing and quarantining of Covid-19 patients, and testing capacity along with several other measures. “Like Mumbai and Thane, health facilities are being upgraded at Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar and Ambernath too, to ensure that all patients receive treatment. We will increase the facilities of jumbo beds, oxygen, ventilators and ambulances across MMR. The civic bodies should also emphasise on reducing the death rates,” Thackeray said.Taking a jibe at leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis’s recent visit to Kalyan, Thackeray said that the Opposition should “engage in constructive criticism”. “Our emphasis is on keeping the citizens fit while the Opposition parties are engaging in disaster​ tourism. They should visit other states and see the medical response there, even as we work here without blaming anyone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aaditya-thackeray-says-dharavi-s-chase-the-virus-model-will-be-implemented-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region/story-xDbPm4pNzxvGWAWj6Yz7KM.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Ragpickers struggle to make ends meet, risk Covid infection||Usha Bant, 38, earned a living by collecting segregated dry waste from hotels and restaurants in Santacruz. But in the last three months, her livelihood took a hit as the lockdown ravaged the hospitality sector. With hotels locking their doors, Bant found herself in dire straits. The pandemic has hit the informal waste collection sector harder than most.From a 90% drop in daily wages, fear of segregating contaminated mixed waste, and witnessing relatives walk miles to go back to their states, to being barred from entering societies and landfills, ragpickers in the city have had a tough four months.Bant’s story is no different. Prior to the lockdown, the Andheri slum resident would take the local train to Santacruz to collect waste, sell it, and earn around ₹200 per day. “From March to May, I could not earn anything. Neither was there any transport, nor waste available. I managed to segregate waste outside societies, earning ₹5 per day. NGOs helped or else I would have died of hunger,” said Bant.Vile-Parle resident Bharti Sukaya, 49, a ragpicker at MIDC Andheri for 12 years, would earn ₹150 per day to support her three children, before the lockdown. She was forced to change her daily route after some areas were declared as containment zones. “I began following civic sanitation workers, resorting to scavenging for valuable plastic that they missed, and making ₹5-10 per day,” she said. Three major NGOs in the city that run 15 of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) waste segregation centres explained that the entire dry waste supply chain collapsed during the lockdown. “Ragpickers’ income dropped to one-tenth of what they normally make. Stricter regulations restricted their movement since they don’t collect waste around the area they live in. Segregation in Mumbai from March onwards fell to zero, with contaminated waste being discarded alongside daily garbage. This scared them, but they had no option,” said Jyoti Mhapsekar, president, Stree Mukti Sanghatana (SMS), a Dadar-based organisation that assists 3,500 women waste-pickers from across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).BMC had banned the entry of ragpickers at city landfills after fires were reported at Deonar dumping ground in 2015 and 2016. “An order to reverse this was never implemented,” said Mhapsekar.Haider Ali Sayyed, founder, Aasra Welfare Association, with 450 registered ragpickers, said the informal sector had collapsed due to lack of transportation of waste, and most of it was hoarded by local dealers. “This happened as the majority of transporters who were from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar left Mumbai. Transportation of waste stopped and major waste dealers dropped rates of scrap collected. Local dealers are now selling that scrap at much higher prices,” he said.Aasra provided 700 PPE kits, 5,500kg of ration (including rice, oil, lentils, etc.), 13,500 food packets, and 3,700 sanitary kits (soaps, toothpaste, sanitary pads, etc.) to ragpickers, with support from private companies and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). “Besides PPE kits, temporary identification (ID) cards and training on Covid-19 precautions were provided,” said Alpita Rathod, project associate, UNDP.“While doctors have been hailed for their efforts, this lowest segment of Covid-19 warriors has remained ignored. Ragpickers are responsible for segregating 60% of Mumbai’s waste, even during this pandemic,” said Jidnyasa Arondekar, president, Aakar Mumbai, with 1,550 registered ragpickers employed across six segregation centres in the western suburbs. “Many would have contracted the virus without realising it. Despite repeated reminders to BMC to provide ID cards, a majority of ragpickers don’t have them,” Arondekar said.From March 25 to April 14 (Lockdown 1.0), none of Mumbai’s 46 waste segregation centres were functional. However, operations resumed from April 15.BMC officials said owing to mixed waste containing Covid protective equipment that could be potentially hazardous, workers at these segregation centres were also at risk. “70% of ragpickers are illegally associated with the informal sector, where help cannot be provided. The matter will be considered after Covid-19 cases are reduced,” said a senior solid waste management department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ragpickers-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-risk-covid-infection/story-vmRnbF8JzSlHwgNVLgwPrL.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||2-feet cap for Ganpati idols at homes; Maharashtra government issues guidelines||Maharashtra government on Saturday issued guidelines for the celebration of Ganeshotsav in the state, which include reducing the size of idols as well as recommendations to organise online viewing and postpone the immersion of idols to next year.The 11-day Ganeshotsav is one of the most important Hindu festivals in Maharashtra and mandals in the city attract huge crowds. It will be held in end-August this year. As of July 10, BMC has started accepting online applications to erect a pandal or set up a stage on roads and footpaths in its jurisdiction. Mumbai has nearly 12,000 public pandals every year.The state home department has issued detailed guidelines for Ganeshotsav organisers to limit the spread of Covid-19 through contact and prevent overcrowding. It is mandatory for all public Ganesh mandals to take prior permission from local authorities. Previously, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had called for a low-key celebration in light of the Covid-19 pandemic.The state in its notification has recommended marble or metal idols, adding that if clay or other materials are used, then immersion ceremonies should be performed either at home or in artificial ponds. The guidelines also recommend postponing immersion ceremonies wherever possible to Maghi Ganeshotsav (in February 2021) or next year’s Ganeshotsav.For Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has laid down a number of conditions for Ganeshotsav organisers. These include reducing the size of pandals, a ban on offerings like flowers and garlands, sanitising pandals thrice a day, and ensuring only five workers are inside a pandal at a time.Organisers have also been asked to conduct public awareness campaigns, blood donation camps, health check-ups and other public health programmes during the festival. Senior civic officials said that a decision allowing a limited number of devotees inside a pandal is yet to be taken.In a meeting held on June 27 between the state government and representatives of the public mandals, a decision was taken to cap the height of idols at 4 feet for idols at public mandals and at 2 feet for household idols.Public mandals have also been asked to adhere to distancing norms, carry out fumigation, use sanitizers, and pay special attention to the safety of children and senior citizens. Organisers have been asked not to advertise in order to reduce crowds in attendance at their pandals. They have been encouraged to tie up with local cable networks and/or use social media to let devotees see rituals like the aarti and get ‘darshan’ of the idols online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-feet-cap-for-ganpati-idols-at-homes-maharashtra-government-issues-guidelines/story-JrLoARXkJvmsVKV7L5ndlK.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||NIOS cancels board exams, students to be marked on previous performance||The National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) announced the cancellation of its secondary (Class 10) and senior secondary (Class 12) examinations due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation. The announcement was published on the institute’s official website on Friday. More than three lakh students from across the country appear for Class 10 and 12 exams through NIOS every year.As per the official announcement, both the exams which were earlier postponed to July have been cancelled. Students will be marked based on their past performance while those who wish to improve their performance will be given a chance to appear for the next exam as and when the situation is conducive. The institute also released the marking criteria which will be used to compute results. An average of the subjects passed earlier will be considered to mark students for the subjects for which exams are not conducted. For instance, learners, who have previously passed in three subjects, would be awarded the average marks of their best two subjects for the remaining papers. For learners who were set to appear for the first time, their performance would be calculated on the basis of the tutor-marked assignment and practical marks.Parents said the decision was a big relief, especially to students with special needs. “Students were under stress because appearing for the exams in the middle of a pandemic would have been extremely risky. We are happy that the board has taken a decision in the favour of students,” said the parent of a student from Andheri. Several parents had requested the institute to cancel the exams and had suggested that students be marked based on their internal exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nios-cancels-board-exams-students-to-be-marked-on-previous-performance/story-6AMAFdpYxLU5ZpJjYD7PLO.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Go back to annual exam pattern: MLA to UGC||A state MLA recently approached the University Grants Commission (UGC) seeking change in the academic pattern for the year 2020-21. In a letter addressed to the UGC chairman, former minister of state education and higher education DP Sawant has requested the UGC to propose shifting from semester pattern to an annual pattern for the next academic year.In his letter dated July 9, Sawant has highlighted that instead of dividing the curriculum into two semesters, colleges should instead focus on the old pattern of annual exams so they have enough time to finish the curriculum, and then conduct exams and assessment only once in the coming year.“Many states including Maharashtra, Odisha and Haryana have deferred their end of term examinations in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. There is no clarity of when institutes will reopen for the new academic year,” highlighted the letter. It further states that generally, the first-semester university exams are held between the month of October-November, which will be impossible to hold in the current scenario. “I, therefore, suggest the UGC goes back to the annual exam pattern for the 2020-21 academic year,” stated his letter.While such a decision might prove beneficial to complete the curriculum, college principals pointed that such a format will be impossible to implement, especially since MU students’ study 12 different subjects across two semesters every year.“To go back to an annual pattern, subjects will have to be reduced to make sure students are not burdened with 12 different subjects in a year. The semester concept was introduced to cover maximum topics in a year and cramming it into one single semester will be an impossible task,” said the principal of a suburban college.At present, the state is yet to announce its final stand on the status of end of term exams for final year students. While the UGC has insisted that exams be held before September 2020, the Maharashtra government has clarified that it is in no state to conduct exams in the next few months. After clarifying their stand, the state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant this week stated that the government plans to end this confusion by next week and announce their final decision soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/go-back-to-annual-exam-pattern-mla-to-ugc/story-oWLA6fgf6vVhwRhgS6BnfI.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Four-decade old storm sewer lines caused 4 road cave-ins in 3 years||The deteriorating condition of the four decade-old storm sewers in areas including Dugri, Kaka Marriage place road and Saggu chowk has resulted in four major road cave-in incidents over the last three years.The sewer line starting from Dugri which goes upto CRPF colony near Dugri canal bridge damaged an adjoining house in Dugri phase 2 for the second consecutive year last week. Fortunately, the foundation of the house was not damaged and a crater formed in the green belt adjoining the house.The resident of the house, Gagan Singla, said,”The line moves under the green belt adjoining my house. It got damaged for the second consecutive year and a crater formed nearby. The MC should find a concrete solution for the problem and replace the decade old lines which pose grave danger to the lives of residents.”Similarly, the sewer line at Kaka marriage palace road was damaged for the second time in the last three years, resulting in a major road cave-in . The same line was damaged in 2011 and a truck driver died after the road caved-in. In 2013, an 80-feet long rater formed near Dhami eye hospital after the sewer line collapsed.An official, pleading anonymity, said,”Apart from major road cave-in incidents which catch the eyes of residents, minor incidents take place on this stretch almost every year as the lines were installed in 1970s. They collapse after sewer lines are overburdened during rainy season.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu said,”I am aware of the problem and the old storm sewer lines in different parts of the city are being replaced under Smart City Mission at a cost of around Rs 80 crore. Most of the times, roads cave in due to underground laying of wires which damage sewer lines . Civic body officials have also been told to keep a check on this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-four-decade-old-storm-sewer-lines-caused-4-road-cave-ins-in-3-years/story-iOJUjLaMX0fpWwyUc6aw6J.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||HC asks Chandigarh admn whether date for registration of BS-IV vehicles can be extended||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the UT administration whether the date for registration for the Bharat Stage-IV vehicles (BS-IV), could be extended as many people couldn’t get it done on time owing to the imposition of the lockdown.The order came from the high court bench of justice Jaishree Thakur on the plea of lawyer Arvinder Arora who told the court that he had bought a diesel car on March 12 with the last date for registration as March 31 and could not get it registered because of the lockdown.Arora, a resident of Naraingarh in Haryana, is a practicing advocate in the high court and had sought time for inspection of the vehicle in Sector 43 motor licensing authority on March 20.However, he couldn’t get the vehicle registered on time due to the lockdown.Arora later approached the authorities in May but was denied registration and told that the registration should be done at his residential address. On this, he told the court that being a practicing lawyer in Chandigarh he could get his vehicle registered there.When he served a legal notice, he was told that BS-IV vehicles were to be registered before April 1 and now, registration of the vehicle would amount to contempt of apex court order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-asks-chandigarh-admn-whether-date-for-registration-of-bs-iv-vehicles-can-be-extended/story-O0ntiPRqlF1BZA17nP96LM.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sangrur woman loses gold chain to snatchers in Chandigarh||A woman lost her gold chain to snatchers in Sector 9, the police said on Saturday. In his complaint, Jagdeep Singh of Sangrur, a retired subedar, said he had come to the city for his father’s eye checkup on Friday. He told the police that his wife was sitting in the car in the parking of Grewal Eye Institute in Sector 9 while he had gone inside.When his wife came out of the car to take a walk, two motorcycle-borne men pushed her and snatched her gold chain. She raised an alarm but the accused managed to flee. A case under Sections 379 (theft) and 356 (using assault or criminal force to commit theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.SNATCHER DECLARED PO HELD FROM PATIALAA proclaimed offender wanted in around seven cases registered in different police stations of Chandigarh was arrested, the police said on Saturday.The accused was identified as Ranvir Singh, alias Bhanu Pratap, of Sector 40. He was held from Patiala in connection with a snatching case registered in January 2008.Later during investigation, it came to fore that Ranvir was a proclaimed offender in four cases of snatching purse/bag, one case of snatching gold chain, one for stealing a motorcycle and one case of rioting at Piccadily chowk in Sector 35.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sangrur-woman-loses-gold-chain-to-snatchers-in-chandigarh/story-8icKThpIpeStFlO4X6LNqO.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Burail man held for burning girlfriend in Chandigarh||A day after a Burail man was booked for burning his girlfriend using sanitizer because she had refused to lend him ₹2,000, the accused was arrested on Saturday.Naresh of Burail was sent to judicial custody on Saturday. Police said that the accused was into selling and installing CCTV cameras.The 22-year-old victim from Shillong had sustained 20% burn injuries after Naresh threw sanitizer on her face and used a lighter to burn her on the intervening night of July 6 and 7. The neighbours had rushed the victim to the hospital.The woman had come to Chandigarh in December last year. She had become friends with Naresh and the two had started living together. The woman told the police that Naresh used to beat her for money.After being discharged from the hospital, the victim had lodged a complaint. A case under Sections 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/burail-man-held-for-burning-girlfriend-in-chandigarh/story-osYzBiWsRksPi95O41PDIP.html
11-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally rises to 3,663, death toll at 24||Jharkhand reported 145 new Covid-19 cases and one death from the disease on Saturday, taking the tally to 3,663 and the death toll to 24.While the maximum 21 cases were reported from Garhwa district, 15 cases were detected in Ranchi. Besides, East Singhbhum and Koderma recorded 13 cases each, Chatra reported 12 cases and Ramgarh registered 10 cases.The state has so far recorded 2, 256 recoveries. There are 1,383 active cases at present.One patient from Bihar admitted in a private hospital in Ranchi was also tested positive.A 60-year-old man, a resident of Giridih’s Bagodar block, died from coronavirus disease in a private hospital in capital Ranchi on Saturday morning.“The deceased had gone to his daughter’s place in Ramgarh about a fortnight ago. He had developed some health complications there. The family members then took him to a private hospital in Ranchi for treatment. He died on Saturday morning,” said Giridih civil surgeon Dr B Das.He added, “Since the deceased was out of the district for nearly a fortnight, there is no need to create a containment zone here.”Meanwhile, chief minister Hemant Soren and his wife Kalpana Soren tested negative for Covid-19 on Saturday, hours after their swab samples were taken by a team of health department officials at his residence.The CM went into home quarantine soon after one of his cabinet colleagues - Mithilesh Kumar and one JMM lawmaker Mathura Prasad Mahto tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. The chief minister had been in their contact for the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-3-663-death-toll-at-24/story-Nv8OT9GsSVV7sue4PKfL8H.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||No pay for PGIMER’s contractual employees during 14-day quarantine period after 3-day station leave||For contractual employees of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, the 14-day quarantine period after remaining out of station for 72 hours will be treated as without pay, while for the regular employees, the days will be debited from their leave balance.An order in this regard signed by the director of the institute, Dr Jagat Ram, has been circulated among the heads of the departments.The order states that station leave should ordinarily not be allowed and should be permitted only in exceptional circumstances by the competent authority and head of department concerned.“If any staff has taken station leave and remained out of station for 72 hours, on return, he or she will be asked to self-quarantine for 14 days as per norms. In case of regular employees, the quarantine period will be debited from leave balance. In case of contractual employees, the period will be treated as without pay,” the order states.Hospital spokesperson Dr Ashok Kumar said that such a step had been taken for the safety of the employees. “Authorities should be aware whether the employee has reported back, so that necessary measures regarding quarantine can be made,” he said.The UT administration had made 14-day self-home-quarantine mandatory for all visitors coming to Chandigarh who intend to stay here for more than 72 hours. A visitor violating home quarantine will be shifted to institutional quarantine, and can face fine or even jail time under provisions of the Disaster Management Act.The mandatory home quarantine will not be applicable to Mohali or Panchkula residents travelling to the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-pay-for-pgimer-s-contractual-employees-during-14-day-quarantine-period-after-3-day-station-leave/story-CfPNdgJtc3KYT5RtGchFcI.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Six held for vandalising cars in Ludhiana||Police have arrested six men for allegedly vandalising atleast eight cars parked near Agrasen Dharmshala on Sangla Shivala road on Saturday.The accused have been identified as Kartik, a resident of Ghati Mohalla, Manpreet Singh alias Monu of Ghati Mohalla, Chirag Jagota of Mali Ganj, Shivam alias Golu of Mohalla Fatehganj, Naveen and Anmol alias Gill of Amarpura.Satish Kumar, station house officer at police station division number 3 said that on July 8, Shivam had posted a video on his instgram account over which Vishu Kainth had abused and thrashed him.Police said Shivam with 20 accomplices had went to Sangla Shivala road to thrash Kainth. But, on not finding him there, the accused vandalised cars and fled. They also stolen a bag from one of the cars, police said.The incident caused panic among locals following which police initiated a search and traced the accused. Police registered a case under Indian Penal Code and traced the accused by scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area.The SHO added that the police will arrest the rest of the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-held-for-vandalising-cars-in-ludhiana/story-eSECWGznWOFrvC44eqecQI.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ambience Mall case: HC referred to two apex court judgments while ordering CBI probe||The Punjab and Haryana High Court (HC) on Friday referred to two Supreme Court (SC) judgments pertaining to Haryana land matters when it ordered a CBI probe into the approval granted for the construction of Ambience Mall on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway in Gurugram.While ordering the probe, the HC also quashed three government orders -- one of October 18, 2001 by which eight acres of land permitted to build a residential project was taken out from the purview of the residential housing license, another of October 16, 2001 which gave license to build a commercial project on the eight acres, and the third of September 1, 2010 allowing another 3.9 acres of the residential project for commercial purpose.Justices Rajan Gupta and Karamjit Singh of the HC said the state government’s decision to de-notify the land that was under acquisition led to unjust enrichment of individuals and revealed unholy nexus between the builder and the state authorities.In the Manesar land release case, 688 acres acquired for the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation for creating residential and recreational utilities in the Industrial Model Township (IMT), Manesar, was dropped from the acquisition process in 2007 on the orders of the former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. In 2018, the SC set aside the government order to drop the acquisition proceedings.Mentioning this case, the HC said the state had enabled the builder to enter the field after initiation of acquisition to seek colonisation of the land covered by acquisition defeating the objective for which the land was acquired.“... where power is conferred to achieve a particular purpose, same has to be exercised reasonably and in good faith. Where power is exercised for extraneous or irrelevant considerations, it would unquestionably be a colourable exercise of power,’’ the HC said.In 2016, the SC quashed land release orders and transferred all licences granted granted to private builder to HUDA. The licences were given to a private builder who had sought to develop a colony on 280 acres that was initially being acquired for residential and commercial sectors in Rohtak by the Haryana Urban Development Authority (Huda).Referring to this, the HC said it is a settled proposition of law that fraud on power vitiates the state action. “If state seeks to do some action indirectly though it has no power to do it directly, such action cannot be sustained,’’ the HC said.“We are exploring legal options in this matter and the court order is being studied in detail by the legal team. We will approach the higher court to seek relief in this matter,” said Raj Singh Gehlot, chairman and managing director, Ambience Developers, which has developed the Ambience Mall on Delhi Gurgaon expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambience-mall-case-hc-referred-to-two-apex-court-judgments-while-ordering-cbi-probe/story-0DbWrql4AAX6MjZyAdFuBP.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin Pritam Singh is leader of oppn in Singapore||Punjab-origin politician, Workers’ Party chief, Pritam Singh, 43, was elected as the leader of opposition by Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, who won 83 out of the 93 seats in the recently concluded Singapore general election.Singh is a Singaporean with Punjabi ancestry and a practicing Sikh. He is married to Loveleen Kaur Walia, a Singaporean theatre practitioner, and the couple has two daughters.In a statement on Facebook, Singh said: “I refer to PM Lee Hsien Loong’s press conference early this morning. I look forward to serving as the leader of the opposition and will carry out my duties to the best of my abilities. I will endeavour to ensure that The Workers’ Party under my leadership will remain loyal to Singapore and all Singaporeans. On behalf of all WP candidates at GE2020, and on a more personal note, thank you to all our families and loved ones, who have marched in step with us, through all the highs and lows over many years.”Singh has been in active politics since 2011. “Pritam has spoken on a wide range of issues, including foreign affairs and defence, and job disruption faced by PMET workers. In 2020, he called for giving seniors above 60 greater access to their Medisave to settle inpatient and outpatient bills,” the Workers’ Party website says, adding that he assumed chairmanship of the Aljunied-Hougang Town Council and oversaw significant improvements in estate and compliance matters.Singh joined the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) in 1994, and served as an officer from 1997 to 2002 having achieved the commissioned rank of Major.Earlier, Singapore’s Prime Minister assured it is “only right” that Workers’ Party’s Indian-origin secretary-general Pritam Singh be “formally designated” as the leader of the opposition, and that he will be provided with “appropriate staff support and resources to perform his duties”.Singh, whose Workers’ Party team retained Aljunied Group Representation Constituency (GRC), will have 10 elected MPs now, up from six previously. His fellow member also retained the Hougang single member constituency seat.It was Singh’s first outing as party chief, and he had entered the election aiming to defend the party’s home turf, but by the wee hours of the morning on Saturday, it became clear that he had led his party to another breakthrough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-origin-pritam-singh-is-leader-of-oppn-in-singapore/story-ZrVvwvKwWUHSRREJEs3lOK.html
11-07-2020||City||Gurugam: Girl students to get passport with graduation degree from institution, says Khattar||Karnal: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced Saturday that help will be provided to all girl students of the state to procure passports on the completion of their graduation.He said educational institutions in the state will complete the entire process with the regional passport office, so that passports can be provided along with graduation degrees.“The government has decided that all girl students should get a passport from their institutions along with their graduation degree”, announced the CM during a programme titled “Har Sar Helmet” organised to provide learners’ driving licenses and free helmets to about 100 students in Karnal.Earlier, the state government had allowed educational institutions to provide learners’ licenses to students.The chief minister emphasised the need to make people aware of road-safety saying that wearing a helmet on a two-wheeler should be a habit. “There is a need to make ‘Har Sar Helmet’ successful by involving every citizen – especially youths of the state – in this campaign”, he said.Kalpana Chawla’s mural inaugurated 10 days after birthdayAlmost 10 days after her birthday, Khattar inaugurated a mural dedicated to the late astronaut on the front wall of Dr Mangal Sen auditorium in Karnal. The 35 ft mural was built by a private bank in the memory of Chawla, who is called ‘Karnal’s daughter’, as she was from the city. Karnal Municipal Corporation Mayor Renu Bala Gupta said the mural will be visible to every person entering the city and that she is an inspiration for the younger generation. Chawla was the first woman of Indian origin to fly a space shuttle and she was one of the seven crew members who died in the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster in 2003.“The mural was inaugurated soon after its completion,” the Mayor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugam-girl-students-to-get-passport-with-graduation-degree-from-institution-says-khattar/story-QL0gjHOOmsUGwn5bgk0xUJ.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||New technologies, localising components will pave way for boycotting Chinese products: Hero Cycles chairman||A week after cancelling a ₹900-crore deal with China, chairman of Hero Cycles, Pankaj Munjal, spoke to Hindustan Times about alternatives being explored and how investing in indigenously-made cycle components is the future. Talking about the road ahead, Munjal said they are localising components with domestic vendors as well as resourcing from European makers.“Our supplier base has shown great support in this initiative and are now investing in indigenous development of the parts that we would generally import. They understand this needs to be done in an accelerated manner. Our most recently added research and development centre in Berlin is leading the charge in this. Secondly, we are now looking at Germany, which is also our European base, as the alternative source. There are many high-quality suppliers in Europe that already work with our group company, HNF GmbH in Germany, and are more than keen to partner with us for India,” he said.Munjal admits that it was easy to send product teams to China, get quotes and then order. “But it was not right,” he adds. “With German R&D support, we are committed to introduce new technologies to India which would be a credible alternative to the China where IPs and patents remain insecure.”Talking about the impact of the cancellation of deal with China on the price of cycle parts, Munjal says negotiations with European parts suppliers are underway for this. “In many models, our approach is to upgrade the product with higher quality and better functioning German component which may increase the price a little but will tremendously increase value offered to customers by making the product superior in its class,” he added.Talking about the ₹900-crore deal that has been cancelled, Munjal said the time frame for the deal was around five years, which included life cycle of existing models and new models under development for next year. The deal included import of some high-end bicycles and e-bikes which would be readily substituted with German products without much cost impact.It January this year, the R&D centre in Berlin was added, which is part of Hero’s acquisition in Germany, he adds.“Components such as complex alloy frames, bicycle drivetrain, E-bike motor, battery and controllers, wheels and rims and disc brakes are all being imported from China and we are actively looking at indigenisation of these components,” Munjal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-technologies-localising-components-will-pave-way-for-boycotting-chinese-products-hero-cycles-chairman/story-auRBolUQywcIW0X1jGDwbP.html
11-07-2020||Gurugram||Haryana class 10 results: Gurugram district topper scores 99%||Seventeen-year-old Gaurav from Government Model Senior Secondary School in sector 4/7, urban estate, topped in Gurugram in the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) examinations for class 10, results of which were declared on Friday. Gaurav, who goes by a single name, scored 495 out of 500 marks in the examinations that were held in March. Of the 14,190 students who appeared in the examinations from Gurugram district, 9680 students passed while 1,409 will have to give the examination again. The number of students who did not qualify stood at 3101. The city recorded a pass percentage of 68.22. An ecstatic Gaurav said that the result was much better than what he had expected. “I was hoping to top the school but never expected that I would top the district as well. My parents are extremely happy,” he said.He credited his parents and teachers for their support. “Despite meagre resources, my parents have always encouraged me to focus on my studies. They are overwhelmed with the results and happily sharing the news with everyone,” said Gaurav, who has opted for the Science stream and aspires to pursue engineering after school. He has secured a perfect 100 in math that also happens to be his favourite subject. His father is a carpenter while his mother is a domestic help. The family is from Jharkhand. He has already started preparing for the IIT-JEE examination, “I am studying at home. IIT-JEE is a tough examination and I need to start early since we cannot afford coaching or tuition of any kind.”In an unprecedented academic year marred by the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Haryana board had called off examinations in some subjects after the lockdown was imposed. The board took into account the average of monthly tests for marking the remaining papers. “The declaration of the result was delayed a lot. We were on tenterhooks throughout since earlier also there had been false alarms about results getting declared. There was a lot of uncertainty since we were unsure if the remaining paper would be conducted or not and if we should be preparing for the exam or not,” said Gaurav. Suman Sharma, Gaurav’s principal, said that the school had consistently improved its pass percentage. The overall result of the school was above 94%, she said. “We had started preparing for the boards from last August itself and laid special focus on relatively weaker students,” said Sharma.District education officer Indu Boken said that the district had improved its performance due to the efforts of students and teachers. “The district is on the fifth spot within the state (on pass percentage). We will continue to put more effort in the coming years,” said Boken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-class-10-results-gurugram-district-topper-scores-99/story-6cwDzQQxT1CDVaIJlNTTZI.html
11-07-2020||Gurugram||Second RT-PCR machine installed in the city||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday inaugurated the second reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test machine in Civil Hospital, sector 10, via video conferencing. With this, the Gurugram government lab’s capacity to test the Sars-CoV-2 virus nucleic material, which causes Covid-19, will rise to 500 samples a day from 200. RT-PCR testing is the gold standard frontline test for Covid-19. Seven private labs in the can conduct up to 500 to 600 RT-PCR tests a day. “The results will be delivered in 24 hours. If required, we can test up to 700 samples every day,” said Dr. Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer. On Saturday, 2345 samples were collected, of which 1789 were taking by health department, including the antigen test. At least 556 samples for RT-PCR were taken by private labs. Since March, more than 60,000 people in the city have been tested for Covid-19. “Since June 24, more than 30,000 tests have been conducted in the city,” said Yadav. Out of them, 16,109 samples were through antigen detection kits, while the remaining 13, 891 are being tested through RT-PCR in both government and private labs. Testing has increased in the last two weeks. Earlier, on an average 1000-1500 tests were being done in a day, which this week increased to almost 3000.Gurugram initially sent its samples to All India Institute of Medical Sciences ( AIIMS) Delhi for testing. As the cases increased, samples were getting tested in PGIMS -Rohtak, Sonepat Medical College, and private labs too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/second-rt-pcr-machine-installed-in-the-city/story-iAQxWRD7S03gIkP3EOnFzJ.html
11-07-2020||Gurugram||170 new Covid-19 cases confirmed||On Saturday the district had 170 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count of cases to 6,748, out of which 1,036 are active cases, and 5608 have recovered till now. In the last 10 days (July 1- 10) there were 1,231 new Covid-19 cases, an 18.4% rise from that of the previous 10 days (June 21-30) when it was 1040. Before that it was 1761 (June 11-20), 1772 (June 1-10_ and 535 (May 22 to 31). The health department and district administration officials attribute the latest spike to increased testing.Dr. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of the district, said, “The cases will continue to emerge as more testing is done through rapid antigen kits and reverse transcription -polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). But at the same time, recovery rate is almost 83%. The city’s current positivity rate is 11%. Ideally, it should be around 5% as per the World Health Organization ( WHO), but through our interventions in large outbreak areas and containment zones, we are trying for 8% to 10%.”Experts who have been monitoring Gurugram and state Covid-19 data said that the spike is due to unchecked transmission of the Sars-CoV-2 infection. “In the last 10 days, Gurugram saw 18.4% rise in the coronavirus cases detected in the city, when compared to the data of the previous 10 days from June 21 to 30. More testing leads to higher detection of so far undetected infection in the community. But at the same time it also points at the unchecked transmission of the coronavirus among susceptible hosts. Tests are detecting only a portion of such infected lot,” said Dheeraj Singh, data scientist who has been monitoring district’s Covid-19 data. Gurugram currently has the highest number of cases among the 22 districts in Haryana. The total count of the coronavirus cases has crossed the mark of 20,000 in the state to record 20,582 with 648 new cases. Out of these, 4891 are active cases, while 15,394 have been discharged, according to the state bulletin. The Covid-19 death toll in the state stood at 297, out of which 104 are reported alone in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/170-new-covid-19-cases-confirmed/story-w3QLrofLI6BUJfndkFbE2J.html
11-07-2020||Gurugram||In four weeks, active cases in GGM reduce by 50%; recovery rate at all time high||Even as the district’s total Covid-19 case tally rose to 6,748 with the addition of 170 new cases on Saturday, the number of active patients in Gurugram has almost halved over the past month from its peak of 1,999 on June 14, shows health department data. While officials said the trend indicated that surveillance and containment measures in the region have been effective, experts said the apparent turnaround notwithstanding, the district should be cautious.Active cases dipped to 1,036 on July 11 (a 48% decrease). During the same period, the number of reported infections more than doubled, from 3,294 cases on June 14. The district has 30% of Haryana’s total 20582 cases, and 21% of the state’s 4,891 active cases.Gurugram’s recovery rate (at 82%, up from about 50% in mid-June), has helped prevent a rapid build-up of active cases, leaving enough resources to treat those in need of medical interventions. Simultaneously, health department officials explained, surveillance efforts have slowed down the growth of new positives.Dr. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “In early June, the recovery rate was stagnant at 50%. As soon as we increased our testing capacity, it improved to 83% within three weeks. That’s because our surveillance has been able to find and isolate new positives more quickly now, leading to less severe cases of Covid-19 and quicker recoveries. We have also been able to slow down the growth of new positives, which naturally has a positive bearing on the number of active cases.”According to Dr. Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program’s (IDSP’s) district surveillance officer, antigen tests, which is highly specific, have played a key role.“While RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, considered to be the gold standard in testing for Covid-19) tests take at least 24 hours to produce a result, rapid antigen tests have allowed us to isolate over 300 positive cases within 30 minutes of being tested. If the same people had been tested via RT-PCR, they would have continued to spread the virus for a whole day before their results came. From over 200 infections a day in early June, we are now finding closer to 100 new positives daily, suggesting that we have been able to cut the chain of transmission,” said Dr. Prakash.Antigen tests, which have tripled the district’s testing capabilities, have also driven down Gurugram’s test-positivity rate (or TPR, which is the number of positives per 100 tests in percentage), from 23.9% in June to 5.5% in the first week of July. Tests have also increased to close to 2,000 per day, up from an average of 925 tests per day in the last two weeks of June.A reducing TPR with increasing tests, officials said, also indicated that transmission among the community has been curbed, to some extent.“These are the three main numbers which, when viewed in relation to each other, suggest that our response to Covid-19 is on the right track: high recovery rate, reduction in active cases, and a reduced positivity rate. If our response had failed somewhere, we would be seeing much more positive cases through antigen tests,” said Dr. Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, Gurugram.Officials added that, with the drop in active cases, Gurugram’s health care infrastructure is sufficiently equipped to handle a future surge, if it arrives. “At the current rate, we are expecting between 700 to 1000 active cases in Gurugram by the month end, which is manageable. Most will be asymptomatic and will require home isolation or, at worst, secondary care,” said a doctor with the IDSP in Gurugram, seeking anonymity.While he was reluctant to corroborate this, Dr, Ram Prakash said, “There is little chance of our health system becoming overwhelmed in the near future.”“Antigen tests produce more false negatives than RT PCR tests. Since they are making up the bulk of testing in Gurugram at the moment, it’s important to remember that the district’s improvement is based on data from tests that are inherently less reliable than the RT PCR method,” said Dheeraj Singh, a city-based data scientist tracking Covid-19 data in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/in-four-weeks-active-cases-in-ggm-reduce-by-50-recovery-rate-at-all-time-high/story-gmhueX2qWSezfcZnjCK97H.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||AI sacks 200 cabin crew, refuses to withdraw resignations of 50 pilots||National carrier, Air India has terminated 200 of its cabin crew, and has refused to accept the withdrawal of resignations of 50 pilots. These cabin crew were recently inducted in the airline on a contractual basis.As on April 2020, the national carrier had around 4,000 cabin crew and around 1,800 pilots.However, the Air India spokesperson refused to comment on the issue. “These are internal issues on which we won’t like to make any comment,” he said. Airline sources said the 50 pilots had resigned as they had secured a job in private airlines. However, due to lockdown and the current pandemic situation, private airlines did not hire them. Hence, they have put forth their request of wanting to return to Air India.The airline, however, refused to withdraw their resignations and asked them to continue serving their notice period. Top Air India sources said the decision was taken before the management and ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) officials met the airline pilots on July 8.A senior airline pilot said, “We knew about this step by the airline, hence we had written to them and even discussed in the meeting that they should not lay off only the frontline warriors, but deal with all employees, across all the departments equally.”HT had reported that pilots affiliated to two unions (Indian Commercial Pilot Guild and Indian Pilots Guild) representing the narrow and wide-body aircraft, after writing a letter to their chairman Rajiv Bansal on Monday, had asked the management to give percentage cut on gross salary as per individual’s income and implement leave without pay (LWP) for all the employees of the airline on monthly basis.The pilots, in the meeting on July 8, had told the management and MoCA to clear their long-pending 25% dues immediately and allow them to quit Air India with immediate effect in case they fail to implement the LWP for employees.A senior airline official said lay-offs were bound to happen due to the current situation. “The letter from pilots has set things into motion. Otherwise, the airline management was contemplating since March. The appointing authority [heads of the departments] have failed to handle the situation and stand for the employees who are being asked to leave,” the official added.“Since only a few flights are operating due to Covid-19 pandemic making the situation worse, the management should study the non-operating and operating departments and should reduce the workforce accordingly, since its getting difficult for the airline to function as there is no money to run Air India,” said a retired airline official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ai-sacks-200-cabin-crew-refuses-to-withdraw-resignations-of-50-pilots/story-EE9RKZI0aisQGcVwcYI6hJ.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Homeless man killed for stealing another’s crutches, selling it for liquor||Selling his friend’s pair of crutches to buy liquor cost a 40-year-old homeless man his life. The owner of the crutches along with an accomplice, both of them homeless, allegedly stabbed the man to death and crushed his face in with a stone on a pavement near a park in north Delhi’s Mori Gate on Thursday. Police said after killing the man, the duo slept next to his body as they were drunk and were not in a position to remove and dispose of the body.The crime came to light on Friday when a sanitation worker spotted the body on the footpath and called the police. Both suspects, identified by their first names Karan,32, and Satish,26, were arrested and the knife used in the crime along with their bloodstained clothes were recovered, said deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj. The dead homeless man was identified by his first name, Anil.“The arrested men told us that Anil used to bully them. Anil had allegedly sold off Karan’s crutches in order to buy liquor for himself. The two were angry with Anil over this,” DCP Bhardwaj said.A senior police officer associated with the probe said Karan and Satish hatched a plan to kill Anil. On Thursday, the duo purchased liquor and invited Anil to join them. They drank on the footpath near the park. When Anil became inebriated, the two allegedly stabbed him and then crushed his face with a stone.“The two men then attempted to flee the scene. However, a night patrolling police team spotted them loitering on the road and asked them to stop wandering about. The two returned to the crime spot and slept next to the body on the footpath,” the officer said, requesting anonymity. He said the policemen were unaware of the murder or the body on the pavement.The two men later escaped from the scene early Friday morning. Around 7.30am, the sanitation worker spotted the body and informed the police. A murder case was registered and the man’s identity was established.During the probe, Karan and Satish emerged as suspects in the case. The two were questioned but they denied their role. “It was only when the night patrolling team identified them as the same men who were loitering around the crime scene the previous night that they broke down and admitted to the crime,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/homeless-man-killed-for-stealing-another-s-crutches-selling-it-for-liquor/story-mLSWStg4RMQUztbdvShmQJ.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||33 govt primary schools in Ludhiana dist show no improvement in enrolment||The new academic session at government schools started with online classes three months ago amid the Covid-19 outbreak, but, over 33 government primary schools in Ludhiana have shown no improvement in enrolment.There are 993 primary schools in the district and some of those situated in blocks including Macchiwara-1, Sidhwan Bet 1 and 2, Delhon- 2 and Mangat 3 have shown zero progress in enrolment since last year. Of the 33 schools, 13 are from Macchiwara-1 block.The reasons cited by primary education officers are many of these schools are run by a single teacher and population of the village is less compared to others.Government Primary School, Shekh Kutab, situated in Sidhwan Bet 2, has only nine students from pre-primary to Class 5, which is the same as last year. Harbhajan Singh, block primary education officer, Sidhwan Bet 1, said, “This school is run by a single teacher who is making efforts to increase enrolment. But, a private school nearby is providing transport facility and villagers also prefer sending their children there. In many villages, the population is very low due to which government schools have few students.”“I have told teachers of these schools to enhance enrolment and send the report by Monday”, he added. District education officer (elementary), Rajinder Kaur, said, “We have been able to increase enrolment in government primary schools of the district by 28% and schools with low enrolment have been motivated through video conference meetings to improve their student strength. We are gathering data on schools which have enhanced enrolment and require more teachers and rooms to take classes. This will be sent to the state education department to provide the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/33-govt-primary-schools-in-ludhiana-dist-show-no-improvement-in-enrolment/story-ymhYlzZQoown1ZvLzzfCaN.html
11-07-2020||City||Nilje RoB open for traffic after repairs||The Nilje rail overbridge (RoB) on the busy Kalyan-Shilphata stretch, which was closed for repairs on June 15, was reopened for small vehicles on Saturday, by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC).“We completed the repair work in 15 days and the bridge was opened to vehicles on Saturday morning. Although the repair work was completed, we could not open the RoB without proper inspection. We conducted a load test to ensure that it is safe,” said an MSRDC official. The budget for repair work was pegged at ₹24 lakh.According to a notification by the Thane traffic police, heavy vehicles will not be allowed to ply on the bridge.A safety audit of the 50-year-old bridge by the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) revealed that the structure is unsafe and recommended authorities to close the RoB immediately for the safety of commuters.The work was carried out in three phases. During the repairs, MSRDC, along with Central Railway engineers, strengthened the concrete slab and steel girders of the bridge. The rusting on the girders were also checked and repaired.The traffic police put a height barrier on the bridge to ensure that heavy vehicles do not ply on it. Heavy vehicles heading towards Shilphata and Navi Mumbai from Kalyan and Dombivli will not be given entry at Katai Naka and will instead have to take the Khoni village route to reach their destination.“Heavy vehicles coming from Shilphata and Navi Mumbai to Kalyan and Dombivli will be stopped at Kalyan Phata and diverted to the Taloja Cement Road,” informed an officer from Kolsewadi traffic police unit.After the lockdown restrictions were eased last month, the closure of the bridge caused traffic snarls on the Kalyan-Shilphata stretch as the vehicles on the RoB was diverted to the parallel bridge, leading to congestion during peak hours. The 21-km-long Kalyan-Shilphata Road connects Kalyan, Dombivli, Bhiwandi, Thane and Navi Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nilje-rob-open-for-traffic-after-repairs/story-7wPvSE1BXBTZ7PsBWVSHNI.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana industrialists seek quarantine waiver for labourers||As the state government recently issued guidelines regarding the entry of people from other states, industrialists demanded to ease norms for interstate movement of labourers without insisting on 14-day quarantine.The industrialists demanded that the government should allow entry of labourers in the state by screening them and without placing them under 14-day quarantine.President, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), Upkar Singh Ahuja said, “The industry is working with only 40% workers and production has been badly hit as lakhs of labourers have gone to their native places during the lockdown period. The government should allow them to enter the state by screening them.”Former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), Charanjit Singh Vishwakarma said, “The new directions issued by the government would further inculcate fear in the minds of migrants who may not return to factories. With production going down, it would also have an impact on the revenue collection of the government.”The industrialists rued that markets have been opened and a huge rush of visitors can be seen at the vends installed on roadsides, but the state government is not paying heed to labour shortage being faced by the industry.President, Dhandari Industrial Welfare Association, Satnam Singh Makkar said, “Every sector has been opened and the government should also allow movement of migrants to the state. If necessary, they can be kept in a quarantine facility for three to four days and should be allowed to work in factories after screening. The government should rather help the industry at this time of crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-industrialists-seek-quarantine-waiver-for-labourers/story-u6CDPOssTLuU3yIj55DX3N.html
11-07-2020||City||Pilferage: Drones to keep vigil on Mathura-Jalandhar oil pipelines||Alarmed over activities of the organised gangs of oil thieves, the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), nation’s largest public-sector oil corporation, is set for aerial surveillance of the underground pipelines in the strategically significant Mathura-Jalandhar region.Official familiar with the development say that the initiative would be the first of its kind in the country where drones would be used for monitoring the security of the underground network of petroleum pipes.On July 6, the ministry of civil aviation authorised the IOC to use remotely piloted aircraft system (RPAS) for the pipelines.Officials say the IOC had mooted the plan of aerial surveillance in August 2015, but the project was marred by the bureaucratic hurdles.General manager, corporate communications of IOC (pipeline divisions), N Shiva Kumar said on Saturday that in the first stage unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) will be used on Bijwasan (Delhi)–Panipat corridor for four months. He said drones would be pressed into service within a fortnight.Drones would help in giving real-time information in case of pilferage or any untoward situation in the pipeline network for prompt action.“Since the cases of oil thefts are more in the National Capital Region (NCR), it was decided to roll out the pilot project in Delhi-Panipat to ascertain its efficiency. On the basis of the success of the project, aerial monitoring will be extended on the entire Mathura-Jalandhar belt,” said Kumar.The petroleum products to defence installations along the international border with Pakistan and China are met through the Mathura-Jalandhar pipeline.“Any interruption in the supply of petroleum products for civilian and defence requirements would be drastically hampered in case of any damage to the supply line,” said an official. The IOC suffered huge losses due to incidents of pilferage. However, undermining the financial losses incurred in oil thefts, the public sector company said the safety of human lives and the environment was of much higher importance for them. “Plugging oil pilferage is certainly significant, but any incident of leakage and sabotage can lead to losses beyond imagination. There were instances in Haryana when gangs dug a tunnel and stole oil. The IOC wants to give a firm answer to such instances,” said Kumar.Most of the pilferage sites in the NCR were located in agriculture fields, near abandoned water drains, panchayat grounds and forest lands.The IOC said that if pilferages go wrong, they could be a great safety and fire hazard and create environmental pollution, damage to water bodies, spoil natural drinking water facilities, soil and could be harmful to even public property and human life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pilferage-drones-to-keep-vigil-on-mathura-jalandhar-oil-pipelines/story-Njyg1pqelBsQcrZxTUYVhK.html
11-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Testing suffers due to weekend restrictions||On the first day of the weekend restrictions imposed by the UP government, the Ghaziabad police on Saturday said that the city roads wore a deserted look while the restrictions at the borders with Delhi continued. However, officials of the health department said that the testing activities suffered on account of the two-day lockdown.The UP government on Thursday had announced the lockdown which started at 10pm on Friday and will continue till 5am on Monday.“Due to restrictions announced by the government, the traffic on the roads was minimal. There was intensive checking by the police at the borders while barricades were put up on all major roads like done previously during the nationwide lockdown period. Those not wearing masks or moving around without any valid pass were challaned,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).According to the police, about 770 challans were issued to different persons for not wearing mask on roads.“At the borders, we allowed only those persons who had valid identity cards/passes or were engaged in essential services. The movement to Delhi was also restricted as July 11 being a second Saturday,” Mishra added.Meanwhile, the health officials said that only 1,104 samples were taken for Covid-19 test on Saturday during the ongoing drive due to the weekend restrictions. The sampling drive will end on July 12.“This is because the residents did not come out to our camps for testing due to restrictions in place. On Saturday, we could collect only 1,104 samples for Covid test. Generally, we are doing about 3,000 tests per day at present,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.The state government during the restriction period had also asked the local authorities to take up sanitization in different areas in order to prevent Covid-19 spread.“As many as 10 fire tenders were deployed in two shifts of four hours each for spraying of sodium hypochlorite in different areas. We covered 255 areas, including highrise buildings, major markets and public places like railway stations, bus stands, auto stands, etc. On Sunday, we have plans to cover areas of containment zones,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer.In his order issued for weekend restrictions, the UP government on Thursday had stated that all offices, urban and rural haats, markets, grain markets, and commercial establishments will remain closed. All essential services, however, will stay open as before and there will be no restriction on movements of people delivering such services.The government, in a revised order on Friday, had directed that all the industrial units in urban and rural areas will continue to function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-testing-suffers-due-to-weekend-restrictions/story-2G2dcogMXTX61s4ZLU8nIN.html
11-07-2020||City||Maximum cost of Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals in Noida, Ghaziabad capped||The Uttar Pradesh government, in an order issued Friday, fixed price caps for coronavirus (Covid-19)-related treatments provided by private hospitals across the state. The government fixed per day charges which hospitals can levy – Rs 8,000 to Rs 15,000 – for different categories of treatments for moderate, severe, and very severe Covid-19 symptoms. However, there is some confusion as the government order does not mention whether the per-day charges include cost of medicine, laboratory tests or consumables. Costs of treatment differs in private hospitals of tier A, B and C cities, as per the order, which identifies Noida area, Ghaziabad city, Meerut, Kanpur, Lucknow and Agra, among some others, as tier A cities.According to the order, issued by Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (ACS - health), the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH)-accredited super-specialty hospitals are allowed to charge Rs 10,000 (including cost of Rs 1,200 for PPE kit) for moderate sickness (which includes isolation beds including supportive care and oxygen); Rs 15,000 (including Rs 2,000 PPE cost) for severe sickness (which includes ICU without need for ventilator care); and Rs 18,000 (including Rs 2,000 cost of PPE kit) for very severe sickness (which includes ICU with ventilator care).The rates for non-NABH accredited hospitals were stated to be Rs 8,000, Rs 13,000 and Rs 15,000 for moderate sickness, severe sickness and very severe sickness, respectively.“We have received the government order and it has been implemented and forwarded to private hospitals providing paid Covid-19 treatment. However, there is no clarity about charges on medicines, consumables, etc. We will write to the state government on whether the charges include other costs or not,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.In Ghaziabad, the health department has given permission for paid Covid treatment to eight different hospitals which are now contributing with 544 paid Covid beds, overall.For the notified hospitals, the state government pays up for per day treatment at the rate of Rs 4,500 for an ICU bed, Rs 2,700 for high dependency units and Rs 1,800 for general ward to the acquired hospital.“For acquired hospitals, the government pays hospitals directly but for the patient, all Covid-19 treatments are free of cost in government or government-acquired facilities. We now have eight hospitals with 544 beds for Covid-19 patients, on a paid basis, and the cost is to be borne by the patient. The order for the price cap has no specific mention about other charges,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.The district wing of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), however, was of the view that the prices of medicines are perhaps left out of the order due to the variations in prices of individual medicines or lab tests. “We are presuming that rates of medicines, laboratory investigation, etc., are excluded from the prices mentioned in the government order. If such items are included, the price capping will not be feasible for private hospitals as there are many medicines which have high rates and inclusion of their prices will not be feasible,” said Dr VB Jindal, president, IMA, Ghaziabad.The order further states that super-specialty hospitals in tier B and C cities can charge 80% and 60%, respectively, of the charges specified for tier-A cities. The order also mentions that the hospitals will have to reserve 20% of the number of beds for government officers/employees and for patients registered under the Ayushman Bharat Yojna.The state government on May 1 had allowed private hospitals to impart paid Covid treatment where cost was to be borne by the patient in case the hospital is not acquired by the state government.In another government order on Friday, the state government gave temporary permission to private medical colleges to run Covid-19 wards and also fixed charges for different wards for different categories of private medical colleges.Unlike the order issued by the ACS (health), another order issued by Rajnish Dubey, additional chief secretary (medical education), however, specified different charges.The order stated that the package rates will be all inclusive, and will include bed, food, amenities, doctors’ consultation, nursing charges, consumables and all other treatments, including oxygen, blood transfusion, supportive care and physiotherapy.“The package will include medical management of underlying co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes, cardio-vascular illness and chronic pulmonary/kidney/hepatic diseases. This will include emergency management procedures such as acute haemodialysis, if needed, and non-invasive ventilation such as high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) and Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP),” Dubey’s order had stated.The price capping of private hospitals in the state is based on the recommendations of a committee formed under Dr VK Paul, member, Niti Ayog. After complaints of overcharging against private hospitals, Union home minister Amit Shah in June constituted a committee under Dr Paul to fix rates charged by private hospitals in Delhi for isolation beds, ICUs without ventilator support and ICUs with ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maximum-cost-of-covid-19-treatment-at-private-hospitals-in-noida-ghaziabad-capped/story-CC5rxGMIZEdwYoHavngb9N.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain forecast for next week in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar: IMD||After four days of light sporadic showers across isolated areas in the city and suburbs, the weather bureau on Saturday predicted heavy rain for next week.A yellow alert (forecast for heavy rain at isolated places) was issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for Monday to Wednesday while the same has been predicted for Thane for Sunday as well.“After a reduction in rain activity as compared to the first week of July, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) can expect more intense showers as monsoon conditions are likely to be active for the Konkan coast from July 12 and north Konkan coast from July 13,” an IMD official said. “Weather systems in the Arabian Sea will intensify westerly winds, which would draw moisture leading to rain increase.”Between 8.30am and 5.30pm Saturday, 4.8mm rain was recorded in the suburbs and 0.2mm rain in south Mumbai. Over 24 hours 8.30am Friday to 8.30am Saturday, south Mumbai recorded 14 mm rain and the suburbs recorded 1.3mm. So far Mumbai has recorded 73% of its July average rain and received 47% of its seasonal average rain.Independent meteorologists said rain will gradually increase from Sunday. “Owing to an increase in the moisture content, intermittent light to moderate showers are expected till Tuesday. A monsoon low-pressure system is expected to develop over east India along with a vortex over north Maharashtra in the mid-week. This could enhance rain in MMR between Tuesday and Thursday,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom.Monsoon will be active for Mumbai again from July 15, with heavy widespread rains possible around July 17, said Professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay. “The city can expect mostly moderate showers (40-50 mm for 24-hours per day over the next three days) with some places witnessing short spells of heavy rains till July 15. These showers won’t cause much inconvenience. These are likely to be short 15-20 minutes heavy bursts and that too only in isolated areas, and not widespread. Monsoon is still in a mini-break phase over North Konkan,” he said.On Sunday, the city and suburbs could expect cloud cover with few spells of light to moderate rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-forecast-for-next-week-in-mumbai-thane-and-palghar-imd/story-sqUi7XwlHrXeGjWkwkjM6L.html
11-07-2020||City||Missing teen traced, alleges being molested by father||A 16-year-old girl, who went missing from her Kharghar home early this week, was traced by the Kharghar police to Pune. The girl has now revealed that she ran away from the house as her father, a cab driver, molested her. The police have now sent the girl to a children’s home and are investigating the matter.According to police, the girl has recently finished her class 10 and stays with her parents and two sisters. Her father works as a cab driver and her mother is house help. The girl, on Tuesday morning, stepped out to buy chocolates and did not return. Around 2pm, her mother, 37, inquired with her daughter’s school friends, but no one had heard from her.The girl’s father, 48, was in Pune at the time. He returned to the city by Tuesday evening.The crime branch’s anti human trafficking unit (AHTU) officials came across the girl’s missing poster on social media and started a probe, to help trace her.“We traced her location in Pune on Wednesday after which we brought her back. She has claimed that she ran away as her father molested her. We are inquiring with him and also trying to verify if his other daughters have the same complaint,” said an officer from the crime branch.Since the girl has alleged molestation, she was not handed over to her parents and sent to a children’s home. She will appear before the child welfare committee following which, a further course of action will be decided, said an officer. Molestation complaint is not registered yet.In the last ten days, the AHTU solved five cases, where missing persons including minors have been traced from across Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-teen-traced-alleges-being-molested-by-father/story-mTOeeUmWvtnbHAewP2W68N.html
11-07-2020||Noida||Weekend lockdown: Noida borders see smooth flow of traffic||With the weekend lockdown in force, the Noida police on Saturday conducted thorough checking at the borders to regulate the movement of people. However, the flow of traffic at the city borders was smooth, the police said.Police officials have said that only the movement of people involved in essential services will be allowed, along with those holding valid passes, while no new passes will be issued during the two-day lockdown.“Traffic movement was smooth today. The volume was less due to it being a weekend, and only essential services people were allowed to pass through. Those who didn’t have the necessary documents were asked to return. With three lanes open at DND, the traffic was managed properly,” said Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Zone 1.Commuters, too, said that there was less traffic on Saturday morning.“It seemed better than most days. There was checking of our papers, but it took us only a few minutes to pass through DND compared to half-an-hour it takes normally,” said Bulbul Singh, a resident of Sector 75 who works in Delhi.On Saturday, the Noida police registered 18 cases of violation and arrested 62 people, while a total of 1,950 vehicles were checked. Of these vehicles, 973 were challaned, while four were seized, the police officials said, adding that Rs 40,650 was collected in fines. The police are checking 200 barricaded points across the city.The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday had announced for the weekend lockdown starting from Friday night till Monday morning owing to the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state.Under the guidelines, movement of people will be restricted both within and out of the district. While industries will continue operations, markets will remain shut.“We are monitoring the situation. There is increased police patrolling since Friday night. Our teams will stay on alert and we will continue challaning people for violations as has been happening since the lockdown began in March,” said the DCP.Police personnel also used drone cameras across Gautam Budh Nagar district to maintain vigil and will continue doing so on Sunday as well, the officials said.GB Nagar’s borders with Delhi have been closed since April and the district has maintained its status quo despite relaxations in the lockdown guidelines, the officials said. Traffic snarls, specially during peak hours, have been a concern for daily commuters for the past two-and-a-half months.Nearly 10,000 people had been booked in the district for various violations under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) during the nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/weekend-lockdown-noida-borders-see-smooth-flow-of-traffic/story-gWzf4lB7A3q9OmX7Tfn3BM.html
11-07-2020||Noida||Noida expedites work on big development projects||The Noida authority will soon start work on several important development projects in the city that got delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. These projects include ₹100-crore integrated system for traffic management and upgradation of sewage treatment plants, officials said.On Saturday, the Noida authority chief executive officer, Ritu Maheshwari, conducted a review of several projects and issued directions to expedite work on them.“We have reviewed and decided to execute all these projects at the earliest so that residents can benefit from them,” said Maheshwari.For better traffic management, the authority has to put 80 busy traffic intersections under electronic surveillance. Initially, the authority will install high-definition cameras at 80 spots, including traffic intersections, main roads and internal roads. In the second phase, the authority will install cameras on all traffic junctions. All these sites will be connected to a control room, from where e-challans for traffic violations will be issued, the officials said.In October last year, the authority had started tendering process to hire a private agency that can work on the e-surveillance project.“For the e-surveillance project, three private companies have submitted bids. We will finalise one of them at the earliest and start the work soon so that traffic management and policing can be improved in the city,” said Maheshwari.Besides, the authority has to upgrade the 40 million litres per day (MLD) sewage treatment plant (STP) in Sector 168 to 100 MLD capacity and 35 MLD Sector 123 STP to 80 MLD.“As the tendering process is complete, the upgradation work will be started at site from July 31. Once completed, the STPs will treat more sewage, and teated water will help irrigate green areas and save the ground water,” said a Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.Besides, the authority will also focus on making Sector 18 vehicle free zone, installing more LED lights across the city, and starting ‘cycle on rent’ facility at Metro stations on 29.7km Aqua Line that connects Noida with Greater Noida, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-expedites-work-on-big-development-projects/story-IHYuD4MdYLv9gcLu0cIT5O.html
11-07-2020||Noida||Noida govt bodies begin deep sanitisation drive||All government bodies in the Gautam Budh Nagar district – including the development authorities of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway, among others – conducted a ‘deep sanitization’ drive to contain the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, across the district. According to officials, in deep sanitisation, a layer of sodium hypochlorite solution will be sprayed on to all surfaces in public areas, including benches, vehicles, roads, walls, etc., which help kill the virus.The move comes after the government ordered a two-day, state-wide ‘weekend’ lockdown beginning July 11 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. The government had also directed, in the order, agencies in each district to carry out deep sanitization – a three-day drive which began on Friday – in containment zones, where the risk of infection is higher, said officials. Apart from this, following government instructions, authorities have also started a special cleanliness drive as a preventive step in anticipation of vector-borne diseases which accompany the monsoon in India due to water logging and infestation of disease-causing bacteria and mosquitoes in them, said officials. Commencement of monsoon for this part of the country was announced late last month. The season typically lasts till September.“All industrial as well as municipal bodies are engaged in deep sanitisation for three days in containment zones across the district. The sanitization, crucial to break the chain (of the Covid-19) disease) will be conducted in all areas where active cases are located,” said BN Singh, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.There are 257 containment zones in category I, mostly multi storey buildings, where active Covid-19 cases are located. There are 56 containment zones in category II which are located in sectors with plotted houses. According to officials of the Noida authority, it is focusing on at least 200 containment zones, which are important due to the number of cases from there, apart from other Noida areas. For this, the authority has deployed at least 400 people along with 40 tankers, six fire tenders and some small machines to carry out sanitisation with sodium hypochlorite solutions.“We are conducting deep sanitization in all areas, which are part of containment zones, including multi-storey buildings, slums or villages. We have also sanitised commercial areas, particularly Sector 18, where footfall is higher as compared to other areas. Shopping malls, offices and other buildings are to be sanitised by building owners,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of the Noida authority.The Greater Noida authority has deployed at least 200 staff members, 10 tankers, four fire tenders and other machines to sanitise around 50 containment zones.“We have directed the staff to maintain proper cleanliness in all villages, sectors and multi storey towers. Sanitisation in containment zones is a priority to contain the spread of Covid-19,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) has also started a sanitisation and cleanliness drive.“We have deployed two sanitisation workers each in 80 villages and also taken up the sanitisation drive as per government instructions,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of the Yeida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-govt-bodies-begin-deep-sanitisation-drive/story-EX5088bx6biQZIvKrIS2JM.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Constable, wife booked in ₹33-lakh disproportionate assets case||The city unit of the Maharashtra anti-corruption bureau (ACB) booked a 52-year-old constable and his wife for allegedly possessing disproportionate assets worth₹33 lakh, which is 130.5% more than his known sources of income as a government servant.The accused, Abdul Salam Yusuf Shaikh, is currently attached with the local arms division of the Mumbai Police at Naigaon.In 2012, a complaint was filed against Shaikh, following which inquiries were initiated, said ACB officers.“The properties in his and his wife’s names were evaluated from 1995, the year he had joined the police force. During the inquiry, we found enough evidence in the allegations against Shaikh and his wife Ayesha who helped him in hiding the money in her name. After evaluations, we discovered that the couple possessed bank balances, gold ornaments, and other assets collectively worth ₹33 lakh, which is 130.5% more than Shaikh’s income,” said Mahesh Patil, additional commissioner of police (ACB).Shaikh and his wife were later called for an inquiry and asked to declare their income.“During the inquiry, they could not provide a satisfactory explanation, following which a disproportionate assets case was registered against the couple under the Prevention of Corruption Act,” added Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/constable-wife-booked-in-33-lakh-disproportionate-assets-case/story-VBpphEHU6Dcb1AxjLFoRiN.html
11-07-2020||City||Three accident in 24 hours on same stretch in Thane||In the last 24 hours, three vehicles including two trucks and a tanker overturned on the Nagla Bunder, Ghodbunder road. The authorities claimed that these vehicles lost control while manoeuvring the sharp turn on this stretch. The traffic police had earlier barricaded this spot, however the barricades were removed recently, during the lockdown. On Saturday evening around 5pm a tanker carrying methyl methacrylate chemical, 900195.00 kg, toppled on Ghodbunder road near Gaimukh Chowpatty. This is 500-meters away from the Nagla Bunder. The tanker was going to Ambernath from Surat. The driver did not suffer any injuries while no chemical was leaked.In another incident on Friday around 8.30pm a truck carrying 25 empty LPG cylinders, toppled on Ghodbunder road near Nagala Bunder police chowky, Gaimukh Gaon. All the cylinders were on the road leading to a traffic jam. In the second incident yesterday at the same spot, at 10.45pm, a truck carrying chemical drums overturned as driver lost control over vehicle due to over speeding.Santosh Kadam, chief of resident disaster management cell, said, “These accidents happened near Nagla Bunder at a sharp turn. The chemicals were not hazardous therefore there was no need to worry but we have informed Thane traffic police and Kasarwadwli police to keep a check post over there so that vehicle will slow down while taking a turn. The roads are empty due to the lockdown and therefore these drivers come in speed and lose control of the vehicle and toppled.”According to Kasarwadwli police officers due to Covid-19 lockdown the barricades were removed but they were put again on Saturday with the traffic police and Kasarwadwli police bandobast. “We were short staffed due to the pandemic and had removed the barricades, however after the three accidents the barricades are now installed at the spot to ensure that the drivers slow down and avoid a major tragedy,” an officer from Kasarvadavli said. The accidents happened within 500 meters of Nagla bunder turn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-accident-in-24-hours-on-same-stretch-in-thane/story-A40PMEHq7UI0nKy2WsBIHM.html
11-07-2020||City||Ludhiana MLA inspects vulnerable waterlogging points in city||While the accumulation of rainwater affecting most of the city’s roads, cabinet minister and MLA (Ludhiana west) Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu inspected different chronic points in the city on Saturday and directed the officials to find ways to tackle the problem.The inspection was done at the underpass of the southern bypass below Ferozepur road, C Block of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, Panj Peer Road, Hambran Road, among other areas. The residents slammed at the civic body on social media on Friday as the underpass remained waterlogged 24 hours after the city received rainfall.Ashu directed the MC officials to ensure that all the water recharging wells should be cleaned so that the rainwater seeps through them in case of heavy rainfall. A poclain machine and JCB machines have also been deputed along various points of Buddha Nullah to avoid overflow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mla-inspects-vulnerable-waterlogging-points-in-city/story-e7oeDJtB3tvh6o3c45ju4I.html
11-07-2020||City||14-day quarantine must for people visiting Ludhiana from other states||In the wake of consistent rise in Covid-19 cases, the Ludhiana administration has made 14-day quarantine mandatory for visitors entering the district from other states. These people need to keep the COVA app activated on their mobile phones at all times.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said all departments concerned had been instructed to strictly enforce this. “Joint teams of MC, police and health department are checking such travellers round-the-clock. Violators will face strict action,” he added.The police have already booked two persons and slapped fine on six people for violating home quarantine rules. Police have also asked residents to keep vigil and inform police on 112 or 104 in case of quarantine violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-day-quarantine-must-for-people-visiting-ludhiana-from-other-states/story-AUKNp2OgGiROKONMoWZhWN.html
11-07-2020||City||As political killings spread fear in Kashmir, BJP’s youth wing chief resigns in Baramulla||Following the recent killings of political leaders, including BJP’s Sheikh Waseem Bari and Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita, a sense of fear and insecurity has crept up on politicians in the Valley.Becoming the first to express the same, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president from Baramulla, Marouf Bhat, on Saturday tendered his resignation from the party.“I hereby resign from the BJYM as a member and any post I held as part of it. I thank you for giving me the opportunity to work for the party,” Bhat posted on his Facebook account.Bhat said over the phone, “We can sacrifice our lives for the nation, but not of our children. I have been attacked twice in the past, yet nothing has been done about it. I have not been given even a single personal security officer.”The politico informed that he would send his formal resignation to J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina in due course of time.“They (militants) are not only targeting us but our families too. We have not been given any security and accommodation in a secured place. Now, our families are at risk,” he said.Bhat claimed that many BJP leaders like him in north and south Kashmir were scared after what had happened to Sheikh Waseem Bari and his family.“We have got small children. God forbid something untoward happens to them, we won’t be able to forgive ourselves,” he said.He has urged the party high command to look into the matter.Meanwhile, BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav is said to visit Kashmir on Sunday to meet Bari’s family, a move likely to boost the morale of party leaders and cadres in the Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-political-killings-spread-fear-in-kashmir-bjp-s-youth-wing-chief-resigns-in-baramulla/story-CarAiM3mt1zNh0CxNSz06M.html
11-07-2020||City||83-year-old dies, Ludhiana tally reaches 1,300||The district’s death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 31 after an 83-year-old resident of Maya Nagar succumbed to the virus on Saturday. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the patient was found positive on June 27 and admitted at the Christian Medical College and Hospital with bronchopneumonia, fever and breathing difficulty. He was also suffering from comorbidities, including chronic kidney disease. 29 FRESH CASES With 29 fresh Covid-19 infections, the district’s tally has touched the 1,300 mark. With recovery of 699 patients so far and death of 31, the district now has 570 active cases. Among the new cases are two male cops and two female ASHA workers.The policemen are a 45-year-old ASI from Dakha police station and a 26-year-old constable from Manuke village. The ASHA workers, aged 40 and 44, are from Harbanspura and Kular village. A 27-year-old pregnant woman was also found positive in Mahoun village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/83-year-old-dies-ludhiana-tally-reaches-1-300/story-edvbQPfsjdY1dxf9J2VyDN.html
11-07-2020||City||Facing space crunch, doctors urge J&K admn to home quarantine asymptomatic patients||As cases continue to rise in J&K’s Kashmir division, doctors here have asked the administration to allow asymptomatic patients to be home quarantined or in the next few weeks there would be acute dearth of beds both in hospitals as well as administrative isolation centres.The apex advisory council comprising medical experts and senior doctors has also recommended home quarantine for such patients. The J&K administration had set up the council last month.Till Friday evening, J&K recorded 9,888 cases and 159 deaths, 144 of which are from Kashmir division. The past one week has seen the highest number of cases and deaths in the Valley, creating lack of hospital beds and shortage of space as currently 38,509 are under home and administrative quarantine.SKIMS (Bemina) chest medicine department head Prof Javaid Malik, who is also a member of the apex council, said they had sent several recommendations to the administration regarding medicines and other things. “We have recommended home isolation of asymptomatic patients and once the same is approved, it could be implemented across J&K,” he said adding that it is crucial to observe how the virus would behave in the next two to three weeks, especially in Kashmir.“I have conveyed to higher officials that we should try home isolate asymptomatic patients to reduce the burden on quarantine infrastructure and the same should be done at the earliest,” said Dr Syed Masood, superintendent, Baramulla Government Medical College and Hospital.He said they were creating additional 40 beds with oxygen and other facilities to meet the demand. “We had created 110 beds at Baramulla indoor stadium. It has been occupied completely and almost all the patients have no symptoms,” he added.Earlier this week, after space at Covid-dedicated hospitals in Srinagar got exhausted, additional 140 beds were arranged at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital, however, still the patient load, especially those with bilateral pneumonia, has increased and the doctors are worried. They have asked people not to ignore the SOPs.A senior consultant at Government Medical College and Hospital, Srinagar, said asymptomatic cases need to be at home. “Our beds are being occupied by asymptomatic patients, while sick patients are being referred from one place to another. The authorities should change the rules soon or the circumstances would force them to do that and things would get more complicated,” the consultant warned.People, however, are blaming the administration for not taking things seriously in Kashmir.“When the cases are rapidly increasing, the administration is watching like a mute spectator. People are not wearing masks and nobody fines them. Also, parks and gardens have been thrown open and at many places religious functions are being organised. This is adding to the problem,” said Bilal Ahmad, a social activist.Meanwhile, two deputy commissioners from Baramulla and Kupwara districts of north Kashmir have announced closure of shops and business establishments at several places in the districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/facing-space-crunch-doctors-urge-j-k-admn-to-home-quarantine-asymptomatic-patients/story-Q3eih46qd8gBtKHPhJj3kM.html
11-07-2020||City||Indian heritage: 4 centuries of priceless art with royal family on display in UK||London Priceless paintings and manuscripts from India gathered as gifts and other acquisitions during centuries of British engagement will be on display at a unique exhibition in Edinburgh from July 23 to January 21, the Royal Collection Trust said on Friday. Held in the Royal Library in Windsor Castle, the Royal Collection contains one of the finest south Asian paintings and manuscripts in the world, including the Mughal era ‘Padshahnama’, Tipu Sultan’s Quran and the story of Prahlada from the Bhagavata Purana, 1775–90, by the Nainsukh family workshop. Most of the items will be on display for the first time in Scotland in the Queen’s Gallery in the Palace of Holyroodhouse in the exhibition titled ‘Eastern Encounters: Four Centuries of Paintings and Manuscripts from the Indian Subcontinent’. “Tracing more than 400 years of literary and artistic output, the exhibition offers new insights into the shared history of the British monarchy and the Indian sub-continent”, the trust said. The items include those from the beginning of the British engagement with India, with the formation of the East India Company in 1600. The 17th century was a period of instability for the British monarchy, but in south Asia the Mughal empire was at its zenith, richer and stronger than any European power, the trust noted. It said: “The extraordinary splendour of the Mughal court was captured by artists in intricate paintings and manuscripts. George III was given a number of these magnificent works, forming one of the greatest collections of South Asian works on paper outside the subcontinent”. “In 1798, Lord Teignmouth, Governor-General of India, presented the King with six volumes as gifts from the Nawab of Awadh. Among these was the mid-17th-century Padshahnama (‘Book of Emperors’), an illustrated chronicle commissioned by the fifth Mughal Emperor Shah-Jahan as a celebration of his reign and dynasty, described by Teignmouth as ‘the most splendid’ Mughal manuscript he ever saw”. The rise of the East India Company was reflected in the gifts of manuscripts presented to successive British monarchs on behalf of the company and by company officers. Detailed architectural drawings were commissioned from local draughtsmen by Colin MacKenzie, the Scottish Surveyor-General of the Company. A pen and ink drawing from 1800 shows an elevation of the temple at Srirangam, one of the most important Hindu pilgrimage sites in India. The collection includes a posthumous portrait of Maharajah Ranjit Singh, the ruler of the Punjab, 1842, was sent to Queen Victoria by his successor, Sher Singh, in an unusual jewel-encrusted gold frame with a letter of belated congratulations on her marriage and the birth of her first son. It will be displayed in the exhibition alongside a sketch of his son, Maharaja Duleep Singh, by Queen Victoria. She received many books written about or dedicated to her from India, including a volume of her own published journals, The Queen’s Travels in Scotland and Ireland, translated into Hindi by the Maharajah of Benares. During Queen Mary’s visit to India in the early 20th century, she acquired numerous works of art, including Queen Tissarakshita, 1911, by Abanindranath Tagore, founder of the Bengal School of Art, and several Pahari paintings, which will also be on display.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indian-heritage-4-centuries-of-priceless-art-with-royal-family-on-display-in-uk/story-zAjCPrHEWZcFWDdvcPwqmN.html
11-07-2020||City||Lockdown saw murders treble in Ludhiana, seven victims killed by kin||If coronavirus disease didn’t kill them, as many as seven people were murdered by their family members since the lockdown was imposed in the district on March 23.During the lockdown, Ludhiana city also saw a threefold rise in murder cases. Figures from the police department reveal while eight people were killed before the lockdown, between January 1 and March 22, the number of those murdered rose to 27 with 19 more homicides.Among these 19 cases, seven victims (37%) were allegedly killed by their own family members, including their husbands, wives and fathers, whom they were isolated at home with.Police investigation found marital discord behind five of these seven cases, including three uxoricides, where men killed their wives on suspicion of infidelity.In another case, a man stabbed his wife to death with a pair of scissors on June 30 after she moved court against domestic violence on June 30. A woman had strangled her husband to death after he tried to rape their daughter in drunken stupor in Sundar Nagar on the intervening night of May 23 and 24. She was arrested.A 75-year-old retired Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) official was killed by his wife and son following a disagreement in C Block of the posh BRS Nagar on June 10. Police had arrested his wife and son.In a case of filicide, not pitching in house chores had led to the murder of a 22-year-old man by his 65-year-old father, who attacked him with a pan and a wooden log in Jagir Colony of Tibba on June 6. The accused had also tried to burn the body to conceal the crime.Police had solved a Rahon Road case where an elderly man had his nephew murdered by hiring a contract killer following a monetary dispute. All accused were arrested.City-based psychiatrist Dr Rajiv Sharma attributed the diminishing marital ties to increase in time being spent on social media. “Like others, couples are also spending long periods of time on social media, instead of giving each other attention, which leads to differences and even suspicion,” he said.“The police investigate all murder cases thoroughly to establish the motive. There are many factors for rise in murders within the family, including doubt on partners and depression, which cause rift between couples,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP, Headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary.MURDERS DRIVEN BY MONEY Eyeing easy money, two teenagers had kidnapped their 16-year-old friend on July 8 for Rs 50,000 in ransom, but bludgeoned him to death with bricks after things didn’t go as they planned. They were tracked and arrested after they called the victim’s father anyway for the money. They were booked for murder by the Salem Tabri police.Three people were killed in separate cases of robbery during the lockdown.KILLED BY CO-WORKERSThe lockdown also saw two cases of murders by co-workers, where liquor was involved.On March 2, a courier company employee had bludgeoned his colleague to death with a bamboo stick and iron rod at their office at Gill Road. The duo had consumed liquor together before the incident. More recently, on July 7, a sewing machine factory worker murdered his co-worker for chiding him to coming to work in an inebriated condition in Guru Gobind Singh Nagar.In other cases, police had established old enmity as the driving factory behind two murders, while a Salem Tabri woman was killed after she was attacked with bricks by her neighbours in a case of road rage.UNSOLVED CASESMystery shrouds two murders, including that of a 42-year-old woman of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, a tony locality in the city. The woman was alone in her rented accommodation, while her husband was stuck in Nanded, Maharashtra, due to the countrywide lockdown. Police are still looking for clues behind the murder as nothing was stolen from the house. The discovery of a 52-year-old labourer’s body in Gonspur Road, Humbran, also remains unsolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-saw-murders-treble-in-ludhiana-seven-victims-killed-by-kin/story-E09TzuWYH8gvTUmPhC1PhP.html
11-07-2020||City||Two infiltrators killed in north Kashmir’s Naugam sector||Two infiltrators were killed along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Naugam sector, the Indian Army said on Saturday.The army troops laid an ambush after suspicious movement was detected along the LoC, gunning down the terrorists.Defense spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said that suspicious movement was detected early on Saturday by soldiers in the Naugam sector. “The forces launched a swift ambush and killed two terrorists. Two AK rifles and war-like stores were also recovered from the encounter site,” said Kalia.A pistol, four grenades and Pakistani currency were also seized at the site, he added.A senior police officer said, “We have identified one militant as 23-year-old Idrees Ahmad Bhat of Kupwara. He had gone to Pakistan via Wagah border. The other militant is yet to be identified.” Idrees has been associated with Lashkar-e-Toiba.The area where the encounter took place falls under the jurisdiction of strategic 19th Infantry Division, and the forests of Naugam, due to proximity with LoC, are being used as infiltration routes by the militants, especially during summers. The area has recently witnessed ceasefire violations more than three times.19th Infantry Division GoC Major General Varendra Vats said there are indications that launching pads in Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir are active and 250 to 300 militants were waiting to infiltrate into the Indian territory.Some senior officers claimed that several times, under the cover of ceasefire violations, the infiltrators have sneaked into the Valley from across the LoC.So far, eight to ten youths, including Idrees, who crossed over to Pakistan from Wagah border and returned as militants, have been killed in different operations in the Valley, officials said.Local militant Abid, who police claim was involved in the killing of BJP former district president Wasim Bari and his family members in Bandipora, had also gone to Pakistan through Wagah and joined Lashkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-infiltrators-killed-in-north-kashmir-s-naugam-sector/story-I1jOk7moSUPPZRLMDK4WDK.html
11-07-2020||City||21-year-old stabbed to death, cop suspended for not registering a case||New Delhi: A 21-year-old call centre employee, who was also pursuing his BA degree through correspondence from Delhi University (DU), died at a government hospital in central Delhi on Thursday, eight days after he was stabbed by a group of robbers near Pratap Nagar Metro station in north Delhi.A sub-inspector (SI) has been suspended while the station house officer (SHO) of the Gulabi Bagh police station was removed from his post for not registering a first information report (FIR), police said. The call centre employee was robbed of R1,200 and stabbed at least three times in his thigh and abdomen by the robbers.Joint commissioner of police (central) Suvashis Choudhary, said, “Instead of filing an FIR and taking prompt action against the robbers, the sub-inspector closed the matter just because the complainant and his family members gave in writing that they did not want to pursue the case, as he won’t be able to identify the robbers. The SI should have taken suo-moto cognizance. The SHO has been sent to district lines since supervision of crime-related calls and registration of cases were his responsibility,” said Choudhary. The dead man, Lakhan (identified only by his first name in police records), lived with family in Shastri Nagar in north Delhi and worked at a call centre in Anand Parbat. His family has alleged that the police did not register a case when the crime took place on July 1. The FIR was registered and the suspects were arrested only after Lakhan succumbed to his wounds at the Ram Manohar Lohia hospital on Thursday (July 9).The family has also alleged that Lakhan was not given proper treatment at Aruna Asaf Ali hospital, where he was admitted after he was injured in the attack on the intervening night of July 1 and 2. They blamed the doctors for discharging him after stitching his wounds.Lakhan’s father Pooran, who works as a salesman in a departmental store, told media persons that his son was returning home from office when he was attacked and robbed. “We had got a call from the hospital that our son was injured. We reached there and Lakhan told us about the robbery and attack. We asked the doctors to operate him but they discharged him after preliminary medical attention,” Pooran told the media persons.When contacted, Dr Sumant Sinha, medical superintendent (MS) of Aruna Asaf Ali hospital, refuted the allegations and said that the doctors cleaned the wounds and gave requisite injections and medications.“The patient’s family was asked to bring him to the surgery OPD the next day (July 2) so that a senior doctor can see the case. However, the patient was not brought to the hospital. His wounds dressing was done probably by a quack or an inexperienced doctor because of which infection spread to his body and damaged a kidney. The patient was brought to the hospital on July 7 when his condition had deteriorated. We cleaned the wounds, started intravenous antibiotics and sent blood sample for investigation. Since a surgery followed by dialysis was required and dialysis facility is not available in our hospital, we referred the patient to RML hospital in an ambulance” said Dr Sinha. The family alleged that the local police was informed about the crime and Lakhan’s injuries by the hospital authorities. They alleged that a sub-inspector reached the hospital, enquired about the incident but did not register a case.On allegations of police inaction, deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said, “We suspended the sub-inspector after the allegations were found true.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-year-old-stabbed-to-death-cop-suspended-for-not-registering-a-case/story-KJge2ITEMdZ2HSbsLLImCI.html
11-07-2020||City||Elderly realtor found murdered in Ludhiana, cops suspect employee||A 60-year-old realtor was found murdered in his office here on Saturday evening. The police have rounded up his employee Manish Kumar, who got admitted to a private hospital in Sarabha Nagar area after locking the office from outside.The matter came to light when the elderly man’s wife reached his office with other family members, as the victim, identified as Shamsher Singh Atwal of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, was not responding to phone calls.Atwal operated his business from his office on Malhar Road.Assistant commissioner of police (Civil Lines) Jatinder Singh said preliminary probe suggests that the man was attacked with a sharp-edged weapon. Manish allegedly got himself admitted to the hospital following a hand injury. More facts will be known after questioning him, the ACP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/elderly-realtor-found-murdered-in-ludhiana-cops-suspect-employee/story-AR1B1pB4j5jisQwZqM0IAL.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Sena MLA seeks arrest of comedian over comments on Shivaji; comedian issues apology||Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik wrote to state home minister Anil Deshmukh seeking action against a stand-up comedian for allegedly making “contemptuous comments” against Maratha warrior King Shivaji in an act, a video of which has gone viral on social media. Sarnaik in a video posted on his Twitter handle on Friday called for the arrest of the comedian, Agrima Joshua, and warned her against using the name of Chhatrapati Shivaji to earn money. Later on Friday night, the artiste apologised through a post on her Twitter handle, she posted a video on Saturday as well.“Some comedian named Agrima Joshua has made contemptuous comments against Shivaji Maharaj while presenting comedy. I saw the video and I feel she either doesn’t respect Shivaji Maharaj or she doesn’t know about him. I have also written to the home minister demanding her arrest,” Sarnaik said. The legislator from Thane also warned that if she uses Shivaji Maharaj’s name to earn money, the Maharashtra Yuvati Sena/Mahila Aghadi will not tolerate it.Deshmukh on Saturday said that he has instructed Mumbai police commissioner and inspector general, cybercrime, to take legal action expeditiously. In a tweet, the home minister said, “I urge everyone to maintain calm. Law will take its course.” After the video went viral, workers of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) vandalised the venue where the stand-up act was performed.Meanwhile, Joshua has apologised for hurting sentiments. “I am sorry for having hurt the sentiments of the many followers of the great leader Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. My heartfelt apologies to followers of the great leader, who I sincerely respect. The video has already been taken down,” she said in a tweet. On Saturday, she also posted a video apologising for her comic act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sena-mla-seeks-arrest-of-comedian-over-comments-on-shivaji-comedian-issues-apology/story-4P4Ec2rqHZQ1d4rsRghpjO.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Major fire reported at a Borivli shopping centre||A major fire was reported at Indraprastha shopping centre in Borivli West on Sunday. The fire that took place at 3.05am, escalated to a level four (major fire) by 6.16 am. No casualties were reported. The fire brigade used 14 fire engines, 143 jumbo tankers to tackle the fire.The shopping centre is a ground and two storey structure with a basement, according to information from the Mumbai Fire Brigade. While the fire occurred in the basement, smoke and heat from it spread to the ground and the first floor of the building. The fire had spread to over 90 shops inside the complex. The fire brigade had to break open a few stores with the help of a hammer and chisel, and had to use a JCB machine on other stores.Due to the thick smoke engulfing the building, the fire brigade had to use the fire robot, and a thermal imaging camera to tackle the fire, and an exhaust blower to get rid of accumulated smoke. It was doused after over 11 hours of fire-fighting, at 2.45 pm on Sunday.Chief fire officer of the Mumbai Fire Brigade, P Rahangdale said, “Due to modern technology and a well-trained staff we were able to tackle this massive fire.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/major-fire-reported-at-a-borivli-shopping-centre/story-2lD6u7oANJ28zPojO1zBFO.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Promote students automatically? Now is the time for innovation in education||The Chandigarh education department is planning to reduce the course load of students amid the Covid-19 lockdown for Classes 1 to 8 in government and aided schools of Chandigarh. The Central Board of School Education (CBSE) has already announced a 30% cut in the syllabus for classes 9 to 12. UT district education officer (DEO) Harbir Anand has said that the department is planning to “reduce the syllabus for Class 1 to 8 to minimise the load of students in the lockdown.”A committee, comprising school heads, teachers and education department officials, will be constituted to recommend the sections of the syllabus that can be omitted this year.One needs to view the scenario as an unprecedented one, requiring careful manoeuvring with one objective in mind: That of the welfare of students. How will they derive the maximum benefit from this situation?Even if it is a pruned syllabus, they should be taught the basics of each subject in the quickest possible time to ensure all bases are covered, and that they lose out on nothing in the short time they have left to complete the courses.Encouraging them to do simple experiments at home with more focus on learning and observing, getting them to debate with teachers or classmates, watching informative documentaries related to their subjects on YouTube or educational TV programmes will help. Assignments can be delivered online and through post/courier to assess their performance.Peer learning processes too can be adopted.The focus should not be on how quickly they cover a truncated syllabus, but how much knowledge they absorb and grow at a time when lives have been turned upside down because of the pandemic.Innovation is key. Children have been locked up at home for months now. A short and smart curriculum that also focuses on their mental and creative development and allows them to have fun while learning should be drawn up with the advice of academic experts.To reduce stress, options to automatically promote students to the next class at the end of the session should be explored. In their free time, help them with yoga classes, exercises, quiz contests and spelling bees with attractive prizes to keep the competitive spirit alive.Parents and guardians should also be involved in the entire learning process this year to academically cover as much ground as possible.Schools in Chandigarh have been closed since March and many students have been facing an added challenge as they do not have the facilities to attend online classes. Roping in NGOs, retired teachers to take additional classes online or through social distancing in community centres can also be considered.Lives are precious, young lives more so. This year, the focus should be on them, their mental health and their safety, even if it means not opening schools at all this year.CLASS ACTWhat’s the best way to help students this year? Should students be promoted automatically this year in unprecedented Covid times? How can they cover all bases and have fun while learning even if the syllabus is pruned? Send your responses to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by July 17||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-promote-students-automatically-now-is-the-time-for-innovation-in-education/story-q6D3X1oMdOREGQXOsDoVqI.html
11-07-2020||City||Rape accused among 11 test positive, Himachal tally now 1,182||Eleven more people, including a rape accused, tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the state’s tally of total cases to 1,182.Four cases were reported in Una, three in Kangra, two in Solan, and one each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur.Among those found infected in Kangra district is a 37-year-old rape accused from Una’s Amb sub-division. The man had been charged with rape and unnatural offences by his wife. The accused was arrested from Punjab’s Tran Taran district where he had been hiding.A police team brought him to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda, for medical examination and his sample turned out positive for Covid-19, said Una superintendent of police (SP) Karthikeyan Gokulachandran, adding that the accused is being shifted to a covid-care centre in Khad.Police personnel and medical staff who came in direct contact of the accused are being home quarantined.A 65-year-old man from Jawali area has also tested positive for the disease. He is the primary contact of a Covid-19 patient and is being shifted to a covid hospital in Dharamshala.The third patient, a 50-year-old man from Nagrota Surian area, has travel history to Sangrur and was institutionally quarantined at Parour near Palampur.In Nahan of Sirmaur district, a 34-year-old Indian Army jawan was found infected. He had travelled from Assam and was home quarantined. A 6-year-old child is among the four infected in Una. The two Solan patients are workers of private companies.276 ACTIVE CASES, 875 CUREDTill date, 895 people have been cured of the contagion while 263 are active cases in the state.The death rate is around 1% with total of 9 casualties so far. Thirteen patients had migrated out of the state.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 303 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 272 cases. Solan has 177 cases, Una district recorded 138, Chamba 59, Shimla 55, Bilaspur 51, Sirmaur 42, Mandi 38, Kinnaur 35, Kullu 8 and Lahaul-Spiti district 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rape-accused-among-11-test-positive-himachal-tally-now-1-182/story-qweRMvLmtNhw19XfWy9BEL.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University organises online exhibition ‘Nature Triumph Corona’||An online exhibition titled ‘Nature Triumph Corona’ by sculptor Roshan Ansal; which has been conceived and curated by professor Tirthankar Bhattacharya, chairperson, department of art history and visual arts, Panjab University(PU), commenced on Friday.Speaking about the medium of his art, Ansal said, “Terracotta to some might seem to be a rather simple technique. To my mind, it is not only the most ancient but also the most challenging among the sculptural techniques.” Professor Tirthinkar said, “Roshan’s imagination has the wings of freedom. His being in the constant company of children as an art instructor has helped him not lose his creativity and observation with child-like simplicity.”NTU-PU identify research areas for joint initiativesAn online meeting was held between the University Institute of Engineering and Technology(UIET), PU, and Nottingham Trent University (NTU) for taking forward the activities of the Science and Technology Partnership Centre(STPC) that was inaugurated at UIET on February 4 this year.The objective was to plan future research initiatives through the NTU-PU STPC. As many as 11 faculty members from NTU and 10 from PU attended the meeting. Some of the areas that were identified for synergy in the research included implantable medical devices, smart sensing prosthesis, wearable external devices, body part regeneration and engineering, systems biology, and functional foods. Given the current limitations, the consultative group will converge the twin-university teams around these subjects and conduct area-specific online meetings through the next three months.Indo-US webinar: Safe lab work with SARS-CoV-2 operations discussedThe department of biotechnology, PU, and Sandia National Laboratory, USA, in collaboration, organised an Indo-US webinar which covered issues such as how to strategise responses to lab emergencies while working with Covid virus; risk communication to tackle infodemics; and ways to transport the virus samples safely across research labs and national and international borders. Around 100 participants from the northern Indian region participated in the webinar which was the second to be organised in the series on bio-risk management of Covid lab operations. The series has been based on courselets designed by Sandia National Laboratory.Plantation drive heldAs a part of the plantation drive inaugurated by the vice-chancellor, PU, 50 saplings were planted in the residential area of the PU campus on Saturday. “The public of PU is showing great interest in the ongoing plantation drive organised by the horticulture division,” said divisional engineer Anil Thakur. A differently-abled student Jasmine of the special cell of Bhavan Vidyalaya School, Sector 27, along with her brother Mehul, planted the saplings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-organises-online-exhibition-nature-triumph-corona/story-gL0qRoUOunIaOP4fRA3kRN.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fund-starved MC puts Chandigarh’s first pet dog park on hold||Residents hoping to enjoy the day with their pets at the city’s first pet dog park will have to wait longer, as the municipal corporation (MC) has stalled the project due to severe financial crunch.Announced in February, the facility, touted as a dog recreational facility, was to come up on 1.5 acres in Sector 42 at a cost of around Rs 50 lakh.But, with the civic body running a deficit budget and struggling to meet even its establishment costs, it has decided that no funds can be spared for the ambitious project.Confirming this, MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “MC doesn’t have adequate funds to start any new project. MC will not be taking up the dog park project because of financial constraints.”The facility, which would have been north India’s first dog park, was mooted by Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore.As per the 2019 animal census of the UT animal husbandry and fisheries department, there are around 11,100 pet dogs in Chandigarh, up from 9,800 in the 2012 census.Figures collected from MC reveal that it has so far registered around 8,000 pets ever since the bylaws came into force in 2010. Though the city has 1,800 small and big neighbourhood parks, pet dogs are not allowed there. Hence, the dog park was planned as an exclusive park for them.The park’s concept, based on one in Hyderabad, incorporates a number of facilities, like swimming pool and swings meant for pets, equipment to train pets and veterinary doctor for vaccination, besides the facility for pet dog registration. Depending on the success of the first dog park, MC had planned more in other sectors of the city.MC, however, has not permanently junked the idea. “The project is still workable, but not in this fiscal, unless, additional funds are allocated for it,” Yadav said.MC FLOATS TENDER FOR DOG STERILISATION To restart dog sterilisation in the city after a gap of nearly eight months, the civic body has floated fresh tenders for the animal birth control programme with a few changes to elicit better response.Since August last year, MC has floated tenders thrice, inviting private companies to undertake sterilisation of dogs. The tender floated in August last year found no takers. The one in December 2019 got only one bidder. Similarly, only one applicant qualified in the tender floated in February this year.Stating that tender conditions had been tweaked to attract more applicants, Dr Amrit Warring, head of the sanitation department and medical officer of health (MoH), said, “Earlier only NGO recognised by the Animal Welfare Board of India could participate in the programme. But now, veterinary doctors with degrees can also participate.”Meanwhile, as per an MC General House resolution, MC’s in-house staff has been deputed to carry out the sterilisation programme till a private entity is roped in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fund-starved-mc-puts-chandigarh-s-first-pet-dog-park-on-hold/story-UrNZD6CSeaPMhuIg2XQvcL.html
11-07-2020||City||CRPF man among 8 people test positive for Covid-19 in Haryana’s Panchkula||Eight fresh cases of Covid-19 were confirmed in Panchkula on Saturday, taking the district’s total to 144. The number of active cases stands at 30.Those who tested positive in Panchkula city are a 20-year-old man from Gandhi Colony in Sector 4 of Mansa Devi Complex, a 43-year-old man from Sector 5 in Mansa Devi Complex, a 41-year-old man from Sector 27 and a 15-year-old boy from Ashiyana in the Industrial Area, Phase 1.Three patients are from Kalka: A woman, aged 19, and two men, aged 29 and 35. A 40-year-old personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force also tested positive in Pinjore. While 113 patients have been cured of the disease so far, one has succumbed to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crpf-man-among-8-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-haryana-s-panchkula/story-Kn5D2qechSM4rkrHQ0S7OO.html
11-07-2020||City||Cow shot dead in Tarn Taran village, two booked||Two persons have been booked for allegedly shooting dead a cow in Dhotian village of Patti sub-division here, police said on Saturday.One of the accused has been identified as Jungbir Singh of the same village, while the police are yet to ascertain the identity of the other.They were booked on the complaint of village resident Samsher Singh, who claimed that while tilling his farm land on Friday night, he heard two gunshots.“I saw a tractor coming from Varana village side. As I stepped closer, I saw a cow tied to the tractor being dragged on the road. The accused were on the tractor. After seeing me, they untied the cow and fled. I also saw two bullet wounds on the cow’s head,” he alleged.Assistant sub-inspector Jaspreet Singh said they have registered a case under Section 429-B (mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 11 (1) (treating animals cruelly) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act at Sarhali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cow-shot-dead-in-tarn-taran-village-two-booked/story-EtgW2Qd0TihaTyEakMTiAI.html
11-07-2020||City||Pannu tells dairy owners to come up with concrete plan for proper waste disposal||For curbing the direct discharge of waste going into Buddha Nullah from dairy units in Bhamiyan area, agriculture secretary-cum-director, of Directorate of Environment and Climate Change, Kahan Singh Pannu on Saturday directed the owners to come up with a concrete plan to deal with the issue or face action. Pannu conducted a meeting with dairy owners at the office of Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Saturday and directed them to submit the plan with PPCB member secretary, Krunesh Garg on July 21.Strict penal action would be taken against dairy owners under Section 70 of the Punjab Canal and Drainage Act, 1873, if they continue to pollute the nullah as this illegal practice is adding to the pollution, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pannu-tells-dairy-owners-to-come-up-with-concrete-plan-for-proper-waste-disposal/story-AYuEedfzmmAPHO1i0jY1eL.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to appoint nodal officer to deal with referrals from Punjab, Haryana||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will appoint a nodal officer to deal with referrals of patients from Punjab and Haryana so that the institute can make prior arrangements for treating them.An inter-state meeting of officers was held on Saturday wherein authorities of both states discussed the same with the PGIMER authorities.Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, director-general, health services(DGHS), Haryana; Dr G Dewan, director, health services, Chandigarh administration; Dr Avneet Kaur, director, health services(DHS), Punjab; and Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, attended the meeting in which it was decided that a committee comprising faculty members from the departments of cardiology, gastroenterology, hepatology, endocrinology, nephrology, neurology, and pulmonary medicine, will be formed so that the doctors from Punjab and Haryana can seek their advice in cases of emergencies.It was agreed that the nodal officers from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana and PGIMER would unanimously take a call on whether a patient should be treated in the healthcare facility of the respective states or an immediate intervention is required.“The doctors from PGIMER will talk to the nodal officers of the respective states in case it is felt that a patient can be treated or managed in the healthcare facilities there and doesn’t require any immediate intervention,” minutes of the meeting stated.It was also decided by the committee that the DGHS Haryana and DHS Punjab will refer the patients only in case the healthcare centres of these states are unable to treat them and that after the patients are out of danger and can be managed at their parent states, they will be referred back after coordinating with the concerned nodal officer.Kumar Gaurav Dhawan, deputy director of administration, PGIMER, said that due to rush of patients at PGIMER it will be beneficial for the doctors here to make the necessary arrangements beforehand. The DHS Punjab suggested that a WhatsApp group of doctors from PGIMER as well as from Punjab and Haryana should be made so that any Covid-19 emergency case can be discussed on the phone and necessary consultation can be provided, which was agreed upon.Recently, the UT administrator had ordered that the PGIMER director should hold a meeting with Punjab and Haryana to finalise a protocol for admission of patients coming from other states. PGIMER director Jagat Ram said, “After Punjab governor’s intervention, the decision of referring patients of other states after consultation with the institute’s nodal officer was taken primarily for Covid-19 patients. Other sick patients can also be referred after taking PGIMER’s doctors opinion. Around 30-40% of emergency patients in PGI are from Punjab, and 20% patients are from Haryana.”The PGIMER director has time and again raised the issue that patients who do not require tertiary care medical facilities are flocking to the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-appoint-nodal-officer-to-deal-with-referrals-from-punjab-haryana/story-6OTGsD5UrTvHMsvBbnX0aL.html
11-07-2020||Patna||Kanhaiya Kumar to campaign for Bihar assembly polls from August, says CPI leader||Amid indications that the Left parties are keen to join the Grand Alliance for the forthcoming Bihar Assembly polls, the Communist Party of India (CPI) has begun preparations to launch former JNU students’ union president Kanhaiya Kumar for campaigning from August.The party is also keen on using the 33-year-old leader’s star power to bargain for a bigger share of seats to contest the Bihar assembly election.State secretary of CPI, Satyanarain Singh, confirmed that Kanhaiya Kumar, who is out on bail after being arrested on sedition charges in February 2016, will campaign for the party in the forthcoming polls.Singh said the Grand Alliance must recognize the youth leader’s popularity among the youth. In early February, Kumar had undertaken a statewide tour of Bihar called the ‘Jan-Man-Gan’ yatra to oppose the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the proposed National Register of Citizens (NRC).“Kanhaiya Kumar is a big draw among the youth and has the ability to garner votes. We feel the Grand Alliance would benefit from his popularity during campaigning. He will come to Bihar in August,” he said.Kanhaiya had contested the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 from the Begusarai seat and had finished second by polling 2.69 lakh votes against BJP’s Giriraj Singh, who won the seat eventually.Hints of the CPI joining the Grand Alliance initially came after the recent meeting of Congress’s Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil and Singh in Patna. Sources said the CPI was set to put forth a demand for 40 assembly seats from the Grand Alliance.In the 2015 Assembly elections, the party had contested on 81 seats and garnered only 1.4% votes. The CPI has no MLAs in the state but has two MLCs.“We are keen on joining the Grand Alliance to defeat the NDA. But we want a respectable number of seats,” Singh said.Asked whether the Grand Alliance would consider giving 40 seats to the CPI, the party’s state secretary said the RJD-Congress combine had already paid a big price by not aligning with it in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “Kanhaiya had come second in the Begusarai parliamentary seat whereas the RJD candidate came in third. In 1990s, we had a strong presence of 26 MLAs in the RJD-led government,” Singh said.The CPI-ML (liberation) and CPM too are said to be in negotiations with the Grand Alliance leaders. “We will hold talks with the Grand Alliance leaders on seat sharing after July 20. The process has got delayed due to the lockdown in Patna,” said CPI-ML’s state secretary Kunal. A delegation of the party had met RJD’ state president Jagdanand Singh 10 days back for formal talks on the alliance but nothing concrete has come up so far.Evidently, the demand for a bigger share of seats from Left parties is going to throw up a new challenge for the RJD in stitching a broader alliance amid the growing rift in the Grand Alliance over demand for a co-ordination committee and resistance against Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the chief ministerial face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/kanhaiya-kumar-to-start-campaign-for-bihar-assembly-elections-from-august/story-rwxaOVMC0ZEoVTalO03VXO.html
11-07-2020||City||Over 325 former ITI students in Ludhiana get job offers amid Covid-19 pandemic||At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has posed a great threat to the global economy, including India, over 325 former and final year students of Industrial Training Institutes have received job offers from several companies in Ludhiana.Of the total students, 29 have been placed in Hero Ecotech Limited and 26 have been shortlisted through virtual job fair conducted by ITI, Gill Road, Ludhiana. Twelve former ITI students were placed in GS Auto International Limited, GT Road Dhandari and seven have been shortlisted by the company. Pan Engineers situated in Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar, Ludhiana hired 14 students and shortlisted one in the virtual job fair.Amid the pandemic, shortage of labour was a major concern in industries and to provide employment to ITI students, the virtual job fair was conducted through Zoom and WhatsApp video calls.Sukhjinder Singh, 26, said, “After completing my course from ITI Ludhiana in 2018, I started a welding shop but due to the lockdown, it remained shut. However, I was informed by the ITI principal regarding the virtual job fair and I decided to appear in the interview. Luckily got selected by Hero Ecotech as a welder.”A former student of ITI, Ludhiana, Rohit said, “I completed the fitter two-year course in July last year and then did CNC programming course. Due to the lockdown, I was unable to look for a job. Last month, I participated in the virtual job fair and got hired as a fitter by Farm Parts.”ITI principal, Baljinder Singh said, “In the times of Covid-19, it was important to conduct virtual job fairs so that our students can get employment. We took this initiative and around 90 employers participated in the first round of the fair held last month. So far 325 students have got job offers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-325-former-iti-students-get-job-offers-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-C94oq9sppRBni8lEB3z7qN.html
11-07-2020||City||₹23-cr truck scanner at Attari proves a dud, fails to detect narcotics, weapons||The full-body truck scanner, installed at the Attari integrated check post (ICP) at a cost of ₹23 crore, is unable to detect concealed narcotics and weapons, a review committee found during a trial on Friday. The committee, comprising officials of the border security force (BSF), customs, intelligence bureau (IB) and the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI), had conducted a trial after a detailed review meeting.“The trial was conducted in the presence of senior officials of various agencies, who had come from New Delhi, but it failed to produce a successful result. A truck packed with various goods, and concealed narcotics and weapons, was scanned, but the scanner didn’t detect the concealed items,” said a senior customs official.LPAI’s in-charge Sukhdev Singh said, “Some technical errors were detected during the trial on Friday. Two engineers from New Delhi will now come to fix the glitch.”The ₹23-crore project was announced in March 2017 by the then Union minister of state for home affairs, Kiren Rijiju. Of the five truck scanners imported from the US, the first one was installed here.Last year too, the customs officials had expressed dissatisfaction over the working of the scanner. Since the foundation stone of the ICP was laid in 2010, there has been a demand for a scanner as manual checking of vehicles by customs officials and sniffer dogs is not 100% error free, and has sometimes led to clearing of contraband.In July last year, the special cell of Delhi police had seized 50kg heroin from a cold storage located in Haryana’s Sonepat. The consignment had reportedly entered India through Attari ICP in a truck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-cr-truck-scanner-at-attari-proves-a-dud-fails-to-detect-narcotics-weapons/story-9RrxOtDVOkG0BjIaGYDWdI.html
11-07-2020||City||Two Covid-19 patients treated with plasma therapy recover in Ludhiana||A city hospital has been successful in treating two patients suffering from Covid-19 by using convalescent plasma therapy. The first patient, a 72-year-old man from Pathankot, was admitted to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H), Ludhiana, on June 20 with moderate symptoms and respiratory issues, while the second patient from Jalandhar was admitted to the hospital on June 21. Both were suffering from comorbidities and were kept on ventilator support. After assessing their condition, it was decided to administer plasma therapy. The plasma was arranged from a Patiala-based donor through Government Medical College, Patiala. “Their condition improved with the help of plasma therapy and supportive care,” said Dr Bishav Mohan, member of Covid task force constituted by the state government.While the first patient is set to be discharged from the hospital, the second patient was still under observation, he added.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the two patients undergoing treatment though plasma therapy had recovered. “The proposal for creating a plasma bank is in the pipeline. We have kept a log of patients who have recovered from Covid-19, and are eligible to donate plasma,” said Bagga. He said that besides DMC&H, Christian Medical College and Hospital and SPS Hospital were also offering plasma therapy.Dr Mohan said that the government had decided to set up a state-level plasma bank in GMC, Patiala, and had asked other districts to create a plasma bank. “I believe this would immensely help in the treatment of severely ill patients,” he said.Dr Rajesh Mahajan from DMC&H said, “We have all the equipment (separator) in place and we are expecting that soon cured patients will come forward to donate plasma. However, not every Covid-19 positive patient can be a donor. ”Dr M Joseph John, head of the department of the clinical haematologist at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H), said, “In the present situation, plasma it is the only treatment available for Covid-19.”Ludhiana’s first Covid-19 patient to be administered convalescent plasma therapy was ACP Anil Kohli. However, the treatment failed and his condition deteriorated, said Bagga.In plasma therapy, the antibody-rich plasma from a recovered patient is extracted and administered to a patient. The blood of a convalescent patient is rich in antibodies that are expected to help the critical patient recover||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-covid-19-patients-treated-with-plasma-therapy-recover-in-ludhiana/story-GkZvfQZ3STf134ZuBibDRN.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man tests positive for Covid-19 after death, toll rises to 8||A 40-year-old man from Sector 52 tested positive for Covid-19 two days after his death, taking the number of fatalities due to the disease in the Union Territory to eight on Saturday. The man was brought dead to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, on Thursday, after which his samples were sent for testing, said health officials.The health department, in a release, stated that the deceased is known to have an alcoholic addiction and was also suffering from chronic liver disease. Samples of five of his family members have been collected for testing.Of the seven fatalities earlier, five were of senior citizens while a three-day-old girl has also succumbed to the disease. The case fatality rate stands at 1.45%, lower than the national average of 2.68%.12 people test +ve, 5 dischargedMeanwhile, 12 more people, including a 26-year-old woman from Sector 52, tested positive for Covid-19 while five were discharged, taking the number of total cases and recoveries to 549 and 413, respectively. As many as 128 cases remain active. Among those found infected, four are from Sector 44: 44-year-old woman, 38-year-old man and two teenagers, aged 13 and 17. They are family contacts of already diagnosed cases, and so is a 20-year-old patient residing on the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). A 47-year-old man from Sector 37, who works at GST Bhawan, Sector 17, has also tested positive. His source of infection is currently unknown.A 59-year-old man from Sector 50, who is working in Punjab, a 46-year-old woman from Sector 35 and three members of a Sector-32 family — two women, aged 40 and 42, and a man, aged 41 — are among the other patients Their source of infection has also not been shared by the administration.Meanwhile, four patients have been discharged from the PGIMER and sent home while one patient has been shifted to the post discharge quarantine facility from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46. Recovery rate in the UT stands at 75%, as compared to 63% in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-after-death-toll-rises-to-8/story-QeZQ76ZeRGefBokt6gvdkL.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM urges PM Modi to review UGC guidelines on exams||Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh wrote to PM Modi seeking permission to let the state government adhere to its July 3 decision on cancellation of university/college examinations in view of exponential rise in Covid cases.In the letter, the CM has urged PM Modi to advise the Union ministry of human resource development and the UGC to reconsider the decision on mandatory final term exams being conducted by September.“UGC may be asked to reiterate its earlier issued guidelines, wherein it had been clearly mentioned that the guidelines were advisory in nature and each state/university will chart out its own plan of action taking into consideration the issues pertaining to Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.The CM said that the state government, after taking into account the Covid-19 situation and safety of students and staff, had on July 3 decided to cancel all pending UG and PG final term examinations and announced to promote students on the basis of performance in previous years/semesters.“In view of this situation, the situation is not conducive for conducting offline physical examinations by September,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-urges-pm-modi-to-review-ugc-guidelines-on-exams/story-iz3iqgyvuDOvZXbVhpMmRN.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||2019 Tarn Taran blast: HC dismisses bail plea of accused||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has dismissed the bail plea of an accused in the 2019 Tarn Taran blast.The accused, Malkiat Singh, had sought bail on health grounds, stating that he was suffering from various ailments for the last few years, for which, he had been referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, and also to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.The explosion took place on the outskirts of Pandori Gola village, claiming the lives of two accused and injuring another accused. As per the National Investigation Agency, which is the probing matter, the appellant was in contact with the trio and was an active member of pro-Khalistan terrorist group, and conspired with them to carry out a terrorist attack by causing explosion. A total of eight persons were arrested as their incriminating role in the case emerged. One accused person is still at large. Chargesheet has already been filed and more than sufficient evidence has been collected against the accused, the NIA stated. Dismissing the plea, the HC observed the trial court order establishes that the appellant was in constant touch with the co-accused and was an active member of the pro-Khalistan terrorist group and further, he collected the bomb from his co-accused and kept it in his possession. As of medical ailments, the HC said that trial court has already dealt with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2019-tarn-taran-blast-hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-accused/story-dB966bnFfSQ6hDG3zODptO.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Russell’s viper causes maximum deaths||A landmark international research project analysing data across 20 years of snakebites in India has come to the conclusion that it was the Russell’s viper which accounted for the maximum number of bites followed by kraits and cobras. The research estimated that in the period 2000-2019, a staggering 1.2 million people had died in India due to snakebite, a very neglected tropical disease, or at an annual average of 58,000. As a comparison, official Covid-19 deaths in India have crossed 22,000.According to the World Health Organisation, which took on record the research study, India accounts for nearly half the globe’s snakebite deaths. “The WHO has set the target of reducing by half the number of (global) deaths due to snakebite envenoming by 2030 and India’s efforts to prevent and control this disease will largely influence this global target,” the WHO said. That official data does not reveal the scale of snakebite deaths is revealed by the fact that the government of India’s figures for the years, 2003-2015, show only 15,500 deaths in government hospitals. The government figures are one-tenth of the 1,54,000 snakebite deaths detected during the same period from public and private hospitals by the research project.The research study titled, Trends in snakebite deaths in India from 2000 to 2019 in a nationally representative mortality study, was conducted by the Centre for Global Health Research, University of Toronto, with Indian and UK partners including legendary herpetologist, Rom Whitaker, a Padma Shri awardee. The study was released to the public on July 7, 2020. Though snakebite deaths are prevalent in northwest India, the States of Punjab and Haryana fall in the lowest-risk category. Around 70% of the deaths occurred in limited low altitude, rural areas of Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh (including Telangana), Rajasthan and Gujarat. “Snakes are a vital part of our ecosystem as rodent controllers and are important in religion and mythology. India’s tremendous snakebite burden is staring us in the face and we need to act now!” said Whitaker. Community education on snakebite prevention coupled with enhancement of rural health care could bring down the number of snakebite deaths. To repair the gross under-reporting of deaths in India, the study recommended that the government of India designate and enforce snakebite as a ‘notifiable disease’ within the integrated disease surveillance programme. Accurate snakebite data are essential if the government of India’s strategies to reduce snakebite deaths are to succeed.“The study shows the need of the hour is to strengthen rural health care and resources, an investment for the future, particularly at this challenging time of the Covid-19 pandemic,” adds Whitaker. UNICORN OF THE MORNI HILLSWhile Sambars are easily glimpsed by those travelling through the Shivaliks, the Himalayan Brown goral and the Barking deer remain elusive even to wildlife enthusiasts. While the Barking deer spurts off at great speed down nullahs, the goral darts around steep cliffs having caught a glimpse of humans a long way off. A goat-antelope as it is described by scientists and as Van Bakri by some Morni locals, a passionate wildlifer has procured a unique picture of a goral with one of its two swept-back horns missing. Haryana IAS officer and special secretary, home, Rajesh Jogpal, is habituated to forays at dawn or dusk around Panchkula for taking Nature pictures.“One fine evening after I came back from office, I took my camera and accompanied by a friend went on a long drive on the Panchkula-Morni Road. I saw two wild animals grazing on the hill. One of them was a goral and the other a female Sambar. I was amazed to see the goral with one horn, I felt it was a kind of the mythical unicorn. I enquired about the the goral’s one-horned condition from the director, Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, Dr Dhananjai Mohan, and renowned wildlife scientist and field biologist, Dr AJT Johnsingh. I was told by Dr Johnsingh that either a genetic deformity had led to the one-horned goral of Morni or that one of the horns had broken off and would subsequently grow back.”If the horn had broken off, then it could be because of an accident or fall while the goral was negotiating the rugged and precipitous terrain of the Shivaliks. The experience of gorals maintained in captivity at Chhatbir zoo reveals further that dominant males are compulsive head-butters and can break off a horn while waging aggression against rival males. One such male, which was confined in a solitary cell at Chhatbir to enable vaccination, got so annoyed that it broke one of its horns by repetitively banging its head against the door! Chhatbir zoo officials have also observed that in an estimated 40% of the female gorals in captivity, the growth in the two horns is mismatched and is not as even and prominent as the horn pairs of males.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-russell-s-viper-causes-maximum-deaths/story-QXqgLv7NiBHASqEEMnRfIN.html
11-07-2020||Bangalore||As Covid-19 spikes, BS Yediyurappa slaps week-long complete lockdown on Bengaluru||Karnataka government will impose complete lockdown in Bengaluru urban and rural for one week from 8 PM on July 14 to 5 AM on July 22 to check rising cases of Covid-19, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said Saturday “As Covid-19 cases are increasing in the state day by day, based on the advice of experts complete lockdown will be imposed in Bengaluru urban and Bengaluru rural for one week from July 14 Tuesday 8 pm to 5 am on July 22,” Yediyurappa said in a statement.Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with more than 15,000 infections out of Karnataka’s tally of 36, 216 . A total of 14,716 people have recovered so far while 613 have died, according to the .stet health department.During this period hospitals facilities, groceries, milk, vegetables, medicines and other daily use items will be available, also already scheduled Medical exams will be held.Under Unlock 2.0 the Karnataka state government has already announced complete lockdown on five Sundays in the state starting from July 5 to August 2.The spike in Covid-19 cases had triggered speculations that the government was considering extending it to Saturdays too. The government aims to control the spread of the virus by restricting the movement of people.Despite the complete lockdown on Sundays, essential activities and marriages already fixed on those days have been permitted by the government.Hours before Yediyurappa’s statement , his deputy C N Ashwath Narayan said lockdown helps in restricting the movement of people. “But with lockdown you can only postpone the spread and not eradicate it,” he said, according to PTI.He also said that the government would also have to consider the impact of the lockdown on the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/complete-lockdown-in-bengaluru-urban-and-rural-districts-from-14-22-july-as-covid-19-cases-rise/story-TctwpLlf3Qo6gMi9IfZdrJ.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Hindi Chini not Bhai Bhai||The other day I stepped out to do grocery shopping. As I walked through the market, I passed by a toyshop and my mind flew to our little seven-month-old granddaughter. And I thought of buying a sipping cup for her.The shopkeeper showed me a couple of sippers. All of them, though American brands, were ‘Made in China’. An alarm bell went off in my mind; it was saying, “Hindi Chini not Bhai Bhai.” I told the salesman, “I don’t want to buy anything Chinese. Can you give me an Indian brand?” He said, “Madam, I don’t think you will find it anywhere.” I left the shop disappointed and needless to say empty handed.Back home, I told my daughter-in-law that if there was no Indian sipping cup available, it would be better to start using a normal glass from the kitchen because I could not bring myself to buy a Chinese product. In my heart I felt miserable. The Chinese had taken over or should I say ruined our plastic industry among many other industries.My home is in Sector 18, the hub for buying electronics and crockery in Chandigarh. Most of the electric fittings like lights, switches, cables, chandeliers available in the market were made in China!A visit to a crockery store made me realise that there was nothing but made in China stamps on plates, glasses, tablemats, curios, decoration pieces, centre table pieces, crystal, trays, flasks… I realised that this was only the tip of the iceberg.Back home, I heard my children discussing huge Chinese investments in Paytm, Byju’s, Ola, Flipkart and Swiggy. I felt sick.I recalled that a few years ago I needed to buy small idols of Ganeshji and Lakshmiji for our office. I had found the right size idols made of POP/marble dust in a shop in Sector 19, but soon realised that something about them was different – the little traditional touches that an Indian artisan would put were missing. It was clear to me that these had been made by the Chinese, with moulds probably fashioned in their country, I opted to buy brass idols that resembled the Gods we pictured in our mind’s eye.Sadly, the Chinese have invaded our idol making market too, with images of Rama, Krishna, Shiva etc. I have not bought Chinese lights on Diwali for years. And on Holi I insist on buying only herbal colours.The day I heard the news that the Indian Government has banned 59 Chinese apps, I felt like someone had applied balm on my aching heart. I knew it was time each one of us resolved to stop buying Chinese products.Every bit mattered. It would take some time for us to weed out all the Chinese stuff which had entered out homes, but at least we could resolve not to buy more.Slowly I am sure India would be able to produce everything that we imported from China and we would become self-reliant. The intermittent phase could be difficult no doubt but what had to be done had to be done.The government could make policy decisions but unless the people fell in line the progress could not be manifest. That is because every drop goes to make the ocean! priya@tandonindia.comThe writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hindi-chini-not-bhai-bhai/story-OIfizgnyi6sUnfu47C0sVK.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 1,781 new coronavirus cases, tally past 1.1 lakh mark||Delhi on Saturday recorded 1,781 new coronavirus cases, pushing the cumulative tally to 1,10,921. The death toll in national capital rose to 3,334 after 34 new deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases till date.In the last 24 hours, 2,998 people have recovered from the infection, discharged or migrated in Delhi. The city’s recovery rate has showed signs of drastic improvement as it stood at 79 per cent on Saturday, after a total 87,692 people have been reported to have recovered from the infection. Total 21,508 people have been tested in the last 24 hours, adding to total number of people tested by the authorities. Delhi has tested 7,68,617 people so far. Delhi has seen an exponential rise in the areas demarcated as containment zones, as in the last four days the count of such zones has gone up from 458 to 639.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-1-781-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-past-1-1-lakh-mark/story-nOxA9ZK3aV2gYofzirEYJK.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Moderate showers likely in Chandigarh on Sunday||With 10mm rain recorded in early hours of Saturday, maximum temperature in Chandigarh dropped to 34.1°C from the previous day’s 36°C. Even minimum temperature went down from 27.9°C to 24.6°C.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), there are chances of moderate showers on Sunday as well, though monsoon is likely to weaken in intensity from Monday.“The monsoon system is likely to be active on Sunday and moderate rain up to 60mm can be expected along with thunder and lightning,” said an IMD official. “From Monday, only light rain up to 20mm is likely, though the system is expected to strengthen once again around the weekend (July 17).”Monsoon onset was declared in Chandigarh on June 24, a few days ahead of the normal date. However, for calculating seasonal rain, IMD considers June 1 to September 30 as the monsoon period. This monsoon, so far, 273.9mm rain has been recorded, 18% more than normal (231.4mm) for this period, ie June 1-July 11. The surplus is on expected lines, said IMD director Surender Paul, adding that monsoon showers are likely to cross the normal value of 845.7mm for the season, with 7% excess.According to the weather bulletin, in the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 35 and 36 degrees, while minimum temperature will be around 24 to 25 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/moderate-showers-likely-in-chandigarh-on-sunday/story-8SEsA7CZvCGhAmCmwGDFaI.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||When girls swooned over Kapil Dev and other lessons learnt||The activity calendar in colleges today is packed with events, much in contrast to the scenario a few years ago when we used to have just three mega events – prize distribution, convocation and sports day. While the first two functions were solemn, academic in nature, the annual sports function in the Chandigarh college I taught in used to be a two-day extravaganza celebrated with much fanfare and zest. The opening day ceremony began with the march past by smartly turned out contingents of various classes to the tune of a military band followed by various track and athletic events.The end of the first day of the event was reserved for the much applauded staff race or musical chairs. As a member of the faculty, though I never won the coveted top position, I had the privilege of finding myself on the victory stand at the third place quite a few times.The second and the final day of the event used to be a formal affair when guests and dignitaries were invited. Besides other celebrities from various walks of life, eminent sports personalities such as the legendary Milkha Singh, superstar Kapil Dev and cricketer Dinesh Mongia graced the occasion from time to time.However, two events, exceptional and special, remain etched in my memory. Having led the Indian team to victory in the World Cup final in 1983, Kapil Dev was already a legend and a sports star when he was invited to preside over the annual sports day function. He was hesitant to be the chief guest, but agreed after much persuasion on the condition that he would be able to spare just two hours for the visit.Keeping in mind his tight schedule, the event was planned accordingly. Kapil Dev was expected to leave immediately after the function, but to our utter surprise he lingered on. After the kind of attention he got in an exclusive girls’ college from the adoring students, he seemed to be in no hurry to go.The college authorities had a tough time containing the students who swooned over him and mobbed him.I also can’t forget how we, the staff members, had to act as his security, cordon off the area to give him a safe passage and how our principal, Mrs Mahajan, heaved a sigh of relief when he left.Equally memorable is yet another sports day when Jaspal Bhatti, cartoonist, humorist and comedian, was the guest of honour. True to his television show, Ulta Pulta, all arrangements went topsy-turvy when a night before the final function, it rained heavily flooding the grounds. However, our energetic and dynamic principal decided to go ahead with the function and have it indoors.It was a unique, unforgettable sports day with the march-past and the guard of honor taking place not at the sports ground but in the corridors of the college building.The lessons learnt were: ‘Come what may, the show must go on.’ Life doesn’t always go according to plans. We must adapt to every situation and try to be happy.Coming to the present day scenario, the pandemic has brought upheaval in our lives, but we need to ‘re-invent’, ‘re-learn’ and ‘re-adjust’ to the new way of working. We must follow the new norms: Maintain social distance, wear masks and ensure hand hygiene, but the work must go on.rama_1177@yahoo.co.inThe writer is a Chandigarh-based freelancer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/when-girls-swooned-over-kapil-dev-and-other-lessons-learnt/story-GSOYk0HUlA2UCYZlAqBXZI.html
11-07-2020||City||World Population Day: Covid-19 restricts birth control access, impacts family planning campaign in Ludhiana||The rise in Covid-19 cases has hit the family planning campaign of the health department, with residents reluctant to visit the hospital due to the fear of catching the infection. The health department is suggesting the residents avail temporary contraceptives for birth control.Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said that Punjab health and family welfare department is celebrating Population Stability Fortnight in the state from July 11 to 24. This fortnight aims to promote reproductive health, and reduce maternal, neonatal and child morbidity and mortality. Dr Bagga said, “As patients are reluctant to visit the hospital for permanent treatment due to the spread of Covid-19, we have offered them a bucketful of alternatives for birth control.” He emphasised on adopting new methods of family planning like Chhaya pills, antra injection and IUCD.He said that this year’s theme stressed the need for stabilising population in the times of Covid. He added that the basis of a strong nation and family depends upon bringing stability to a growing population even during pandemic like this.He also encouraged eligible couples to adopt permanent family planning methods such as tubectomy and incisionless sterilisation for males also known as vasectomy and persons adopting these permanent methods are given adequate monetary compensation by the government.District family welfare officer Dr SP Singh said that every year July 11 is celebrated as World Population Day. This day is celebrated to raise awareness about the world’s growing population. At present, the total population of the world is 7.8 billion (780 crore). China is the most populous country in the world while India is the second-most populous country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/world-population-day-covid-19-restricts-birth-control-access-impacts-family-planning-campaign-in-ludhiana/story-Q4gdno1aVC99o67GbYQJDJ.html
11-07-2020||City||India will soon witness a myriad of possibilities emerging out of digital education: Patiala college principal||An online symposium on ‘Teaching Practices – Shifting Paradigms’ was conducted by the Gujranwala Guru Nanak Institute of Management and Technology, Ghumar Mandi on Saturday. More than 2,000 people including educationists, researchers and students from all across India and abroad participated in the event.President, Gujranwala Khalsa Educational Council (GKEC) and former vice-chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, SP Singh said that the platform intended to have deliberations on the inequities and challenges surrounding access to education amidst Covid-19 along with the viability and the pros and cons of the altered digital educational paradigms. Adjusting to the virtual classroom experience is less about adapting to the use of new technology, since most virtual learning platforms are fairly intuitive, and more about adjusting to a new style of learning, said Professor Manjit Singh Chhabra, director of the institute.Ronki Ram, fellow and dean (faculty of arts), Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chair Professor of Political Science, Panjab University, Chandigarh presented his views on virtual teaching vs classroom interactive sessions. He said, “Only when the virtual teaching provides the full range of instructional connection points available in a traditional classroom will it begin to be a viable educational model”. He added that in these challenging times, tools, resources and tips are plentiful, but it is important to find the ones that really work.While Khushwinder Singh, principal of MM Modi College, Patiala deliberated on the topic “Paradigm shifts in education”. He opined, “With the internet becoming far more affordable and accessible, going ahead, there will be greater convergence of digital and traditional teaching-learning mediums”. He added that with the government taking radical steps to come up with policies to boost the digital education market in the country, we are soon going to witness a myriad of possibilities emerging out of digital education to empower the youth of the country.Hardeep Singh from Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar while expressing his views on ‘ICT intervention in education in current times’ said that digital education is the future of learning in India that will take the country to a new pedestal of socio-economic growth and prosperity. He added that digital education is helping in pioneering the concept of collaborative learning where all the minds can converge to create a unique learning experience that transcends national boundaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/india-will-soon-witness-a-myriad-of-possibilities-emerging-out-of-digital-education-patiala-college-principal/story-8HxHwpOfme8TyVuAjDeuxN.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Only the wise learn how to read between the lines||‘Meaning isn’t always found in the words themselves but rather in the spaces in between the lines,’ writes American writer Michelle Sandlin.No, I am not referring to reading between the lines as a literary device to decode the text but as an art and activity to be practised in our daily social interactions, and I learned this lesson the hard way.In the initial years as a college teacher I was staying in the college hostel with a few other faculty members, including the vice-principal, an elderly vivacious lady, who became a guide and guardian for us young faculty members.Just one month after I joined college I had to go home to Chandigarh for the August 15 Independence Day holiday. After submitting my station-leave in office, I was packing my bags when a peon from the college came with my application in hand asking me to see the principal in her office. The words, ‘Can’t allow, see me’ in green ink on my application stared at me. With great disappointment and trepidation, I left my packing incomplete and went to her office, wondering why she had summoned me and if I had done something wrong by submitting the station leave.Once in her office I placed the application on her table. Her stoic countenance made it difficult for me to ascertain her mood. “You see, it’s Independence Day tomorrow and there is going to be a flag-hoisting ceremony in college and the presence of the staff is mandatory. So I can’t allow you to leave the station,” she said.When I responded that I was required at home because of a family function slated for the day, she surprised me by saying: “But I can’t allow you,” and turning her face towards the window added, “You can go without telling me.”Failing to understand what she meant, I protested that I could not defy the rules and disobey her, to which she smiled, for a moment making me feel as if my naivety and vulnerability as a new entrant were ridiculed.As I stood there, wondering what to do, she gently pushed the application towards me and repeated, “I can’t give the permission, you can go without telling me,” as her smile grew broader. Disheartened, I dragged my feet back to the hostel and ran into the vice-principal at the entrance. To her question, “You are still here?” I choked and narrated the whole story to her. Laughing, she tore my application, and said, “Pick up your bag and run, you fool! What else is she trying to tell you?”That day I became a little wiser, understanding that one should be smart enough to read beyond the words because everything doesn’t get written down in black and white.On my return, after two days, I found the principal (who lived in the principal’s house next to the hostel) and the vice principal out for their evening walk.As I wished them “good evening,” both looked at each other and smiled as I peevishly rushed inside the hostel.njkaur1953@gmail.comThe author is a retired English professor based in Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/only-the-wise-learn-how-to-read-between-the-lines/story-s7piJGq4P9SBavSatAtjsM.html
11-07-2020||City||267 missing saroops: SGPC emergency meeting today||Under fire over the 267 missing ‘saroops’ of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has called an emergency meeting of its executive committee on Sunday. The decision to hold the meeting was taken on Friday after a delegation of SGPC members, including Kiranjot Kaur and Sewa Singh Sekhwan, met Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and urged him to order an independent probe rather than having it investigated by SGPC members. Sources said the jathedar is now planning to hand over the probe to retired Sikh judges to ensure a fair probe. SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta said, “The 267 missing saroops will be the sole agenda of the meeting.”Some sources also said a resolution could be passed regarding the CBI’s plea against the investigation being conducted by the Special Investigation Team constituted by the Punjab government to probe sacrilege incidents in 2015. However, no functionary of the gurdwara body confirmed it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/267-missing-saroops-sgpc-emergency-meeting-today/story-fE6YCvyEx3ZV4Jad2U8YyO.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to study common errors healthcare workers make while removing PPE||With the rise in Covid-19 cases among healthcare workers, the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research(PGIMER) has decided to study the common errors made by them in removing their personal protective equipment (PPE). Around 27 healthcare workers in the hospitals of Chandigarh, Panchkula, and Mohali have tested positive, many of who acquired it while tending to the Covid-19 patients. It takes 30 minutes each to put on and remove the PPE worn by healthcare workers looking after Covid-19 patients.The act of removing the PPE is more important than that of putting it on as it is a high-risk activity and needs to be done in enough time as a single breach in the procedure will directly bring the healthcare worker in contact with the virus.Sukhpal Kaur, a faculty member of PGIMER’s National Institute of Nursing Education (NINE) and a principal investigator of the project, said that they are studying the errors healthcare professionals usually make even after the live instructions are passed onto them.“The analysis is underway, but there are several mistakes which they can make like the sequence in which the PPEs should be removed and scrubbing and washing of hands, all these aspects will be covered which will help decrease the spread of the virus,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-study-common-errors-healthcare-workers-make-while-removing-ppe/story-8LrXoUG8wpQUF9RhsvQ0JJ.html
11-07-2020||City||Amritsar train tragedy: GRP SIT dilutes charges, gives clean chit to cops, MC and rly staff||The Government Railway Police (GRP)’s special investigation team (SIT), which was constituted to fix criminal responsibility in the Dussehra train tragedy, filed a chargesheet against seven organisers of the event, including a close aide of Navjot Singh Sidhu, without making their arrests.The SIT has diluted charges against the accused besides giving clean chit to the police, railways and the municipal corporation employees, who were indicted in magisterial and judicial probes, in the chargesheet, which was filed before duty magistrate Harpreet Singh on June 6.On October 19, 2018, a speeding train had mowed down 61 persons and injured more than 100 people who had gathered for Dussehra celebrations at Dhobi Ghat near Jaura Phatak in Amritsar. The GRP had registered a case under Sections 304, 304 (A), 337 and 338 of the IPC against unidentified persons.In the chargesheet, the SIT named Dussehra committee’s president and Congress councillor’s son Saurabh Madan alias Mithu Madan, general secretary Rahul Kalyan, cashier Deepak Kumar, secretaries Karan Bhandari and Kabal Singh, press secretary Deepak Gupta, and executive member Bhupinder Singh as accused under Sections 304 (A), 337 and 338 of the IPC.GRP Amritsar SHO Sukhwinder Singh, who is a member of the SIT, said, “During the investigation, the SIT had found that the accused didn’t commit the crime intentionally. So, Section 304 was removed.”Section 304-A of the IPC simply consists of imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or both. Contrary to it, Section 304 of the IPC contains imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to 10 years and shall also be liable to fine.According to law experts, the chargesheet filed in court without arresting the accused will be helpful in getting early bail. The court had summoned the accused on July 30.In the chargesheet, the SIT told court that “all accused are influential and possess political status. With arrest of the accused, disruption of law and order situation can’t be ruled out.”Advocate Sarabjit Singh Verka of the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) said, “The chargesheet was filed secretly with a clear motive of saving the accused. To make the case strong, the SIT should have arrested the accused and interrogated them before filing the challan. Even, the chief guest of the Dussehra event Navjot Kaur Sidhu was not questioned in the probe. It shows that the accused are more powerful than the SIT.”He said, “The chargsheet, which appears to have filed in favour of the accused, has also not added any criminal charge against the police, railways and MC employees, who were held responsible for negligence in the magisterial probe.”A SIT member, on condition of anonymity, said, “Departmental action against seven policemen who were responsible for giving security clearance to the organisers, the then GRP SHO Balbir Singh, and four employees has already been initiated. They were not found to be criminally accused during the probe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-train-tragedy-grp-s-sit-files-chargesheet-without-arresting-accused/story-8Mhy3xa0ygGaXevQdgptlJ.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Social distancing goes for a toss amid patient influx at PGIMER emergency, trauma centre||With a huge influx of patients at the emergency ward and trauma centre of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) amid the new relaxations, authorities are grappling to ensure social distancing. With more than 350 patients crunched into a space that can accommodate 150 patients at a time, the chances of infection amid the pandemic outbreak are high. PGIMER authorities say they have installed 30 cubicles each at the emergency ward and advanced trauma centre, besides segregating the area into red, orange, and green zones for triaging of patients; but due to the rush, these measures are rendered ineffective. The PGI Nurses Association had earlier written to the authorities for restricting the number of patients as social distancing between the patients’ bed was becoming impossible. PGIMER director Prof Jagat Ram said, “We have set up cabins to separate two patients from each other and maintain social distancing but there is a tremendous rush at the emergency ward. If one patient has Covid-19, the infection won’t be transmitted to another patient admitted there. As there is a space crunch due to the newly adopted approach, sometimes we accommodate two patients in a cubicle at a safe distance.”He added that the problem is more as patients from neighbouring states who can be treated at the district-level are reporting here. “They (district hospitals) should not send patients without consulting the institute doctors first. On a usual day, it is acceptable but since there is a pandemic outbreak, they should restrict the numbers and deal with the cases locally and only refer genuine cases to the tertiary care hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-amid-patient-influx-at-pgimer-emergency-trauma-centre/story-a4axtk8R2TVP8nnZ8oquBI.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||HC directs Aurangabad bank to disburse loans to farmers for Kharif season||In a relief to thousands of farmers who feared losing the opportunity to cultivate crops during the ongoing Kharif season, a division bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Aurangabad District Central Cooperative Bank to disburse loans to farmers with immediate effect.The bank had refused to disburse fresh loans as it was waiting to recover interest on loans that were waived off by the government under the Mahatma Phule Karj Mukti Yojana. The waived loans were disbursed by the bank between January 1, 2019, and October 1, 2019. The court held that the issue of interest could be decided in a later hearing.The division bench of justice SV Gangapurwala and justice RG Avachat of the HC at its Aurangabad bench, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by agriculturist Kishore Tangade through senior advocate SB Talekar, was informed that the sowing season had commenced in June. Talekar submitted that thousands of agriculturists were eligible for loans but only 49.62% had been approved by the bank after they paid interest on loans taken the previous year.The bench was informed that though loans of the previous year had been waived off by the state government, the bank insisted on collecting interest accrued, and only those agriculturists who had paid the amount – some by selling their gold ornaments – had been disbursed a fresh loan amount.Talekar submitted that though the state government, under section 79A of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, had directed the banks to disburse loans to eligible agriculturists on January 17, 2020, the bank had not complied. As a result of this, thousands of agriculturists were unable to undertake sowing activities, which would result in no crops and future losses.The state, through government pleader DR Kale, reiterated the petitioner’s submissions and said that though the bank had already been compensated for the waived amount, it had held back disbursement of fresh loans. Kale further submitted that the bank was bound to comply with the January order of the government.The bank, however, submitted that it was considering challenging the January order of the government. Representing the bank, advocate RS Deshmukh submitted that the decision not to disburse fresh loans was taken by the board of directors. He claimed that if the interest was not collected and fresh loans were disbursed, the bank would suffer financial losses.After hearing the submissions, the court observed that as the January order was in force, the bank was bound to comply, even if it planned to challenge it. HC directed the bank to disburse the loans to eligible agriculturists, sought a compliance report and posted the matter for hearing on July 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-directs-aurangabad-bank-to-disburse-loans-to-farmers-for-kharif-season/story-V9vFzpK8lIVxXhJD31ZY6H.html
11-07-2020||Noida||8-month-old infant found crying next to dead couple in Noida house: Police||A couple was found dead at their rented house in Sector 51 of Hoshiyarpur area of Noida in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. According to the police, after a resident of Hoshiyarpur area informed them that a child can be heard crying inside the house but the occupants of the house are not responding, they reached the spot and broke down the door of the house. They found an eight-month-old child sitting next to the duo, who was found dead.Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Ranvijay Singh told ANI, “Initially, it seems like suicide but our team did not recover any suicide note from the spot. On enquiry, it was revealed that the couple belonging to Bihar had shifted on July 7 at the rented house.”“The bodies of the deceased have been sent for post-mortem and the child has been shifted to a hospital for medical check-up,” Singh said.The family of the couple and the local police station in Bihar have been informed about the duo, he added.An investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/8-month-old-infant-found-crying-next-to-dead-couple-at-their-noida-house-police/story-Vth08BOwDUFNB9xLuz7y4L.html
11-07-2020||City||65% Class-10 students from Panchkula clear Haryana board exams||Panchkula district has secured 11th position in the state with 65% students clearing the Class-10 exams conducted by the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) this year. It is an improvement from the last year’s performance when the district recorded a pass percentage of 59% and ended on the 18th spot among 22 districts. In 2018, pass percentage stood at 45%. Shubham of Shri Jainendra Gurukul Senior Secondary School has bagged the top position in the district with 493 marks.Manisha from Saarthak Government Model Integrated Senior Secondary School, Sector 12A, and Shubha from Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Barwala, are second and third, respectively.As many as 4,762 students from around 65 schools had appeared for the exams from the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/65-class-10-students-from-panchkula-clear-haryana-board-exams/story-0YD9ShdpTAcfBKC9ZScEgP.html
11-07-2020||City||2019 Tarn Taran blast: Bail plea of juvenile accused dismissed||The juvenile accused in the Tarn Taran blast, which claimed two lives and grievously injured one other on September 4 last year, has been denied bail by the Juvenile Justice Board. The incident had taken place on a vacant plot in Pandori Gola village. The victims were digging a pit to retrieve a dumped explosive consignment, when it went off. Rejecting the plea, principal magistrate Anuradha held that the bail is being denied in the best interest of the juvenile, as, if released, there is a likelihood of him being exposed to unknown criminals or moral, psychological or other influences that would defeat the ends of justice. “The Juvenile Justice Act is not only meant for the applicant/juvenile but also for upholding the interest of children in its care and protection,” read the order.The National Investigating Agency (NIA), which is probing the case, in its reply on the bail application, had stated, “The applicant is a member of a terrorist gang whose motive is to establish Khalistan. Such types of activities are a threat to national security and disturb the peace, integrity, unity of the nation. If the applicant is released on bail, he may be further exposed to these types of terrorist activities.” The NIA also submitted that the allegations against the applicant are of heinous nature and so bail should not be granted. Advocate Jaspal Singh Manjhpur, who filed the bail plea on behalf of the applicant, said, “This is unfortunate that Indian courts consider keeping Sikh children behind bars justice. Secondly, inclination toward a particular ideology is not the ground for denying bail to anyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2019-tarn-taran-blast-bail-plea-of-juvenile-accused-dismissed/story-DSw2xoAnzgHfZTF1UElIUK.html
11-07-2020||City||Amritsar GMC’s Covid-19 nodal officer suspended after court stay on transfer||The state medical research and education department on Saturday suspended Government Medical College (GMC) medicine department head and Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Shiv Charan from his duties after the doctor secured a court stay on his transfer order.Medical education and research principal secretary DK Tiwari on July 1 had transferred Dr Charan to Government Medical College, Patiala, citing that the decision had been taken in view of the increase in Covid-19 deaths at GMC Amritsar.However, Dr Charan appealed to Punjab and Haryana high court and secured stay orders on his transfer and joined his duty again at GMC Amritsar on July 9.Following the stay orders, Tiwari issued a fresh notice on July 11 which reads, “Dr Shiv Charan’s working at the hospital remained unsatisfactory and he did not take required actions after Coid-19 deaths were continuously being reported. The department had issued a show-cause notice to him on April 18, as he was not following the state’s guidelines. But he did not submit his reply.”“Also, he was not coordinating with his seniors. Dr Shiv Charan will now perform the assigned duties at Amritsar Dental College,” the notice adds.Reportedly, Dr Charan was the main complainant in the alleged personal protection equipment (PPE) kits scam, the inquiry for which is in process.The alleged purchase scam surfaced in April when doctors, nurses and other medical staff at the hospital refused to use the 2,000 kits saying they were substandard and did not have N-95 masks. They had also accused the authorities of paying around ₹41 lakh for the kits, which according to them should not have cost more than ₹7 lakh.Dr Charan had complained to then GMC principal Dr Sujata Sharma and said the kits were substandard and not fit for use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-gmc-s-covid-19-nodal-officer-suspended-after-court-stay-on-transfer/story-892SPTgXom58VgHanuHReO.html
11-07-2020||City||Locust attack in Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri, crops damaged||A swarm of locusts entered Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri on Friday and damaged crops in a dozen villages falling under the district, agricultural department officials said.Officials of the agriculture department reached the fields to control the menace.Pradeep Sheoran , a farmer from Piranu Mandi village, said a swarm of locusts entered the fields from Mahendergarh and Rewari side and damaged cotton, Bajra, Guar and vegetable crops. “The agricultural department officials failed to control the menace. A compensation should be given by the government,” he added.Dadri sub-divisional officer (agriculture) Krishan Kumar said their teams are working to control the situation by spraying pesticides.“The farmers should inform us if they find locusts anywhere in the district. We have also advised them to make loud noises by beating thalis, sound producing instruments and tin boxes to drive away the insects,” he added. Last month, locusts had damaged several crops in Mahendergarh, Rewari and Jhajjar but the menace was controlled after a spray of pesticides. It had then moved from Jhajjar to Uttar Pradesh after passing through Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/locust-attack-in-haryana-s-charkhi-dadri-crops-damaged/story-gsGzSQSOY3pEcVUFQ2IyKM.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||55-year-old cancer patient succumbs to Covid-19 in J&K’s Rajouri||A 55-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19 at the Government Medical College and Hospital here on Saturday, officials said.The death toll in Jammu region has now gone up to 16. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Dara Singh said, “A 55-year-old man from Bari Brahmana had been hospitalised on June 29. He had acute respiratory distress besides comorbidities such as urinary bladder cancer and diabetes. He died of Covid-19 around 12.20pm.”Meanwhile, a day after 51 Covid-19 cases were reported in Rajouri, the district administration on Saturday re-imposed lockdown in many areas of Rajouri.Except for essential commodities, all business establishments were closed in many parts of the district. The lockdown was re-imposed in Jawahar Nagar, Khandli, Salani, Panja, Gujjar Mandi, Malik Market, Old Town, Kheora and Darhali bridge.“The decision to re-impose lockdown was taken to prevent community transmission in the area because people were neither maintaining social distancing nor following the SoPs,” said a senior official.TEHSILDAR, HOSPITAL STAFF HOME QUARANTINED He also said the Manjakote tehsildar and his staff members had been home quarantined because some Covid-19 patients had visited his office on Thursday.Similarly, six employees of the orthopaedic ward of GMC Associated Hospital, Rajouri, have also been kept under home quarantine after a patient, who was undergoing treatment at the hospital, tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/55-year-old-cancer-patient-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-j-k-s-rajouri/story-OodD29aG3PVpL9vnDspsoN.html
11-07-2020||City||Man, son electrocuted to death in Jalandhar; PSPCL marks inquiry||A 35-year-old man and his 11-year-old son were electrocuted to death after coming in contact with a live wire during heavy rain in Jalandhar’s Peer Bodla locality on Friday night. The deceased have been identified as Gulshan and his son Munna. The incident took place around 9pm when they were returning home on their bike. PSPCL deputy chief engineer (operations) Harjinder Singh Bansal said that a low-tension wire broke and fell in a narrow lane, where water had accumulated. The duo came in contacted with the wire and got electrocuted. As per information, locals had called PSPCL officials after hearing their screams but by the time the power was turned off in the area, they had died.“I have marked an inquiry into the incident and officials, including SDO and executive engineer, have gone for inspection and rectified the fault in wires,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-son-electrocuted-to-death-in-jalandhar-pspcl-marks-inquiry/story-FjKDnYahMjtgoXzBMK2PvL.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police constable, wife booked for possessing assets worth 130.52% more than income||The Mumbai unit of the Maharashtra Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has booked a constable attached with an arms division of the Mumbai Police and his wife for possessing disproportionate assets (DA) worth 130.52% more than his known sources of income as a government employee.Constable Abdul Salam Yusuf Shaikh (52), who was posted at Antop Hill Police station before he was transferred to the arms division of the Mumbai Police at Naigaon, and his wife Ayesha has been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 for DA.ACB officials said a complaint against Shaikh was received in 2012 following which inquiries were initiated against him.The properties in his name and Ayesha’s name were evaluated from 1995, when he had joined the police force, until 2012, said Mahesh Patil, additional commissioner of police (ACP), ACB.“During the inquiry, we found enough evidence in the allegations against Shaikh and Ayesha, who helped him to conceal the money in her name. After evaluating the assets of both the persons, we found that he had assets worth Rs 33,08,497 lakh, which were 130.52% more than his income. We have found bank balances, gold ornaments, among other properties, in their names,” said ACP Patil. “Shaikh and Ayesha were called for an inquiry and were asked to declare their income. During the inquiry, they could not provide a satisfactory explanation following which a DA case was registered against Shaikh and his wife Ayesha under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988,” added ACP Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-constable-wife-booked-for-possessing-assets-worth-130-52-more-than-income/story-xRWZiqfPpsQMTkfCTJs8IJ.html
11-07-2020||City||13-year-old girl burnt alive by neighbour in Kaithal||A 13-year-old girl was burnt alive and her mother sustained burn injuries after a neighbour allegedly entered their house and set them afire in Kaithal city’s Arjun Nagar locality on Saturday, police said.Police said the girl Tamanna was declared dead on arrival at the civil hospital. Her mother Bala Devi ,40, has been referred to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh. Her condition is stated to be critical.In his police complaint, Tamanna’s father Ved Prakash alleged that the accused Subhash, who belongs to Tohana of Fatehabad district and lived in a rented accommodation in their colony, used to come to their house frequently. Subhash recently had an altercation with his wife, he said.The complainant said the accused entered their house on Friday late night and set his wife and daughter on fire after pouring petrol on them. Ved said that he tried to save them but could not contain the flames. He added that he has also sustained minor burn injuries as the fire engulfed the room. Police officials have not denied the possibility of a family dispute as the reason behind the incident. They suspect that the accused had an illicit relationship with the woman.Kaithal city police station in-charge Nanhi Devi said, “A case under Section 302 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Subhash. We are investigating to find the exact cause behind the incident. The accused will be arrested soon, Devi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-year-old-girl-burnt-alive-by-neighbour-in-kaithal/story-kArNcYPcM15m7pETMnkO4J.html
11-07-2020||City||Two aides of gangster Sonu Kancha arrested for rival’s murder||Over five weeks after gangster Sonu Kancha, along with his accomplices, allegedly hacked his rival to death and injured another in Shimlapuri on June 2, police have arrested two of the assailants. Those arrested have been identified as Jaswinder Singh, alias Jassi, of Gobind Nagar, Shimlapuri, and Bona Singh, alias Bona, of Sooraj Nagar. The police have recovered sharp-edged weapons from their possession that they say were used in the crime. The main accused, Sonu Kancha of Gobind Nagar, Vijay Kumar, alias Chichdi, of Gobind Nagar, Karan Mani and their six unidentified accomplices are at large.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the police arrested the Kancha’s aides following a tip-off. They were working to arrest the remaining accused.He said on June 2, the accused attacked their rivals Gagandeep Singh, 27, and Ramandeep Singh, 30, at Matharu Chowk. While Ramandeep, who hailed from Bulara village, had succumbed to his injuries, Gagandeep of Jujhar Nagar, Shimlapuri, had suffered severe injuries. A murder case was registered in this regard at the Shimlapuri police station.The ADCP both groups were old rivals. Gagandeep and Ramandeep were also facing trial in various criminal cases. They had allegedly assaulted Kancha’s brother in 2017 and were booked for attempt to murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-aides-of-gangster-sonu-kancha-arrested-for-rival-s-murder/story-8Yt1VazSc5NqZJSXASPWvK.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal orchardists advised on managing apple scab, premature leaf fall||In order to prevent scab disease in apples, Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, has issued an advisory to farmers for the effective management of apple scab, premature and alternaria leaf fall.Apple scab is a plant disease caused by fungus Venturia inaequalis.Vice-chancellor (VC) Dr Parvinder Kaushal said due to the arrival of monsoon, there is excess moisture in the air due to which an outbreak of diseases in plants is being witnessed. “The problem of scab in apple, which was considered almost eliminated, was seen in some areas of Himachal last year. This year, incidents of scab disease have been reported from Kullu, Mandi and Shimla. Therefore, it is necessary to take measures to prevent the progression of the disease. The following advisory must be followed by the orchardists to effectively manage the diseases,” he said.Stating that the university is alert about the situation, Kaushal said it has been ensured that the scientists working in various departments, Krishi Vigyan Kendras and regional research stations located in the areas from where such incidents have been reported are providing required inputs to control the problem. “The scientists are also visiting the orchards,” he added.As per the advisory, mid-hill farmers have been asked to use sprays of propineb @0.3% (600gm/ 200L water) or dodine @0.075% (150gm/ 200L water) or metiram 55% + pyraclostrobin 5% WG @0.150% (300gm/ 200L water) among others for the management of apple scab, while metiram 55% + pyraclostrobin 5% WG @0.150% (300gm/ 200L water) or fluxapyroxad + pyraclostrobin 500 SC @ 0.01% (20ml/ 200L water) have been recommended for fighting premature leaf fall and alternaria leaf spot in apple.For low hills, orchardists have been advised to use sprays of propineb @0.3% (600gm/ 200L water) for the management of apple scab, while tebuconazole 50% + trifloxystrobin 25% WG @0.04% (80gm/ 200L water) is recommended for the management of premature leaf fall, and 20-25 days before harvest, the sprays of metiram 55% + pyraclostrobin 5% WG @0.1% (200gm/ 200 L water) will help with apple scab and alternaria leaf spot management.The university has advised the farmers to strictly follow the spray schedule recommended by it and take all safety precautions while undertaking the activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-orchardists-advised-on-managing-apple-scab-premature-leaf-fall/story-qmP06sntK9ieNQkvJt9qhM.html
11-07-2020||Ranchi||156 fresh Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, infection tally reaches 3,518||Jharkhand reported 156 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, raising the state’s tally to 3,518, a government bulletin said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The state now has 1,271 active Covid-19 cases, while 2,224 people have recovered from the disease, it said. According to the bulletin, the state’s recovery rate stands at 63.21 per cent. It said 23 people have so far died from the coronavirus in Jharkhand. Out of the total Covid-19 cases, 2,191 are migrants, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/156-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-infection-tally-reaches-3-518/story-iAKILDI4KQNRkLjFvCCWfI.html
11-07-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters' tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Congress finds Chandigarh BJP MP Kirron Kher missing in actionThe Chandigarh unit of the Congress has put up posters in different sectors, claiming that city BJP MP Kirron Kher is “missing” in action during these challenging Covid times. Congress workers are sharing photos of the posters on social media, too. The poster announces a reward of Rs 1,100 for anybody who gives information about Kher. While the Congress camp wants to know why she does not attend the UT administrator’s war-room meetings on Covid-19, Kher rebuts their claims, saying she is very much in Chandigarh and working from home in these times of social distancing. In a video released on social media, she said she is in touch with the UT administration and working for the welfare of residents.Mohali’s Jawaharpur village back on the edge after Covid returnsDeclared Covid-free for a month, Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi sub division of Mohali district is back in the grip of coronavirus. Seven new cases in the past three days have put the spotlight back on the village on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway. Life was limping back to normal after 46 cases turned Jawaharpur into a containment zone and forced the district administration to impose strict restrictions in April and May. Residents are praying that the virus stays away for they don’t want to return to the dark old days.Jaswinder Kaur case has CBI and UT police at loggerheadsThe recent corruption case against Chandigarh Police inspector Jaswinder Kaur, who has been placed under suspension, has put the police and Central Bureau of Investigation at loggerheads. Many police officials want to know how come complainants of CBI-investigated corruption cases have a criminal background. While Jaswinder Kaur continues to evade arrest, it won’t be surprising if she is being helped by a few police officials.Furniture Market on a different trackThe Chandigarh Traffic Police conducted a Covid-19 awareness drive at the Furniture Market in Sector 53 adjoining Mohali on Friday and tweeted photos, urging residents to stay safe by observing social distancing, proper handwashing, wearing masks and downloading the Arogya Setu app. While residents appreciated their efforts, some expressed surprise on being able to see the cycling track on the stretch. On normal days, the track is occupied by vehicles loading and unloading furniture and related material or vehicles of customers or even display furniture, leaving cyclists with no choice but to squeeze in with the traffic. While in other parts of the city a fine of Rs 1,000 is slapped for parking on the cycle track, here there is no check on defaulters.Chandigarh mayor turns problem-solver on TwitterActive on Twitter in Covid times, Chandigarh mayor Raj Bala Malik has earned the reputation of being a problem-solver. For city residents, posting their complaints with pictures of garbage heaps and blocked water drainage, Malik gets the issue sorted out and even posts a picture of the spot after the work is finished much to the satisfaction of Tweeple.Fined for speeding, they don’t know where to pay upEven as the Chandigarh Traffic Police have started using the automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) system to issue e-challans, some residents are still unclear about how to pay e-challans. The traffic police’s official website is set to be inaugurated soon and only fines of offences involving impounded vehicles are being accepted at the Traffic Lines in Sector 29. As a result, many who want to pay the fine for speeding are unclear on where to do so.Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra and Rajanbir Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-YqnJjRjXZBcHOPUOc7qdQM.html
11-07-2020||City||Girl students in Haryana to get passport with graduation degree: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said all girl students in the state will be provided passports on the completion of their graduation. He said the educational institutions in the state will complete the entire process with the regional passport office so that the passport can be provided along with their graduation degree.The CM was attending a programme ‘Har Sar Helmet’ organised to provide learning driving license and free helmets to around 100 students in Karnal.Earlier, the state government had allowed the educational institutions to provide learning driving license to the students. “At least 13 people lost their lives in road accidents everyday in Haryana and most people who are not wearing helmets die due to head injuries,” the CM said. He emphasised on the need to spread awareness on road-safety and wearing helmet while riding a two-wheeler.Kalpana Chawla’s mural inaugurated in KarnalAlmost 10 days after her birthday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated a giant mural dedicated to late astronaut Kalpana Chawla on the front wall of Dr Mangal Sen auditorium in Karnal. Municipal corporation mayor Renu Bala Gupta said the 35 ft mural was created by a private bank in Kalpana Chawla’s memory as she is an inspiration for the young generation. Chawla was the first Indian origin woman to fly to space and was one of the seven crew members who died in the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster in 2003.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/girl-students-in-haryana-to-get-passport-with-graduation-degree-khattar/story-yxM7IAQMl81N5t43FaFclJ.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi a global role model of Covid-19 management, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||Dharavi slum in Mumbai has emerged as a global role model for containing the spread of novel coronavirus, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday against the backdrop of the WHO’s praise.World Health Organisation (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had said during a virtual press conference in Geneva on Friday that there were many examples from around the world that have shown that even if the outbreak is very intense, it can still be brought back under control.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“And some of these examples are Italy, Spain and South Korea, and even in Dharavi - a densely packed area in the megacity of Mumbai,” he had said.Thackeray said that Dharavi has shown to the world that coronavirus spread can be contained via self discipline and community efforts.He said 82 per cent of patients in Dharavi have recovered from the infection, bringing down the number of active cases to only 166.“Dharavi is an inspiration for the world on how to curb the spread of a pandemic,” he said in a statement.The CM lauded united efforts of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), private doctors, NGOs and local residents in breaking the coronavirus chain.“This journey wasn’t easy. Due to united efforts, Dharavi is on its way to eradicate coronavirus,” he said.School Education Minister and Dharavi MLA Varsha Gaikwad tweeted, “I am proud of all my Dharavians as today we have set an example for the word as WHO recognized and praised our efforts on the war against the virus. Lets keep up the good work and we will fight In the most strongest way (sic)”.Rahul Shewale, Shiv Sena MP from Mumbai South Central, also hailed the development.“The Dharavi formula should be replicated in the entire state of Maharashtra,” he added.The Asia’s largest slum, which was once declared a Covid-19 hotspot, has managed to flatten the curve of the viral spread.Kiran Dighavkar, Assistant Commissioner of the G North ward of the BMC had told PTI that the civic body had to change its traditional approach of waiting for patients, contact tracing, isolation and home quarantine to begin proactive screening instead.“Proactive screening helped in early detection, timely treatment and recovery,” he said.The number of coronavirus positive patients in Dharavi rose by only 12 to 2,359 on Friday.As per official data, while in April, the doubling rate of cases was 18 days in Dharavi, it gradually improved to 43 days in May. It stood at 108 and 430 days in June and July, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-a-global-role-model-of-covid-19-management-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-m43zOgAfawwf8LucEHbtMI.html
11-07-2020||Pune||774 cases Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra jails, 4 deaths||A total of 774 Covid-19 cases have been reported from 14 jails in Maharashtra so far, comprising 600 inmates and 174 staff, most of whom have recovered while four have died, an official said on Saturday.Nagpur Central Jail is the worst-affected with 219 cases, followed by Mumbai Central Jail which has 181, while Akola and Solapur prisons have 72 and 62 cases respectively, the prisons department official said.“Of the 596 inmates, 351 have recovered. Of the 174 jail staff who were infected, 93 have now recovered. Four inmates have died of the infection so far,” he added.Incidentally, Pune’s Yerawada Central Jail, among the most crowded in the state, has reported only one Covid-19 case so far, officials pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/774-cases-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-jails-4-deaths/story-y6h9woiApKc0BNvo8krCdL.html
11-07-2020||City||301 RPSF personnel take oath at passing-out parade in Yamunanagar||The 9th Battalion of the Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) conducted a passing-out parade for the new recruits at the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Ground in Yamunanagar on Saturday.As many as 301 personnel took oath and those who got a rank during the training were honoured. The new recruits will be deployed in naxal and terror-affected states after the commando training.Railway Protection Force IG VK Dhaka said the RPSF personnel are different from RPF personnel since the former are equipped with modern weapons while on duty. “Special personnel are selected from the RPF itself and perform duty at places where new projects are undergoing and are vulnerable to naxalism or terror attacks. RPSF personnel are also deployed at places which witness an increase in crime. Intelligence systems are also used to catch criminals as it is not possible to deploy soldiers at such places,” Dhaka said.Commanding officer SZ Khan said the training of these personnel continued even during the Covid-19 lockdown and special attention was paid to social distancing and other norms.“Around 3% of the total 301 personnel are BTech and MTech. 43% are graduates, 47% are Class 12 pass and 7% have passed matric. Out of these, two are national players and most of them are best in sports,” Khan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/301-rpsf-personnel-take-oath-at-passing-out-parade-in-yamunanagar/story-cuIDMlqCVwbQ6Xw1zwVuLL.html
11-07-2020||Kolkata||Antibody test conducted on CPI(M) members during state committee meet||The CPI(M) on Friday conducted rapid antibody test for Covid-19 on around 70 of its West Bengal state committee members who attended a meeting here, party sources said.Samples collected by the partys medical cell will be sent to the laboratory of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in Chennai for testing.For the first time since March, the West Bengal CPI(M) held its state committee meeting on Friday, and around 70 of its members were present physically.“For three months, we have been conducting virtual meetings on software developed by our party’s IT experts.Today, for the first time, we conducted the state committee meeting by maintaining social distancing norms.“Ahead of the meeting, antibody tests were conducted on each member present by doctors of the party’s medical cell,” a senior party leader said.The tests were conducted following the guidelines of the ICMR, the leader said.West Bengal on Friday recorded its highest single-day spike of 1,198 Covid-19 cases, bringing the virus count to 27,109. The metropolis also registered the highest one-day spike with 374 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/antibody-test-conducted-on-cpi-m-members-during-state-committee-meet/story-2oHdmfxLivuxhHQondZKqO.html
11-07-2020||City||102-year-old Patiala woman remains unaffected despite family members testing positive for Covid-19||The elderly are believed to be at most risk from the deadly Covid-19 pandemic due to their comprised immune systems. However, a 102-year-old woman has brought hope for the vulnerable section as she did not test positive despite four of her family becoming infected. A doctor, requesting anonymity, said after the first member of the family tested positive, they had quarantined the entire family, including the 102-year-old woman, identified as Maya Devi.“Two day later, three more members of their family tested positive. But the elderly woman tested negative. She must have really good immunity,” he said.Ravi Bansal, Devi’s grandson, said, “We were worried about our grandmother. However, we were relieved to see her negative reports. She doesn’t have a medical condition and doesn’t take any medicine. She always takes care of her diet. Despite being 102 years old, she can still walk by her herself,” he said.Earlier, a three-year-old child remained uninfected despite both his parents testing positive.Doctors say these instances prove that people don’t need to panic about Covid-19 even if they fall in the risk group.Virus no match for 3-month-oldA three-month-old baby also remained unaffected by the virus, despite her parents testing positive.The 28-year-old father, who did not wish to be identified, said, “A few days ago, I found out that I had been infected by Covid-19. A few days later my wife also tested positive. I was worried about my daughter as I thought that she doesn’t have a strong immune system. However, I am happy that she tested negative.”Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “There are multiple factors that may have helped the two elderly woman and the baby to stay uninfected. The elderly woman’s lifestyle could have helped her. On other hand, the mother of the three-month-old baby developed antibodies against Covid -19, which were passed on to the baby through breast-feeding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/102-year-old-patiala-woman-remains-unaffected-despite-family-members-testing-positive-for-covid-19/story-uqcADvT5tKCd9TS0VNcLXL.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Class-10 board results: Rewari comes out in top, Mewat remains worst performer||Class-10 students of Rewari district performed the best, while Mewat remained the worst performing district in the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) examinations, the results of which were declared on Friday. Around 70.97% students cleared the examination in Rewari, the highest in the state. Nearly 70.05% students passed in Jind and 69.81% passed in Mahendergarh. Haryana’s education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar’s home district Yamunanagar bagged the sixth position with 67.96% students passing the exam. Karnal, the home town of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, stood sixteenth with 62.46% students passing. Bhiwani, where the BSEH headquarters is situated, ranked seventeenth with 61.13% students clearing the exam.MEWAT, ROHTAK UNDERPERFORMIn Mewat only 56.18% cleared the exam, followed by leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s home district Rohtak, where 58.58% students passed and state home minister Anil Vij’s Ambala with a 58.9% clearance rate.On the reason for the poor performance of Mewat students, district education officer (DEO) Anoop Singh Jakhar said he had joined the post a month ago and he will inspect the reasons behind the dismal show.“There is no doubt that the district has performed below expectations and the results of government schools are also not good. I have asked the school heads to find the reason behind the weak performance. We are preparing a list of schools whose students have performed poorly,” the DEO said.WRITTEN EXPLANATION WILL BE SOUGHTRohtak district education officer Vijay Laxmi said that it was disappointing that despite having a good infrastructure, the district was one of the worst performing districts.“We will try to produce better results next year. I will ask the school heads to give in writing where we lacked,” she said.Rewari deputy commissioner Yashendra Singh said the district had topped in the state because of the joint contribution of teachers, parents and students.“I am still focusing on improving the pass percentage in Rewari”, the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-class-10-board-results-rewari-comes-out-in-top-mewat-remains-worst-performer/story-I17ALlK458NZ99L9MhonmK.html
11-07-2020||Ranchi||Swab samples of Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren, wife collected for Covid-19 tests||The swab samples of Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren, his wife Kalpana and officials working in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) were collected on Saturday for Covid-19 tests, a statement said.Health workers took swab samples of the chief minister, his wife Kalpana Soren, Press Adviser Abhishek Prasad, senior personal secretary Sunil Srivastav and other officials and police officers working in the CMO, the statement from the CMO said.Soren has quarantined himself at his Ranchi residence since July 8 after coming in contact with Drinking and Sanitation Minister Mithilesh Thakur and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) MLA Mathura Mahato, who have tested positive for Covid-19.Both Thakur and Mahato are being treated at the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) here.Covid-19 tests should be conducted on the maximum number of people, particularly those showing the slightest of the symptoms, to treat them as well as to curb the spread of the infection, Soren was quoted as saying in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/swab-samples-of-jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren-wife-collected-for-covid-19-tests/story-dLoVYKQqQnXu3bRRgiWXoK.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to cancel upcoming exams of universities under it due to Covid-19||Delhi government has decided to cancel all forthcoming semester and final exams of universities under it due to the Covid-19 situation, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday.Sisodia said these state universities have been asked to promote their students and award them degrees adopting a “progressive method of evaluation”.He said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to replicate Delhi government’s decision for all central universities across the country to end uncertainty among students regarding the exams.Sisodia said Delhi government’s decision did not concern Delhi University (DU), Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and other central universities in the national capital.The state universities under Delhi government include National Law University, Delhi Technological University, Ambedkar University, Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, Netaji Subhas University of Technology and Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women.The deputy chief minister who is also Delhi’s Education minister said studies in the universities were disrupted due to the pandemic, and it was not possible to conduct examinations.  Unprecedented times require unprecedented decisions, Sisodia said.“The issue was complex since no studies or any other academic activities took place in the semester. It was not possible to hold exams without any studies. So we have asked universities to cancel exams and promote students to next semester on the basis of past results or some other progressive method of evaluation,” he said.Sisodia said even though it was not possible to conduct final year examinations, providing degrees to students for jobs and future academic pursuits was necessary.“We have asked the universities to cancel final year exams and come out with some formula of evaluation for awarding degrees,” he said.Sisodia also hoped that the prime minister will take cognizance of the chief minister’s request to cancel exams of all central universities across the country and soon issue some direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-cancel-upcoming-exams-of-universities-under-it-due-to-covid-19/story-p3DZCd9XApKyjziHPSpJXK.html
11-07-2020||Lucknow||Moderate showers across UP, forecast for more rain in coming days||Moderate rain along with thundershowers occurred at most places in Uttar Pradesh on Friday, the meteorological department said. According to the department, heavy to very heavy rain occurred at isolated places over eastern UP while heavy rainfall was reported at isolated places across the state. Thunderstorm and lightning were seen at few places in eastern parts of the state and at isolated places in the western region. The forecast for July 12 is on similar lines. Severe thunderstorm accompanied with lightning are very likely at a few places over eastern UP and at isolated places over western parts of the state on Sunday. For Monday and Tuesday, rain/thundershower is very likely at most places over eastern UP and at many places over western UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/moderate-showers-across-up-forecast-for-more-rain-in-coming-days/story-Ejxtu5DYmPjfwzfRSCa2rM.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Proactive screening helped curb Dharavi’s coronavirus spread, says BMC||With the WHO lauding the efforts taken to contain the spread of the Covid-19 in Mumbai’s Dharavi, one of the world’s largest slums, the local civic body said proactive screening with the assistance of private doctors and community support helped it in the fight against the disease.World Health Organisation (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, had said during a virtual press conference in Geneva on Friday that there were many examples from around the world that have shown that even if the outbreak is very intense, it can still be brought back under control.“And some of these examples are Italy, Spain and South Korea, and even in Dharavi - a densely packed area in the megacity of Mumbai,” he had said.The Asia’s largest slum, which was once declared a Covid-19 hotspot, has managed to flatten the curve of the viral spread.Talking to PTI on Saturday, Kiran Dighavkar, Assistant Commissioner of the G North ward of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the civic body had to change its traditional approach of waiting for patients, contact tracing, isolation and home quarantine to begin proactive screening instead.“Proactive screening helped in early detection, timely treatment and recovery,” he said.At least six to seven lakh people have been screened in Dharavi, while 14,000 persons were tested and 13,000 were placed in institutional quarantine with medical facilities and community kitchen for free,” the senior official said.The efforts taken by the civic authorities and the local participation is evident from the doubling rate of the virus in Dharavi, which is spread over 2.5 sq km and has a population of 2,27,136 per sq km.According to the official data, while in April, the doubling rate was 18 days, it gradually improved to 43 days in May and slowed down to 108 and 430 days in June and July respectively.As many as 2,359 Covid-19 cases have been recorded in Dharavi so far, of which 1,952 patients have recovered from the deadly infection, while there are only 166 active cases at present.However, achieving this monumental feat was not easy for the local authorities, who had to overcome their fair share of challenges.“At least 80 per cent of Dharavi’s population depends on 450 community toilets and the administration had to sanitise and disinfect these toilets several times a day,” Dighavkar said.Social distancing was next to impossible in Dharavi, where families of eight to 10 people live in 10x10 hutments and residents have to walk along narrow lanes lined with crowded tenements on either side, he said.Apart from the congested slum pockets, Dharavi, is also home to several small-scale leather, pottery and textile manufacturing units. The area has 5,000 GST-registered enterprises, 15,000 single-room factories and is a hub of international exports with an annual turnover of 1 billion USD. “Our approach to tackle the virus was focused on four Ts - tracing, tracking, testing and treating,” he said.Doctors and private clinics, as part of proactive screening and fever camps, covered as many as 47,500 houses, while 14,970 people were screened in mobile vans, the official said. Apart from this, special care was taken for the elderly residents and 8,246 senior citizens were surveyed, he said.Manpower was a major issue for organising fever camps and proactive screening in high-risk zones, Dighavkar said.“We mobilised all private practitioners. At least 24 private doctors came forward and the civic body provided them with PPE kits, thermal scanners, pulse oxymetres, masks, gloves, and started door-to-door screening in high risk zones and all suspects were identified,” he said.Later, all medical practitioners were asked to open their clinics and alert the civic body about suspected patients, he said, adding that all private hospitals were also acquired for treatment.The civic body also had to ramp up institutional quarantine facilities and used schools, marriage halls and sports complexes to house suspected patients, he said.“Under the guidance of municipal commissioner I S Chahal, a 200-bed hospital was set up in record 14 days with oxygen supply,” Dighavkar said.There was a strict enforcement of lockdown in the containment zones, during which only critical patients were moved out of the area to other hospitals and 90 per cent were treated in Dharavi itself, he added.Community participation was crucial to contain the spread of coronavirus in Dharavi and local community leaders were appointed as “Covid yoddhas” (warriors) to address the concerns, the senior official said.According to him, grocery kits and food packets were distributed in containment zones to prevent the movement of people and this helped in a big way.Taking to Twitter, the civic body thanked the WHO for acknowledging ‘Mission Dharavi.“We partnered with citizens to chase the virus from one of the most populous blocks of the city. With your guidelines and community efforts, we will beat Covid-19 one block at a time by tracing, tracking, testing and treating,” the BMC tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/proactive-screening-helped-curb-dharavi-s-coronavirus-spread-says-bmc/story-tHUGYGbnHC6TF4iALeeO3J.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat: Delhi court grants bail to 75 Thai and Nepalese nationals||A Delhi court Saturday granted bail to 75 foreign nationals from Thailand and Nepal, who were charge-sheeted for attending a Tablighi Jamaat congregation here allegedly in violation of visa norms, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines issued in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur granted the relief to the foreigners on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 10,000 each.Till date, 445 foreign nationals from 33 different countries, who were charge-sheeted in the case have been granted bail by the court.The police had in June filed 59 charge sheets, including supplementaries, against 956 foreigners belonging to 36 different countries in the case.The accused who were granted bail Saturday will file their plea bargaining applications on Monday, said advocates Ashima Mandla, Mandakini Singh and Fahim Khan, appearing for them.  Under plea bargaining, the accused plead guilty to the offence, praying for a lesser punishment. The Criminal Procedure Code allows for plea bargaining in cases where the maximum punishment is a seven-year imprisonment; offences don’t affect the socio-economic conditions of the society and the offence is not committed against a woman or a child below 14 years of age.During the hearing, all the foreigners were produced before the court through video conferencing.The court had granted bail to 122 Malaysians on Tuesday and 91 other foreigners from 21 countries on Wednesday, 76 foreign nationals from eight countries on Thursday and 82 Bangaldeshi nationals on Friday.  The investigating officer had earlier told the court that the investigation was completed against the 956 foreigners in the case and each has been allegedly found to have independently committed the offence for which he /she has been charge-sheeted.Further investigations are pending, the IO said.These foreigners had attended the event in March, following which in April Covid-19 cases across the country spiked after hundreds of Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz, tested positive.According to the chargesheets, all the foreigners have been booked for violation of visa rules, guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure.They have also been booked for offences under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act.The punishment for these offences ranges from six months to eight years’ imprisonment.The Centre has cancelled their visas and blacklisted them. The foreigners have not been arrested yet and are residing at various places approved by the Delhi High Court.At least 9,000 people including the foreign nationals participated in the religious congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin Markaz. Later, many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country.An FIR was registered against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and six others on March 31 on a complaint of the Station House Officer of Nizamuddin under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act (2005), Foreigners Act and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code.Kandhalvi was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to Covid-19, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tablighi-jamaat-delhi-court-grants-bail-to-75-thai-and-nepalese-nationals/story-RhQKG5f8yW9bUCzkXKB80L.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Pak intensified ceasefire violations amid Indo-Chinese standoff, 2,542 violations recorded till June 30||Amid the Indo-Chinese standoff in eastern Ladakh, Pakistan had also intensified ceasefire violations in Jammu and Kashmir. As many as 2,542 violations were recorded by the Indian Army till June 30.South of the Pir Panjal, the army lost nine soldiers in the Rajouri and Poonch sectors this year. A senior official, on condition of anonymity, said, “In 2016, Pakistan had violated ceasefire violations 228 times, in 2017 the violations rose to 860. In 2018, they almost doubled to 1,629. In 2019, there were a staggering 3,289 ceasefire violations.”“This year, till June 30, Pakistan has violated the ceasefire 2,542 times and we anticipate more violations,” he added.India and Pakistan, both of whom possess nuclear weapons, had mutually brokered a truce deal in November 2003, which of late has been left in tatters.Both countries have reiterated that in case of an issue, restraint will be exercised and the matter will be resolved through the mechanism of hotline contacts and border flag meetings at local commanders’ level.‘15-16 terror launch pads across LoC’“However, Pakistan has always backtracked from its commitment because it has to export terrorists from terror factories operating on its soil. There are around 150 terrorists in 15 to 16 terror launch pads across the LoC waiting to infiltrate to this side of the border,” said the officer.The 3,289 violations recorded last year were the highest in 16 years. The officer also said that in 2019 the Northern Command lost two officers, three junior commissioned officers (JCOs) and 72 other ranks along the LoC and in anti-terror operations in Jammu and Kashmir.“This year, we have lost nine bravehearts at the Pir Panjal range,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pak-intensified-ceasefire-violations-amid-indo-chinese-standoff-2-542-violations-recorded-till-june-30/story-kCqEYSgbsbPaCzAf0xM7DN.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||POCSO court rejects bail plea of man accused of raping minor daughter||A special court constituted to try cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, rejected the bail plea of a man (50), who is accused of raping his minor daughter (16).The court refused the bail even after the victim, who is the complainant in the case, and the mother sought to withdraw the complaint against the accused, who was arrested on January 20 by Antop Hill police station authorities.The accused allegedly repeatedly sexually assaulted his daughter between 2015 and January 2020, when his wife was away at their native place.The incident came to light after the minor victim broke down before her friend and revealed about the sexual assault.Then, her friend contacted the victim’s mother and informed her about the incident.Soon, the victim filed a complaint with Antop Hill police station in Mumbai.The accused, in his bail plea, contended that the daughter had filed a false case, as he had refused to let her go out of the house frequently.The prosecution objected to the plea, citing it as a heinous offence.The court also considered the medical evidence collected by the police during the investigation that supported the contentions of rape of the minor.“The medical evidence shows the direct involvement of the accused. The offence of rape is on the minor. It is an offence against the state and society. The submission that the mother and the victim want to withdraw the complaint, as allegations are not true, is rejected,” observed the special court while rejecting the accused’s bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pocso-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-man-accused-of-raping-minor-daughter/story-KQouap3Oukjw26PcKdPcRP.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Kanpur killing of cops: 2 aides of Vikas Dubey held in Thane||Two absconding aides of slain gangster Vikas Dubey have been arrested by the ATS from Thane in Maharashtra, an official said on Saturday.The accused Arvind alias Guddan Trivedi and his driver Sonu Tiwari are wanted in connection with recent killing of eight police personnel in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur district and also in the 2001 murder of minister of state Santosh Shukla, he said.A team of Juhu unit of Mumbai ATS arrested the duo from Kolshet in neighbouring Thane, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kanpur-killing-of-cops-2-aides-of-vikas-dubey-held-in-thane/story-8hyPtKnxKXRbxphWEWl44L.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||More returnees, respiratory disorders, weather conditions contribute to increased Covid-count in Valley||Apart from the large number of returnees in Kashmir, population, lifestyle diseases and weather conditions are responsible for the spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths in Kashmir valley, which has comparatively fared worse than the Jammu region.Both regions have 10 districts each. As per the 2011 census, Kashmir has a population of 69.1 lakh and Jammu a population of 53.50 lakh.Till Thursday, Kashmir had recorded 140 deaths and Jammu 14 deaths. Similarly, the Valley had recorded 7,504 positive cases and Jammu 1,997 cases.With a testing rate of 25,000 per million and a doubling rate of 22 days, the Union territory, which has six Covid-testing laboratories, has done remarkably well in tackling the Covid-19 infection.Kashmir director health services Dr Samir Mattoo said, “Essentially, the people returning to Kashmir are far more and our testing rate is also very high. These are the basic reasons responsible for the increase in Covid-19 cases in Kashmir.”He, however, also said that weather conditions in Kashmir were also different from Jammu.“In Kashmir, respiratory diseases are also more and of course smoking can also contribute to it,” he added.Another senior doctor in Jammu said, “Different factors are responsible for fewer Covid-19 infections and deaths in Jammu as compared to Kashmir. The population of Kashmir is more than Jammu and its climatic conditions are different from Jammu. Lifestyle disorders are also higher in Kashmir. According to a study, their cholesterol levels are high and more people in Kashmir smoke as compared to their counterparts in Jammu,” he said.DOCTORS OBSERVE INCREASED PREVALENCE OF PULMONARY DISEASEThe doctor referred to a 2018 report published in Lancet, an international medical research journal, which brought the growing prevalence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in J&K to the fore.The report had put J&K among the four top states and UTs in India with ‘alarming prevalence’ of respiratory diseases.‘THE SMOKING CAPITAL’In J&K, over 4,750 people per lakh suffer from COPD. Besides air pollution, the report had put the onus on a ‘staggering’ rate of smoking among the people.In 2015, the Voluntary Health Association of India (VHAI) had said in its report that J&K was fast emerging as the smoking capital of north India. At the time, J&K’s cigarette consumption was 12%, almost double the nationwide prevalence of 5.7%.It had recorded tobacco sales worth Rs 5,530 crore over seven years up to 2017-18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/more-returnees-respiratory-disorders-weather-conditions-contribute-to-increased-covid-count-in-valley/story-U7xhwKc7PqanzDJZ7yqTwK.html
11-07-2020||Lucknow||ED to register money laundering case against Vikas Dubey’s family, associates||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is set to file a money laundering case and probe alleged illegal transactions and tainted assets created by dead gangster Vikas Dubey, his family members and associates, officials said on Saturday. They said the agency’s zonal office in Lucknow has written to the Kanpur police in this context on July 6 seeking all FIRs and chargesheets filed against him and his linked persons and the latest update in all these cases. The ED, they said, will soon file a complaint under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to probe criminal proceeds of crime that were allegedly generated by Dubey, his associates and family members and if this money was subsequently used for creation of illegal movable and immovable properties. It is alleged that Dubey, through his criminal activities, amassed wealth in his and his family’s name, they said. Over two dozen named and ‘benami’ assets linked to Dubey and his family in Uttar Pradesh and some adjoining areas, bank deposits and fixed deposit receipts are under the scanner of the central probe agency, they said. Some police FIRs have been shared while some more information is being obtained by the agency, they said. It is also seeking details from other law enforcement agencies about possible undiclosed foreign assets of Dubey and others apart from seeking details of accounts from various banks, they said. They said even as Dubey is dead the scheme of PMLA enables the agency to continue criminal probe against accomplices of the prime accused in laundering the proceeds of crime and the properties acquired as a result of this criminal activity. Section 72 of the PMLA provides for “continuation of proceedings in the event of death or insolvency.” Dubey, 47, was shot dead on Friday by a team of UP police special task force (STF) who claimed he was trying to flee after the car carrying him from Ujjain overturned on an isolated stretch of the highway on the outskirts of Kanpur city. Dubey, officials have said, has about 60 police FIRs registered against him including the recent ambush killing of eight policemen after midnight on July 3 outside his home in Bikru village under the Chaubeypur police station area of Kanpur district. The police party was going to arrest Dubey in connection with a criminal case filed against him when they were trapped and shot with heavy gunfire from rooftops by Dubey and his henchmen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ed-to-register-money-laundering-case-against-vikas-dubey-s-family-associates/story-Lyg1Sz73nqYdwIsDgpkeRJ.html
11-07-2020||Jaipur||Congress MLAs in Rajasthan claim BJP involved in horse-trading||At least 24 Congress members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs), in a joint press release, have condemned the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for its bid to destablise the state government through corrupt means, hours after the police lodged a case against two others for their alleged attempt to poach lawmakers from the ruling party.The Congress MLAs late at night on Friday released a press release, alleging the BJP’s horse-trading bid to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led government in the desert state.The Congress MLAs condemned BJP’s undemocratic ploy to grab power.Earlier on Friday, a special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police had registered a case against two others for their alleged attempts to poach the Congress MLAs that would have destabilised the Gehlot government. They have been booked under Section 124A (sedition) and Section 120B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The press release, signed by Mahesh Joshi and Mahendra Choudhary, Chief Whip and Deputy Chief Whip of Rajasthan assembly, respectively, stated, “The BJP faced defeat in the Rajya Sabha (RS) elections, despite using corrupt tactics, because of the unity among the Congress, the Independents, BTP (Bharatiya Tribal Party), RLD (Rashtriya Lok Dal), and other lawmakers. But instead of learning a lesson, the BJP is conspiring once again to weaken the state government by resorting to similar tactics.”The Congress MLAs alleged: “We have clear information that BJP leaders are involved in this conspiracy, where Congress lawmakers and those supporting the government are being lured with temptations. But the Congress lawmakers and all those legislatures, who are supporting the government, will not let them succeed in their attempts.”The Congress MLAs have reposed full faith in the party.They said that it is their moral duty to believe in the party’s high command and lofty principles and policies for the welfare of the poor and serve them with utter dedication. Earlier, too, anti-democratic forces were taught a lesson in Rajasthan by exposing their conspiracies, and this time also they would be defeated because of the unity and solidarity among the Congress lawmakers, the release added.The lawmakers are firm in their resolve.“No matter how big is the temptation, no one can change our faith. The Congress government will be in power for its full five-year team. The Congress will again come to power in 2023 on the basis of fulfiling people’s expectations and good governance.”Lakhan Singh Meena, Joginder Singh Awana, Mukesh Bhakar, Indra Meena, Vedprakash Solanki, Sandeep Yadav, Ganga Devi, Hakam Singh, Wajib Ali, Babulal Bairwa, Rohit Bohra, Danish Abrar, Chetan Dudi, Harish Meena, Ramniwas Gawadiya, Jahida Khan, Ashok Bairwa, Johari Lal Meena, Prashant Bairwa, Shakuntla Rawat, Rajendra Singh Bidhuri, Govind Ram Meghwal, Deepchand Kheriya, and Rajendra Singh Gudda are the 24 Congress lawmakers, whose names figure in the press release. In the run-up to the Upper House polls held on June 19 amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the Congress had alleged that the attempts were being made to lure its MLAs with Rs 25 crore each, including Rs 10 crore in advance.However, the BJP had refuted the “baseless” allegations.BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said by levelling these baseless allegations against the party, the Congress is trying to paper over the differences within its government’s ranks. They need to provide factual evidence to SOG, which is handling the case, he added.Chief Whip Joshi had lodged a complaint with the state’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB), and later with the SOG, alleging attempts were being made to topple the government through horse-trading ahead of the RS polls. However, he didn’t file a first information report (FIR) to take his complaint to a logical legal conclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/congress-mlas-in-rajasthan-claim-bjp-involved-in-horse-trading/story-QmBaTAjbHfbZqgPBgaW3gL.html
11-07-2020||Jaipur||BJP leaders engaged in toppling govt in Rajasthan, says CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday alleged that amid the coronavirus pandemic, BJP leaders have “gone beyond humanity” and are engaged in toppling his government, but exuded confidence that the Congress dispensation will complete its five-year term.He said that BJP leaders have “crossed the limit of shamelessness” and were doing politics like “bakra-mandi” (goat-market). “The government in Rajasthan is stable, will remain stable and will last five years,” Gehlot said at a press conference here.He alleged that Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore and BJP state president Satish Poonia were executing the agenda of their party’s central leadership.“Amid the crisis posed by the coronavirus pandemic, BJP leaders have gone beyond humanity and are engaged in toppling the government,” the chief minister said.The BJP has sabotaged governments in several states. It now wants to play the same game in Rajasthan, that it did in Madhya Pradesh, Gehlot said.”But they have been exposed and people will give the BJP a befitting reply at the right time,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bjp-leaders-engaged-in-toppling-govt-in-rajasthan-says-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-CQUVfZ86F9EX3uv2NPQwLL.html
11-07-2020||Patna||Bihar govt directs medical colleges to arrange 100 beds for Covid-19 patients||Bihar Government has written to nine medical colleges across the state stating that considering the rise in the Covid-19 cases, it had directed to identify 50 per cent of the total beds available in the institutions as isolation wards, so all medical colleges should arrange about 100 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “Instructions in this regard are that except Nalanda Medical College Hospital, Patna, Anugraha Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital, Gaya and Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital, Bhagalpur, all other medical colleges should arrange about 100 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients,” stated the official press release. The state government directed that the arrangements should be made in such a way that coronavirus patients are kept away from each other. “In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 patients, with the aim of developing better management for their treatment, all the 38 districts of the state have been linked to all the nine medical college hospitals,” the release read. Only serious Covid-19 sympathetic patients will be admitted to these hospitals, it added.“There should be no disturbance in the treatment of other patients in all medical colleges and hospitals and in order to ensure proper arrangements for the treatment of coronavirus patients, all principals and superintendents are instructed that by July 10, for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the institutions, separate blocks should be identified and the treatment should begin from July 11. Oxygen cylinders must be available with each bed,” the release stated. According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Bihar has reported nearly 15,000 Covid-19 cases so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-govt-directs-medical-colleges-to-arrange-100-beds-for-covid-19-patients/story-5XxwpLreCkq9AknYGJkBaL.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||300 beds added to Covid-19 hospitals in rural areas of Maharashtra’s Thane district||As many as 300 additional beds were made available in Covid-19 hospitals and treatment facilities in rural areas of Maharashtra’s Thane district, an official said on Saturday.At least 500 more beds will soon be made available for Covid-19 patients and this will take the bed capacity to 2,000 in Thane rural, district health officer Manish Renge said.Sufficient beds were available at the district civil hospital and IGM Hospital in Bhiwandi, apart from other government-run hospitals in the district, he said.According to the official data, 2,819 Covid-19 cases have been recorded in the rural areas of Thane district so far, while the toll in the region stood at 78.The mortality rate in Thane rural is 2.77 per cent and the recovery rate is at 34.69 per cent, the official said. Meanwhile, in a mega drive against people violating the lockdown rules, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation on Friday collected fines to the tune of Rs 1.50 lakh in just one day, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/300-beds-added-to-covid-19-hospitals-in-rural-areas-of-maharashtra-s-thane-district/story-zumySwcDQCs7hYyq8B1U1K.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Indian ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu holds virtual interaction with Sikh leaders in US||Washington: Indian ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu has held a virtual interaction with members of the Sikh community in the United States, during which the participating diaspora leaders pledged to contribute to India’s development with particular focus on Punjab.“Wonderful interaction with prominent members of the vibrant Sikh Indian-American community,” Sandhu said in a tweet soon after the virtual interaction on Friday, which was attended by about 100 eminent Sikh leaders.During the two-hour-long virtual meeting, the ambassador briefed the community on India-US strategic ties and praised their immense contribution in the socio-economic milieu of the United States and development of India.The Sikh leaders expressed interest in helping to develop Punjab, in sectors such as education and environment.“There was lot of enthusiasm to do something towards the overall development of Punjab,” according to a participating official.During his previous postings here in various capacities, ambassador Sandhu has been instrumental in engaging the Sikh diaspora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indian-ambassador-taranjit-singh-sandhu-holds-virtual-interaction-with-sikh-leaders-in-us/story-Mflp0ieg3wLAKrJfzBaUkI.html
11-07-2020||Patna||Time to fight Covid-19, not polls: Prashant Kishor to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Saturday slammed Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, whose Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) along with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have been holding organisational meetings and said they are ready for the state polls.“Like many states of the country, the corona situation in Bihar is also deteriorating but a large part of the government machinery and resources are being spent in election preparations,” Kishor tweeted.“@NitishKumar ji, this is not a time to fight an election but corona. Do not put people’s lives in danger in a hurry to hold the elections,” he said.Prashant Kishor, who was once a member of the Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) and was expelled from the party in January, has joined leaders like Tejashwi Yadav and Chirag Paswan in suggesting the assembly elections should be deferred due to the coronavirus pandemic. देश के कई राज्यों की तरह #बिहार में भी #करोना की स्थिति बिगड़ती जा रही है लेकिन सरकारी तंत्र और संसाधनों का एक बड़ा हिस्सा चुनाव की तैयारियों में लगा है।@NitishKumar जी ये चुनाव नहीं #करोना से लड़ने का वक़्त है। लोगों की ज़िंदगी को चुनाव कराने की जल्दी में ख़तरे में मत डालिए।🙏🏼Assembly elections in Bihar are due in October-November but no official announcement about the schedule has been made by the Election Commission of India till now. Bihar has registered nearly 15,000 cases and 119 deaths due to Covid-19, according to the Union health ministry.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/time-to-fight-covid-19-not-elections-prashant-kishor-to-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar/story-8cDli58oh9ZWkPQ3DK5R6J.html
11-07-2020||Ranchi||Crisis at Dhanbad’s Covid-19 hospital as doctors skip duty||Treatment of Covid-19 patients at the now overcrowded Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) Central Hospital in Dhanbad crippled on Friday as doctors skipped duty following completion of 21-day quarantine.These doctors were to resume duty on Friday at the dedicated Covid-19 hospital after they completed home quarantine on Thursday.Covid-19 hospital nodal officer cum senior medical officer of the district’s health department Dr Alok Viswakarma admitted that doctors of the BCCL Central Hospital did not report for duty in the first shift, which starts from 6am.One doctor and nurses are deployed in each shift for Covid patients, he informed. The first shift ends at 2pm, the second starts from 2pm and ends at 10pm, while the third shift lasts from 10pm to 6am. “ Since the number of patients has increased, additional doctors have been deployed in each shift at the hospital”, said the nodal officer.“In the last four days, no doctor has visited the ward,” patients at the Covid hospital, including 24 media persons admitted on Tuesday, said.“Only a nurse come and gives us medicines in a packet. However, district Indian Medical Association (IMA) secretary Dr Sushil Kumar Singh visit wards of admitted media persons twice a day for voluntary service”, said one of the admitted media persons.The dedicated Covid-19 hospital of BCCL has a capacity of 100 beds, which, however, got overcrowded with a total of 104 patients at the hospital till Thursday . Following this, eight patients, including a doctor, were shifted 20km away to Jamadova Hospital of Tata Steel, Jharia colliery division.No quarantine facility for doctors in DhanbadDoctors of Dhanbad treating Covid patients on Friday complained of not being provided special quarantine facility.“After a week of treating patients, we have to be in 21 days’ quarantine but at home and not at an institution. However, doctors in Ranchi and other districts are put in institutional quarantine ”, said a doctor.Civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das could not be reached for comments as his mobile phone was switched off..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crisis-at-covid-19-hospital-health-care-as-doctors-skip-duty/story-60eOwkU6FJfcti7GAT5e3J.html
11-07-2020||Kolkata||Eden Gardens to be used as quarantine facility for police personnel||The Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) on Friday allowed the Kolkata Police to make use of under galleries of Eden Gardens for makeshift quarantine facility for police personnel.A meeting at Kolkata Police Headquarter, Lal Bazaar, took place at the Chamber of Special Commissioner Jawed Shamim. It was attended by CAB president Avishek Dalmiya.Thereafter, a visit to Eden Gardens was undertaken by Kolkata Police led by Arunmoy Saha. CAB president Avishek Dalmiya and Honorary Secretary Snehasish Ganguly were present during the visit.It has been decided that under galleries of E, F, G and H blocks would be used to set up such facilities. In case, if more space is required, then J block might also be used. Such areas would be thoroughly segregated as a safety measure.Since, the administrative functioning majorly happens at Club House, adjacent blocks (B, C, D, K and L) would not be used for it, allowing the association to use them for conducting its activities for its administrative works.“It is our duty to help and support the administration in this hour of crisis. The quarantine facility would be used for police personnel who are Covid-19 warriors. The under galleries which would be used at E, F, G, H and J blocks would be properly segregated and secured from the balance areas. The arrangement agreed between Kolkata Police and CAB would ensure that areas used for cricket and administrative Activities remain unaffected,” Dalmiya said in a statement.The groundsmen and other staffs would be shifted to the dormitories and other safer spaces in B, C, K and L blocks inside the stadium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/eden-gardens-to-be-used-as-quarantine-facility-for-police-personnel/story-iXBsTR8XvZPZWpZ19QGO8M.html
11-07-2020||Bangalore||20,000 antigen tests to be held in Bengaluru from today||Grappling with a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka government on Friday said it would conduct 20,000 rapid antigen tests in Bengaluru from July 11.The government said it hopes that the rapid antigen tests would help in increasing the number of tests and bring down the load on testing on labs, as antigen kits would allow faster diagnosis without laboratory examination.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We have taken steps to conduct about 20,000 antigen tests from tomorrow (July 11) itself, one lakh antigen kits have come, we will get two lakh more antigen kits,” state Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said.Speaking to reporters here, he said 20,000 tests would be held in Bengaluru alone and there was a plan to scale upto 50,000 in the city. The government had placed orders for one lakh test kits the consignment of which have arrived, and it now plans to procure two lakh more such kits. According to a health department official, rapid- antigen test is an easy and cheaper method as compared to the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. Antigen test can provide results within 30 minutes as compared to RT-PCR test that takes three-four hours, they said, adding that each testing kit costs about Rs 450. Detailing about the testing, Commissioner for Health and Family Welfare Pankaj Kumar Pandey said, “We have got one lakh antigen testing kits out of which 50,000 have been reserved for Bengaluru and the remaining 50,000 have been sent to various districts,” he said. “Out of the 50,000 for Bengaluru, we will immediately start with 20,000 in the city and the rest will be used in coming days, so that our testing capacity increases,” he said. Stating that antigen tests’ biggest advantage is that it would immediately be known whether the person is Covid-19 positive, Pandey said, “If a person is negative in antigen testing and is symptomatic his swab will be drawn for RT-PCR testing, while if a person is asymptomatic and tests negative, he is sent back home.” “Antigen test will bring down the load on our labs and it will help us in increasing the number of tests and isolating,” he added. As of July 10 evening, cumulatively 33,418 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, out of which of 15,329 infections are from Bengaluru. A total of 1,447 out of 2,313 fresh cases reported on Friday were from the capital city. A total of 7,79,209 samples were tested so far in the state mostly by RT-PCR method, out of which 19,228 were tested on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/20-000-antigen-tests-to-be-held-in-bengaluru-from-today/story-YjOCE31MlqWLQGEzQThvOL.html
11-07-2020||Bangalore||DK Shivakumar questions claims on Rewa solar park in MP being Asia’s largest||Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar demanded answers from Union Power Minister R K Singh regarding claims that the 750 MW Solar Park in Madhya Pradesh launched on Friday was Asia’s largest, while 2000 MW park at Pavagada in the state has been operational since 2018.“BJP Central Govt is claiming today that it inaugurated Asia’s Largest Solar Plant of 750 MW at Rewa, MP.What then is the 2000 MW Solar Plant in Pavagada, Karnataka which was built in just 3 years by @INCKarnataka govt and has been operational since 2018?” Shivakumar tweeted.Stating that the unique thing about the 2000 MW Pavagada solar park was that not a single acre of land was acquired from the farmers, he said all 13,000 acres have been leased from the farmers who are being given yearly rent.“Union Power Minister must answer as to how the central government can claim that the Rewa Solar Park (750 MW) opened today is Asia’s largest when clearly the Pavagada Park in Karnataka is much larger (2000 MW) and was opened two years back!” he said in another tweet.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the 750 MW solar power project in Rewa in Madhya Pradesh through video-conferencing, and it was projected as the “Asia’s largest”.It was during Shivakumar’s tenure as Energy Minister in the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government that unit I (600- MW) of the 2,000-MW mega solar power plant at Pavagada was inaugurated in 2018||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/dk-shivakumar-questions-claims-on-rewa-solar-park-in-mp-being-asia-s-largest/story-mYv1PXj3SiZf320Tj1LIbO.html
11-07-2020||Patna||Bihar: AIIMS-Patna designated as dedicated coronavirus hospital||AIIMS-Patna has been designated as dedicated Covid-19 hospital, according to the Bihar Health Department.A total of 352 new cases of coronavirus were reported in Bihar on Friday, informed the State Health Department.With the addition of these new cases, Bihar’s coronavirus tally has climbed to 14,330, including 9,792 recovered cases, the health department said.India’s Covid-19 count has reached 7,93,802 on Friday, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Out of the total number of cases, 2,76,682 are active, 4,95,516 have been cured/discharged/migrated and 21,604 have died so far due to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-aiims-patna-designated-as-dedicated-coronavirus-hospital/story-uVtK00a0PmjVDEdtTbCfWK.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Transport Minister takes U-turn on 25% bus fare hike, says decision not yet taken||Himachal Pradesh transport minister Govind Singh Thakur on Saturday took a U-turn on the government’s decision to hike bus fare by 25%, saying that a final decision had not yet been taken.Earlier, it was reported that the state cabinet had approved a 25% hike in bus fare in its meeting on Friday and the official notification was on the way.The opposition, Congress and other political and social outfits had issued statements condemning the decision terming it ‘anti-people’.Thakur admitted that the issued was discussed in the cabinet. “Whenever the cabinet meets, many issues are discussed formally and some are discussed informally. The issue of bus fare hike was discussed informally but the final decision wasn’t taken,” said Thakur.He said the state government had been getting suggestions to increase the bus fares and transporters had also raised a demand in this regard.“However, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, different sections have suffered economic losses. The government will take a call keeping in view the welfare of every section of society,” he said.Public transport in Himachal Pradesh was stalled in March-end after the Covid-19 outbreak. The government allowed intra-state transport to resume on June 1 with 60% occupancy. However, most private buses remained off road due non-viability and operators demanded up to 50% hike in the fare.The government refused to increase the fare but allowed 100% occupancy in the buses during Unlock 2 that started this month.However, the private bus operators remain adamant and want the government to hike the fare due to increased fuel prices.The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) had also recommended an increase in the bus fare.LAST HIKE TWO YEARS BACKAt present, the fare of ordinary buses in Himachal is ₹1.12 per km in the plains and ₹1.75 in the hills.Similarly, the fare of deluxe buses is ₹1.37 per km in the plains and ₹2.17 per km in the hills.For Volvo and air-conditioned buses, the fare is ₹2.74 per km in the plains and ₹3.62 in the hills.The minimum bus fare is ₹5.This is the second bus fare hike during the tenure of the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government. Last time, bus fares were hiked by up to 24.44% on September 24, 2018. Buses are the only means of transportation in rural Himachal as the state lacks air and train connectivity in these areas.The HRTC has 3,300 buses in its fleet while there are 3,100 private buses in the state. At present, only 800 buses are operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fuel-price-hike-drives-himachal-pradesh-to-increase-bus-fare-by-25/story-o1lhFkGp9vrzqwVC8g9iZP.html
11-07-2020||Patna||2 more deaths take Bihar’s coronavirus toll to 111; tally rises to 14,330||The death toll from Covid-19 in Bihar reached 111 with two fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, while 352 fresh cases raised the state’s virus count to 14,330, the health department said on Friday. According to the Covid-19 bulletin issued by the department, the new deaths were reported from Bhagalpur and East Champaran districts.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Bhagalpur now accounts for eight deaths, next only to Patna which has reported 13. Other districts which have reported a high number of fatalities are Darbhanga and Samastipur (seven each), East Champaran and Rohtas (six each) and Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, Saran and Siwan (five each). Patna also tops the state in terms of the number of confirmed cases (1,558), out of which 73 were reported on Friday. Bhagalpur, which has the second-highest number of infections (840) in the state, recorded a maximum of 84 fresh cases. Altogether 10,251 people have recovered from the disease, 459 of them in the last 24 hours, the department said. Bihar has been rattled by a spurt which has added close to 1,800 cases since Wednesday, and it has more than a quarter of its 38 districts under fresh lockdown imposed by the respective local administrations. The districts where restrictions have been reintroduced are Patna, Bhagalpur, East Champaran, West Champaran, Nawada, Nalanda, Jehanabad, Begusarai, Araria and Kishanganj. The lockdowns have been imposed for varied periods in different districts. The state health department also came out with directions for sprucing up the system. A notification ordered that the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna, patterned after AIIMS but controlled by the Bihar government, shall be converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. It would be the second medical facility in the city, after the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, to have been declared a dedicated Covid-19 facility. Principal Secretary, Health, Uday Singh Kumawat directed 10 hospitals of eight districts to ensure that 50 per cent of the total number of beds are kept aside for setting up isolation wards. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar appealed to the people to avoid panic while maintaining vigil. In a statement, he pointed out that the state’s recovery rate was 71.54 per cent, significantly higher than the national average of 62.42 per cent. The number of tests conducted in the last 24 hours was 7,595, according to figures made available by the state health department. However, the testing rate in Bihar remains lower than many other states for which the government is being routinely targeted by the Opposition. The number of samples tested so far is 2.89 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/2-more-deaths-take-bihar-s-coronavirus-toll-to-111-tally-rises-to-14-330/story-UdgSR4VAagEIA0PEPoPY3M.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Minister urges HRD Minister to re-examine revised UGC guidelines||Punjab Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has written to Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, requesting him to re-examine the revised guidelines issued by the HRD Ministry and University Grants Commission (UGC).According to an official release, the revised guidelines mandate Vice-Chancellors of all universities and colleges to compulsorily conduct examinations for terminal classes/semesters of undergraduate and postgraduate courses by September 30.In his letter, Bajwa said, “Considering the larger public interest of successfully containing the Covid-19 pandemic, allow the state government to implement its decision by not making the MHRD/UGC revised guidelines dated July 6, mandatory on the state government.”He said that the MHRD/UGC guidelines that make the conduct of final term examination mandatory has “unnerved all the stakeholders”.The minister said that conducting online examinations for such a large number of students, the majority of whom reside in remote rural areas without access to computers/laptops and the internet, is not possible in the state.“At many places, the college/university buildings/hostels have been taken over by the district administration for Covid-19 management purposes such as for temporary medical camp, COVID-Care Hospital and quarantine centre. Since public transport is almost non-existent due to the Covid-19 effect, the mobility of students to their college will be severely affected,” the release said.The minister also mentioned in his letter that Maharashtra, Haryana, Rajasthan, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Puducherry have also taken the decision not to conduct terminal exams. “Even IIT Mumbai, Kharagpur, Kanpur, Roorkee have also cancelled their final semester exams,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-minister-urges-hrd-minister-to-re-examine-revised-ugc-guidelines/story-QelgqLFTKr9tSimIY3HuqI.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Don’t take voters for granted; even Indira, Atal had lost’: Pawar||Taking aim at the BJP, NCP president Sharad Pawar has said that politicians should not take voters for granted as even powerful leaders like Indira Gandhi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee had been defeated in elections.Criticising former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis over his ‘Mi punha yein’ (I will come back) refrain during the last year’s assembly polls, Pawar said that voters thought that this stance smacked of arrogance and felt that they should be taught a lesson.Pawar also said that that there was not an “iota of truth” in reports about differences in the three ruling allies- Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress- that are part of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA).The former Union minister said this in an interview by Shiv Sena leader and Executive Editor of party mouthpiece ‘Saamana’. The first of the three-part interview series was published in the Marathi daily on Saturday.Also Read: ‘I blame Congress, MVA for playing politics’, says FadnavisThis is for the first time that a non-Shiv Sena leader has featured in a marathon interview series in the party mouthpiece. It has so far published marathon interviews of late Bal Thackeray and Uddhav Thackeray. Replying to a query over BJP’s defeat in the last assembly polls in the state, Pawar said, “In a democracy, you cannot think that you will remain in power eternally. Voters will not tolerate if they are taken for granted. Powerful leaders mass base with like Indira Gandhi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee had been defeated.“It means that in terms of the democratic rights, the common man is wiser than the politicians. If we politicians cross the line, he teaches us a lesson. Therefore, people do not like the stand that ‘we will come back to power’,” he said.“No politician should take people for granted. Nobody should take a stand that he would return to power. People thought that this stand smacks of arrogance and hence feeling grew among them that they should be taught a lesson,” Pawar said.Also Read: Fadnavis alleges state’s priorities are misplacedHe said the change of government in Maharashtra was not an accident.“People of Maharashtra voted in line of the sentiment prevailing in the country during the national elections. But the mood changed during the assembly polls. Even though BJP did well in the Lok Sabha polls, it fared poorly in assembly elections in different states. Even people of Maharashtra voted for a change,” he said. Replying to a query over his reported differences with CM Thackeray on the lockdown in the state, Pawar said, “Absolutely not. What differences? For what? During the entire period of lockdown, I have had excellent communication with the chief minister and continue to do so.” Pawar, who played a key role in bringing together the Sena, Congress and NCP for formation of government in the state in November last year, blamed the media and said sarcastically that the news gathering activity had been hit by the coronavirus-induced lockdown and they had the responsibility to fill the pages of newspapers.Also Read: BMC calls Fadnavis’ claims of reduced testing ‘baseless’“I have been reading reports of growing differences among the three allies, but there is not an iota of truth in that,” he said.Speaking about the style of functioning of Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray and Uddhav Thackeray, Pawar said, “Although Balasaheb was never in the seat of power, he was the driving force behind the power. He got power in Maharashtra due to his ideology.“Today, the government is not because of the ideology.But the responsibility of implementing that power now lies with Uddhav Thackeray,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-take-voters-for-granted-even-indira-atal-had-lost-pawar/story-MWWCk8sR6JvMMQSHsWdi5J.html
11-07-2020||Jaipur||Declare locust menace a national disaster, Rajasthan minister urges Centre||Rajasthan agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria on Friday urged the Central government to declare the menace of locusts a national disaster in the interest of farmers.During a video conference with the Union Agriculture Minister, Kataria also demanded the Centre to release the first instalment of centrally-sponsored schemes at the earliest.Giving information about crop loss in the state due to locusts, Kataria asked the Agriculture Insurance Company to pay the outstanding insurance claim of Rs 380 crore for Kharif-2019 of farmers as soon as possible.The minister claimed that the first instalment of most of the centrally-sponsored schemes for the year 2020-21 has not yet been released and the first installment of all schemes should be released immediately to the state in view of the interest of farmers. Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) MP from Rajasthan’s Nagaur has also written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to declare locust attack a national disaster and provide relief to the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/declare-locust-menace-a-national-disaster-rajasthan-minister-urges-centre/story-oQW5NmxwrsPaHmIrTxeTXI.html
11-07-2020||Kolkata||Ordnance Factory unions threaten stir against corporatisation bid||Three trade unions, representing 82,000 civilian employees of the country’s 41 ordnance factories, on Friday, rejected the appointment of consultants by the Union Ministry of Defence (MoD) for corporatising these factories and threatened the Centre with “serious labour unrest”. In a letter to defence minister Rajnath Singh, the unions said: “there will be serious labour unrest resulting in disturbance of defence production in case the consultants appointed by the defence ministry visits the ordnance factories and OFB headquarters.”The OFB is headquartered in Kolkata.The BPMS is affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“The department of defence production in violation of the agreement reached before the chief labour commissioner (Central) on August 21, 2019, have arbitrarily issued a notification for appointment of a consultant …,” said the All India Defence Employees Federation, the Indian National Defence Workers Federation and the Bharatiya Pratikraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS) in a joint media statement.“The ordnance factories are properties of the government. How can private parties enter these establishments to assess their values? The workers will not tolerate this. We will not allow the government to stretch this issue any further,” Mukesh Singh, general secretary, BPMS, told HT.The workers observed a month-long strike last year against the proposed move of the government. On Friday, the unions said that workers would go on indefinite strike and the date would be announced shortly. The unions started a movement against corporatisation in last July. The agitation started soon after the Centre enforced Arms Rules 2016, which introduced new laws to facilitate the production of weapons by private players in collaboration with foreign partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/ordnance-factory-unions-threaten-stir-against-corporatisation-bid/story-EtGhwV4gNkgutEoDTFDqlI.html
11-07-2020||Kolkata||Prominent Tollywood Koel Mallick actor, her family test positive for Covid-19||Koel Mallick, a prominent Bengali actor, and her family, including her father Ranjit Mallick, who is a veteran actor, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Baba Ma Rane & I are tested COVID-19 Positive...self quarantined!” Koel Mallick tweeted on Friday afternoon. Baba Ma Rane & I are tested COVID-19 Positive...self quarantined!Rane is her husband. The couple had a child on May 5. West Bengal registered 1,198 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday—the highest single-day spike till date—taking the number of cases to 27,109. And, 26 people died taking the toll in the state to 880.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/prominent-tollywood-koel-mallick-actor-her-family-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-Q4SQyTHmUi4OUX3R7BmBhJ.html
11-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress MLAs allege BJP trying to topple Ashok Gehlot govt by ‘luring’ legislators||Over 20 Congress MLAs in Rajasthan late Friday night alleged the BJP was trying to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in the state by “luring” legislators, and that the top leadership of the saffron party was involved in the “conspiracy”.There was no immediate reaction from the BJP on the charges.Without naming anyone, the Congress MLAs in a joint statement alleged that the BJP leadership is trying to “mislead” the Congress and supporting party MLAs by contacting and luring them in different manners.“But Congress MLAs and legislators who are in support of the government will not let this attempt be successful,” said the joint statement issued on behalf of 24 MLAs, and signed by chief whip Mahesh Joshi and deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary.The MLAs alleged that similar unsuccessful attempts of poaching Congress and the supporting MLAs were made during the Rajya Sabha polls last month, and the BJP is once again conspiring to weaken and topple the democratically-elected government in Rajasthan.They condemned the alleged attempts and expressed commitment that such forces will be defeated.“The MLAs have said that no one can shake their integrity by giving any temptation. The Congress government in Rajasthan will complete its five-year term,” the statement said.In the assembly of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs and has the support of independent MLAs and legislators of other parties like Rashtriya Lok Dal, CPI (M) and Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP). Ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections for two seats in the state last month, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and government chief whip Mahesh Joshi had alleged that the BJP was trying to poach Congress and other MLAs to destabilise the government. Joshi had also filed complaints to special operations group (SOG) and the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) of Rajasthan Police, demanding inquiry and actions in the attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-congress-mlas-allege-bjp-trying-to-topple-ashok-gehlot-govt-by-luring-legislators/story-WVNHqn0s14ZMwlLxJ4XweJ.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwala: Amid despair, there’s hope||A new tea stall has opened. This is a miracle.The globe is in lockdown. The ongoing coronavirus pandemic is forcing big and small businesses to shut down across the world. Many of us have lost their jobs. Those who are still employed cannot take this status for granted. Everything is uncertain.Amid this gloom, a small ray of hope is sparkling in the form of a chai shop.“I started it a week ago,” says Lal Babu Ansari. The new stall is situated in a most extraordinary location. It stands outside the east-facing gateway of the Mughal-era Jama Masjid monument, in Old Delhi. The stall is almost attached to the outer wall of the twin Sufi shrines of Hazrat Hare Bhare Shah and Hazrat Sarmad Shahid. The establishment is extremely modest, however—just a rickety table crowded with a gas burner, two kettles, pans half-filled with milk, a bowl of sugar and a few jars crammed with tea things like fen and rusks.Mr Ansari concedes it is unusual to start a new business in these grim times. “Earlier, I was working in the tea stall under that peepal,” he says, vaguely gesturing towards a handful of trees some distance away. The owner hasn’t reopened that stall yet, and Mr Ansari eventually decided to launch his own. “I have to earn after all.”At this early hour, the stall is empty. In fact the entire area is empty except for a couple of devotees inside the shrine. “Nobody is coming to the stall so far,” admits Mr Ansari. He says he gets ikka dukka grahak (occasional clients) every hour. “This is the way things are right now.” Sometimes, visitors to the adjacent Sufi shrines stop by his stall on their way out “but very few devotees are arriving to seek blessings these days, and most of them don’t want to remove their face mask... so they chose to ignore my chai.”A native of Patna in Bihar, Mr Ansari is in his 30s and spent almost all his life in Delhi working through a series of tea stalls. But “this is my life’s first stall that I own,” he informs matter-of-factly.Gesturing towards a market in the narrow lane ahead, where stalls of clothes and sandals on either sides are shrouded in yellow and blue plastic sheets, he says that some of those would open later in the day — but they are hardly getting any customers.In the BC (Before Corona) era, this stretch of the Walled City would be over-crowded by this time with food stalls selling kebabs, Rooh Afza drinks and biryanis. In fact, a popular biryani hawker would be seen supervising his cooks and cauldrons in an open ground nearby. The gates to the ground are locked. Mr Ansari’s stall is actually stacked right against those gates.Right now, it is totally silent. Another tea shop nearby has been closed ever since the lockdown began.Minutes pass and no customer arrives. Then a long-haired fakir appears and sits on the pavement besides a stray dog. He asks for chai and becomes the day’s first patron. The stall opens daily from 8am to 9pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwala-amid-despair-there-s-hope/story-K58Cldcxrz8EjA3gwl7RgJ.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC extends time to quiz Sharjeel Imam||The Delhi High Court on Friday held that there were justifiable grounds for extending the time to complete an investigation against Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches he made during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC).Justice V Kameswar Rao dismissed the plea by Imam who had challenged the trial court’s June 25 order granting three more months to the Delhi Police, beyond the statutory 90 days, to complete the investigation in the case under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act or UAPA.The court noted that the police’s report stating “since March 24, 2020, due to the global Covid-19 pandemic, a lockdown has been imposed due to which the pace of investigation was seriously disrupted” and said this “clearly depicts the reasons for not completing the investigation in 90 days”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-extends-time-to-quiz-sharjeel-imam/story-ssRyITBoeaAJK2esxzluJI.html
11-07-2020||Jaipur||Case filed for alleged bid to topple Rajasthan govt||The Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police registered on Friday a case of sedition and conspiracy against unknown people on charges of attempting to topple the Congress-led state government.Additional Director of Police (SOG), Ashok Kumar Rathore, said a case was registered after substantial facts surfaced during a call interception of two phone numbers. He said two numbers belonged to “anti-social elements” who were being kept on surveillance. “The conversation on those numbers indicated that the two people [whose names have not been disclosed to media] and some others could be involved in trying to poach (the Congress and independent) MLAs,” he said.He added that both mobile phone numbers were registered in Rajasthan.Ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections on June 19, Congress leaders had alleged that attempts were being made to lure its MLAs and that they were being offered ~25 crore, including Rs10 crore as advance payment. The Bharatiya Janata Party called these charges baseless. Rathore clarified that the FIR was not on the complaint given by chief whip Mahesh Joshi on June 11, in which he had alleged that attempts were being made to topple the government before the Rajya Sabha polls and that money was being offered to MLAs. “That is being probed separately,” Rathore added. The Congress initially lodged a complaint with the anti-corruption bureau and later gave it to the SOG. “A complaint has been lodged with SOG so that investigation about those who are in the organised crime of money transfer,” said chief minister Ashok Gehlot on June 12 after Joshi lodged the complaint with the SOG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/case-filed-for-alleged-bid-to-topple-rajasthan-govt/story-k7Xs7MVt3KMVbP8kT0ngJK.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Refused ₹2,000, Burail man sets girlfriend on fire||The police on Friday booked a resident of Burail for allegedly setting his girlfriend on fire after she refused to give him Rs 2,000. The accused has been identified as Naresh. The woman, a native of Shillong, suffered 20% burns and was admitted to a hospital.The victim, 22, came to Chandigarh in December last year. She became friends with Naresh and the duo started living together. She told the police that the accused has been harassing her for money and even assaulting her. In her complaint, the woman said that on July 7, she refused to give Rs 2,000 to Naresh and in a fit of rage he poured some hand santiser on her and set her on fire. She raised the alarm on which the accused fled the spot. The neighbours gathered at the spot and took the woman to the hospital. After being discharged from the hospital, the woman filed a complaint with the police.A case was registered at Sector 34 police station. Police are conducting raids to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/refused-2-000-burail-man-sets-girlfriend-on-fire/story-zolNPeJvxbC91mHtds8kSJ.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula’s Naman, Viha top Chandigarh tricity area in ICSE Class 10||Panchkula residents Naman Bhardwaj and Viha Singla have emerged as the tricity toppers in the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) Class 10 examinations with 99.2% marks each.This score is the highest in the past four years, with 98.6% as the top score last year. It was 97.6% in 2018, and 98.4% and 98% in 2016 and 2017, respectively. A student of Little Flower Convent School, Panchkula, Naman, 16, is the son of a software company owner, Mittar Bhardwaj and Pooja Kaushal, an accountant in a private firm. “I believe in consistency and regularity for the preparation of every examination. My parents and teachers kept motivating me,” he said, adding that he aspired to become a computer science engineer.Saupin’s School student Viha, who is 15 years old, wants to pursue a career in engineering. “We all are the same, but determination and self-confidence make the difference,” says Viha, whose father is a Lt Col Chetan Singla (retd) and mother, Mandeep Singla, is a homemaker. Karan Garg, 16, stood second in the tricity with 98.8% marks.A student of Little Flower Convent School, Karan said, “My parents regularly remind me of my goals, which motivates me. I mostly relied on self-study.” His father, Vijay Garg, trades in pharmaceuticals and mother, Ritu Garg, is a homemaker.The third position was bagged by Saanvi, 16, who scored 98.6% marks.“I did not take any coaching to prepare for exams. I want to become a doctor,” said Sanvi, adding that her mother, Deepika Malhotra, a pre-primary school teacher, gives her inspiration.Six schools in the tricity offer Class 10 ICSE. While Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26, and Tender Heart School, Sector 33, are in Chandigarh, YPS School is in Sector 51, Mohali. Panchkula has three ICSE schools —St Xavier’s High School in Sector 20, Saupin’s School in Sector 9, and Little Flower Convent School in Sector 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-s-naman-viha-top-chandigarh-tricity-area-in-icse-class-10/story-jOAHV1MCGQ0Zlud5hTHjOL.html
11-07-2020||City||3 booked for uploading 22-year-old woman’s video on porn site||rAfter a video of a 22-year-old woman, in which she was seeing getting intimate with her male friend, went viral on social media and was later uploaded on a porn site, the Kharghar police booked three people in the case.According to the woman’s complaint, on Wednesday afternoon, she accidentally streamed the video on a multimedia messaging app, following which the accused allegedly recorded the clip and circulated it.The complainant is a Kharghar resident, who gained popularity from her videos uploaded on an app that is now banned by the government. Around 2.3 million people follow the complainant on her social media account, owing to which the video was circulated widely, the police said.An officer from Kharghar police station said, “Around 2pm, one of her friends called her and informed her about the clip, which was seen on her account. The video was online for more than two hours, during which, at least 100 people viewed it. By the time the woman managed to delete the video from her account, seven people already recorded it. Later, two men messaged her on another social media site and threatened to circulate the video on WhatsApp.”The woman named both the people – one of them runs a photography page on the app, the police said. The police will investigate if these two people played any role in circulating the video clip.She also informed the police that someone uploaded the clip on a porn site, as well as on an online video streaming site.The three are booked under the Information Technology Act for violating the woman’s privacy and transmitting a material containing a sexually explicit act. Kharghar police are also taking assistance of the cybercrime cell of the Navi Mumbai crime branch to trace the accused.“Based on our investigation, we registered a case against three people following the woman’s complaint. We are in the process of technical analysis to establish the identity of the people she has named,” said Pradip Tidar, senior inspector from Kharghar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-booked-for-uploading-22-year-old-woman-s-video-on-porn-site/story-iG1ecBHDy2B1a8GgrLO1vI.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||ISC Class 12 results: Muskan Saxena tops Chandigarh’s tricity area||Muskan Saxena, a non-medical student of Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26, has topped the tricity in the Class 12 Indian School Certificate (ISC) examinations with 99.25% marks.Toppers of all other streams are from Yadavindra Public School (YPS), Mohali. Conducted by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), this year, all exams for Class 12 couldn’t be held owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, the percentages were calculated by taking scores of English, along with best scores in three other subjects.A total of 194 students appeared in the exams from across four streams, including non-medical, medical, commerce and humanities. While last year, the overall topper had scored 99.5%, Saxena managed to score more than the non-medical toppers in 2019 and 2018, who had scored 98.5% and 97.75%, respectively. Her parents are professors at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. She is interested in mathematics, economics and computer sciences, and wants to study data science.Humanities topper Jasnoor Kaur from YPS, Mohhali, scored 98.5%. She wants to pursue a BA in psychology in Chandigarh. Medical topper Tanveer Singh Mangat, who scored 97.75%, wants to become a neurosurgeon. Pavit Kaur Sidhu shared the position with Tanveer. She wants to pursue engineering from an IIT. Their schoolmate and commerce topper Sehajpreet Kaur, who scored 96.25%, wants to get into the hospitality sector. In Chandigarh, Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26, and St Xavier’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44, are affiliated to the CISCE for Class 12, while in Mohali, only Yadavindra Public School offers ISC Class 12. There is no ISC school in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/isc-class-12-results-muskan-saxena-tops-chandigarh-s-tricity-area/story-X0qxXSsGbYSUZvPQnHhU3O.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER Covid centre witnesses 80% recoveries in 100 days||A hundred days after a dedicated Covid-19 facility was set up at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), around 80% of the total 256 patients admitted here have recovered.Meanwhile, 3.94% of the total patients succumbed to the virus. The tertiary care hospital of the region caters to patients from across eight states, majority of whom are from Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana. A few patients from Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh are also treated here, an official spokesperson said.An analysis of Covid positive patients admitted here showed that the maximum number of patients from Punjab required ventilator support and had the highest fatalities.Additional medical superintendent Dr Vipin Khoushal said, “The aim is to save lives. The reason why maximum deaths (10) were reported from Punjab is because most of them were suffering from other fatal diseases.”On the other hand, only three patients from Chandigarh were put on a ventilator. Only two out of the seven deaths in UT were registered at PGIMER, while 34 required the admissions in intensive care units.The average stay of the patients was 17 days; 19 surgeries were conducted including a pacemaker implant on the positive patients.Dr GD Puri, dean (academics), said, “A robust system has been developed by the institute for clinical care of the patients, but that comes at a price of sleepless nights. There is constant round the clock remote monitoring of patients, and doctors here have treated over 250 of them in the age group of one month to 83 years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-covid-centre-witnesses-80-recoveries-in-100-days/story-Cbj240w3X1W8VHb7voNAhL.html
11-07-2020||City||Two die in accidents in Thane||Two people lost their lives in Thane in separate accidents on Thursday.In the first accident, 35-year-old Wasim Ansari died after a car rammed into his bike near Rabodi around 7.45pm on Viviana Mall road. The accused, 20-year-old Kevin Patil, lost control over the four-wheeler and fled the spot after the accident, the police said.“We checked the CCTV footage from the spot based on which we received the details of the car. We sent a notice to the accused, asking him to be present at the police station for further inquiry. Meanwhile, we registered a case against him under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act,” a police officer said.In the second accident, 55-year-old Mahendraprasad Dube was walking towards his home in Sahara Colony on Mahape Road at Shil-Daighar area in the evening when an unknown vehicle hit him. “Some locals informed us and took the victim to a Dombivli hospital, where he died during treatment. We are yet to identify the driver and vehicle. A case has been registered against the unknown driver,” a police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-die-in-accidents-in-thane/story-M9EnxpL2ygX4yMtboIpFUL.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police blocked 1,816 objectionable posts related to Covid-19 on social media: State to HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL) which had complained that the Mumbai Police had violated the right to freedom of expression of citizens, by invoking section 144 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) by prohibiting the use of social media platforms to disseminate information.After the state informed the court through an affidavit that the prohibitory orders had come to an end on June 8 and the order was justified as it had blocked 1,816 posts of objectionable content, the court refused to entertain the petition and disposed of it.A division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice NR Borkar, while hearing the PIL filed by four persons – a journalist, musician, occupational therapist and information technology professional – through advocates Aditi Saxena and Afreen Khan, was informed that Mumbai Police had violated the rights of citizens guaranteed under the Indian Constitution.In a bid to curb misinformation and rumours pertaining to the spread of Covid 19 in the city, Mumbai Police had invoked section 144 of the IPC on April 10 and restricted dissemination of information through various messaging and social media platforms. Aggrieved by the prohibition order and its extension on May 23, the petitioners had approached the court on June 1 seeking for it to be set aside. The court, in its earlier hearing on June 5, had directed the state to file an affidavit in response to the plea.On Friday, when the PIL came up for hearing, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni and government pleader Poornima Kantharia submitted the state’s affidavit and said that Mumbai Police has kept various social media platforms like under surveillance since the order was passed on April 10 to curb the spread of misinformation and rumours about Covid 19. Kumbhakoni submitted that information spread through these platforms was creating apprehension and panic among people, and hence, it was necessary to impose the prohibitory orders.Justifying the same, Kumbhakoni read out the affidavit filed by Pranay Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations), which said that there was “widespread dissemination of fake news, incorrect information, misinformation and other such objectionable content” on social media platforms.“Such type of content was found to have caused panic and confusion among the general public, inciting mistrust towards government functionaries and their actions taken to control the Covid-19 pandemic, and also to have created animosity towards various communities,” the affidavit further stated.It added that in the period from April 10 to June 8, police had blocked 1,816 posts of objectionable content.In light of these submissions and the fact that the prohibitory orders ended on June 8, Kumbhakoni submitted that as the grievances of the petitioners did not survive, the PIL should be dismissed.After hearing the submissions and perusing the affidavit, the court said that it was not inclined to entertain the PIL, and disposed of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-blocked-1-816-objectionable-posts-related-to-covid-19-on-social-media-state-to-hc/story-mk9z6AWUHqAr1jkgkahkzK.html
11-07-2020||City||PM must intervene in Maharashtra’s farm credit crisis: Chief of task force formed to tackle agrarian crisis||Alleging apathy on the part of nationalised and commercial banks towards farmers, state’s task force for tackling the agrarian crisis, Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavlamban Mission (VNSSM), appealed to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene in the matter and resolve the “credit crisis” in the state.VNSSM chief and farm activist, Kishor Tiwari, who is aligned with the Shiv Sena, said that a majority of public sector banks are yet to start the disbursal of fresh crop loans or restructure pending crop loans as per the orders of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). He added this is more pronounced in the drought-prone districts of Vidarbha and Marathwada, and will lead to farmers’ suicides. Tiwari pointed out that state data revealed that around five farmers commit suicide every day in MaharashtraTiwari pointed out that as on Thursday, nationalised banks disbursed less than 10% of their credit target to state farmers in Vidarbha and Marathwada. “Despite the chief minister stressing on providing bank finance to all farmers, public sector and commercial banks are not disbursing credit to them. PM must empower chief minister Uddhav Thackeray as the chairman of the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) to address the credit crisis as it is the only body that can evolve consensus to resolve the issue,’’ said Tiwari. He added that CM must be empowered to take criminal action against bank officials who are not responding to the state’s directives to disburse the loans. He also said that banks should not subtract crop insurance payments directly from the loan amount and must offer credit to around 11 lakh farm accounts.“The problem is severe, as owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, the farmers’ access to banks has been virtually cut off. Banks are refusing to give credit to around 11 lakh farmers, whose loan waivers are pending due to Covid-19 outbreak, despite the CM’s directives and the state’s guarantee. The situation will first push 80% of farmers to private moneylenders and then to the step of ending their lives,’’ added Tiwari.The crop loan target set by SLBC for 2020-21 is ₹62,458 crore, of which 70% credit is to be given by nationalised banks, while the remaining by district co-operative banks. The co-operative banks disbursed 69% of their target, but the commercial banks disbursed only 15%, said a senior co-operative department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pm-must-intervene-in-maharashtra-s-farm-credit-crisis-chief-of-task-force-formed-to-tackle-agrarian-crisis/story-KylmpQPFih1PRxAqzN4EsK.html
11-07-2020||Education||Maharashtra SSC, HSC results 2020 to be declared this month, says education minister||The Maharashtra government is preparing to declare the results for the SSC (Class 10) and HSC (Class 12) board exams by the month-end. “Paper checking for HSC [higher school certificate] exams has been completed and the answer sheets are being scanned. We are planning to declare the HSC results between July 15 and 20. For the SSC exams, the history papers are still being checked and we are working to complete the process to declare the results by July 31,” school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said.She also said that the answer sheets are being scanned for the re-evaluation process that needs to commence after the results are declared. “We are trying to make the [re-evaluation] facility available online, as it would be very difficult to complete it physically this year and the answer sheets are being scanned for the purpose. A decision regarding the process is yet to be taken,” Gaikwad said.The HSC exams were held from February 18 to March 18, even as the state went under a lockdown on March 23. However, the SSC exams, scheduled from March 3 to March 23, were affected, and the state decided to cancel the geography exam, which was the last paper. The history paper was held on March 21 and the paper-checking process was delayed owing to the restrictions imposed in the lockdown.By May-end, the state announced that the marks for the geography paper would be calculated based on the average marks received in other subjects of the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hsc-ssc-results-to-be-declared-this-month-says-maharashtra-school-education-minister/story-MjNCHkNNo6cb0WKvupXITI.html
11-07-2020||City||ICSE, ISC results: Tough task ahead for Maharashtra education department||With all boards having different marking schemes due to the Covid-19 outbreak this year, achieving equivalence in scores for first-year junior college admissions is likely to be a tough task for the state education department.The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary education has decided to mark students for geography, the exam which was cancelled, as per the average for the remaining papers. For Class 10 students of CBSE, all papers were successfully conducted in the state and results would be declared as usual. ICSE students, meanwhile, have been marked for the cancelled papers on the basis of their best three scores and internals for the subject. Officials at the education department said no decision has been made on this. “No such meeting or discussion has taken place at the government level yet,” said a senior official from the department. In 2019, the Mumbai divisional board had received nearly 1.85 lakh applications from students for the general admission round. While 1.68 lakh of these were from the state board, the second highest number of applicants came from the ICSE board (7,881). With ICSE students scoring big, experts said the department needs to come up with a solution for state board students. “The government should come up with a method to ensure the state board students do not lose out on prominent colleges. It should be done systematically to ensure that no one challenges it in courts,” said Basanti Roy, former secretary of the Mumbai divisional board. Vaishali Bafna, who is a part of SYSCOM, a Pune based think tank, said, “The department needs to plan admissions well this year. The overall reservation for various categories is increasing year on year and there are fewer seats left for the open category. This will make competition for seats fiercer this year,” she said. This year, the government has decided to increase the quota for students with special needs to 4% from 3%, while the quota for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes(SEBC) has been reduced from 16% to 12%, in accordance with the state rules. A total of 50% seats in junior colleges affiliated to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation would be reserved for students of civic body schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/icse-isc-results-tough-task-ahead-for-maharashtra-education-department/story-UmkuOrcmjpn6xEF3wDnQXL.html
11-07-2020||City||Research, media, humanities: ISC top scorers’ choice||Several high-scorers in ISC (Class 12) examinations, the results of which were declared on Friday afternoon, plan to take the unconventional route for their higher education. Arnav Das, a student of Hiranandani Foundation School in Powai, who scored 98.75% and had appeared from the science stream, wants to take up research in physics. While Das has been selected by several international universities to pursue a graduate course in physics, he has already started living his research dream. “I am working with a few scientists in Columbia University on a physics research project. I got in touch with them via email and said I wished to work on the assignment,” said Das, who finally aims to become a scientist. Shambhavi Lal, a student of Lilavatibai Podar School in Santacruz scored 99.75% in her ISC exams, from the humanities stream. She said she wanted to do her major in economics, but wants to join a liberal arts university for an undergraduate programme. “Pursuing ISC in humanities has made me realise that learning in future too has to be interactive. Taking up a liberal arts course would help me learn a lot of things at the same time,” she added. Niharika Kudva from Sulochanadevi Singhania School in Thane scored 99.75% in humanities at ISC. She plans to make a career in the media. “I am interested in writing and photography and am going to take triple majors in communication, psychology and English at Christ college in Bangalore,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/research-media-humanities-isc-top-scorers-choice/story-V5zQx2SkRkdrp3aLYISCLL.html
11-07-2020||Noida||Six arrested with mobile phone parts worth Rs2.5 crore||Police on Friday arrested six persons in connection with the theft of mobile phone parts worth Rs2.5 crore on July 7.According to police, a man named Vinod Kumar had claimed that a truck driver Ramsurat had loaded the merchandise for him from a leading mobile manufacturing company to be delivered to a warehouse on Sector 80 and had parked the loaded vehicle near the Phase 2 court after which he went to his house in Barola. The driver in the morning informed that the goods were missing from the truck. Kumar suspected the driver. Based on the complaint, a case was registered on July 8 at the Phase 2 police station against the suspect under section 406 (punishment for committing criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code.“The merchandise had been taken by two other drivers. They were planning to sell it, but were arrested before that could happen. The entire lot was recovered,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.Police said that the other drivers, Rishipal and Devender, were going to sell it to a Delhi-based scrap dealer named Rahees through Ansar Mohammad. The goods were then kept in the house of another person Sarbjeet in Delhi.Based on certain tips, the police found all six at sector 93 and arrested them. The stolen items included batteries, mother boards, chargers, data cables, and integrated circuits, among others. The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/six-arrested-with-mobile-phone-parts-worth-2-5-crore/story-91pjW4OX40W1OltLvtLJyN.html
11-07-2020||City||Proposal to redevelop Meharchand Market postponed||New Delhi: The standing committee of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Friday postponed the proposal of “Redevelopment of Meharchand Market” in Lodhi Colony for the next sitting of the committee. The market was to be redeveloped as per the provisions of Master Plan 2021 with providing more FAR (floor area ratio) to the shops than existing 150 FAR. Out of 153, as many as 135 shops of the market were sealed by the civic body In January 2018 on the directions of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee for violating building norms and constructing beyond permitted 150 FAR.Officials of the town planning department of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said that the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) in November 2019 had clarified that the amendments are applicable to Meharchand Market, and therefore, an FAR of 350 (as opposed to 150) may now be provided to shopkeepers there.Under the redevelopment plan there will be guidelines for elements like outer façade, glazing (display windows), columns, advertising boards, etc. After redevelopment, the market would wear a uniform look similar to Connaught Place with elements like a public corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/proposal-to-redevelop-meharchand-market-postponed/story-zyyzoAcQ9HNvtjLVmrKmfM.html
11-07-2020||City||Noida Police attaches six more vehicles of gangsters||The Noida police commissionerate attached as many as six more vehicles of known criminals win the last two days. “Four vehicles, including an SUV and three trucks, worth ₹64 lakh belonging to a member of the Sunder Bhati gang have been attached today,” deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Rajesh Kumar Singh said on Friday.On Thursday, a Hyundai i10 car, and a Tata Nano car of an associate of jailed gansgser Anil Dujana, Arun Sharma, were attached by the Badalpur police from village Khera Dharampura. According to Section 14 of the Gangsters Act, movable and immovable assets of known gangsters can be attached by the authorities if they have been obtained through fraudulent means. Earlier the power to attach the goods lay with the district magistrate but after the commissionerate system was set up in the district, the power now lies with the police commissioner.So far properties and assets such as luxury cars worth nearly ₹14 crore have been attached in the district, police said. On July 4, a structure on a plit acquired illegally by jailed gangster Sunder Bhati was even demolished in Ghangrola village in Kasna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-police-attaches-six-more-vehicles-of-gangsters/story-JnJWnP2IVF9UUsYFfbOm6L.html
11-07-2020||City||Mumbai’s ICSE, ISC students on their mark||A majority of students from the city scored above 90%, some even managing near-perfect scores, as the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) declared the results of ICSE (Class 10) and ISC (Class 12) at 3pm on Friday.Of the 312 students of the Chatrabhuj Narsee Memorial School (CNMS) in Vile Parle, who had taken the ICSE exams, 188 scored above 90%. “The results have been really good this year and a large number of students have got near-perfect scores. We are happy that in an unprecedented situation like this, wherein a few papers had to be cancelled, the board has come up with a good marking criterion that helped students score as per their potential,” said Kavita Sanghvi, principal, CNMS. This year, six papers of the ICSE exams were cancelled owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. An average of a candidate’s three best paper marks, along with the percentage of marks that the student got in the internal assessment of the cancelled paper were considered while coming up with marks for these exams. At Mahim’s Bombay Scottish school, over 71% of the class scored above 90% this year. “Most students have done exceptionally well in mathematics and science, despite both being difficult papers,” said Sunita George, school principal. She said most students felt they were scored well by the board, even for the exams the council could not conduct due to Covid-19. “The board has clearly given students the benefit of doubt and that’s very important because students shouldn’t suffer because of the ongoing situation,” she added.At Juhu’s Jamnabai Narsee School, 184 of the 269 students got 90% and above. “These are really exceptional results and we are happy for our students,” said Zeenat Bhojabhoy, school principal. The average score of students at Dhirubai Ambani International School in BKC was 96.11%. Twenty-five of the 31 students who appeared for the exams scored 95% and above. Triple the joyIt’s barely a surprise for the Doshi family that their 18-year-old triplets studying in Chatrabhuj Narsee Memorial School have scored above 90% in ISC. Anand, Harsh and Khushi Doshi have scored 98%, 97% and 94.8%, respectively in the science stream. “My brother and I are interested in programming while Khushi has always done well in debates and Model United Nations (MUNs). While I will pursue undergraduate education in science, my brother will opt for physics, and our sister will pursue law,” said Anand.A born fighterBorn 100% blind, Nisha D’Souza ensured her disability did not hinder her determination to do well in life, scoring 95.8% in ICSE exams. “We never had to send her for tuitions, except in Class 10, when she needed help with chemistry. She studied all subjects on her own,” said Samantha D’Souza, her mother. A student of St John’s Universal School in Goregaon, Nisha is learning keyboards, violin and guitar. “I would like to pursue a career in music,” said the teen. She recently won a scholarship from the Space Camp for Interested Visually Impaired Students, Alabama, US. “Her determination encourages us to do better in life,” said her mother. No giving upDays before the ICSE exams were to begin, 16-year old Netri Chaurasia was diagnosed with typhoid, which left her bedridden. She did not let it affect her performance, scoring 90.8%. “I was given the option of using a writer, who helped me in the first two exams,” said Netri. A student of Children’s Academy in Malad (E), Netri said: “I’m very happy with my score.” She now plans to apply to a junior college close to her house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-s-icse-isc-students-on-their-mark/story-vKrnXoMTz1j8TTisjY9PwI.html
11-07-2020||Gurugram||Nearly 8% of new Covid-19 cases cannot be traced due to incorrect contact details||Nearly 8% of the new Covid-19 cases being reported in the city are going untraced due to incorrect contact details provided by patients, thereby hindering surveillance and contact tracing, said district administration officials, adding that there are more than 270 positive Covid-19 cases that cannot be traced till now.The task has become particularly challenging as the state government has directed the district officials to carry out contact tracing in nearly 80% of the new Covid-19 cases confirmed in a single day.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageKeshani Anand Arora, state’s chief secretary, in a meeting with district administration on Wednesday, directed the officials to finish contact tracing of nearly 80% of the newly detected cases in a day to break the chain of transmission, according to the press statement issued by the administration.On Friday, 111 new cases were reported in the district, taking the total tally of coronavirus infected persons to 6,578. Of these, 968 are active cases, while 5,507 patients have recovered till now. The Covid-19 toll stands at 103.“Every day, we have 5-8% cases of Covid-19 positive cases which cannot be traced,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) in a press meet on Friday.“Compared to previous months, the reporting by private labs has improved. The names of patients who cannot be traced due to incorrect contact details are forwarded to the police department,” said Singh. The MCG has been given the task of coordinating with the private and government labs for Covid-19 test reports.Once the reports are uploaded by the labs on the ICMR portal, teams deployed at the MCG segregate reports based on the four zones of the city. The list of the positive patient is shared with the nodal medical officer of that particular zone, who further coordinate with the PHC team (PHC) for a home visit or make a telephonic call to the person infected with Sars-CoV-2.According to officials of district administration, the issue of inadequate contact details is becoming challenging.The initial details of verification are going missing. Most of the time, the address is incomplete. Further, there are incorrect phone numbers. Somebody getting tested in Gurugram shares his/her domicile address given in the ID card. All these are making it difficult for the team to trace such people and their high-risk contacts, who can potentially transmit the virus to others, said officials.An ICMR study in April predicted that a Covid-19 patient can infect 406 people in 30 days if preventive measures such as social distancing are not implemented.The district health department issued notices twice in the last two weeks to seven diagnostic labs in the city for inadequate contact details of the suspected cases. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), on Thursday said that strict action will be taken against people who are sharing wrong information to get themselves tested as it leads to data mismanagement.“There are over 270 cases that cannot be traced. People are getting tested multiple times; sometimes labs are also lax in taking complete details. All these factors are creating hindrances in controlling the infection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nearly-8-of-new-covid-19-cases-cannot-be-traced-due-to-incorrect-contact-details/story-DgHos70oRPl2qANK8IJZuO.html
11-07-2020||City||69-year-old duped of ₹57.36 lakh||A 69-year-old woman from Vasai lost ₹57.36 lakh to a fraudster based in Scotland in early June. The senior citizen filed a complaint with Vasai police on Wednesday. According to the complaint, the complainant Mary Michael Andradis and the accused, who introduced himself as Leo Jacob, became friends through a social website. Jacob claimed he was a pilot living in Scotland. After winning her trust, the accused told her he wanted to come to India to open a plant in partnership with her. When Andradis found a plot for the same, the accused told her that it should be registered under her name. Citing that he has to pay taxes Scotland for the property, the conman told Andradis to pay for the same and demanded ₹57.36 lakh. The victim made the payment June 9 and to 23 through RTGS as the accused said he would send the money in cash via a woman named Joshila. However, as the complainant did not get the money, she approached the police, said senior inspector Anand Parad.“We registered a case under sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code against Jacob and Joshila,” said Parad adding that they are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/69-year-old-duped-of-57-36-lakh/story-U9Y6hntroy8QkCNxMtGprM.html
11-07-2020||Gurugram||Nitin Gadkari to lay foundation stone of Pataudi-Rewari Highway||Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari will lay the foundation stone of Pataudi-Rewari National Highway on July 14. The project would also include the construction of the 7km-long Pataudi bypass, which is likely to reduce congestion in Pataudi town. The 46-km long Pataudi-Rewari National Highway will cost Rs1,500 crore, said Gurugram MP and union minister of state Rao Inderjit Singh. Singh further said that this project had been stuck for a long time due to land acquisition issues but all these obstacles have been overcome and land needed for the road has been acquired, thus making it possible for the work to start. “This road project will greatly improve the connectivity between Gurugram and Rewari and make commuting easier,” he said. The 46km road will have two flyovers, one overbridge and three interchange connections, allowing people to leave the road or take it with ease at different points, said officials. Singh also said that project will also include the construction of a Pataudi bypass road, which has been a long-pending demand of the area residents. “The 7km- long Pataudi Bypass will ensure that traffic jams and congestion, which occurred daily in the township, will not happen anymore,” said Singh. A large number of residents of Rewari and Pataudi commute daily to Gurugram and Delhi and they have been demanding the early construction of this road project for the last few years. The construction of this road, locals said, is likely to reduce commuting time and also boost education and employment opportunities as local youth would be able to access NCR with ease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gadkari-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-1-500-crore-pataudi-rewari-highway/story-xR0soktiVvLsKz78s08xZI.html
11-07-2020||Gurugram||Results of ICSE, ISC board examinations out; no merit list announced||Students who appeared for the ICSE and ISC board exams this year heaved a sigh of relief on Friday, when the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) released the results for both Class 10 and 12 students in an unprecedented academic year, which was marred by the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a departure from previous years, the council did not release a merit list in view of the exceptional circumstances. Earlier in March, the CISCE had cancelled board examinations owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. The remaining exams were rescheduled for July and eventually called off, after parents across the country demanded that the exams should be scrapped entirely in the interest of the health and well-being of students and teachers.The council created a new evaluation scheme for scoring the pending papers, under which an average of the marks of a candidate’s three best papers along with the percentage of marks that the student secured in the internal assessment of the respective subject was considered for ICSE students. For ISC students, the board calculated the average of the best three percentage marks along with the percentage obtained by the candidate in the project and practical work in the subjects concerned.In Delhi-NCR, students from 48 ICSE and 35 ISC schools appeared for the examination this year. For ISCE, 5,134 candidates appeared for the exams. These included 2,728 boys (53.14%) and 2,406 girls (46.86%). Similarly, 2,634 students appeared for the ISC exam. These included 1,357 boys (51.52%) and 1,277 girls (48.8%). The number of successful candidates for ICSE and ISC stood at 5,118 and 2,578 respectively. While no city-wise topper was declared, students in multiple schools clocked in high percentages, and many students obtaining a perfect score in multiple subjects. At Shri Ram School, Moulsari, Meher Joshi and Anya Patil were the top scorers in ISC from their schools with 99.5%. Joshi, a humanities student, said that she was relieved with the results. “It was getting really stressful for all the students. With uncertainty prevailing over the pending exams for the longest time, we didn’t know if we should be studying for the exams or not. Later, a new formula was put in place. I am happy with the results,” said Joshi, who plans to pursue graduation in economics from Ashoka University.At the Scottish High International School, the highest scorer and the school topper from the science stream, Tara Garg, achieved 98.75% in Class 12. Around 50% of students have secured 90% and above, while 72% of students have obtained 80% and above at the school. In Class 10, Anandita Misra and Aditya Misra were the top scorers with 99.2%. While 61% of students gained 90% and above, 94% of students secured more than 75%.“Our children have done very well. Diligent efforts of the students helped them get a commendable result in a difficult year,” said Sudha Goyal, principal of Scottish High International School.At MatriKriran School, Sector 83, 10 students appeared for the Class 10 board exams, and all 10 students scored above 80%. Out of these three students scored above 90%. The school topper was Nikhil Agrawal with 92.4%, confirmed school principal Jyoti Guha. Puneeta Chadha Khanna, mother of a Class 10 student, who was opposed to the board’s move of conducting physical exams for the pending papers, said that she was satisfied with the results. “I am happy with the results. My children have improved a lot. Moreover, my children are safe at home and relieved that the uncertainty surrounding the exams and results is over now. This is an unprecedented year and safety of children was of prime concern,” said Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/results-of-icse-isc-board-examinations-out-no-merit-list-announced/story-z2cXw29BoxSh367UczaCwK.html
11-07-2020||City||‘Timely treatment needed for Covid’||Dr. Dhruv Chaudhary, head of pulmonary and critical care medicine department at PGIMS-Rohtak, who is also Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid-19, was in the city on Friday to streamline the auditing of Covid-19 deaths and to study the prospect of establishing a convalescent plasma bank in the Gurugram and Faridabad. Dr Chaudhary spoke to Archana Mishra about the necessity to get timely treatment and the limited community transmission in certain pockets of the city.Edited excerpts:You are part of the task force coordinating with doctors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi to analyse deaths of Covid-19 patients without co-morbidities in the state. What have you learnt so far?The study is ongoing. The initial data, however, shows a third of those who died without any co-morbidity, had obesity. Such patients had sudden death due to heart failure. They too reported of breathlessness and respiratory problems initially but there was sudden death. To get a better picture of the situation, reporting of deaths by hospitals has to be further improved.What are the issues with reporting deaths and how do you plan to improve it?It is critical to ascertain the root cause to reduce the toll count for which there has to be a uniform reporting pattern. We need to know when the patient was transported to the hospital, when the diagnosis and complications started. In the past, 10 patients were brought dead (to the hospital). Such a situation should not exist for which active interventions are required. Like there should be no delay in diagnosis. People are not reporting symptoms until they show any critical health issues. Minimising this time gap is also required. Also, people who are asymptomatic but have diabetes and hypertension should get themselves checked. If their blood pressure or blood sugar goes suddenly out of control, they should consult a doctor. It should be considered as a warning sign. Testing numbers have increased and so have Covid-19 cases. Are we seeing community spread of the infection?These tests are vigorously conducted for active surveillance, which is essential to check community spread of the coronavirus. For this, the central government conducted the sero-survey. In Haryana, especially in Gurugram, there is evidence that suggests infection was spreading at a fast pace. Certain pockets saw outbreak in large numbers. Because of the pro-active measures we have been able to contain it now. The multi-pronged approach which includes the three types of tests (RT-PCR, antigen and antibody tests) is helping us to gauge the total infection load in the city. What is the current status on setting up of convalescent plasma bank in the city? In Gurugram, a private hospital is offering plasma therapy. The service is not available in the government set up. The Covid-19 treatment has to be cost-effective. Teams are coordinating with Rotary blood bank and collection of people who can donate plasma has already started. The plan is to have a plasma pool, where real-time patients anyone can check the availability of the plasma. A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) is being prepared which will be soon shared with the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/timely-treatment-needed-for-covid/story-fu30KBe7bDNDwVpt5hEF9N.html
11-07-2020||Gurugram||Health department proposes to extend LOR curbs in Patel Nagar, Sohna||Ten days after the district administration announced strict curbs in eight large outbreak regions (LORs) in the city, the health department has proposed to extend these measures beyond the deadline of July 14 in Patel Nagar and bring Sohna under LOR, citing a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in these areas. The final decision in this regard will only be taken after a reassessment on July 13, said officials. The health department, on Friday, said it plans to extend the regulatory measures in some areas under Patel Nagar public health centre (PHC), including Patel Nagar, Jyoti Park, Madanpuri and Arjun Nagar, which have been designated as LOR since July 1. These areas fall under ward number 16 of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). In addition to this, it plans to bring Sohna under LOR due to a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in these areas. Patel Nagar recorded 73 cases of Covid-19 between June 30 and July 10, while Sohna reported 94 cases during the same period. It is because of this reason that the number of containment zones in Sohna was also increased to seven from four by the district administration on Friday evening. As per a government order issued on June 27, a large outbreak is defined as a localised increase in Covid-19 cases within a defined geographical area in a village, a town or a city. The cases may or may not be epidemiologically linked. For operational purposes, a region is notified as a LOR when there are 15 or more Covid-19 cases, while a containment zone has five or more cases.As per the June 27 order, eight wards in the city were designated as LORs, and strict curbs were imposed in these areas from July 1-14. According to the government order, industrial activities in LOR are only permitted if the workers stay on the factory premises. Only essential shops and commercial establishments are allowed to be opened in these areas. The movement of people outside and inside the LORs is strictly prohibited.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, on Friday, said that the number of Covid-19 cases in areas falling under the Patel Nagar PHC and Sohna have been found to be high. “We have therefore proposed to extend containment measures in Patel Nagar and bring Sohna under LOR. Further, we have increased the number of rapid antigen testing in these areas and have already held two camps. The final decision regarding the notification of the LORs would be taken by the district administration,” he said. Areas under Patel Nagar PHC, such as Patel Nagar, Arjun Nagar, Madanpuri and Jyoti Park, which are located in Old Gurugram, are high density areas, where social distancing is difficult to be enforced as people live in close quarters, said health department officials, adding that this is a major reason why there has been a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in these areas. HT VISITS PATEL NAGARA visit to the area by HT on Thursday revealed that while external boundaries of these colonies have been barricaded, the movement of people inside these zones was almost unrestricted. Shops were open and there was little social distancing among residents. More than half of the people in these areas were seen moving without masks. Although restaurants and other eateries are supposed to be closed, many were found to be open.Despite authorities putting curbs on movement of people, heavy traffic movement could be witnessed in several of these areas. In fact, in lane number 1 in Arjun Park, some local residents had even allegedly removed the barricade to access Basai Road. “The police have barricaded the entry and exit in these areas and health workers have also visited us. However, there is no restriction on the movement of people. Police officials are asking people to wear masks but it is more of a voluntary measure. Only movement outside the zones has been difficult,” said Deepak Kumar, an area resident. Another resident, however, said that due to barricading of external roads, the movement of traffic had become quite difficult and people were facing trouble. Devender Chotani, a senior citizen, said, “They (authorities) keep barricading more lanes every day. Accessing outside roads, especially Pataudi Road towards New Colony crossing, has been difficult and people are facing problems. How will an ambulance come to an internal lane from the main road in case of an emergency?“Police officials deployed in the area, however, said that their job was to ensure restriction on the movement of vehicles and they were allowing only emergency vehicles, ambulances and those carrying essential goods.Devender Kumar, sub inspector (SI), New Colony police station, who was deputed at a barricade in Madanpuri, said, “As per the norms, we are only allowing people to pass through if they have a medical emergency or need to purchase essential supplies. There are exceptions for health workers and waste collection staff. Trespassing is strictly prohibited. Often commuters request us to let them pass through, but we have to comply with the norms.”The district administration officials, when asked about the rampant violations of curbs in these areas, said that their focus was on containment without inconveniencing people and promoting voluntary enforcement by locals rather than penal action. “We are trying to create awareness among people about wearing masks and ensure social distancing. If required, the enforcement of curbs in containment areas can be made stricter and challans can also be issued in large numbers. But people in the containment zones and LORs will have to take responsibility themselves to stop the spread of this virus,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram. Khatri also said that they will reassess the situation in the LORs on July 13 and a decision regarding reducing or extending restrictions can only be taken after the reassessment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-proposes-to-extend-lor-curbs-in-patel-nagar-sohna/story-P8kPTrKUVJ1PyM9o1lXImJ.html
11-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram:16,109 people tested for Covid-19 antigen; positivity rate at 2.94%||Of the 16,109 people tested for Covid-19 in the city, through rapid antigen testing, a total of 475 people have been tested positive for the SARS-CoV2 so far. The antigen detection tests, which began in the city on June 24, have seen a positivity rate of 2.94%, said senior district administration officials on Friday. Health officials and experts said that the tests have been helpful in identifying individuals infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus in certain parts of the city, including large outbreak regions (LORs) and neighbouring zones, where cases of Covid-19 have been gradually increasing. Rather than the conventional RT-PCR tests, the health officials have been using the rapid antigen testing kits in these areas to identify infected patients in a much faster way. At the same time, the government has also ramped up its overall testing numbers in the last three weeks. While in June, for instance, 1,500-2,000 daily tests were being conducted, the number has increased to 3,000 daily tests by the end of the first week of July. “Over 10,000 antigen detection tests have been conducted in large outbreak regions (LOR) in the last two weeks, while the remaining tests have been conducted in other Covid-19 affected areas of the city. On an average, 1,500 antigen detection tests are being carried out every day at the camps organised in the Covid-19-affected areas of the city. Since the test results are available within 30 minutes, we are able to identify and isolate positive cases in such areas to prevent further transmission of the infectious disease,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram. The antigen test looks for specific protein associated with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the pathogen that causes Covid-19. Since the test is highly specific (99.3% to 100%), Yadav said that the positive result on the test is a “true positive” and does not need any confirmatory test. Results have shown the sensitivity of the test is 50.6% to 84% depending on the viral load. Therefore, those who test negative might still have the infection and are advised to go for a repeat test through the more reliable RT-PCR method if they show symptoms of the disease, said health department officials.As per health department officials, the rapid antigen testing has helped them to identify emerging Covid-19 clusters, where number of cases are gradually surging, apart from the already notified LORs in the city. The district administration has so far notified eight LORs in the city. “By using these kits, we are noting the prevalence of the infection in areas where the positivity rate is climbing up. In Sohna, out of 1,000 antigen tests, at least 10% people tested positive for Covid-19. Almost a similar trend is being seen in Patel Nagar,” said Yadav, during a weekly press meet on Friday. Senior district administration officials present during the conference hinted at notifying these areas as LORs after July 14.Experts, however, said that definitive conclusions cannot be derived by simply going by the total number of antigen tests done in the city. Lalit Kant, former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “Weekly data has to be studied to see the emerging pattern of the infection. It is important to figure out who all are being tested. If contacts of already confirmed cases or front-line health workers are being tested, then the number would be higher. If the general population is being tested, then the numbers will never be that high.”In order to ramp up antigen testing, the health department procured additional 8,000 antigen detection kits on Wednesday. The state government in June placed an order of almost 100,000 testing kits with a South Korean company manufacturing these kits in Manesar. Gurugram has received 8,000 kits in the last week of June and another stock 10,000 kits on July 4. Till now, the city has got 26,000 kits from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-16-109-people-tested-for-covid-19-antigen-positivity-rate-at-2-94/story-BnLkuRB7qoLxVW7tmeRodN.html
11-07-2020||City||UMC mulls converting school buses into ambulances||With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing in the city, the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) is mulling over converting school buses into ambulances.UMC has so far recorded 3,434 positive cases and 61 deaths. For the past one week, the city is witnessing more than 150 new cases each day.A civic official said, “With schools being shut, the vans are lying unused; so we plan to convert them into ambulances. A transparent panel will be built behind the driver’s seat to assure safety. However, we will have to convert the benches and install certain emergency machinery inside the vans. We are still contemplating if this will be feasible.” Meanwhile the newly appointed UMC commissioner Dr Raja Dayanidhi has asked hospitals and clinics to ensure proper screening and treatment. “We have asked all doctors and hospitals to ensure patients get proper treatment irrespective of whether they are Covid patients or not. In all hospitals and clinics, 80% beds are for Covid-19 patients and the rest should be open for others. If we receive any complaint from locals, strict action law will be taken against such hospitals or clinics,” said Dr Dayanidhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/umc-mulls-converting-school-buses-into-ambulances/story-MnnQmxikRsvYOFJoUiPxZI.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||MoCA holds meeting with Air India management, pilots||Ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) officials held a meeting with the national carrier Air India’s management along with chairman and managing director (CMD) Rajiv Bansal and pilots on Wednesday to discuss the financial crises that the airline is facing.While pilots agreed to support the airline and its management during the Covid-19 pandemic phase, they insisted on quitting if Air India does not agree to give a percentage cut on gross salary as per individual’s income. Looking at market conditions, the pilots suggested compulsory leave without pay (LWP) on a monthly basis for all employees. This comes after the pilots, on Monday, had written to Bansal to not give 10% pay cut to category IV employees and suggested giving LWP to every other employee as only few aircraft have been flying due to poor demand. In a letter to fellow pilots after the meeting, Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA) which consists of the airline’s Airbus pilots (narrow body aircraft), and Indian Pilots Guild (PG) that consists of Boeing pilots (wide body aircraft) said, “We informed MoCA to clear our long pending 25% dues immediately and allow pilots to quit Air India with immediate effect.’’The letter, sent on Thursday night, read, “We also requested the management not to instigate us into any unpleasant agitation at this crucial time. We are only standing by principle with a demand that any pay cut has to be across the board as per market standards for all employees.’Air India refused to comment. Air India Employees Union (AIEU), consisting of cabin crew, aircraft engineers, radio officers and flight officers, service engineers was, however, upset with the management on the unilateral decision of the management in dealing with unions representing a single category (pilots) and bypassing other unions which represent all other categories of employees of the company. “Please be informed that any decision taken with the unions under reference, will not be binding on our recognised union and its vast majority membership,” the union wrote to Bansal on Friday. The letter further read, “In the event the management continues with such meetings with the said unions under reference, and in our absence discuss/decide or try to impose such decisions on matters involving categories which the Air India Employees Union represent, we reserve our right to resort to any action deemed fit, which may be noted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/moca-holds-meeting-with-air-india-management-pilots/story-qWlBNmDdUWf3hkkwMlRVrM.html
11-07-2020||City||Navi Mumbai sees highest one-day spike with 361 cases||Navi Mumbai has registered its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases with 361 new cases reported on Friday. The total number of cases in the city is 8,879 while death toll is 284, with six new deaths.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) collected ₹6,43,040 in fines for violation of lockdown norms in the six days of complete lockdown in the city. The city has been under lockdown since midnight of July 3 which will end on July 13 midnight.NMMC commissioner Annsaheb Misal said, “Fine has been levied on residents and shopkeepers for not wearing masks, not maintaining social distancing, spitting in public area and other such violations.” He has appealed to the residents to follow the norms.Panvel City Municipal Corporation on Friday reported 181 cases, taking total positive cases to 3,511. The city also recorded two more deaths, taking the toll to 92.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-sees-highest-one-day-spike-with-361-cases/story-4LYd4YSWfYBwcUnob40J3L.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha records highest 1-day rise of 7,862 Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra recorded its sharpest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases on Friday, with 7,862 fresh infections taking the state’s tally to 238,461. The state’s toll rose by 226 to 9,893 fatalities. Mumbai, the worst affected city in Maharashtra, crossed the 90,000 cases mark, with 1,337 infections in 24 hours taking its virus count to 90,461. The city’s toll rose to 5,205, with an addition of 73 deaths. State health department data revealed that Maharashtra has 95,647 active cases, while Mumbai has 23,035 such cases. The number of recovered patients in the state has risen to 132,625, pushing the recovery rate up to 55.62%. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state, however, is 4.15% as against the national rate of 2.72%, and the positive rate in Maharashtra is 19.01%, with 238,461 of 1,253,978 samples testing positive. Meanwhile, the rising number of Covid cases in several cities and districts has forced local administrations to impose stricter lockdown rules. Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies on Friday decided to impose a 10-day lockdown from July 13, while Mumbai’s neighbouring Thane and Kalyan-Dombivali civic bodies, too, have extended its ongoing lockdown for seven more days till July 19. With state authorities expecting a rise in coronavirus cases over the next few weeks as a result of opening up of commercial and industrial activities since June, the government has introduced rapid testing across the state. It is expected to bring down the CFR. In a letter from the health department earlier this week, all district collectors and municipal commissioners have been directed to bring down the positivity rate to less than 10% and reduce CFR to less than 1%.“Number of daily tests, including RT-PCR, rapid antigen, TruNat and CBNAAT, should be at least 140 per million of population in every corporation and district. Utilise fullest installed capacity of Covid-19 testing. The district and civic authorities are expected to focus on these parameters,” the letter said. Mumbai and Thane municipal corporations have acquired more than 1 lakh rapid antigen test kits, which help in getting a result in 30-40 minutes. “Testing has increased greatly in the near past and we have gone up from 13,000 tests a day to 30,000 tests a day in about a fortnight. We have the biggest viral testing infrastructure in the country, almost all set up after the pandemic began, at the rate of around a lab a day. Our labs have a capacity of 40,000 tests a day. Maharashtra tests strictly as per ICMR guidelines, and therefore the testing is focused. This is reflected in our positivity rate, which is around 20%. We are also trying to implement the WHO Mantra of ‘Track, Trace, Test, Isolate’ in right earnest way. Centre wants testing to be at the rate of 140 a million a day, while we are much ahead with the rate of 200,” said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary, medical education department, adding that although cases are rising, the health infrastructure is ready to take the load. Mukherjee said the government has strengthened treatment protocol, and now emergency authorisation of experimental therapies, such as plasma, is also allowed. “We have also instructed district chiefs to ensure that cases come early, at least by 48 hours of developing symptoms, as early diagnosis and treatment is one of the fundamental measures of reducing the death rate,” he said. Neeraj Hatekar, professor of Econometrics at the Mumbai University, said the reproduction rate of cases in Maharashtra is around 1.21, and it should come down to 1. “Before the relaxations given from the first week of June, the rate was constantly on decline, but now it has been hovering near 1.2, which is a worrisome factor. Mumbai has been successfully stabilised at 1.1, but the city cannot open up activities unless neighbouring cities do not control their spike. Besides the rest of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), in a few districts like Jalgaon, Solapur and Aurangabad, the cases are high for various reasons. The district administrations, which leveraged the community participation and created a chain of command, could control the containment. Kolhapur, Malegaon and Dharavi in Mumbai are classic examples of such endeavours,” said Hatekar, who has been studying the virus curve. He said the high rate of cases in the rest of MMR is also because of weak health infrastructure, which also leads to a high CFR as beds are not available at crucial times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-records-highest-1-day-rise-of-7-862-covid-19-cases/story-ayZA4SwT1pjGRTs4Pyjv8K.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Aadhaar, prescription, Covid test report mandatory for buying drugs||The Maharashtra government on Friday made it mandatory for all medical shops to keep a record of Aadhaar card numbers, prescriptions and contact numbers of all those buying remdesivir and tocilizumab, which are being used to treat moderate and severe cases of Covid-19. The state has also set up a toll free number (1800222365) where people can report anyone hoarding the drugs or selling them at high prices.State home minister Anil Deshmukh and food and drug administration (FDA) minister Dr Rajendra Shingne held a meeting on Friday to regulate the distribution remdesivir and tocilizumab following complaints of the drugs being illegally hoarded and traded in the black market. The meeting was also attended by Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and director general of police Subodh Jaiswal.“We have decided to make Aadhaar card, Covid test report, prescription and contact details mandatory for those who want to buy these drugs. This has been done in the wake of complaints that some are trying to buy them for black marketing,” Shingne said. “Cipla and Hetero have assured an increase in their supply of remdesivir. People don’t need to panic as sufficient stock will be available soon,” said the home minister. He also said action would be taken against all those found guilty of dealing the life-saving drugs in the black market.Shingne also announced a 24-hour helpline where people can report anyone hoarding the drugs or selling them at inflated prices. In such cases, action will be taken by both FDA and home department.At present, only medical stores attached to hospitals have the drugs. Shingne said only private hospitals ask relatives of patients to get the drugs from these medical stores because Covid-19 is being treated for free at civic-run facilities.Previously, Shingne along with officials from FDA’s vigilance department had conducted surprise checks at six hospitals in the city, including Masina, Sir JJ Hospital, Saifee and Bombay Hospitals. The minister personally checked purchase records at the pharmacies and bills given to customers at medical stores attached to the hospitals.FDA commissioner Arun Unhale confirmed that random checks at hospitals and medical stores have already started. “We have already started random checking to see if black marketing is going on. Those found guilty will be punished under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940,” he said.Shingne said another meeting would be held on Saturday, to see what else can be done to ensure these drugs are not traded illegally or hoarded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aadhaar-prescription-covid-test-report-mandatory-for-buying-drugs/story-MNyanw57auRvznD0Mcyg5H.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Amid pandemic, uncertainty looms over EWS admissions in private schools in Delhi||With school campuses across the national capital being shut as a result of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, admissions to seats in private schools reserved for economically disadvantaged families have also been disrupted. While parents whose children were selected in the first list of selected candidates released by the Directorate of Education (DoE) in February said they could not complete the process due to the prevailing situation, many said they are still waiting for the second list to be made released.Under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009, 25% of all seats in private schools are to be reserved for families under the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) and Disadvantaged Groups (DG) in entry-level classes — nursery, KG and class 1. Starting in 2020, 3% of these 25% of seats have been kept aside for children with disabilities. This year, there were around 45,000 reserved seats available in around 1,700 private unaided schools in Delhi.The centralised admission process on these seats began on January 25, and the DoE declared the first list of selected candidates on February 29. However, Delhi schools were shut from March 19, as a measure to stem the spread of Covid-19, and have been closed since then.Four months since the academic session began, many parents from economically disadvantaged families said they could not complete their children’s admissions even after they were selected in the first list. Parents expressed concerns over their children being left out due to the delay in admission.Suman Kumari, a resident of south Delhi’s Jaitpur area who stitches clothes for a living, said her five-year-old son was selected for admission in KG in a private school in the neighbourhood. “I had submitted his documents on March 11 for admission under the EWS quota in Real View Public School in Jaitpur. After a few days, the lockdown was announced and all schools were shut. We contacted the school for the follow-up but they said they won’t be able to do anything before July. I waited for three months. Now they are saying that there are issues with our documents. They are telling me this after three months. I do not know how I will get documents changed amid the pandemic. How will my son catch up with other students in class if his admission is delayed further,” she said.Sumit Chandila, an accountant at the school, said, “The school could not start the process of verifying documents earlier, due to the lockdown. There are some issues like incorrect spellings and addresses in a few documents. We have asked the parents to get them fixed first as we cannot enrol anyone without proper documents.”Deepak Kumar, who runs a puncture repair shop in north-east Delhi’s Karawal Nagar said his five-year-old daughter was not selected for admission in nursery under the EWS category in any private school in the first list. “We had contacted the DoE and were told that some more lists would be announced in the coming months, but we are still waiting,” he said.Education activist Sumit Vohra, who runs an online portal on nursery admissions, said they received several complaints from parents whose children were eligible for admissions under the EWS/DG quotas. “Many parents have complained that schools are rejecting admissions on the pretext of incomplete documents. They are unable to get the certificates issued amid the pandemic. The schools should at least give them provisional admissions till they manage to get the requisite documents,” he said.Yogesh Pratap, deputy director of education (private schools branch) of the DoE, said the education department is yet to collect data on the number of EWS/DG seats filled under the first list. “We can only release the second list of selected students after we know the number of seats filled in the first list. The schools remained closed for over three months amid the Covid-enforced lockdown, and could not access the data. We will definitely release consecutive lists and fill the seats once the schools reopen physically,” he said.Pratap said the DoE had issued 10 lists last year to fill the EWS/DG seats, with three of them being released by this time last year. “The situation is unprecedented this year. But we will not let any seat go vacant. No school can deny admission after their children’s name appears in the list of selected candidates. We will also carry forward the vacant seats next year if required,” he said.Ekramul Haque, founder of Mission Taaleem, an NGO, said they have written multiple times to the DoE and the office of Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on the issue. “Three months of this academic session have already passed. How will EWS/DG students catch up with other students if their admissions get delayed for months like this? The government should release the second list of selected candidates and give admission. The students can at least start studying at homes till the schools reopen physically,” he said.A senior advisor in Sisodia’s office said, “The admissions in entry-level classes in Delhi government’s Sarvodaya Schools are also pending due to the prevailing situation. The DoE will surely release more lists of selected EWS/DG candidates. The government is monitoring the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-pandemic-uncertainty-looms-over-ews-admissions-in-private-schools-in-delhi/story-IoOHHS4S1N414nf3in6uoO.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||‘50K vials of remdesivir ordered, tie-up with firm for tocilizumab’||Stocks of anti-viral drug remdesivir and immunosuppressive drug tocilizumab are likely to improve from next week, according to manufacturing companies and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Families of Covid-19 patients and doctors have said that generic brands of remdesivir and tocilizumab are in short supply in Mumbai. The drugs are being used to treat moderate to critical cases of Covid-19 and are only available in hospitals. One city doctor, who is conducting clinical trials of remdesivir for a manufacturing company, said he receives approximately 1,200 requests for the drug daily from distressed patients. Bandra resident Salman Mujawar said, “Two of my uncles, who are senior citizens, have tested positive for the virus. On Wednesday, one was prescribed tocilizumab and the other remdesivir. Neither are available anywhere.”There are two licensed dealers of the drugs in the city. Hetero Healthcare on Friday announced that it will distribute 60,000 units of the Covifor injection, which is its generic brand of remdesivir, across the country between July 13 and July 20. Of these, 12,500 units will be distributed in Maharashtra. This is the second batch from the pharmaceutical company. Cipla, the other company permitted to manufacture the drug, started production of CIPEMI (remdesivir) on Monday. Around 80,000 vials will be available within the first month, said Nikhil Chopra, executive vice president and chief executive officer (India, business), Cipla. Chopra added that Cipla is also moving expeditiously to ensure supplies of tocilizumab. BMC said it has placed an order for 50,000 vials of remdesivir for a month, and will increase the amount in case of greater demand. It has also tied up with a pharmaceutical company to procure tocilizumab, said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health).However, doctors worry that the drugs may be needed in greater quantities. “These drugs are imported to India, although Indian pharmaceutical companies are doing their best to produce and launch internally,” said Dr Prashant Borade, head of the critical care unit of Global Hospitals, in Mumbai. “Several companies need to start producing these medicines in India to match the demand. Also, guidelines are needed regarding their use by the medical fraternity,” he said.BMC, however, denies there has been any shortage in supply and said a revised system is in place to arrest any leakage of drugs. “We are using the drugs judiciously and there is enough till July 31,” said Kakani.On Thursday, BMC directed deans of all civic-run hospitals and medical superintendents of peripheral hospitals to upload real-time information on the use of the drugs. “The hospital has to inform us about patient’s unique identification number, details and the number of vials administered to the patient. This will be cross-checked after the patient is discharged,” said Kakani. On May 20, BMC had placed an order for 3,500 vials of tocilizumab, most of which has been delivered. It also ordered 15,000 vials of remdesivir, of which 5,000 have been delivered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/50k-vials-of-remdesivir-ordered-tie-up-with-firm-for-tocilizumab/story-68qktuckgK4SKRbc00Sd7H.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Mandis and localities inhabited by migrant workers get antigen testing centres||District authorities Friday further scaled up testing for Covid-19 across Delhi and set up rapid antigen testing centres at major markets, public spaces and localities largely inhabited by migrant workers.Rapid testing was also started in Delhi’s two biggest wholesale markets – the Azadpur mandi and the Ghazipur mandi -- in order to screen vegetable and fruit vendors, transporters and dealers. Friday’s expansion of the rapid testing also covered drivers of public and para-transit modes such as auto-rickshaws and taxis for whom special testing centres have been set up in Anna Nagar in IP Estate and Sanjay Amar Colony in Shahdara.The move comes after the Director General of Health Services (DGHS) on July 9 laid down a fresh plan to augment rapid antigen tests in the city. Before that, on July 8, the DGHS had also revised the plan to identify those who are to be tested. HT had reported about this modified approach to testing on July 5. Districts have to identify and test high-risk individuals living in areas having isolated Covid-19 cases for over 28 days, apart from those in containment and buffer zones. It has also asked authorities to start aggressive testing among ‘special surveillance groups (SSG)’ comprising drivers of rickshaw/auto, taxi, goods carriage and lorries; domestic helps; daily workers (plumbers, electricians, carpenters, etc); daily suppliers of food; and other delivery persons.Following these orders, on Friday, each of the 11 districts in Delhi began expanding their coverage of rapid tests. Rahul Singh, district magistrate (southwest) said mobile testing vans have been deployed in areas where stationary testing centres couldn’t be set up due to space constraints. “Earlier, we had 44 antigen testing centres, the most in any of the 11 districts (north district had the second highest at 26). This has been scaled up further what with all dispensaries also starting antigen testing. On Friday, we launched the SSG testing camps at the furniture market in Najafgarh and at the sabzi mandi (vegetable market) in Naseerpur,” he said.To screen high-risk persons in areas having isolated cases and also in areas largely inhabited by migrant workers and labourers, Singh said the district opened another centre at Bhagat Singh park in Valmiki mohalla in Chhawla area.Nidhi Srivastava, DM (Central), who has been tasked with running a campaign to test taxi, auto and goods carriage drivers, said she began the drive from Anna Nagar in IP district and Sanjay Amar Colony in Shahdara district.“Friday’s response, despite it being the first day, was very positive. Scores of auto and taxi drivers voluntarily came to get themselves tested. In the coming days, we will expand this to cover more areas across the city,” said Srivastava.To identify and screen all people falling in the SSG category, DM (north) Deepak Shinde said all districts are conducting a survey with the help of municipal corporations.“I held a meeting in this regard on Friday. Municipal officials and our district officials will together undertake a survey to identify such people. Apart from that, today (Friday) we have also started a testing centre at the Azadpur market,” Shinde said.For screening in areas from where isolated cases are being reported, all DMs said they are following the daily cluster reports to take necessary action. All districts are also following the detailed data being provided on maps by the GSDL (Geospatial Delhi Limited), the agency specialising in geo-spatial data, an official from the chief minister’s office said on condition of anonymity.DM (east) AK Mishra said 22 dispensaries in his district have been equipped with antigen testing facilities. “So each dispensary has been given a catchment area so that they are aware of the localities whose residents they are to test. Besides, the dispensary next to Ghazipur mandi has also been attached to the wholesale market so that traders are also tested,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mandis-and-localities-inhabited-by-migrant-workers-get-antigen-testing-centres/story-LYNgBVmAy3MKK9fuO0xQ3I.html
11-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Sector 26 residents raise objections to biogas plant coming up nearby||A biogas plant being built by the Noida Authority in Sector 26 is facing objections from some residents and a temple trust that fear that the plant, being set up in their vicinity, can lead to a mishap and its operations can result in an unpleasant smell in the area.A letter signed by several residents was handed over to the Noida authority requesting it to shift the plant to an alternate location. They also complained that the Resident Welfare Association (RWA) did not inform them and that any mishap in the future could affect them.“We are not against the plant but the location of the project. In other sectors, such plants are located away from residential buildings. We are bothered about issues such as stink from the garbage and dung to be used as fuel being dumped here. There are chances of mishaps, as it produces harmful methane and H2S gases,” said Ankush Jain, a resident Sector-26, who lives near the spot where the plant is to come up.The Noida Bengali Cultural Association – a temple trust of a 40-year-old Kali temple or Kalibari in the area – said the plant is being constructed at a nursery adjacent to the temple complex and may turn the place into a garbage segregation spot.“Officials said the plant would benefit the sector. We have told them about our issues and how the plant may become troublesome. There are alternative sites where the plant can be constructed. We have seen some examples where such plants turn the spot into a garbage segregation point and leak hazardous gases,” said Ashok Arya, president, Noida Bengali Cultural Association and Kalibari.The RWA, however, said that the plant is safe and that they are ready to resolve all grievances.“My house is also near that site and it’s just that the people from the temple trust want to grab that land. There are only a few residents who are opposing it because of misconceptions and we are ready to address each issue. The plant is safe and will not cause any stink,” said Govind Sharma, president, Sector 26 RWA.The Noida authority has already constructed 25 such bio-mechanisation plants across the city and is in the process of building 12 others to process biodegradable waste from nearby residential areas. The authority hopes to cover the whole city and in this case, Sector 26 would be serviced, officials said.“We have assured the residents that the plant is safe and asked them to think about it. The work has anyway been stalled for three days due to the weekend lockdown. We will look into their request and try to eradicate misconceptions, but will also not build the plant by force,” said Indu Prakash, officer on special duty (health) Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-sector-26-residents-raise-objections-to-biogas-plant-coming-up-nearby/story-CvDzxAAWTOO9ZkrGDI7bDJ.html
11-07-2020||City||Noida: Bike bot mastermind Sanjay Bhati denied bail for third time||Noida: The mastermind of the alleged Bike Bot ponzi scheme who had allegedly duped nearly 2.25 lakh investors was denied bail by the Surajpur district court for the third time.Sanjay Bhati (42), owner of Garvit Innovative Promoters Ltd who holds diploma in mechanical engineering, launched this fictitious company in 2010, which floated Bike Bot scheme in 2017 under which Rs 1500 crore was duped from investors. He was arrested following his surrender in Surajpur court in June 2019. The scam surfaced after a complainant Sunil Kumar Meena, a resident of Jaipur, filed an FIR against the Bike Bot operator at Dadri police station on February 14, 2019 against Sanjay Bhati and five directors of the company.Bhati has earlier been denied bail twice in October and November , 2019.During a hearing on Wednesday at the Surajpur district court, his defense attorney argued that Bhati had resigned from the company in November 2018.“The bike bot scheme was started in July 2017 but the suspect resigned as director on 18th November 2018 after he got a ticket to contest elections for 2019 parliamentary elections. The entire responsibility for the company fell on other directors and the client is being framed in this case,” said defense lawyer Pawan Kasana.They also said that police evidence does not suggest the amount of money invested by investors. The company only faced monetary problems which is a civil suit and not a criminal one. The client has no prior criminal history and has been in jail for almost a year,he added.Prosecution argued that Bhati has several such cases of fraud and cheating against him and other directors of the company have also denied been denied bail.“Based on the seriousness of the allegations the suspect does not qualify to be released and the bail application is being denied,” said the magistrate in his order.Bhati has nearly 40 cases against him regarding the same ponzi scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-bike-bot-mastermind-sanjay-bhati-denied-bail-for-third-time/story-95732DxPSr8ptv5bUWtGLL.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||WHO praises Dharavi’s Covid fight||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Friday acknowledged the city’s efforts to contain the outbreak of Covid-19 in Dharavi, India’s largest slum. Dharavi was a hot spot in June, but has seen a sharp drop in cases in July. WHO chief Tedros Adha-nom Ghebreyesus said Italy, Spain, South Korea and Dharavi have showed the virus could be reined in through aggressive action.“In the last six weeks cases have more than doubled,” Tedros told a virtual press conference in Geneva. However, “there are many examples from around the world that have shown that even if the outbreak is very intense, it can still be brought back under control,” said Tedros.“And some of these examples are Italy, Spain and South Korea, and even in Dharavi – a densely packed area in the megacity of Mumbai – a strong focus on community engagement and the basics of testing, tracing, isolating and treating all those that are sick is key to breaking the chains of transmission and suppressing the virus.”State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted, “This is huge for our very own Dharavi that has chased the virus. State Govt and @mybmc teams, along with NGOs, Elected Representatives and most importantly, Dharavikars! Let’s keep this going! Thank you @WHO for recognising their efforts, and will keep going on.”Experts say Dharavi managed to flatten the curve by the end of June. Throughout June, Dharavi recorded an average of 18 new cases daily, with the highest single-day spike in recorded cases on June 1 (34 new cases). Since July, the number of new cases has declined. On Tuesday, Dharavi recorded only one case, its lowest single-day figure in over two months. Subsequently, on Wednesday, it recorded three new cases and nine on Thursday. Twelve new cases were recorded on Friday. The total number of cases in Dharavi now stands at 2359, with 166 active cases.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G (North) ward, which has jurisdiction over Dharavi, said, “Testing, massive screening, identifying patients and their high-risk contacts, and isolating them from the community has worked very well for Dharavi. The focus is to maintain this situation in Dharavi, so we will continue these efforts.”With inputs from AFP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/who-praises-dharavi-s-covid-fight/story-quFz7j1kyguZztFCwN8ZtK.html
11-07-2020||Noida||Noida: 4 police personnel put in home quarantine after coming in contact with Covid-positive suspect||At least four police personnel from the Sector 20 station were advised home quarantine after they came in contact with a coronavirus (Covid-19)-positive man who was arrested Wednesday night.The 19-year-old suspect in question had first been arrested on June 25 in preventive detention under Section 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, after which he was sent to jail. Police officials said that he had been undergoing treatment for coronavirus in Noida from July 2, from where he fled. He was once again apprehended on July 7 and sent to Greater Noida for treatment.“But he fled once more. On Wednesday night, we received a call from a security guard from Sector 6 about a break-in at a factory. A team was rushed to the spot and he was nabbed. However, they were not aware that he was a positive patient and it was on Thursday morning that it was found that he is the same person who had fled during treatment,” said RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.The suspect was later sent to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida while four police personnel, who had come in contact with him, were sent for home quarantine.The SHO said that the premise has been sanitised and all necessary precautions have been taken. More than 50 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district so far, of whom 30 have recovered while one 57-year-old diabetic constable lost his life.To keep coronavirus positive prisoners away from others in the Luksar jail, an interim jail has been created in the premises. So far, seven inmates have tested positive, of whom six have recovered while one is undergoing treatment at the NIMS multi-speciality hospital.“Last time, 148 samples were collected of which none came back positive. In case of a positive result, the entire barrack is sealed. When we move inmates from the interim jail, we keep them in 14 day isolation before moving them to the main barracks. In addition, we keep sanitizing the premises and provide kadha (herbal concoction) to all inmates as a precaution,” said jail superintendent Vipin Mishra.Luksar jail currently has almost 2,200 inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-4-police-personnel-put-in-home-quarantine-after-coming-in-contact-with-covid-positive-suspect/story-ZTnsrjnOjl6llBlC3VrMZP.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||72 foreigners who attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation freed||Seventy-two foreigners who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March were freed on Thursday after they entered a plea bargain and accepted the mild charges against them. Another court allowed bail to 82 other foreigners who had also attended the meet.All were accused of violating the lockdown and other government orders that banned religious congregations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.With this, in the last three days, 249 of the 956 foreign nationals accused of attending the congregation have been granted bail, and 132 were freed.In the court of metropolitan magistrate Siddharth Malik, 61 Malaysians agreed to a plea bargain where they accepted the mild charges against them, in return for their freedom on payment of a ₹7,000 fine against each of them, said their lawyer S Hari Haran. On Thursday, 60 Malaysians were freed on the same grounds.A plea bargain is an arrangement between the prosecutor and accused whereby the latter pleads guilty to a lesser charge in exchange for a more lenient sentence, or an agreement to drop other charges.During the cognisance of the charge sheets on July 6, judge Malik was informed by the Investigating Officer (IO) that the 956 accused were also investigated for the charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, and criminal conspiracy to endanger life or personal safety of others.“However, till date no evidence has come against the foreigners for these,” the investigation officer told the court.Instead, they have pleaded guilty to the violations of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act, prohibitory orders, disobeying orders from a public servant and other sections of the Indian Penal Code, all of which attracts a maximum of six months in prison. The Centre had already cancelled their visa and blacklisted them. According to Hari Haran, the complainants in the case--Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Lajpat Nagar, Additional Commissioner of Police at Lajpat Nagar and Inspector at Nizamuddin—did not object to their plea bargain applications.Hari Haran also said that in case of the 11 other foreigners -- all Saudi nationals-- metropolitan magistrate Ashish Gupta accepted their plea bargain, also on the same lines as the Malaysians, and released them with a ₹10,000 fine.“As per the mutually satisfactory disposition between the state and the convict , the convict is found to be entitled to be lenient view while deciding the quantum of sentence,” Gupta’s order read.Later the, the Saudi nationals deposited the fine, following which Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur directed that they be deported to their country.In another case, a Delhi court also granted bail to 82 Bangladeshis on a personal bond of ₹10,000 each. Appearing for them, advocates Ashima Mandla and Mandakini Singh said that the accused have also moved for a plea bargain.During the hearing, the foreign nationals, who were staying at a hotel, were produced before the court through video.The police had filed charge sheets against 956 foreigners from 36 countries, including 122 Mayalsians, for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and regulations regarding Epidemic diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure.They were also accused of offences under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/72-foreigners-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-congregation-freed/story-NPU8WAayANScIZfs5qAdWL.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Malaysian who attended Tablighi congregation found to be minor||Finding that one of the Malaysian nationals who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March was a minor, a Delhi court directed the city police to file a separate charge sheet before the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) against the person.The juvenile, a Malaysian national, had moved a plead guilty application before metropolitan magistrate Siddharth Malik who transferred the matter to the chief metropolitan magistrate Gurmohina Kaur. The court, after perusing the passport, said that the person was 16 years old.An official of Malaysian High Commission, through video conferencing, confirmed this to the court.“Accordingly, let the charge sheet be separated and be filed before the concerned Juvenile Justice Board. IO is directed to file the separate charge sheet by Monday, July 13 as per law on completion of necessary formalities. Application disposed off accordingly,” said the court.By Friday, 121 Malaysians had been freed after accepting a plea bargain and agreeing to pay a ₹7,000 fine. The police had filed charge sheets against 956 foreigners from 36 countries, including 122 Mayalsians, for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and regulations regarding Epidemic diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/malaysian-who-attended-tablighi-congregation-found-to-be-minor/story-pLPoBFxNtRKYGWrLtL8WvL.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Capital’s second plasma bank to open at GTB hospital next week||Delhi’s second plasma bank will open at northeast Delhi’s Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) hospital in the coming week, senior officials in chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said on Friday. “We are in the process of opening up Delhi’s second plasma bank. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has been monitoring the setting up of a plasma bank in GTB. Plasma therapy has proved to be life-saving in many corona cases. With this plasma bank, a number of patents will benefit,” said RS Rautela, medical director, GTB hospital.The first one at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) in Vasant Kunj was launched on July 2.A dedicated Covid-19 facility, of the 1,500 beds in the hospital, 206 were occupied on Friday evening.Dilip Pandey, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Timarpur, who is charge of setting up Delhi’s second plasma bank, said it will be smaller than the one at ILBS.“Today a plasma extraction machine was installed at GTB. The only thing we are waiting for is getting approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). We applied and we are expecting to start the plasma bank from Monday or Tuesday if approval from DCGI comes by this weekend,” Pandey said.The AAP leader said the GTB bank will be able to extract plasma from 7-8 Covid recovered persons in 10 hours. “The set-up is relatively smaller than the one at ILBS, which has three plasma extraction machines compared to one in GTB, though we can increase it any day if demand increases,” he said.The reason for opening a plasma bank at GTB is accessibility, an official in the chief minister’s office said. “By opening the facility in GTB hospital, interested donors from northeast, east, and north Delhi won’t have to travel all the way to South Delhi to donate their plasma,” the official said.The scheme of providing a cab or reimbursing the donor’s transportation cost to and from the hospital will continue, the official added.The first plasma bank in Delhi, also India’s first, opened in ILBS on July 2. Since then, only about 100 persons have come forward to donate their plasma, creating a huge demand and supply gap.Kejriwal on Friday spoke to several plasma donors telephonically and thanked them for their contribution in saving lives. Taking to Twitter, he shared the audio of his conversation with plasma donors. To bridge the gap and to stock the bank with adequate plasma, the government issued several orders this week. It has made it mandatory for donors to replace plasma taken for therapy with equivalent units of plasma of any blood group. It asked all Covid hospitals to ensure all recovered patients fill up a feedback form to assess the “willingness to donate plasma at the time of discharge”. In another order, the government directed all hospitals to display flex boards outside their premises to encourage plasma donation.Therapy through transfusion of plasma – a component of the blood – has been on Delhi since April 22, weeks after global studies showed the technique improved chances of recovery among people with severe Covid-19 illness. Blood and plasma donations require specific matching of blood groups, which often makes the sourcing of plasma difficult, especially at short notice.According to government reports till June, plasma therapy trials in Delhi helped improve the health condition of 34 out of 35 Covid-19 patients in government hospitals and 46 out of 49 patients in private hospitals.To register for plasma donation, one has to call on 1031 or send a message on the WhatsApp number 8800007722. One can also register through the government’s delhifightscorona.in website.To donate plasma, a donor should be a person who was tested positive for Covid-19 through a test. Secondly, s/he must have fully recovered and must be free of any Covid-19 symptoms for 14 days. Only such persons between the age group of 18 and 60 years will be eligible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capital-s-second-plasma-bank-to-open-at-gtb-hospital-next-week/story-LYpiX7eyeBZgzUL1oFh2JI.html
11-07-2020||City||Lack of space forces Kalyan locals to wait for 15-20 hours for kin’s cremation||Residents of Kalyan-Dombivli have to wait for 15 to 20 hours for cremation of their loved ones due to lack of space to accommodate the increasing number of Covid-19 fatalities in the city. While there are five crematoriums in the city, the civic authority has claimed that some of the machines are prone to regular damage due to the burning of the plastic, in which bodies of Covid patients are wrapped. This, they claimed, has also increased the process of cremation from one hour to two hours for each body, which in turn results in the long wait.Authorities said they are looking for alternative cremation techniques. Recently, most residents who lost their loved ones to Covid-19 or other ailments have complained of long waiting hours for cremation.Mayuresh Kene, a 38-year-old Kalyan resident, had to wait for almost eight hours to cremate his friend’s body on Monday. He said, “My friend was declared dead around 2pm, and he was not Covid positive. However, a crematorium in Kalyan said their machines were not working and asked me to visit Dombivli. I went to two other crematoriums, but those had no space to accommodate my friend and I wsa asked to wait till the next day. Finally, I went to the crematorium near Shani Mandir and cremated my friend at 11pm.”There are five crematoriums in the twin cities in Shiv Mandir, Bailbajar and Lalchowki in Kalyan (West); Vitthalwadi; and Patharli in Dombivli (East). Rajat Rajan, 39, a social worker from Dombivli, visited a crematorium where the body he had was the 18th one of the day. He said, “There was only one person who cremated all 17 bodies in a day. We were told that bodies of Covid positive patients take more time to burn due to the plastic and that there was a lengthy cleaning process of the machine. Moreover, some of the crematoriums are defunct, thus adding pressure on the ones that are functional.”KDMC engineer Sapna Koli said, “It is true that the machines are giving us problem due to burning of plastic, however, we have to follow ICMR guidelines. Around 20 bodies are cremated each day. The process, which used to take one hour, now takes over two hours and the machines also get damaged regularly and need a lot of maintenance. Most of our employees, too, have tested positive. So, we are short-staffed which is further adding to the delay.”She added that they have started regular servicing of the machines and are also working on alternative methods. “Before Covid, we used to service the machines once in a while. However, with the increasing load, we have started regular servicing to ensure all machines are working. Our engineers are also looking for better technologies used in other cities to find a solution for the problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lack-of-space-forces-kalyan-locals-to-wait-for-15-20-hours-for-kin-s-cremation/story-0Tnu8zKvv2i9aBQYlrTFkK.html
11-07-2020||City||With rise in Covid-19 cases, biomedical waste in Ghaziabad increases by 390%||With the rise in the number of coronavirus cases in Ghaziabad, the biomedical waste (BMW) generated in the district has increased by about 390%. According to data by the Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB), the district generated about 3152.7 kilogram(kg) of BMW in April, 2,685.73 kg in May, and 12,321.2 kg in June alone. Officials said that majority of the BMW generated in the district was related to the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and its amount increased as more Covid facilities opened in the district.Before the outbreak, the district generated about 1,100-1,200 kg of bio-medical waste per month.“The spike in the generation of biomedical waste is a result of many Covid treatment facilities being opened in the district. Also, since the number of Covid-19 cases are rising, the amount of biomedical waste is also increasing. We have two private agencies which are collecting such waste, and they have been instructed to pick up the waste each day on time and take it to incinerators for its scientific disposal,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the pollution board.“We are carefully monitoring the lifting and disposal of the BMW related to Covid-19, and are also sending regular reports to the Central Pollution Control Board,” he added.The officials said that the BMW generation came down in the month of May as the district had less number of active cases and had a high discharge rate. According to official records, with a total of 305 cases till May 31, the discharge rate for the district was at about 76.39%.Till July 9, Ghaziabad had a total of 2,740 Covid-19 cases which includes 64 deaths, 1324 patients who were discharged, and the remaining 1,352 as active cases.According to officials, the amount of bio-medical waste also increased in wake of the revised guidelines issued on June 18 regarding Covid-19 related waste. “Till then, only PPE kits, face masks, etc. at hospitals were categorized as BMW. Later when the guidelines were revised, all the waste generated from Covid hospitals is considered to be BMW be it leftover food, water bottles among other things. Hence, there has been a considerable spike in the quantity in June,” said Sanjay Kushaik, regional manager (administration), Synergy Waste Management Pvt Ltd, one of the companies dealing in the disposal of BMW in Ghaziabad.“Since many Covid-19 facilities were opened up and Ghaziabad, the generation of BMW is also on the rise. In the month of July so far, an average of 750-800 kg of BMW has been collected per day,” he added.At present, seven hospitals in Ghaziabad are providing Covid treatment as the health department ropes in more hospitals for the job. Currently, the seven hospitals have 444 beds, while 150 more will be added in the district soon when two more hospitals start providing Covid treatment.“The waste management companies have already been working in Ghaziabad for safe disposal of BMW waste. Our officials are also tracking the lifting of BMW and that it is disposed off regularly without any delays. If the number of Covid cases rise, the generation of BMW will also increase in the future,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-rise-in-covid-19-cases-biomedical-waste-in-ghaziabad-increases-by-390/story-xD5CsiVRvBupRY06lDyktL.html
11-07-2020||City||Patient flees from hospital, collapses, dies||A 50-year-old patient, who fled from Shastri Nagar civic hospital in Dombivli on Thursday night, was found lying on the footpath near the hospital. Locals shot a video and circulated it on social media following which hospital staffers found the patient after three hours. He later succumbed at the hospital. The patient had tested negative for Covid-19 on Tuesday, his second test report is awaited.According to staffers of the Covid hospital, the patient was admitted on July 7 in the intensive care unit (ICU) and fled on Thursday around 9pm. However, he collapsed on the footpath nearby. Locals gathered and shot a video which was then circulated on social media. In the video the patient wearing a mask was seen lying restless on the footpath. “Locals tried asking the patient about his whereabouts but he could not respond. Locals did not touch him suspecting he was a Covid patient. He was lying on the footpath for almost three hours. After locals called Shastri Nagar hospital, he was attended by a hospital employee around 12.30am. He was taken back to the hospital where he was declared dead,” said Mahesh Nimbalkar, a social activist, who shared the video on Thursday night.Suhasini Badekar, chief medical officer of the hospital, said, “The first test report of the patient came negative. On Thursday night when our staffers were busy handling two Covid deaths at the ICU, he managed to flee.”“When we couldn’t find him, we checked the toilets and the hospital premises. Later we got information about a man lying on the footpath nearby and found that it was the same patient. He was bought back to the hospital, but was declared dead on arrival. His Covid-19 test report is awaited,” she added.Earlier in April, a quarantined patient had fled from the toilet of the hospital.Kalyan Dombivli municipal commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi has assured to order an inquiry. “We will check and inquire about the incident and take needful action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patient-flees-from-hospital-collapses-dies/story-8xASd48yMibKoEhkDd30TP.html
11-07-2020||City||Weekend restrictions: Movement curbed at Delhi-UP borders, no new passes to be issued||Movement at the state’s border will be restricted and no new passes will be issued for commuting during the two days – Saturday and Sunday – when Uttar Pradesh goes for a ‘weekend’ restriction, starting 10pm, Friday, till 5am, Monday.“There will be restriction on movement of people at the border. If a person wishes to go to their office in Delhi, they will not be allowed. However, those already having passes or engaged in essential services will be allowed, as usual. We have also considered that vegetable/fruit vendors in localities will be allowed as they cater to essential supplies, but they will have to comply with social distancing norms,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.The state government announced the restrictions late Thursday, to contain the spread of Covid-19.UP chief secretary RK Tiwari issued the order which stated: “Considering the current situation and after a review from the state government regarding containment of Covid-19 and some other vector-borne diseases such as encephalitis, malaria, dengue and kala azar (black fever), the state government has imposed certain restrictions from 10pm on July 10 to 5am on July 13.”On Friday, the chief secretary issued a revised order in which he allowed functioning of industrial units in urban and rural areas, and asked them to ensure social distancing norms and setting up of mandatory Covid helpdesks.“Industrial units are now allowed as per the revised order. Further, we have received the notification of a penalty of Rs 500 to be imposed on persons not covering their faces or wearing masks. The police have been directed to act strictly against such persons. During the two days of weekend restrictions, all major roads will be barricaded like it was done earlier during the lockdown period,” Pandey added.Officials also said they have also issued directions to banquet halls, farmhouses, hotels and restaurants owners to comply with the restrictions.“They have been asked to not allow any new bookings for marriages, parties or functions, etc., for Saturday and Sunday. In case anyone already has previous bookings, they will be allowed to hold functions, etc. Hotel owners have been asked not to allow new guests but the existing occupants will be allowed,” said Prashant Tiwari, sub divisional magistrate.Listing the restrictions, the chief secretary’s order of July 9 says that during this period, all offices, urban and rural haats, markets, grain markets, and commercial establishments will remain closed. The Railways will continue to operate the way it has been and the UP roadways will make arrangements to operate buses to ferry train passengers to and from stations. However, barring these buses, no other public transport will be allowed to operate anywhere in the state.The order also says that transportation of goods will have no restrictions and traffic will be allowed on the national and the state highways.Tiwari in the order said that the state will run an extensive sanitization and drinking water supply consolidation drive, and that all the officers and employees related to the drive will be allowed to join, despite the restrictions.“The office identity card would serve as Covid-19 pass for people who are exempted from restrictions,” said Tiwari’s order.The ongoing large-scale construction activities — such as expressways, big bridges, road, PWD projects, government buildings and private projects – too shall continue work, the order said.The government has ordered all DMs and police officers to ensure adequate surveillance and patrolling for adherence to all restrictions.“The biggest sufferers of the weekend restriction will be the traders and shop owners in markets who already have restricted opening of markets on alternate days. Those whose turn it was to open on these two days will have to remain shut now. Although industrial units are allowed, workers will face issues on roads, with police restrictions. We don’t understand the logic why the two day restrictions have been put in place,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weekend-restrictions-movement-curbed-at-delhi-up-borders-no-new-passes-to-be-issued/story-sg91x7CLlT7TfKVtvTUwjK.html
11-07-2020||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad private medical colleges can now admit Covid patients||The Uttar Pradesh government, Friday evening, gave temporary permission to private medical colleges to run wards for patients of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. The government, however, also fixed charges for different private wards for different categories of private medical colleges.In the order, issued by additional chief secretary (medical education) Rajnish Dubey, it has been stated that considering the requests of different medical colleges in the state and anticipating the need for more beds in the future, private medical colleges have been given permission to run the wards, at the stipulated rates.While private hospitals have been divided into two different categories - National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) accredited and non-NABH accredited, the patients have been categorised in three groups – those with moderate, severe and very severe sickness or symptoms. The rates for NABH-accredited hospitals vary from Rs 8,500 to Rs 15,300 per day, including the cost of PPE kits. For the non-NABH category, it varies from Rs 6,800 to Rs 12,750 per day, including the cost of PPE kits. “These rates will be applicable for grade-A cities. For grade-B cities, the cap will be 20% less than the higher level,” the order stated.The order further stated that the package rates will be all inclusive, and will include bed, food, amenities, doctors’ consultation, nursing charges, consumables and all other treatments, including oxygen, blood transfusion, supportive care and physiotherapy. “The package will include medical management of underlying comorbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes, cardio-vascular illness and chronic pulmonary/kidney/hepatic diseases. This will include emergency management procedures such as acute haemodialysis, if needed and non-invasive ventilation such as high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) and Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP),” the order stated.The order further said that same rates will be applicable to paediatric patients. “For pregnant women, costs for delivery (normal/C-section) and care of new-borns will be charged extra as per prevailing Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Programme (PMJAY). The rates do not include costs for RT-PCR or IL-6 assay,” it stated.Welcoming the order, a Sharda medical college spokesperson said: “With this order, patients now can choose wards as per their choices in our college,” he said.Meanwhile, with a short weekend lockdown starting from Friday 10 pm to Monday 5 am, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has decided to completely restrict the movement on the inter-state border.District magistrate Suhas LY said that during the lockdown, a special drive against communicable/vector borne diseases shall be carried out. “All shops, offices, commercial establishments, including shopping malls, shall be closed. Industrial establishments shall be open, but they will have to follow all preventive measures, including setting up of Covid helpdesks,” he said.Suhas further said that supply of essential goods and services shall be allowed through home delivery. “Supply of medical goods and services shall be allowed. Such categories of personnel, whose movement is permitted by the government order, will not require separate passes. The ID cards issued by respective organisations/industry shall be considered as valid permits for their movement. Movement to and from railway stations and airports shall not be prohibited,” he said.NOIDA DISTRICT TALLY OVER 3,200On the other hand, with 87 new cases of coronavirus reported in the district in the past 24 hours, the overall count of confirmed cases has gone up to 3,269 cases on Friday. According to the daily health bulletin released by the state control room, a total of 2,221 people have been cured and discharged, including 85 discharged on Friday, in the district so far. “So far, 31 Covid-19 positive patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 1,008 active cases,” the bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-ghaziabad-private-medical-colleges-can-now-admit-covid-patients/story-rYDFkrDhy99RGBpuEiCGLK.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Schools can refuse online class ID if parents can’t prove financial difficulty: HC||If parents are unable to satisfy the school regarding their financial difficulties, the school authorities can refuse to provide their wards ID and password for online education facilities, the Delhi high court has said.Justice Jayant Nath -- who was hearing a plea challenging a Delhi government circular directing schools not to deny ID and password for online classes to students who did not pay fees due to financial constraints -- also said the schools are free to issue notice to parents who defaulted in payment of tuition fees for more than two months.The court said if parents are able prove their financial problems, then no action should be taken against their kids.“In case the parents are able to convince/demonstrate to the petitioner (school) about their financial problems/financial incapacity to immediately pay pending fees, the petitioner shall not take any further steps for the time being against such parents,” the court said.“Where parents are unable to satisfy/demonstrate to the petitioner (school) regarding their financial difficulties, the school is free to so communicate the same to the parents and decline to provide them ID and Password for online education facility for the students,” the court said in its order passed on July 8. The court also said if parents have any grievance against such an order passed by school, they can approach the appropriate authority of the Delhi government.The court sought the government’s response on a plea filed by a private school through its counsel Romy Chacko, challenging its April 18 circular that says only tuition fees shall be charged from parents during the lockdown.Appearing for the Delhi government, its counsel said that according to the April 18 circular, schools are free to take steps, including issuing notice to parents of students who defaulted in payment of tuition fee.“An opportunity may be given to the parents to explain if they are suffering from any financial crisis. In case such parents are not able to satisfy/demonstrate the school regarding their financial problems, it is only in that eventuality that steps can be taken as per law by the school,” the counsel told the court.Following this, the court issued a slew of directions and posted the matter on August 15 for further hearing.Advocate Chacko said many students were “taking unfair advantage” of the circular’s provisions. About 40% students are defaulting in payment of tuition fee, resulting in a grave financial crisis to the institution that is “struggling to pay salaries of the staff and teachers”.The school urged the court to allow it to charge the actual expenditure incurred by it during the lockdown period in the form of fees from students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/schools-can-refuse-online-class-id-if-parents-can-t-prove-financial-difficulty-hc/story-512jhvCPYpkG0xIQOqP5CM.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Business community demands waiver in fixed charges in electricity bills||As a Delhi government-appointed committee explores avenues for economic reform in the Capital, traders and industrial unit owners’ associations have asked the government to waive fixed charges in electricity bills for the lockdown period.Arguing that businesses were shut between March 22 and May 17, Sanjay Bhargava, president of the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said “The trading community is already under tremendous pressures due to negligible business, even after markets have been allowed to open. When markets were not open, why should traders be made to pay fixed charges?”Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to repeated requests for comment.While economic activity has resumed, industrial unit owners in Delhi said production had returned to just around 40-50% of capacity so far. Several said the government will have to support businesses at least in the current financial year, arguing that demand is unlikely to revive completely over the next few months.Ashish Garg, secretary of Narela Industrial Complex Welfare association, said, “We have already suffered losses due to the lockdown. The government should waive fixed charges for the last three months because everything was closed. When other states can do it, why can’t Delhi?”They also said the Centre has given discoms financial assistance for losses incurred during the lockdown. Rajesh Garg, secretary of the Indian Council for Trade and Industries, who also owns a factory in Narela, said, “The government should support industries and traders for the economy to return to normal. The Centre has provided financial assistance to discoms. When they have got the benefit from the Centre, it should be passed on to consumers as well. As work will take time to pick up, we request the government to charge fixed charges as per actual consumption of electricity.”The Centre had, in May, announced Rs 90,000 crore liquidity injection into fund-starved discoms as part of a stimulus package to revive the country’s economy.When contacted, Brijesh Goyal, Aam Aadmi Party’s trade wing convener of the Delhi Unit and a member of the 12-member panel constituted by the government to explore economic reforms, said, “This matter was not discussed in the first meeting of the committee. Actually, we have not got any representation from traders and industrial unit owners demanding waiver in fixed charges in electricity bills. If we get any such request, we will definitely place it before the committee for discussion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/business-community-demands-waiver-in-fixed-charges-in-electricity-bills/story-x1QnvgCXKwIrgTnJtF0lzO.html
11-07-2020||City||Two hospitals served show-cause notice over report mix-up||A day after private hospitals in Kalyan mixed up a 35-year-old woman’s Covid-19 test results with those of a 45-year-old infected patient, the health department of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Friday served a show-cause notice to the hospitals located in Kalyan (West), asking them to explain their side within 24 hours.“We have served notice to the hospitals asking for explanation after the family has complained about the mix-up of reports,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.The 35-year-old patient, Nita Sawant, a resident of Adharwadi, Kalyan (West), is currently admitted at Meera Hospital in Kalyan (West). A representative from the hospital said, “The patient is stable and her treatment is underway.”Meanwhile, Mahatma Phule police called her family to record their statement on Friday.On Thursday, Sawant’s family had alleged that a hospital in Kalyan mixed up her Covid-19 test results with those of a 45-year-old infected patient and sent her for Covid-19 treatment to another hospital.The family realised there was a mix-up when the medical store where they went to buy some injections pointed out that the age of the patient mentioned on the test report does not match the age mentioned on the woman’s Aadhaar card.According to her family members, Sawant fell sick on July 3 and was taken to private hospital in Kalyan. On July 5, the hospital claimed her report to be positive and asked to take her to another private hospital in Kalyan, saying her condition was severe. The family has spent ₹1.5 lakh on her treatment.Sawant’s brother, Ajay, has since filed a complaint with Mahatma Phule police station and KDMC health department.“The police had called to record our statement on Friday. We have explained the entire incident to them,” said Ajay, 34.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-hospitals-served-show-cause-notice-over-report-mix-up/story-YXgGiGEws279s7nUGPgHpJ.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||OPD visits at AIIMS down to a fraction in post-Covid reality||It’s been two weeks since the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) reopened its outpatient clinics, after three months of keeping them closed due to the lockdown, but the eight-storey building is nearly empty on Friday. The 30 patients who had appointments were done with their consultations by 11.30 am.At the waiting areas outside consultation rooms at the new Raj Kumari Amrit Kaur OPD block at Masjid Moth, yellow squares are marked on the floor, and every alternate chair is blocked in bids to ensure social distancing — but there are no patients.Before it shut on March 23, around 13,000 patients would queue up for appointments at outpatient clinics every day. However, hospital officials said patients now stay away for fear of infection. Additionally, fewer patients are allowed to visit the campus, with most given tele-consultations.The 60-year-old hospital had, in February, moved its clinics to the sprawling new building with modern amenities, as part of a redevelopment plan.Outside the new building, a screening room has been set up to check every patient for symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Guards and volunteers at the gate check off the names of the patients against a list.“Patients have to first register for tele-consultation. They are given an appointment for the OPD if doctors ask to see the patient in person. We receive such a list every day, since no walk-in patients are allowed. Since the reopening, we’ve mostly been getting patients from the orthopaedics department,” said a volunteer on duty who asked not to be named.The hospital has been providing pre-registered patients with tele-consultations since April after the OPD was closed. The service has now been extended to new patients as well. At least 1,000 patients receive tele-consultations a day, hospital officials said.“With OPD services reopening, five or six departments have started registering new patients. Patients are called in only if the doctor thinks they need to see the patient in person to treat them. We have restricted our OPD services to about 15 patients a day for each department. However, we are receiving fewer patients than that. People are scared they will get the infection if they come to the hospital,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of the hospital.With almost half the patients at the hospital coming from other states, travel restrictions have played their part in keeping the visitor-count low.“Almost half our patients — about 48%, according to our data — travel in from outside Delhi, and they’re not able to travel because of the lack of inter-state trains and buses. This could be another reason for the low attendance,” said Dr Sharma.On Friday, the only busy area in the hospital was outside the cancer wing, where patients submitted medical files to a guard outside. Before the lockdown, the cancer centre used to receive around 600 patients in its outpatient clinics daily, which had gone down to about 250 during the lockdown.“With restrictions being lifted and travel allowed, the numbers are going up again now. Cancer patients cannot wait, they were coming to us throughout the lockdown,” said Dr Sharma. Another person called patients inside, one at a time. A microphone has been fixed to the railing outside the building with bandages to ensure that everyone can hear the call, including those sitting across the road.Fifty-four-year-old Mohd Ilias, a bladder cancer patient had travelled to the department for a quarterly screening. “I have already had surgery and chemotherapy, but I have to come here every three months to show the doctor my scans, to check if the cancer has returned. I have been waiting here for three hours now, but I have noticed that once their names are called, patients are immediately taken to the doctor’s cabin and come out within 10 minutes. There is no queue inside,” he said.“We kept the cancer centre open even during the lockdown because cancer is almost an emergency. It is potentially life-threatening if not treated in time,” Dr Sharma said.The palliative care centre — which provides morphine to cancer patients in pain — also remained open. “Opioids (strong and addictive pain medicines) cannot be prescribed after telephonic or vide consultations — the guidelines released by the health ministry are clear. So we kept the clinics running for patients in pain, asking new patients to come in for one consultation and providing adequate medicines to family members of our old patients. For those who travel from outside the state, we connected them to local hospitals where we have trained doctors from our centre,” said Dr Sushma Bhatnagar, head of the department of onco-anaesthesia and palliative care at AIIMS.The only queue was outside the hospital’s emergency department, where patients waited for their turn to be screened for Covid-19 before receiving care. A separate set of trolleys have been placed for patients coming in with Covid-19 like symptoms. They are taken into the hospital emergency through a separate screening area where the entire staff is in full personal protective gear.“The attendance at the emergency wing is also lower than we used to see. Most people are just not coming in. It’s the Covid ward that remains busy,” said a guard posted outside the hospital emergency wing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/opd-visits-at-aiims-down-to-a-fraction-in-post-covid-reality/story-lpfMhCg48jb2LHIZJaFKeL.html
11-07-2020||City||From July 13, confirmatory RT-PCR testing only for symptomatic cases in Ghaziabad||Alarmed by the large number of people testing positive through RT-PCR tests after testing negative during rapid antigen testing in the district, the Ghaziabad health department on Friday said that starting July 13 it will only retest samples of symptomatic patients for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) through the lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction test for “true negatives”. To expand testing in the district, Ghaziabad administration had started rapid antigen testing on June 26 in containment and non-containment zones. The state government had also given the district a target of collecting 3,000 samples per day for antigen-testing under its special surveillance drive from July 2 to July 12. District health officials said that considering the directions for bulk testing, they had been conducting antigen tests for all, symptomatic as well as asymptomatic persons, during the 10-day long drive. They said they witnessed a high positivity rate of about 15% when RT-PCR tests of those who were found negative during rapid antigen testing were conducted.“During the special antigen testing drive, we received directions to undertake bulk testing. Hence, we were testing symptomatic as well as asymptomatic persons even during the RT-PCR test in order to find true negative after a negative antigen test. This led to an increase in the number of cases in the last 8-10 days. So, after July 12, we will now adhere to the ICMR guidelines strictly and conduct RT-PCR tests of only symptomatic patients who test negative during antigen testing, ” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.According to the ‘newer additional strategies’ for Covid-19 testing issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR) on June 23, “A positive test should be considered as a true positive whereas all symptomatic individuals testing negative through the rapid antigen test should be confirmed with a real-time PCR test.”Antigen tests look for specific protein associated with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, the pathogen that causes Covid-19. The new test is highly specific (99.3% to 100%) — meaning a positive result on the test is a “true positive” and does not need any confirmatory test. The sensitivity of the test is between 50.6% to 84% depending on the viral load, meaning those who test negative are not “true negative” and might still have the infection and are advised to go for a test through the more reliable RT-PCR method if they show symptoms of the disease.“Between June 26 and July 9, we have conducted about 16,634 antigen tests and 477 of these were found positive (positivity rate at 2.8 %). For those found negative during antigen testing, we were getting the samples checked for true negative with the help of RT-PCR test. This was done for all, symptomatic as well as asymptomatic, patients. When we started with the subsequent RT-PCR tests, we found that out of 1,666 test reports received so far, as many as 263 cases have turned positive leaving us with a positivity rate of about 15.78%, ” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.The district had received a total of 19,000 rapid antigen testing kits before the bulk testing started and has only a few thousands kits left now. Health officials said they have information that 50,000 more antigen test kits will be provided to the Meerut division ( Ghaziabad included) soon, but the date when the additional kits will arrive is not confirmed.The district has so far conducted a total of about 46,439 tests which including testing methods such as RT-PCR, TrueNat, and rapid antigen kits. Till July 10, Ghaziabad has a total of 2,863 Covid-19 cases which includes 63 deaths, 1,459 discharged patients, and the remaining 1,341 active cases, including 124 cases added on Friday.The district’s current positivity rate is about 6.1% with the recovery rate at about 59.23 which is lower than UP’s overall recovery rate of 65.28% and the national recovery rate of 62.42% (issued by the union ministry of health & family welfare on July 10) The case-fatality rate in Ghaziabad is about 2.33% now.Since active cases have been on a constant rise, health officials for the last two days have been checking for the discharge status of patients who have recovered but are were still reflecting as active cases on the state portal.“In the last two days, we have been able to identify bout 400 such patients who had been discharged from hospitals but their entries were not uploaded over the state portal. After we started calling patients, rectifications are being made. Only July 9, entries of as many as 252 patients were rectified and shown as discharged over the state portal. So, the exercise will bring down our rate of active cases further and we will continue with it,” Dr Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-july-13-confirmatory-rt-pcr-testing-only-for-symptomatic-cases-in-ghaziabad/story-s1CExl6VZcac4V2eMxe3pJ.html
11-07-2020||City||Bhiwandi MP, 6 family members test positive||Member of Parliament and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kapil Patil tested positive for Covid-19 along with six members from his family. His wife, Minal, had tested positive five days ago.Patil, in a statement published on social media on Friday, shared that his family has been active in reaching out to people during lockdown. “After my wife tested positive, 10 members of my family also went for the swab test and seven of us tested positive; this includes my sons, nephew, daughter and daughters in law,” Patil said in the statement.“For almost two months after the lockdown was imposed, all of us were at home following social distancing and lockdown norms. However, as the number of cases increased in Bhiwandi, we stepped out to help locals with medical camps and providing aid. My wife and sons also joined in and we reached out to people in various areas of Bhiwandi, Kalyan and Shahapur as well,” he said. After Patil’s wife tested positive, 10 of his family members including Patil got swab tests done, of whom seven have tested positive. His wife is admitted to a private hospital in Mumbai whereas Patil is quarantined at home as he is asymptomatic. Confirming the news, a Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation official said, “As the family had visited many places and interacted with people, we are currently making a list of people who have been in close proximity with the family.”Bhiwandi recorded 59 positive cases on Friday taking the total to 2,501 cases and 141 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-mp-6-family-members-test-positive/story-sbNYTKLdRCL04IH6J2PCXL.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||To decongest busy ITO junction, traffic police seeks a detailed study from PWD||With an aim to decongest central Delhi’s busy ITO intersection, the traffic police has written to the public works department (PWD) to conduct a comprehensive study of the stretch and adjoining areas to assess traffic volume and accident count so that tailor-made solutions can be found. Traffic unit’s deputy commissioner of police (central range) Anita Roy on Tuesday wrote to PWD officials asking for a detailed study of the ITO junction and the area in a 4-5km radius around it. “ITO is a very important junction, considering that it is the primary connecting point between central and east Delhi. Our plan is to make this stretch a model one for the rest of the city. For this, understanding the issues plaguing the area will be the first step,” Roy said. The traffic police has asked the PWD to assess details such as the vehicular volume at the intersection during normal as well as peak hours. The traffic police has also asked for information on how traffic volume is affected during VIP movements, sports events, exhibitions and protests. Details of pedestrian counts and parking requirements in nearby areas have also been sought as a part of the study.Shashi Kant, PWD’s engineer-in-chief, said the department will take up the study and all required aspects would be looked into. He, however, said he was yet to “officially receive” the communication from the traffic police department.Before asking the PWD for the study, the traffic police department, along with Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) and two road safety NGOs, had conducted a series of inspections of the area before the lockdown was imposed on account of Covid-19 on March 25.A senior PWD official, privy to the development, on condition of anonymity said the outcome of the ITO decongestion plan, along with the ongoing Pragati Maidan redevelopment project, which includes a traffic circulation plan around Mathura Road, Purana Qila Road, Bhairon Marg and the Ring Road, will result in holistically decongesting all these stretches. Ranked among the busiest intersections in the national capital, ITO daily sees serpentine jams, which worsens during the rush hour. However, no effective solution has been implemented by authorities to ease commuter woes. In 2015, the Delhi traffic police, with the Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre, has come up with a one-way plan for the intersection. During the evening rush hour, when vehicles coming from east Delhi were directed towards Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Marg, and from there made to take a right towards Gandharva Mahavidyalaya to join Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg via Kotla Marg. Similarly, vehicles coming from Minto Road and Connaught Place are made to take a left from DDU Marg towards Kotla Marg. Senior traffic officials said even though this one-way plan had helped take away some traffic from the main intersection, the problem was more deep-rooted. S Velmurugan, chief scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, CRRI, who was part of the inspection team, said no recent study has been conducted to assess the problems of ITO. “We have been taking measures to regulate traffic in the area based on a study from 2017 which estimates that nearly 4.5 lakh vehicles pass through the junction throughout the day, but that study does not give exact data about traffic flow at different timings,” he said.Velmurugan said measures such as the construction of a 1.2km tunnel between Purana Qila Road and the Ring Road along with six underground U-turns on Mathura Road, Bhairon Marg and the Ring Road will decongest ITO crossing and W-point near Pragati Maidan. “These measures should come up at the earliest. Delay only aggravates the problem,” he said.The PWD is constructing this ₹777-crore project to ease travel to India Gate and parts of central Delhi from different corners of the city, especially from east Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said, “With limited public transport modes, and a fear of safety, commuters are likely to depend on private vehicles and this will add to the vehicular load. Preparing for the worst will help agencies manage this actuality in the coming months,” Roychowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-decongest-busy-ito-junction-traffic-police-seeks-a-detailed-study-from-pwd/story-FvUVfsi6nlfAm3lRI2AAVK.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi begins plantation amid a shortage of workforce and fund crunch||The Delhi government’s forest department and other road-owning agencies, such as the four municipalities (east, north, south Delhi municipal corporations and New Delhi Municipal Council), the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the Public Works Department (PWD), are to begin the annual task of planting trees across the city. However, this year, the agencies are struggling to meet these targets because of a major shortage of workforce and funds.The state forest department has set a mammoth target of planting 3.1 million saplings this season. However, senior officials said that during the Covid-19 lockdown, several contractual gardeners and outsourced labourers left for their villages, which is likely to affect the plantation process.“We depend a lot on outsourced labour to meet the plantation target, but this year, we are facing a major labour crunch. Our own staff cannot handle such a massive target. Hopefully, in the next few weeks, labour will return and we will be able to meet the target,” a senior forest department official said.The official explained that even though most saplings were prepared for this season in nurseries months in advance, they need an additional workforce to shift these saplings to the required locations without damaging them.“Because these saplings are generally planted on the sides of the road, the possibility of them being damaged is higher if we directly plant them on the site. This is why we first let the saplings gain some strength in the nurseries before moving them,” the official said.Every year 6,000 to 8,000 people are engaged by the department. From July 10, the department started its plantation drive, and this annual exercise will continue till the end of September (the end of the monsoon).Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai, who inaugurated the plantation drive for the rest of the season on Friday, said that these plantation targets were decided after a detailed consultation with departments.“We aim to plant as many saplings as we can to improve Delhi’s green belt. We are going to not only meet our targets, but surpass them,” Rai said.Other road-owning agencies, responsible for increasing the city’s green cover, are also facing similar hurdles that are likely to impede the plantation drive this year.A senior official of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said that Covid-19 will have an impact on the plantation drive, which is to start next week. He said that apart from the labour crisis, a fund crunch has hit the municipality.“Due to the unavailability of labour this year, we couldn’t manage to grow the desired number of saplings in our nurseries. We will now have to rely on NGOs and the forest department to donate plants to us as we are unable to buy them due to a fund crunch,” the official said, requesting to not to be named.He said that the civic body is yet to receive a plantation target from the forest department. At present, there are around 1,250 permanent gardeners with SDMC.A senior official of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation also said that due to a lack of funds, the civic body could not procure semi-grown canopy plants and will have to depend on a limited number of low-height saplings. He said that semi-grown plants’ survival rate is better than the small saplings’.He said that there are around 1,600 to 1,700 gardeners available with the civic body, but an additional workforce might be required for a massive plantation drive. He said that this year’s target is to plant 50,000 trees and one lakh shrubs.Jai Prakash, mayor, north Delhi, said, “We will optimally use our existing workforce to successfully achieve our plantation target. Due to the lack of funds and a workforce, we will not conduct a big ceremonial plantation drive. Since we could not buy plants due to shortage of funds, we will request the forest department, NGOs and corporate houses to donate saplings for the cause.”The officials of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation also reiterated similar problems and said that they would try to make the plantation drive a success using limited resources. Delhi Development Authority (DDA), which has a target of planting 9.4 lakh saplings, said they are yet to begin the plantation drive and if such problems are encountered in the process, they will look for solutions.“There is no doubt that there is a shortage of labour these days, not just for plantation but for all development projects. But we are hoping that with migrant labour now returning to cities, we will be able to get ample labour to efficiently complete our target,” a DDA spokesperson said.The officials of PWD’s horticulture department said that there was a shortage of labourers for plantation. “There are nearly 700 permanent gardeners with the department and we will require an additional workforce to meet the target in time. Every year, contractual staff, as well as permanent staff, is engaged in the exercise, but this year due to Covid-19, many contractual workers have gone to their hometowns,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/city-begins-plantation-amid-a-shortage-of-workforce-and-fund-crunch/story-zMZU4rQScAaGBY5SzHKCyK.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||SDMC likely to look at open-air dining proposal at next meeting||Residents of the city will have to wait a little longer to enjoy the open-air dining experience at restaurants in south Delhi as the Standing Committee of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Friday postponed a discussion on the proposal. The committee members have asked the officials to broach the matter in the next meeting, likely to be scheduled later this month, saying that they need more time to discuss the draft policy.The move was envisaged after restaurant owners approached the civic body with a request to allow open-air dining on the terraces and lawns of restaurants, citing losses due to Covid-19.According to SDMC officials, the policy allowing restaurants and eateries to serve food in open spaces is more relevant during the Covid-19 crisis as there is a lower risk of the virus spreading in open areas than in closed rooms with air conditioning.“We have placed a draft policy before the standing committee which has not been passed today. It has been postponed until the next meeting,” the official said.Under the policy, the municipality plans to allow open-air dining at restaurants under its jurisdiction with certain riders. There are nearly 2,000 restaurants and eateries in south Delhi. A senior SDMC official said that according to the draft policy that open-air dining would be allowed only at those restaurants which own open areas or terraces so that there is no encroachment on public land or pavements. “The policy does not allow cooking or barbecuing in the open. The food should be cooked in closed kitchens and only be served in the open. Light music can also be played in an open-air dining area, but it should not be beyond permissible decibel levels. Live band performances will not be allowed under such as arrangement,” the official said.He added that under the policy, liquor would only be permitted at licensed terraces and the restaurant owners would have to install view cutters and high parapet grilles to ensure that there is no inconvenience to others. The official said that the licensing fee is yet to be fixed but it is likely to be around ₹100 per square ft for normal restaurants and ₹200 per square ft for four-star restaurants and hotels. “We have postponed the matter to the next meeting as there are several points, such as licensing fee, which are to be discussed in detail,” a member of the SDMC standing committee said. The officials further said that, under the policy, the only restaurants that would be allowed to have open-air seating arrangements would be those that already have a health trade license and a NOC from the fire department.Commenting on the matter, Sandeep Khandelwal, the president of the Delhi Hotel and Restaurants Association, said, “There is no point in delaying the policy to allow open-air dining at restaurants. Such a move is more relevant during the pandemic because there is a smaller chance of the virus spreading. The move is also aimed at benefiting traders, as due to Covid-19, people do not want to visit restaurants. The open-air dining system is already in place in many counties, so the authorities should allow such a practice here also. Such a move will also bring more revenue to the corporation. It should be implemented at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sdmc-likely-to-look-at-open-air-dining-proposal-at-next-meeting/story-fw2pFDzUSzDQmLPRhTBfCP.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Online quiz on nature this Sunday||Nature enthusiasts across India will be able to test their knowledge about flora and fauna and win awards in the ‘The Great Indian Nature Quiz, which goes online this year.The first 50 winners will receive gifts such as a pair of binoculars for wildlife watching — the grand prize — coffee table books, mugs, flasks, pens, pocket guides, flash cards and subscriptions to Sanctuary Asia, a wildlife magazine. The quiz, which used to be conducted outdoors every year, will be held online on Sunday, July 12, between 5pm and 6.30pm and is open to all. An initiative of the DelhiBird Foundation, the quiz can have a maximum of 1,000 participants.“This quiz is a family event. There is no pre-registration nor age bar. People of all ages, and as many members of a family can participate. Enthusiasts can log on in real-time on Zoom or Facebook where the quiz will be streamed live,” said Nikhil Devasar, founder, DelhiBird Foundation, one of the oldest birding clubs in the Capital.There will be multiple choices for each question and participants will get 20 seconds to select the right answer, he said.“The faster you guess, the more points you will get. There will be a total of seven rounds with 10 questions each. The entire exercise will be transparent and take place real-time. The winners will be announced real-time,” said Devasar.A three-member team from the club will coordinate.Bikram Grewal, a Delhi-based ornithologist and author who will be the quizmaster, said, “This year, it is pan-nation and so the questions will be tougher than usual. We formalised the quiz with a greater variety of specific questions around all kinds of creatures, including birds, mammals, reptiles, and trees and flora and fauna.”Every question will have a visual as a hint. “The last five questions will be the toughest,” said Grewal.How to Join To join the quiz, participants can log in at -- Zoom link : https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81527183458 or to zoom.us. The quiz will be streamed live at the Facebook pages including ---- @delhibird - The Indian Bird Network, @earlybirdindia, @ZEISSNatureIndia, @sanctuaryasiapage, @wwfindia and@dkbooksindia. For more details, log on to https://delhibirdfoundation.org||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-quiz-on-nature-this-sunday/story-X2BiCiiPrHhl9AfAwac6hK.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Lack of community toilets in Shivaji Nagar slums pose greater Covid risk||More than a year after the state human rights commission took suo moto cognisance of reports on lack of community toilets in the slums of Shivaji Nagar in Deonar, nothing has changed on-ground, says NGO Apnalaya, an organisation working in the slum clusters.In November 2018, the NGO calculated the ratio of people per toilet seat as being 145:1, a far cry from the Swachh Bharat Mission norms which states that there should be one toilet seat for every 25 people.The ratio is more troublesome in the current pandemic, especially in areas that have the worst health indices in the city. As per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Covid-19 report for July 9, M-East ward has reported 3,427 cases and 277 deaths.According to the Mumbai Human Development Report 2009 of United Nations Development Programme, the average life expectancy in M-East ward (which includes Shivaji Nagar) is 39 years. The same report puts M-East on the lowest rank among the city’s 24 wards in terms of human development index. Another 2017 situational analysis by Apnalaya found that 44% of children in the ward are underweight while 57% are stunted. Around 88% of pregnant women here are anaemic.The lack of community toilets forces people to stand in long queues or resort to open defecation. Rehan Shaikh, a resident of the area, said, “The queues are always long. The doors of the functional toilets are often broken, and the toilets are dirty. It becomes very difficult during the rains.”Poornima Nair, director (health and disability) at Apnalaya, said, “The human rights commission took suo moto cognisance when the report was published in 2018. Still, the situation is the same. The long-term impact of this is that people get regular bouts of diarrhoea and other ailments, especially during monsoon.”Sunita Choure, program in-charge at Apnalaya, said, “People with disabilities, pregnant women and senior citizens find it more difficult to access the toilets.”While Sudhanshu Dwivedi, ward officer of M-East was not available for comment, Shaera Khan, a councillor from electoral ward 134 of Shivaji Nagar, said, “In the last one and a half to two years, BMC has given approval for 25-30 community toilets in every electoral ward, but the work has been very slow. Now, the lockdown and monsoon have further affected the work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lack-of-community-toilets-in-shivaji-nagar-slums-pose-greater-covid-risk/story-C6l3BZG22wnuGYTVBRkgsN.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||SGNP residential quarters declared containment zone after 16 positive cases reported||The entire staff residential area at Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) has been declared a containment zone by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) after 16 Covid-19 cases were reported there.Over the past two months, seven SGNP employees tested positive while the remaining cases were of family members and neighbours who had contracted the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, over the past few weeks, said SGNP officials.So far, one death has been reported during the last week of May from Dam pada, located close to SGNP’s boating area. On May 8, the area was declared a containment zone – the first one inside the national park.“The most recent case was reported on Thursday, taking the case count to 16, of which 10 are active. All 10 are at Covid-19 care centres,” said a senior SGNP official. “Cases are scattered, but we are observing a pattern. Every two weeks, there is one positive case, followed by two to three associated ones. The area is then declared a containment zone.”A medical officer from BMC’s R-North ward confirmed the entire staff colony and hamlets such as Dam pada, Chinch pada, and Chuna pada inside SGNP, and Damu Nagar in Kandivli, Appa pada in Malad, Mulund’s Khindi pada and a few more areas along the park’s periphery were declared containment zones.Though the park has been shut for visitors since March 18, BMC has placed a sign at SGNP’s entrance cautioning citizens about containment zones inside the park. SGNP has over 2,000 families with close to 35,000 tribal residents living across 56 hamlets.SGNP assistant conservator of forests Sachin Repal said, “BMC directed us to ensure that all residential areas within the park are identified as containment zones even if there are no cases in the area. This is to ensure no further spread of the coronavirus due to an increasing trend. With help from Mumbai Police and BMC, we are able to provide all essentials, including rations, vegetables, and medicines to residential quarters and tribal hamlets.”Repal added that all waste from the residential quarters and hamlets is being carefully collected. “We are in close proximity to animals, and open garbage could have adverse effects on wildlife,” he said.Meanwhile, all 102 residents of the staff quarters employed in animal care at the lion and tiger safari, and leopard rescue centre continue to report for work.“None of them have tested positive or have any symptoms. Regular thermal testing, sanitisation is conducted, and protective equipment is being used,” said Vijay Barabde, superintendent of safaris and range forest officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sgnp-residential-quarters-declared-containment-zone-after-16-positive-cases-reported/story-WmkgerUq3DMIZs96mre18J.html
11-07-2020||Mumbai||Rapid antigen kits, tests without prescription may push up cases in Mumbai||At a time when the city crossed 90,000 Covid-19 cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is expecting a spike in the number of daily cases owing to the increase in tests to 5,000 daily and the permission to conduct tests without a prescription. BMC is also using 1 lakh rapid antigen kits that give results in 30 minutes to increase the testing strength. As of July 9, 3.79 lakh tests have been conducted in Mumbai, with a positive rate of 23.39%, according to BMC data. In May, the average daily tests conducted by BMC was 3,800, followed by 4,300 in June, and going up to nearly 5,000 tests daily. The figure includes both RT-PCR and rapid antigen testing.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said it would be difficult to predict a spike or decline in cases. “We can’t claim cases have saturated or peaked or we will see a downward trend now. We have made preparations to cater to a spike in the number of cases for the coming days. With liberalised testing guidelines and use of rapid antigen kits, we might see a spike in the coming days, but we will have to wait for a few more days for the impact to be seen.”Also Read: WHO praises Dharavi’s Covid fightKakani said, “We are already conducting around 5,000 tests daily, and this number will go up further to 6,000 or 7,000. However, we can’t tell how many tests will be conducted daily. It depends [on various factors]. We have been using rapid antigen kits for which we are floating bids to appoint private laboratories to carry out tests on a larger scale.”Currently, BMC has tested 2,000 samples using the rapid antigen kits, and 5% of those have come positive. However, the kits are majorly being used in the suburbs, where cases are rising at a faster pace, and among frontline workers.BMC in a circular issued on July 7 said any person who thinks he was in close contact with a patient who tested positive and is a high-risk contact, irrespective of the age, can get tested. BMC has also asked ward officers in western suburbs to use antigen kits and conduct at least 250 tests daily. Private laboratories are anticipating a surge in queries, while many said they are getting double the number of queries now.Also Read: Lack of community toilets in Shivaji Nagar slums pose greater Covid riskMetropolis, a private laboratory in a statement, said, “We have witnessed an increase in queries from patients, almost double the number of daily queries. We ensure details such as symptoms or high-risk contacts are captured. Our team is geared up to handle the spike and our goal is to issue reports within 24 hours. We have the capacity to conduct a few thousand tests per day.”Ravi Aggarwal, regional COO, SRL Diagnostics, another laboratory involved in conducting Covid-19 testing, said, “It is evident that the government is now trying to adequately scale up testing – a measure that alone could hold the key to beating the outbreak. Being one of the few labs in Mumbai that has the highest testing capacity, we are well prepared to cater to the volumes which are likely to go up. We have a 24x7 operation set-up which has been further reinforced in anticipation of the increased patient flow. The process so far has been appointment-based as well as walk-ins without prior appointments, however, as we foresee an increase in volumes, we would suggest and urge patients to make prior appointments, so that we can implement social distancing norms for everyone’s benefit.”Also Read: Covid positive MBBS students can confirm postgraduate admission onlineSiddarth Paliwal, a city-based private health consultant, said, “There is no doubt that daily testing has increased, but we need to scale it up. We already have 1 lakh rapid antigen kits in our hand. We should set a timeline wherein a certain number of additional tests should be conducted using these kits in the next two weeks.”Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis , who has been criticising BMC, tweeted on Friday: “In a city like #Mumbai where 89,124 patients got diagnosed as COVID-19 positive, why is the number of daily tests so less especially when 24% of the total tests are positive? It is difficult to win the war against corona without increasing the number of tests.”The city has been witnessing cases between 1,000 and 1,500 on a daily basis since the last week of May. On Friday, Mumbai recorded 1,337 fresh cases and 73 new deaths. City’s case tally rose to 90,461 while the toll touched 5,205. The total number of discharged patients in Mumbai is 61,934, with a recovery rate of 68.46%. Further, active cases stand at 23,305. The fatality rate as of Friday was 5.75% and the doubling rate was 49 days. One hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement – Dharavi – recorded 12 new cases on Friday, bringing the area’s case count to 2,359, of which 1,952 have been discharged. Meanwhile, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar visited the Covid-19 ward in Sion hospital on Friday and interacted with the patients. Pednekar also requested the patients to donate their blood plasma after recovery to save others’ lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rapid-antigen-kits-tests-without-prescription-may-push-up-cases-in-mumbai/story-TCaJlKvRNINfdQz3xnbVlJ.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Hisar’s Rishita tops Haryana board Class-10 exam with 100% marks||Rishita from Narnaund town of Hisar district on Friday topped the Class 10 exams conducted by the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH), scoring 100%, while the second position was shared by five girls, namely Uma, Kalpana, Nikita Maruti Sawant, Sneh and Ankita, all from Hisar, who got 99.8% .Sharing the effort that enabled her to score 500 out of 500, Rishita said that she used to study for four to five hours daily after returning from school.“I did not take any tuition. My parents and teachers supported me throughout. I was not stressed either during the preparation of the exam or for the result. I’m glad that two of my friends and classmates got the second position. I want to dedicate my success to my teachers without whom this could not have been achieved. I stayed away from social media platforms though,” she said.Rishita’s father Naresh Kumar is an assistant auditor in the Haryana government’s cooperative department and is posted in Jind, while her mother is a primary teacher at Tagore Senior Secondary School, Narnaund, where she is studying.WANTS TO BECOME A DOCTOR TO SERVE IN RURAL AREASThe Class 10 topper said that she wants to become a doctor to serve rural Haryana.“ I want to be able to save lives. Many people die in rural areas due to lack of medical care. I want to serve them. I want to make a true connection with people by saving their lives,” she said.She urged students to simply focus on their studies and not think about the result. “I never dreamt I would be the state topper. In fact, I played badminton regularly except during the exams. My mother and father are my heroes,” she said.Rishita’s father Naresh Kumar said that he never pressurised his daughter to study. “She was focused and used to study till late at night. I support her decision to opt for medicine and will help her realise her dream of becoming a doctor. Parents should be true companions of their children and understand them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hisar-s-rishita-tops-haryana-board-class-10-exam-with-100-marks/story-ewhTRrG3lCdketdOUNj6jP.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 austerity measures: Chandigarh admn slashes expenditure by 20%||The UT administration has slashed budget estimates of 2020-2021 by 6% to 8% from July to September, reducing expenditure by 20% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020-2021 to cope with the steep fall in revenues following the Covid-19 lockdown, it was announced on Friday.The measures apply to all departments and entities getting UT grant-in-aid, including the municipal corporation (MC).The UT finance department issued fresh directions imposing strict restrictions on spending of allocated expenditure. For the next three months, there will be a cut in budget estimates of 2020-2021 by 8% in July, 6% in August and 6% in September. In total, for the second quarter of fiscal 2020-2021, the administration’s expenditure will be reduced by 20%.Two months of lockdown has cost UT Administration a whopping ₹342 crore in tax collections. “The revenue generation from goods and service tax (GST), excise and VAT plummeted by 71% for April and May in comparison to the same period last year. The MC is running a fiscal deficit for 2020-2021. The directions are also in line with the Central government guidelines,” said a senior UT official who did not want to be named.Development works to be impactedThe administration has ordered the UT engineering department to focus only on completing ongoing projects. Other projects can only be taken up if approved by the administration as priority.Financial bids of only those projects will be opened which have been approved by higher authorities. The department has also be asked to give priority to clearing pending bills instead of making payments for new works subject to availability of funds during the quarter.Ban on new recruitmentsThere will be a moratorium on new recruitment, except for ongoing processes. The DC rates (wages fixed by district collector) of all outsourced employees have also been frozen. Strength of contractual and outsourced employees will not be increased.There is complete ban on the leave travel allowance (LTA) and purchasing of new vehicles.UT has directed that amounts that remain unspent in a month/quarter will not be carried forward for the next month/quarter.The administration has also asked the UT electricity department to exempt government departments from late payment surcharge on electric bills.The departments have been directed not to operate office expenses and other charges under expenditure heads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-austerity-measures-ut-admin-slashes-expenditure-by-20/story-meEe7BL3xLQYVi1iBdt0GP.html
11-07-2020||Pune||Man’s decomposed body found at Moshi garbage depot||A decayed body was found dumped in the Moshi garbage depot, Pimpri-Chinchwad, at around 10 pm, on Thursday. The body was noticed by the JCB driver who informed the ground segregation staff.According to police, the sanitation staff loaded the decomposed body in a garbage van mistaking it for waste.The Bhosari MIDC police station officials were informed about the incident who conducted an on the spot panchnama. The body was sent for post mortem at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH).According to the PCMC officials, the dead body was of a male and was noticed by the JCB driver who informed the ground segregation staff. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic the staff refused to go near the body and informed the police.Police inspector Rajendra Kunte said, “ The body was found in a decomposed condition and its identity could not be ascertained. We are trying to find out from which dumper did it reach the Moshi garbage depot.”Dr K Anil Roy , PCMC health officer, said, “An investigation is on to trace the dumper from which the body came to the depot.”According to PCMC officials currently, garbage trucks fetch garbage from eight wards of Pimpri-Chinchwad daily. Also, two private companies have been entrusted the responsibility of handling garbage processing that the mammoth unit.The police will be questioning the local contractor and all the truck drivers in connection with the case.Maruti Bhapkar, social activist, said, “It is a serious lapse and strict action should be taken against those responsible for lackadaisical attitude. The administration cannot be callous during the times of Covid crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-s-decomposed-body-found-at-moshi-garbage-depot/story-DoJbSz5WWvpFswMzxQZOYP.html
11-07-2020||Pune||BJP reduced Pune civic body’s GST share when in power in state, alleges Maha Vikas Aghadi||As the state government has increased the Goods and Service Tax (GST) share of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to Rs 153 crore per month in this financial year, political leaders from Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have started the ‘blame-game’ over the difference in the share amount.PMC’s per month GST share was Rs142 crore in the financial year 2019-20.The state government has given Rs11 crore growth per month, which means PMC will get Rs132 crore additional amount per annum, according to officials.The leaders from the Maha Vikas Aghadi allege that despite the BJP being in power in the PMC the state government has increased the share for the civic body. On the contrary when BJP was ruling in the Centre, state and municipal corporation, instead of giving a hike in GST share the government had reduced it.Chetan Tupe , city unit president and MLA , Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP), said, “Despite additional financial burden due to Covid-19 pandemic the sate government has given the due amount to the civic body even when BJP is in power in the PMC. The present state government does not want to involve politics with the development works in Pune.”“On the contrary when BJP was in power in the state the GST share for PMC was less, as they should be four to eight per cent hike every year,” said Tupe.“Now as the BJP is in power in the Centre it is biased while distributing funds to Maharashtra and Delhi,” said Tupe.Hemant Rasne, BJP leader and standing committee chairman, said, “It is true that the state government has released the GST dues for April, May, June and July. It has given a hike as compared to previous year, but when we were in power in the municipal corporation and state we were following up with the issue.”When asked why the previous government did not give a hike in the GST share, Rasne said that it is mandatory to give a hike of four to eight per cent every year, but refused to elaborate the issue.While abolishing the Local Body Tax (LBT), the state government had decided to give share from GST to every municipal corporation. As per that amendment, all the municipal corporations get GST share from the state government every month.GST share from state government to PMCYear/ Rs in crore per month2018-19/ 1452019-20 /1422020-21/153||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-reduced-pmc-s-gst-share-when-in-power-in-state-alleges-mva/story-Rj18UGUW0NlBsDc2uL16qI.html
11-07-2020||Pune||12 IAS officers swing into action to handle Pune Covid crisis||With the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Pune, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar appointed 12 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers in Pune to handle the Covid situation in the city. There were three IAS officers working in Pune including municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad and two additional municipal commissioners Rubal Agrawal and Shantanu Goyal. The state government has appointed nine additional senior IAS officers who would work in the municipal area for handling the Covid-19 situation.Last week, Pune district guardian minister Pawar chaired a meeting with senior IAS officers and raised concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases. Pawar said in the meeting that the cases in Mumbai started decreasing but why was it not happening in Pune. He also warned officers to act speedily or face action. In the same meeting, Pawar instructed to appoint dedicated officers for testing and other works.After Pawar’s instructions, divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar appointed five IAS officers in the city on Monday.Mhaisekar appointed the director-general of Maharashtra council of agriculture education and research Vishwajeet Mane and gave him the responsibility of Covid testing in the city. Mane will be responsible for monitoring both government and private laboratories.Sports director Omprakash Bakoria was deputed for contact tracing. He will follow up on contact tracing of positive cases and try to find an early detection.The tribal research and training institute commissioner Pavneet Kaur will concentrate on bed availability and co-ordination. If complaints start flowing in on unavailability of beds, Kaur will be responsible to follow up and coordinate on any shortages or arrangements.Agricultural commissioner Suhas Diwase will coordinate with non- governmental organisations and invite public participation for handling the Covid-19 crisis.PMPML chairman and managing director Nayana Gunde was appointed as the in-charge for ambulance availability and coordination.Along with these five IAS officers, last month chief secretary of Maharashtra appointed four IAS officers in the city who are already working with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). These IAS officers were given the responsibility of various regional ward offices. The four IAS officers are Saurabh Rao (sugar commissioner), Anil Kawade (co-operative commissioner), Sachindra Pratap Singh (animal husbandry commissioner), Kaustubh Divegaonkar (groundwater survey and development agency).IAS officers working in Pune1 Saurabh Rao -sugar commissioner2 Anil Kawade -co-operative commissioner3 Sachindra Pratap Singh –animal husbandry commissioner4 Kaustubh Diwegaonkar –groundwater survey and development agency5 Vishwajeet Mane – director-general – MCAER6 Omprakash Bakoria -sports director7 Pavneet Kaur -commissioner tribal research and training institute8 Suhas Divase – agricultural commissioner9 Nayana Gunde -PMPML chairman and managing director10 Shekhar Gaikwad -Pune municipal commissioner11 Rubal Agrawal -additional municipal commissioner12 Shantanu Goyal – additional municipal commissionerTwo more IAS officers working in Pune areDeepak Mhaisekar – Pune divisional commissionerNaval Kishor Ram – Pune district collector||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-ias-officers-swing-into-action-to-handle-pune-covid-crisis/story-ZhUjprqQb4bTWIP1xUQzvM.html
11-07-2020||Pune||Impressive performance by Pune students in ICSE, ISC results; no merit list this year||The results for Class 10 Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and Class 12 Indian School Certificate (ISC) held by Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) for the academic year 2019-20 were declared on Friday, even as the council decided against bringing out a merit list.City students garnered good performance in both the exams and St Mary’s School, Bishop’s School, Camp and St Helena’s School have scored 100 per cent passing percentage.At St Mary’s School out of the 193 girls and boys who appeared for ICSE examination, 80 per cent of students have secured above 95 per cent in English and best of 4 subjects and 85 per cent have secured above 90 per cent. While for ISC this year 89 students had appeared out of which 21.35 per cent of students have secured above 95 per cent and 57.30 per cent have secured above 90 per cent.Similarly, at the Bishop’s School, Camp, students have scored 100 per cent results this year in both ICSE and ISC exams.A total of 213 students appeared from the St Helena’s School out of which 87 students scored above 90 per cent and 112 students scored above distinct marks.“The excellent performance of our students in the ICSE 2020 examinations was a result of the excellent teamwork of our teachers, students and parents over the years,” said J Simoes, principal, Wisdom World School.Kavita Sahay Kerawalla, vice-chairperson, Vibgyor Group of Schools, said, “This year’s results for the ICSE exam as those of the past years have firmly established the school’s academic merit and its pedagogical prowess.”“It is our teachers who have shown remarkable and praiseworthy commitment in their efforts. This has made the real difference for our students who are not only doing well academically but also excelling in multiple areas like arts, literature, dramatics and sports,” she said.Gerry Arathoon, secretary, CISCE, said, “This year, students will get digitally signed mark sheet after 48 hours of the result declaration. They can download their mark sheet from DigiLocker app.”In Maharashtra, a total of 23,336 students appeared for the ICSE exams and 3,150 students appeared for ISC exams. According to the information given by the CISCE, out of the total 23,336 students who appeared from 226 schools for the ICSE Class 10 exams in the state 12,747 were boys and 10,589 were girls. And only 17 of them have failed in the exams across the state.While in the ISC Class 12 exams out of the total 3,150 students who appeared from 51 junior colleges in the state 1,470 were boys and 1,680 were girls. And 46 of the students failed in the exams.The ISC exams were scheduled between February 3 and March 31, while ICSE exams were scheduled from February 27 to March 30. However, six papers of ICSE and eight papers of ISC exam could not be conducted due to Covid-19 pandemic.The ICSE examination has been conducted in 61 written subjects of which 22 are Indian languages and nine are foreign languages. The ISC examination has been conducted in 51 written subjects of which 15 are Indian languages and 6 are foreign languages.Students SpeakI am very happy with the results. I completed half of the syllabus in Class 9. I kept away from all the distractions like mobile, TV and other social media. I studied for 10 to 12 hours during the exam period and I want to opt for science stream. I want to become a medical doctor.”Aditya Bidgar, Class 10, ICSE, Vidya Pratishthan’s Magarpatta City Public School Score: 99 per cent “I always believe in hard work. I kept on studying genuinely throughout the year. My family, friends and my teachers supported me. I studied for three to four hours and would take small breaks which help me focus well. I want to become a psychologist.”Anushka Waghmare, Class 12, ISC, Bishop’s School, Camp Score: 98.5 per cent “I had hoped to do well in board exams but topping the school came as a surprise. I would give much of the credit for my success to my teachers and parents. They encouraged me to work harder and at the same time indulge in some co-curricular activities. This helped me in staying calm and collected during the exam period.”Vedang Bahuguna, Vibgyor High School, NIBM Score: 98.8 per cent||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/impressive-performance-by-city-students-in-icse-isc-results-no-merit-list-this-year/story-TEzX2mJAldWSKWHdyti5UO.html
11-07-2020||Pune||Universities in Pune hit a roadblock on campus placements||Amidst clashes over final year exams between the central government’s Human Resource Development (HRD) ministry and the Maharashtra State government, universities and colleges in Pune are finding it difficult to deal with corporate companies where students have already been placed through campus interviews.Corporate companies are now demanding a proper result for students, asking for early joining of those placed and some, even cancelling campus appointments.According to Prashant Dave, registrar of MIT World Peace University (WPU), corporates are not accepting the joining of students.“Corporate companies are not accepting our students, they are asking for provisional certificates and several other things to join. There are certain concerns which corporates have about new joiners, and so not conducting the exams will impact on the placements of students. There were few corporate companies who officially wrote to us asking whether we are taking the exams or giving average marks to students. We were requesting them to wait for a while as there is no clarity yet about taking final year exams. Our placed students are on the bench, they have not yet got any induction or training started,” Dave said.Savitribai Phule Pune University’s vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “The placements of students or promises to take final year students were done by corporate companies prior to Covid period. But now the situation has changed and many industries are minimising their employment. So even the offers made earlier to students may be rolled back. But we hope that this will be a short term thing and we are expecting that a hike in employment in the fourth quarter of this academic year 2020-21. We are hoping that there will be a complete rise in the industrial sector. So in that point of view, we are keeping our students ready, through our employment cell we are keeping our students engaged in webinars and other activities.”Talking about this issue M M Salunkhe, vice-chancellor, Bharati Vidyapeeth said, “This is a big challenge for us to get our students placed, we already have good campus placements in management and engineering from our colleges. But the companies are demanding for joining the students before July ends. Our problem is that without results declared we cannot send our students for joining, so we are going to write official letters to these companies requesting them to give us more time to relieve our final year students once we conduct the exams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/universities-hit-a-roadblock-on-placements/story-lRrGgM51zcBWalbFIneRLP.html
11-07-2020||Pune||155 Ayurvedic doctors to handle Covid care centres||The Pune Municipal Corporation has appointed 177 doctors on a temporary basis for handling the Covid-19 situation in the city. Among them, most are Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) doctors who specialise in Ayurveda.PMC municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “As the PMC is creating more Covid care facilities, it is requiring additional medical and paramedical manpower. Recently, the PMC published an advertisement for recruiting doctors on a temporary basis. PMC has given an appointment order for 177 doctors.”150 doctors among the 177 hired temporarily are BAMS graduates and they will be serving at the Covid care centres across the city, according to Gaikwad.In its efforts to conduct 1 lakh antigen tests for quick Covid results, the PMC also appointed a pathologist on contract basis who will conduct the test at various places.The PMC was also facing a shortage of manpower for swab testing, which will also be done by the pathologist.The PMC has begun a two-day training program for its newly recruited pathologist at the Naidu hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/155-ayurvedic-doctors-to-handle-covid-care-centres/story-BRsCYURwxMLAkPbLtuW8iN.html
11-07-2020||Pune||Pvt hospitals: Bed shortage after asymptomatic patients occupy space||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has a bed availability of 18,856, and the number of active cases at the present is 8,809 – however, there have still been incidents of private hospitals denying patients treatment due to the shortage of beds. The reason for this, according to civic officials and private hospitals is the unwillingness of Covid-19 positive patients to go to a Covid care centre and asymptomatic patients insisting on reserving hospitals beds which are reserved for those with moderate or severe symptoms.The civic body has now directed to discharge asymptomatic patients in five days if they do not show any Covid symptoms and also deny admission to any asymptomatic patients and redirect them for home isolation.Dr H K Sale, executive director of Noble Hospital said, “We have started encouraging asymptomatic patients to isolate themselves at home for those who can afford to be isolated. If they cannot, then redirect them to the nearest Covid care centre. We have preserved more than the promised beds for Covid-19 at regulated prices but still, there is a shortage of beds. People do not trust civic-run facilities for various reasons which is why we have to insist on home isolation. However, it is also observed in some cases that a person who is asymptomatic in the previous five days may report symptoms later like what happened in the case of Boris Johnson. So home isolation needs to be monitored properly and only then it will be successful.” Johnson, the British Prime Minister was infected with Covid-19 and recovered after being in a critical condition for a long period. Despite being in self-isolation for a week with mild symptoms, his condition began deteriorating. Sahyadri Hospital general manager Dr Sunil Rao said, “In the meeting, we were told that the civic body will take strict action if any hospital is found to admit asymptomatic patients who unless must be admitted only in a Covid care centre. If any asymptomatic patient is found to be admitted in any hospital during inspections then the hospital will face severe action.”As of July 9, there are over 8,809 active patients in the city who are still undergoing treatment for the infection and there are 2,017 patients who are in home isolation.Dr Abhijit More, Jan Arogya Morcha member said, “There is no point in admitting a patient for five days and then discharging them. Even an asymptomatic patient is a potential carrier. He may infect the vulnerable family members. People are reluctant to go to civic-run facilities and the civic body needs to work on them because it is difficult to keep track if those in home isolation are following the norms. However, it is also true that asymptomatic patients must not occupy hospital beds and must be directed towards the care centres.” More further questioned the housing societies across the city, “Will the housing societies who do not even allow housemaids to enter the society let a positive patient live there?”The civic body has further stated that from here onwards it would push for home isolation as a policy decision. PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “As a policy we are encouraging home isolation for positive patients. Even though we have enough beds at our Covid care centres, over 900 beds in Balewadi, 300 beds in NICMAR and over 600 beds at COEP are vacant right now, the shortage of beds is for those who require oxygen or those who are critical patients because the isolation beds are occupied with asymptomatic patients. People are reluctant to go to our Covid centre because they fear they may be adversely affected by another patient and so home isolation is the solution.” The PMC which has a low contact tracing of about only 9 .91 persons per positive patient is now further pushing for home isolation for asymptomatic patients given that they have all the required facilities for isolation.Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Pune said, “The turnover time for ICU and ventilator beds is more than isolation beds. It may take 10-14 days or even more if the patient is critical and thereby resulting in a shortage of critical care units. Earlier, it was noticed that asymptomatic patients are occupying beds in hospitals but not now. We have started an indicating system for vigilance and all asymptomatic patients must be admitted to either the care centre or prefer home isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pvt-hospitals-bed-shortage-after-asymptomatic-patients-occupy-space/story-Rxw0N5ZOfeuDmcEXK2xlpI.html
11-07-2020||Pune||Covid-related deaths: Pune district tally crosses 1,000||With 28 deaths reported on Friday, the Pune district crossed the 1,000 grim casualty mark with 1,007 Covid-19 deaths including those reported from the Cantonment area and the Civil hospital, Aundh. Pune city reported 903 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the count of progressive positive cases to 26,077 while 14 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported on Friday taking the death toll in the city to 800. The progressive positive count of the district stands at 35,997. The city also saw 609 people being discharged after they were declared as cured taking the total of such people to 16,188. Out of the 9,089 active cases, 443 are in a critical condition with 74 on ventilator and 369 in ICU. The deaths include five from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital including that of a 64-year old male and a 70-year old female both from Sinhagad road and a 55-year old male from Katraj. A 55-year old male from Kothrud and a 43 year old male from Parvati were also reported dead. Also four deaths from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) were reported including that of a 63-year old male from Dhankawadi, a 56-year old female from Tadiwala road, a 29-year old male from Kothrud and 42-year old male from Kondhwa.A 66-year old male from Ghorpade peth was reported dead from Kashibai Navale hospital, a 60-year old male from Bibwewadi was reported dead from Poona hospital, a 60-year old female from Shivajinagar was reported dead from Ruby Hall Clinic, a 55-year old male from Swargate was reported dead from Symbiosis hospital and a 64-year old female from Kondhwa was reported dead from KEM hospital.Three patients out of PMC jurisdiction were also reported dead from city hospitals including a 67-year old female from Taluka Haveli reported dead from Ruby Hall Clinic, a 54-year old male from Sangvi reported dead from KEM hospital and an 80-year old male from Aurangabad reported dead from Sahyadri Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-related-deaths-pune-district-tally-crosses-1-000/story-Puf0zsVU9b8qRMpugImH8L.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fearing fake encounter, gangster Lawrence Bishnoi demands to be handcuffed when brought to Chandigarh court||Fearing fake encounter, gangster Lawrence Bishnoi has filed a first petition in Chandigarh district court seeking that he be ‘handcuffed’ when brought to court or taken anywhere else.The district court has issued a notice to Chandigarh Police seeking a reply back by July 13.Currently lodged at Bharatpur Jail in Rajasthan, the 35-year-old gangster has a number of FIRs against him in Chandigarh, Punjab and Rajasthan.Bishnoi mentioned in the petition that according to news reports, his name had appeared in two cases—firing at Singlas’ house in Sector 33 and at a liquor shop in Sector 9.‘NO CONTACT WITH OUTSIDE WORLD IN 2 YEARS’Bishnoi’s counsel Terminder Singh said Bishnoi had been lodged in Rajasthan for two years and had no communication with any of the accused arrested in the two cases.Since he was already convicted in many cases, every investigation agency falsely implicated him in other cases so he could never come out of jail, Bishnoi mentioned in the petition.He said that the Chandigarh Police only wanted to highlight certain cases by showing his involvement. Many false cases had been registered against him and he was later acquitted by the court, he added.Since Bishnoi is apprehending arrest in two cases, he pleaded before the court to direct the investigating officer to handcuff him and provide “special security” so that he is not killed in police custody. The gangster has also filed for anticipatory bail in two firing cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fearing-fake-encounter-gangster-lawrence-bishnoi-demands-to-be-handcuffed-when-brought-to-chandigarh-court/story-4qbHjZ90A3u37nMwwB0ONI.html
11-07-2020||Pune||Is Lockdown 3.0 necessary and will it help Pune’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic?||That was the question that dominated the press briefing, post the high-level meeting at Council Hall on Friday, chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, where the decision was taken.On the direction of Pawar, the meeting, also attended by divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar; district collector Naval Kishore Ram; Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad; Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar; and Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham, decided that Pune will be under a strict 10-day lockdown from July 13 to July 23, instituted in two phases; phase one, will be Lockdown 1.0 redux, with nothing but medical essentials and milk sale allowed; and then, five days later, phase 2, with essentials like groceries and fruits and veggies being allowed.What preparations have been made during Lockdown 3.0 to enhance medical facilities? What about the livelihood of those on or below the poverty line?The media queries came thick and fast, also pointing out that the rest of the world was primarily in an unlock phase.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “It is true that administration does not have all the answers immediately, but in the present situation, to break the chain of infection and the speed of the virus spreading, a lockdown is the better option.”District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “People are not following guidelines and roaming without taking enough care. We are not claiming that after lockdown cases will come down, but it gives us a chance to break the chain of infection. Authorities will get time to manage the availability of hospital beds.”Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “Anyone can check the number of positive cases number before lockdown and after. Considering this, the step has been taken.”The district collector said, “We are in the planning process now and will issue detail guidelines on Saturday.”Naval Kishore Ram said, “The decision about Hinjewadi IT Park and Chakan MIDC has not been taken yet. After consulting with the industrial departments, guidelines would be issued for same.”On trains and air services operating the divisional commissioner and the collector both said that the number of trains arriving is few and the administration would ensure commuters are in home quarantine.Municipal commissioner Gaikwad said that detail guidelines would be issued on July 8 as regards the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/is-lockdown-3-0-necessary-and-will-it-help-pune-s-fight-against-the-covid-19-pandemic/story-Vf8dw3XzsCYMXCPkE44BcO.html
11-07-2020||Pune||Traders’ association against 10-day lockdown||The decision to implement a lockdown for 10 days by the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) and the Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) has not gone down well with the federation of traders association of Pune.The traders’ body has opposed the lockdown imposed by the local administration, and written a letter expressing dissent to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram, and PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad.The association has appealed, against a complete lockdown in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. According to the federation, businesses were closed from March 16, and after the relaxations swung in, traders have been facing problems due to the P1 and P2 rules. Most of the businesses have been only able to work an entirety of 15 days; however, they have paid a full month’s rent and drawn 30-days salary for their employees.“The traders are already frustrated. For the first eight to 10 days no customers came to the shops, now there has been some movement in the last week and PMC again wants a lockdown which is completely illogical,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary of the federation of traders association of Pune.Pitaliya wants the onus on the police to take appropriate action on people who are flouting social distancing norms and not wearing masks.The traders association has also demanded to scrap the P1 P2 rules.“Keeping businesses closed is not a solution for controlling the spread of Covid-19. PMC should be strict against people who are sipping tea standing in front of shops which are banned,” said Pitaliya.The federation has assured PMC that traders who flout norms, the association will take action against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/traders-association-against-10-day-lockdown/story-PW7QR9Rz8S7Q4xwVyMnTUO.html
11-07-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal reviews Covid death analysis, wants more data||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday reviewed the analysis of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) deaths in the city even as the number of fatalities has come down to nearly 40 a day.“The meeting was inconclusive on Friday. The chief minister and deputy chief minister Mansh Sisodia found the report prepared by the health department inadequate. They asked the principal secretary (health) to work on the analysis further with more data and update the report,” said an official in the chief minister’s office.The official said the government has identified a private company to outsource the task of tele-counselling of Covid-19 patients under home isolation. “The tender process is over and the firm has been identified. The name of the firm will be provided as soon as the final formalities are over,” the official added.The report was to give a detailed analysis of age, gender, health conditions and presence of comorbidities in those who died of Covid-19, to help the government to further devise ways to bring down mortality.Around 60 deaths were being recorded every day across the city last week. So far, 3,300 people have died of the infection in the city. This puts the case fatality rate at 3%, slightly higher than the national average of 2.72%.Delhi on Friday recorded 2,089 new cases, taking the total count to 109,140.Last month, the Centre had alleged that people were dying of Covid-19 in Delhi in two days as home isolation guidelines were not being followed properly. To reduce the mortality, the Delhi government started providing pulse-oximeters to ensure people could check their oxygen saturation and reach hospitals as soon as it dipped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-reviews-covid-death-analysis-wants-more-data/story-LY9WSGuuhde7VQL9cpLK3M.html
11-07-2020||Lucknow||‘Have nothing to do with him, his deeds’: Gangster Vikas Dubey’s mother refuses to attend last rites||Sarla Devi, mother of gangster Vikas Dubey who was killed in an encounter with Uttar Pradesh police on Friday morning, refused to attend the last rites of her son — main accused in the murder of eight policemen in Kanpur — and said she has nothing to do with him and his deeds. After she was informed about the encounter, Devi, along with her younger son Deep Prakash’s wife Anjali, locked herself in at their Lucknow residence.“A police team was sent to inform Vikas Dubey’s family about his death in police encounter. She refused to go to Kanpur stating that she has nothing do with him and his deeds,” said Deepak Kumar Singh, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Krishna Nagar.“She later locked herself in with her daughter-in-law Anjali and her two children at Indra Lok colony under Krishna Nagar police station limits” the ACP said. A day earlier, Devi said that she will have no regrets if her son was gunned down for being responsible for an act which claimed the lives of eight policemen in the raid last week. On Thursday, soon after Dubey was arrested from Mahakaal temple in Ujjain in a dramatic turn of events, Devi had said that Lord Mahakaal saved her son’s life but also said that government can do whatever they want to do with him.Devi said Dubey was involved in criminal activities from a young age and did not change his path despite repeated requests by his family members.Vikas did not have amicable ties with his family members, including his younger brother. The relationship Dubey shared with his younger brother was strained and the differences were so grave that the family did not live under one roof. “Vikas’s relations were strained with his younger brother due to which he stayed in separate house,” Devi said. The mother had moved in to live with Deep Prakash’s family while Vikas, along with his wife Richa Dubey and two kids, stayed in the separate house in the same locality in Lucknow.Dubey’s younger brother is still untraceable by the UP police force. “Fearing arrest following the Kanpur ambush, he went into hiding,” Singh said. Some police personnel had been deployed outside the house for security reasons, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/have-nothing-to-do-with-him-his-deeds-gangster-vikas-dubey-s-mother-refuses-to-attend-last-rites/story-6yHjCjNKLk8pxzvrvbRwEM.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to tap into MNREGS funds for infra upgrade in rural schools||In order to improve facilities in its schools in rural Punjab, the state government has decided to utilise funds from the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) to upgrade their infrastructure.As per the plan, the rural development department will fund the creation and upgrade of facilities such as toilets, playgrounds, parks, compound walls, and mid-day meal kitchens in elementary schools in rural areas of the state with funding received under the centrally-sponsored scheme. The rural development and panchayats department has signed an agreement with the school education department undertaking asset creation and upgrade of existing infrastructure in schools.The pact will allow the school education department access to funds to the tune of Rs 150 crore, under the flagship rural job guarantee programme, for improvement of facilities in schools, according to sources. There are 9,000 primary and upper primary government schools in rural areas of the state. The department has also been designated as an independent implementing agency for carrying out construction work in schools under the programme.The school education department also gets funds under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan after approval from the Union ministry of human resource development, but delays in the release of its share by the cash-strapped state government have been a constant problem.Seema Jain, financial commissioner, rural development and panchayats, and Krishan Kumar, secretary, school education, have, in a joint letter to all the deputy commissioners-cum-district programme coordinator on Thursday, MGNREGS, asked them to personally monitor the sectoral programme of convergence of the scheme with the school education department by holding regular fortnightly review meetings for its effective implementation. “This drive will create transformational changes in school infrastructure,” they wrote, defining roles and responsibilities of officials of the two departments.The scheme funds will also be used for the construction of anganwadi centres, plantation works, deployment of van mittars, and a few other activities in rural schools.Krishan Kumar said the department is trying to tap maximum funds under the programme. “We have already sought proposals from rural schools for improvement of facilities as per the permissible norms,” he said.The school education department has been asked to carry out the work by using manual labour and not machines as far as practicable. “No contractors are to be involved at any stage and only registered job cards holders to be employed on the MGNREGS component of the convergence project,” said a rural development department official, citing the programme guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-to-tap-into-mnregs-funds-for-infra-upgrade-in-rural-schools/story-5vpEsbi6PP8prJ3uWuhcUP.html
11-07-2020||Pune||Lockdown 3.0 in Pune from July 13||Pune will go into a two-phase, 10-day lockdown from Monday, July 13, midnight, till Thursday, July 23. This lockdown, the third effected in the city, comes in the wake of Pune’s Covid-19 cases seeing a daily increase of 1,000-plus fresh cases over the last 10 days.Addressing the media post a top-level meeting on Friday, where the decision was taken, divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “The lockdown is for 10 days and divided in two equal phases. The first five days, from July 13-18, is very strict. Only milk, medicines and clinics are allowed to operate. Some relaxations will be given from July 18 midnight and essential services like groceries and vegetables will be allowed, but a detailed order for the same will be published by the administration.”On Friday, areas under the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) recorded 903 fresh cases and 14 deaths related to the Covid-19 infection, caused by Sars-Cov-2 virus.Lockdown 3.0 will also be effected in Pimpri-Chinchwad, where on Friday, there were 448 fresh cases and nine deaths reported.The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, also Pune’s guardian minister, on Friday at the Council Hall in the city.Advisor to the chief minister of Maharashtra, Ajoy Mehta; health secretary Pradipkumar Vyas; divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar; Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram; Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad; Pimpri- Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar; and Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham, along with the 12 IAS officers involved in the city’s Covid containment strategy, were present at the meeting.District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “Though the government is working to unlock, we are forced to introduce a lockdown again in Pune, as people are not following the guidelines issued by administration. Over the last two days cases are increasing in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and the rural areas. Cases are emerging in industries. We know that the lockdown is not the only solution, but it is one of the main tools to break the chain of infection.”Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad added, “A detail lockdown order will be issued on Saturday, July 11, with detail guidelines.”Shravan Hardikar, municipal commissioner, Pimpri- Chinchwad said, “We received demands from elected members and citizens to re-introduce the lockdown. We will close industries in Pimpri-Chichwad and only those industries which were allowed to function in the first lockdown will remain open.”Police commissioner Venkatesham said, “The police will issue online e-passed for essential services. The police will enforce measures taken during the first lockdown.”As news of Lockdown 3.0 broke, residents of Pune rushed to stock up on groceries, vegetables and alcohol; stores for all were packed on Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-3-0-in-pune-from-july-13/story-EDvAQN4B3eKdPcDXWQMynJ.html
11-07-2020||City||Royal dispute: 12 detained for attempt to take possession of Faridkot Raj Mahal||At least 12 persons were detained for allegedly trying to take possession the Raj Mahal, a disputed property, of the erstwhile Faridkot royal family on Friday.This comes days after 23 members of the Maharwal Khewaji Trust were booked for forging the will of Harinder Singh Brar, last ruler of the erstwhile princely state, in favour of the trust. The complaint regarding this had been made by Brar’s daughter Amrit Kaur.The trust’s chief executive officer Jagir Singh Sran said that Friday’s incident took place at the behest of Amrit Kaur. “They had taken the main entrance in their possession, but the police acted swiftly and removed them from the property. We have submitted a complaint against them for trespass at the Faridkot city police station,” said Sran. The 12 persons were detained and later released on bail.Superintendent of police Bhupinder Singh Sidhu said, “We have told them if they want possession of the property, it has to be as per law. They should get an official order from the deputy commissioner otherwise it is an illegal activity.”The high court had upheld a Chandigarh court’s order last month, awarding a majority share in the ₹20,000-crore property of Brar to his two daughters —Amrit Kaur and Deepinder Kaur. As of the will in the dispute, the court observed that trustees conspired to create the will to take over the property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/royal-dispute-12-detained-for-attempt-to-take-possession-of-faridkot-raj-mahal/story-r6mYj2OcsD2WIsCo2LSWVP.html
11-07-2020||Patna||Chirag joins Tejaswhi’s call for putting off Bihar polls||Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), a constituent of the NDA, on Friday joined the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the main opposition party in Bihar, in calling for deferring state assembly elections due later this year in view of the raging pandemic, a suggestion promptly shot down by ally JD(U) while the BJP chose to leave it on the Election Commission.In a series of tweets Friday, LJP president Chirag Paswan said he was not in favour of elections as it could pose serious risk to a large population and also put additional burden on the already burdened exchequer.“LJP is prepared for elections. Our Bihar parliamentary board meeting verified the booth list for 94 seats and it would be completed for the remaining 149 seats also soon,” he tweeted.The meeting was held Thursday in New Delhi.“However, due to the pandemic, the common man as well as the Central and state governments are financially strained. Under these circumstances, election will put additional burden. All the parliamentary board members also expressed concerns over it,” he tweeted.In another tweet, Chirag said the Election Commission should take any decision only after looking into all the aspects. “It should not happen that a big population is pushed into further danger due to elections. Election in the midst of pandemic could also lead to very low poll percentage, which will not be good for democracy,” he said.With the Covid-19 spreading to new areas in the state, including VVIP areas, the RJD had last week accused the state government of caring little for the people while focusing more on preparations for assembly elections and had called for postponing the elections altogether.“This is not the right time for election. There has been unprecedented increase in Coronovirus infection in the state, but the government seems unconcerned. The entire government seems too busy with elections. The government is hiding figures. If it doesn’t wake up, the situation may become explosive by August-September,” RJD leader Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav had said.Chirag has been quite critical of the way Bihar government handled the pandemic and migrants’ issue in recent months and the JD-U has been upset with it.Reacting to the LJP leader’s tweets, JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said his party believes the Election Commission has taken a decision after consultations with all political parties to hold the elections on time. “The Janata Dal (United) has made its preparations keeping in mind the possibility of the elections being held on time,” he said. The JD(U) leader said timely elections would be in interests of “good governance and will help Bihar get its due respect on the national stage”.State BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the EC was already working on modalities to ensure not only free and fare but also safe elections in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. “If the EC is satisfied with situation, elections will surely be taking place on time,” he said in a statement.“Any political party is free to express an opinion but conducting the election is the sole prerogative of the EC. We will go by the decision of EC related to Bihar elections due in October- November 2020,” he said.Former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM-S said it favoured holding elections as scheduled. “The party is in favour of holding elections in Bihar on time. Our workers are ready and the EC can hold elections whenever it wants,” said its spokesman Danish Rizwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chirag-joins-tejaswhi-s-call-for-putting-off-bihar-polls/story-URA5RBU4T4cn9IEyotqciM.html
11-07-2020||Pune||40,800 complaints related to inflated power bills in Pune region: MSEDCL||The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has received 40,800 complaints from consumers of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) related to integrated bills it issued for the three-month lockdown period.Consumers have complained of receiving exorbitant power bills for the three-month period. The power utility authorities said that it has resolved nearly all the complaints by sending officials to the residential societies and explaining to them the billing method. It also conducted webinars to address the issues faced by consumers.MSEDCL public relations officer Nishikant Raut said, “We have resolved all the grievances of consumers and made them understand the billing calculation process. Most of the complaints were related to excess billing lodged across the Pune metropolitan region covering PMC and PCMC including the PMRDA area.”MSEDCL authorities claimed that most of the complaints when investigated revealed that consumers had faulty meters and meter readings could not be taken as houses were locked for long period.Residents allege that the power utility is overcharging and giving technical explanation that could not be understood by the common man.RTI activist Vihar Durve said, “The contractual system of meter reading is based on assumption and presumption. We want a foolproof system where the exact meter reading is done by taking picture and should not be assumption based. We need a system where consumers get the benefits of actual billing.”State energy minister Nitin Raut had recently directed MSEDCL to address monthly power bill related grievances of consumers on top priority. The minister asked the officials to arrange billing grievance driven talks. The minister asked the power utility authorities to get in touch with public representatives for speedy redressing of grievances. Consumers can login https://billcal.mahadiscom.in/consumerbill for billing related issues.Consumers’ plight20,500 complaints from Pune region11,200 complaints from PCMC region9,100 complaints from PMRDA region749 webinars conducted||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-800-complaints-related-to-inflated-power-bills-in-pune-region-msedcl/story-CE0EVZcnDaiuOUtFZJTHWP.html
11-07-2020||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad ration card office staff fear virus spread as crowd gather for free rations||The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) ration card office in Nigdi is seeing huge crowd after the announcement of prime minister of free ration distribution. The visitors include agents and residents not following Covid-19 social distancing norms.The staff fear of contracting the virus. Dinesh Tawre, zonal officer, A ward, has not taken leave for the last three months.“Police promise to visit the office but do not turn up. Their presence will help visitors follow social distancing and wear masks while coming to the office,” said Tawre, who has been posted at the ration card office, Nigdi for the past two years and 11 months.“I have appealed to people to follow prevention norms. As the office is functioning in a PCMC building, I have also complained to the municipal commissioner. I have written 3-4 letters to the police to file complaint against one agent who submitted a bogus form,” he said.Since the announcement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of free ration till November, people in large numbers are visiting the office asking for ration.“People rush to the office after the PM’s message. They should understand that it is just an announcement, we are yet to receive any written orders. From the Centre, general resolution (GR) will come to the state then it goes to the collector before reaching us. The process will take at least 15 days,” said Tawre, who has requested for police presence from Nigdi police station at the office to manage crowd.“Our staff will have to undergo quarantine if any of the visitor is carrying the virus. As people are not listening to us, we are demanding police bandobast,” said Tawre.Ganesh Jawadwad, inspector from Nigdi police station, visited the ration card office on Friday to assess the situation.“There has been no formal complaint against any agents till now by the ration card office, Nigdi. Still, I visited the office today and police bandobast will be provided to control the crowd,” said Jawadwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcmc-ration-card-office-staff-fear-virus-spread-as-crowd-gather-for-free-ration/story-IHEmebtcSJwX8AFgj6fdKK.html
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet okays drafting of ordinance to provide 75% quota in private jobs||The Haryana cabinet on Monday approved drafting of an ordinance to provide 75% reservation in private sector jobs for eligible candidates of state domicile, leading to concerns among private firms that said the move could gravely hamper post-Covid economic recovery. The draft of the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020, will be put before the next meeting of the council of ministers, an official statement said. According to the statement, the ordinance will provide “75% of the new employment to local candidates for jobs having salary of less than Rs 50,000 per month in various privately managed companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms, etc., situated in the state of Haryana”.However, employers will have the option to recruit local candidates from one district to the extent of only 10%. The proposed law will also contain an exemption clause if suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category of industry.This was the second time in the last five months that the cabinet discussed the issue of reservation in private jobs, which was one of the key poll promises of the Dushyant Chautala-led Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the coalition partner of the BJP. Manas Fuloria, founder of a city-based IT-firm and spokesperson for NASSCOM, Haryana, said, “At present, there is not much clarity on the specific terms of the ordinance. We are ourselves trying to ascertain whether it applies only to unskilled labour, or skilled jobs as well. If the ordinance is passed as a blanket reservation, many private companies may choose to relocate their employees to other cities, at least on paper. It will be possible for a lot of companies to work remotely in the current scenario. But I think industries like manufacturing and real estate will be hit hard by these constraints.”Last year, the Andhra Pradesh assembly had passed a bill to provide 75% reservation to locals in private jobs, becoming the first state to take such a step. The bill has been challenged on the grounds of constitutional validity in the Andhra Pradesh high court.Officials said the proposal was approved after being vetted by the Haryana law secretary, who had earlier raised questions over the constitutional validity of such a legislation. They said the cabinet had sent the proposal to the law secretary on January 31. The senior law officer had then raised objections on the grounds of violation of Article 14 [equality before law] and Article 19 (1)(g) [protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business] of the Constitution.Senior government officials said once the cabinet approves the draft of the ordinance, the assembly will have to pass it and send it to the governor. Once the governor clears it, the law will have to be sent for Presidential assent since labour-related matters are in the concurrent list of the Constitution, they said. Speaking after the cabinet meeting, deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said, “Today is a historical day as now this would be mandatory for the industries or companies in private sector to give 75% jobs to Haryana youths.” He said the BJP-JJP government is committed to provide employment to the people of Haryana.Under the Haryana State Employment to Local Candidates Act 2020, all private industries, units, firms and employment providers which would have more than 10 employees in its premises would be covered in this Act. These rules would apply to recruitment after the date of notification of this ordinance, Chautala said.The deputy CM said a domicile certificate would be mandatory for the candidate to avail of benefits under this scheme, which would be implemented by the labour department.He said all those companies covered under this Act would have to register the entire data of employees on the portal.Private companies would have to inform the labour department if they are unable to find the employees according to their requirement, after which they would be permitted to give jobs to the people belonging to other states. Private employers in Gurugram expressed their dismay at the Haryana government’s plan. The move can fundamentally change the economic landscape of the city, which employs people from across Haryana, Delhi-NCR, India and even the world, stakeholders said.A senior employee of a prominent real estate firm in Gurugram, seeking anonymity, said, “We have been relying on skilled workmen from states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh for years. To train locals from scratch is an investment that we cannot make as we are in a period of economic downturn. This ordinance will make Haryana a less attractive location for private firms to do business. Once the draft ordinance is made public, we can put up our objections to it.”Employers in the manufacturing sector also appeared worried at the prospect of such an ordinance being promulgated into a law. Pankaj Yadav, president of the Gurugram Udyog Association, said, “At this point in time, jobs are already scarce. Industries should be allowed to hire at their discretion for the next few years at least. This is not the time to be putting such constraints on us in an already reeling economy. We have no issues with hiring locals, but finding people with the right skills and qualifications will become much harder, and possibly more expensive as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-cabinet-okays-drafting-of-ordinance-to-provide-75-quota-in-private-jobs/story-wlyVglZPv1xPZv3InMLFfO.html
11-07-2020||Pune||Man murders wife in Pune over alleged extramarital affair||PUNE Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested a 27-year-old man for allegedly killing his wife over suspicion of an extramarital affair.The incident took place on Saturday.The accused has been identified as Vaibhav Narsingh Kale, a resident of Saibaba Paradise Society, Ambethan chowk, Chakan in Khed.The deceased has been identified as Jyoti Vaibhav Kale (27) who lived with him.A complaint was lodged by the accused man’s younger brother identified as Ganesh Narsingh Kale (23) who lives in a rented room located at Golden chowk, Chakan.According to police, the deceased was a housewife and both the brothers work in a private firm at Chakan. The brothers are natives of Loha taluka of Nanded district.The two were at home around 9:30 am on Saturday when the incident happened. Kale first hit her on the head with a wooden stump causing a head injury, according to the complaint. He then strangled her with a nylon rope and then with his hands until she stopped breathing, according to the police.“They were married for more than one year. The accused called up his younger brother and asked for money after narrating the incident. The younger brother called the police and narrated the incident,” said sub-inspector Pramod Kathore of Chakan police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code is registered at Chakan police station against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-murders-wife-over-alleged-affair-with-younger-brother-in-pune/story-BZoYuF6JPQwrl3AG73YqwJ.html
