12-07-2020||City||SGPC urges Takht to get missing saroops case probed by ex-judge||Under fire for the 267 missing ‘saroops’ (copies) of Guru Granth Sahib from its record, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Sunday urged the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs, to get the matter probed by a retired judge or any prominent Sikh personality.A fire incident took place in the SGPC publishing house at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib on May 19, 2016, in which 14 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib were damaged, as per the gurdwara body claim. After five years of the incident, the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) said that the damage was done on mass level and this fact was hid to save the then SAD-BJP government from public wrath when the issue of Bargari sacrilege was already burning and next assembly polls were close. On the basis of the statement of a retired employee of the SGPC, the PHRO maintained that 267 ‘saroops’ went missing after this incident as per the record and a probe must be conducted to ascertain their whereabouts. It is being dubbed another big sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib in the Sikh segments. At an emergency meeting held at Sri Guru Ramdas Medical College in Amritsar, an SGPC executive panel passed a resolution to discontinue the probe being conducted by a sub-committee constituted by it, as other Sikh bodies doubted the fairness of such a committee. The Takht has received several letters in this regard from various Sikh bodies, which cite that the probe should not be given to the SGPC as its functionaries, whose role is under the scanner in this case, are influential in the body.This will be the first time in recent history that the investigation of an SGPC matter will be handed over to independent persons.Divulging the proceedings of the meeting, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said, “An appeal has been made to Akal Takht Sahib so that the reality of the matter is brought in public domain. We want the probe to be conducted under the supervision of Akal Takht Sahib so that all kinds of doubts are removed.”“Keeping in view of seriousness of the matter, its probe must be conducted in impartial and credible manner. So, the executive committee has urged Akal Takht. Besides, the decision has been taken to transfer the officials concerned and employees of SGPC publication and binding department with immediate effect so that the probe is not influenced in any way,” he said.However, he did not disclose the initial findings of the SGPC sub-committee, which was constituted on June 30 on the directions of Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh after the Punjab Human Rights Commission (PHRO) exposed the entire matter.Notably, on the basis of its investigation and statements of retired SGPC employee Kanwaljit Singh, who was deputed in the publication department where the holy saroops went missing, the PHRO had also alleged that the SGPC deliberately hid the 2016 fire incident that massively damaged the saroops and stated that this event was linked with the lost saroops. However, the SGPC refuted these charges.ATTACH CASE WITH 2015 SACRILEGE PROBE: AUJLAAmritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, however, has written to the Akal Takht jathedar urging him to ask the Punjab government to attach the missing saroops case with the ongoing probe into 2015 sacrilege incidents, or initiate a time-bound judicial investigation under the supervision of a sitting judge of Punjab and Haryana high court instead of a retired judge or some eminent personality.“Judicial probe or probe by SIT will have better chances of standing in court than probe by an in-house team; and this is evident from the probe in the matter of sacrilege incidents in Faridkot district. It would have been better if the SGPC president became a party in the 267 missing saroops case and wrote to the police for FIR registration,” his letter reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-urges-takht-to-get-missing-saroops-case-probed-by-ex-judge/story-jKsYckXRopuZo3hfWpdn2M.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||OBJECTIONABLE VIDEO: Punjab cops chase Shiv Sena leader down in Indore||Punjab Police on Sunday arrested self-proclaimed chief of Shiv Sena (Taksali) Sudhir Suri over an objectionable video clip allegedly denigrating women and inciting enmity between different groups, after a nearly 1,300km chase that ended in Indore, Madhya Pradesh.Suri managed to flee Amritsar despite heavy police security. A police official said Suri left Amritsar in the wee hours of Friday, two days after a case under non-bailable sections of inciting enmity was registered against him at the Jandiala police station of the Amritsar rural district.The state government had deployed 15 cops, eight gunmen and a police pilot Gypsy in Suri’s security. “Before fleeing, Suri had asked his security personnel to leave him as he was scheduled to go out of the state,” said a police official, who is the part of two teams that arrested him from Indore.On July 8, after the first video went viral and was heavily criticised both in India and abroad, Suri was booked under Sections 153-a, 354A and 509 of the IPC and 67 IT Act.Senior superintendent of police (SSP-rural) Vikram Jeet Duggal said: “Suri might have dodged his security men before escaping. However, it is a part of the investigation. We will also question his security personnel.”Meanwhile, director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said two Punjab Police teams, comprising 11 personnel of Amritsar (Rural) district, nabbed Suri on Sunday morning. He added that a manhunt had been launched for him after the release of a video with alleged derogatory remarks against women, followed by a Facebook video in which he had subsequently claimed that the objectionable video clip was a voiceover by some other person using his name.Despite Suri’s denial of any involvement in the said objectionable video clip that had appeared in the social media, the DGP said he had ordered a massive manhunt against the suspect through Amritsar (Rural) Police.Gupta said he had also directed the Punjab Bureau of Investigation to get the clip examined though the Forensic Science Laboratory at the earliest. Subsequent investigations revealed that fearing arrest, Suri could have fled to Indore, said the DGP, disclosing that the operation was successfully conducted in coordination with the Madhya Pradesh Police.The DGP said he personally spoke to Vivek Johri, his counterpart in Madhya Pradesh, at the time of the dispatch of the two police teams to Indore.Punjab Police is now moving for bail cancellation requests before the judicial courts concerned in cases where Suri has already been granted bail earlier. Suri has been booked in five cases of hate speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/objectionable-video-punjab-cops-chase-shiv-sena-leader-down-in-indore/story-Qq7KpAsVgLRQSTyK4TakHI.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Alumnus Swraj Paul donates $5 million to MIT, says studying there ‘changed his life’||Jalandhar-born industrialist Swraj Paul has donated $5 million to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), a private research university in Cambridge, where he studied mechanical engineering and later went on to found the Caparo Group that straddles various sectors, including value-added steel products.MIT’s Kresge Auditorium is to be named after the 89-year-old Paul, whose two sons, Akash and Angad, also went to the MIT. The donation has been made through the Paul family’s charitable trust, the Ambika Paul Foundation, a statement from Paul’s office said on Sunday.Designed by Finnish-American architect Eero Saarinen, the Kresge Auditorium is architecturally significant as a leading example of a minimalist thin-shell concrete structure. Located in the central area of the MIT campus, Kresge opened its doors in 1955 and has played an important role in the life of the MIT community. It was renovated in 2016.In recognition of the gift, the large hall in the Kresge Auditorium will be named as the Lord Swraj Paul PC ’52 and Angad Paul ’92 Theatre; more generally known as the Swraj Paul Theatre at Kresge Auditorium.Paul, a member of the House of Lords, said, “I first came to MIT from India in 1949 at a time when there were very few Indian students in the United States, and the experience changed my life”.“Because of my time at MIT, I decided to expand my Caparo companies into the US, and for more than 30 years, we have made significant investments across the country in our Bull Moose Tube and XL Trailers businesses”.“I have always had a great respect for MIT as a world centre of technical excellence, and was delighted when my sons followed me there in the 1970s and 80s. MIT means a lot to our family, and I am honoured that we are able to support the continuation of its values and way of life through this iconic building.”The Kresge auditorium also serves as a venue for a variety of community activities including MIT events and symposiums and student performances, and Cambridge Symphony Orchestra and New England Philharmonic performances.The Ambika Paul Foundation was established in 1978 in memory of Paul’s daughter, Ambika, who died of leukaemia in 1968 aged 4. It was for her medical treatment that Paul first came to Britain in 1966, where he remained and went on to create Caparo, a diversified global association of businesses with interests predominantly in the design, manufacture, marketing, and distribution of value-added steel and niche engineering products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/alumnus-swraj-paul-donates-5-million-to-mit-says-studying-there-changed-his-life/story-8OMB0hMaBtxnWrgcSmD2eN.html
12-07-2020||City||In losses, DJs, sound dealers in Yamunanagar pin hopes on Navratri festival for revival||Following the lockdown to thwart the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, industries across the board have been impacted and suffered losses. The sound dealers and disk jockeys (DJs) in Yamunanagar are no exception.With no grand weddings taking place this year, the DJ industry had pinned its hopes for revival during Kanwar Yatra that too was called off, like most other events.With lakhs of devotees, who would otherwise have been preparing to walk barefoot from Yamunanagar towards Haridwar, what will also take a hit is the local DJ business.Rajan Sahni, 52, has been in sound and DJ business from the last three decades who operates from his office-cum-godown near Bhuria Gate police post in Jagadhari, said, “With wedding bookings down to zero from 200 (per year), we hoped for some business from the annual Kanwar Yatra, which has been called off. The administration has also banned selling or renting of items associated with the yatra.”He said he has been paying the salary of his employees from his savings and hopes to get some orders for the Navratri festival in October.There are nearly 300 sound dealers in Jagadhari town and almost the same in Yamunanagar spread till the camp area on Radaur road. Another businessman in the town, Manga Nagpal has too faced the brunt of lockdown and like Sahni, he was also unable to pay salary to his employees and hence was forced to close his shop temporarily. “I’ve not opened my shop for weeks to at least save my electricity expenses. Like most of my fellows in the business, I too hoped for some revenue from Kanwar Yatra but now that too has been called off,” said Nagpal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-losses-djs-sound-dealers-in-yamunanagar-pin-hopes-on-navratri-festival-for-revival/story-B5IC2MjlbydkGolv4QoeTL.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||15 tourists rescued by locals from drowning||Around 15 people from a Vasai village who had come to the Dekundi river in Kaman, Vasai, were rescued by locals on Sunday evening. The tourists had entered the waters during the time of high tide and strong currents carried them away. Locals rescued them using ropes.Due to no telephone connectivity, the Vasai fire brigade could not be reached, so the locals decided to rescue the people by using ropes. By evening all the people were brought to the banks. Later, the Waliv police booked all 15 tourist for violating the orders imposed by the Palghar district collector and complaint will be registered against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/15-tourists-rescued-by-locals-from-drowning/story-gpHuAxHWszY7HXt4hWAIoL.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Locusts devour crops in six Haryana districts||Farmers in Haryana’s Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Sirsa, Mahendergarh, Jhajjar and Rewari districts reported extensive damage as their crops came under locust attacks on Saturday night. Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal quickly visited Bithan village of Bhiwani’s Loharu and directed officials to carry out an overnight anti-locust drive. He went on to visit the affected areas in Charkhi Dadri on Sunday and appealed to the farmers to avoid panicking. “These insects will continue to attack the crops throughout the year, but we are ready to tackle the menace. We managed to kill over 50% of locusts in an overnight drive. All deputy commissioners have been directed to inspect the affected areas and take necessary steps. The locust swarms had entered Rajasthan via Pakistan and later reached our state. We have sufficient stock of chemicals and spraying machines to deal with the situation,” the minister said. He told the farmers to inspect their fields and immediately report any sighting of locusts to the local agriculture development officer.“We have also advised people to make loud noises by beating drums and thalis to drive away the locusts. Patwaris and village secretaries have been directed to spread information about the locust attack,” he added.Action against companies for adulterating chemicalsDalal said he has ordered the registration of FIR against four companies for mixing water in chemicals used to kill locusts. These companies will be blacklisted, he added. Naveen Kumar, a resident of Bithan village, said despite making loud noises to drive away the locusts, their cotton, guar and bajra crops were damaged. “Agriculture officials had called fire tenders to kill the locusts, but they managed to kill only limited insects and two more swarms arrived in the morning,” he added. Yogesh Kumar, head of entomology department at Hisar’s Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, said the swarms were coming in big numbers because of their large-scale breeding in Africa last year. “Vast swarms of locusts swept through Haryana districts due to the wind’s direction. These insects are entering India from Pakistan through Rajasthan and Gujarat because the atmosphere in these two states is suitable for them,” he added.Girdawari ordered Agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister JP Dalal said as per the directions of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, reports of losses caused by the locust swarms have been sought and a special girdawari will be conducted wherever the damage is more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/locusts-devour-crops-in-six-haryana-districts/story-5BEtoTj2PcPCL6RDtVAzCM.html
12-07-2020||Gurugram||Two men arrested for illegal home delivery of liquor; mastermind identified||The police on Friday arrested two men for delivering liquor on the behalf of a person who was allegedly selling liquor online and promoting his business on various social media platforms, said the police on Sunday. The alleged mastermind behind this liquor delivery racket is yet to be arrested. The police said the mastermind behind this business of home delivery of liquor had placed advertisements on various social media platforms and was accepting online payments from customers at a higher price to deliver liquor at their doorstep. He had employed the two suspects to deliver liquor at the doorstep of his clients. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that buyers would contact him on the number mentioned on the social media site. He would buy liquor from wholesale godowns and deliver it directly to homes of the buyers in exchange for delivery charges. “We are suspecting that even during lockdown, the owner of the business has supplied liquor to more than 100 people across the city. This is against the existing excise policy,” he said.As per the excise policy, there is no provision to sell liquor online. Even placing advertisements on social media platforms is illegal, said the police.Sangwan said they received a tip-off that the two delivery boys will deliver liquor to a customer in the Sector 51 area. Following this, they formed a team of four members from the crime investigation agency(CIA) of Sector 17. The team reached the spot and nabbed the suspects. “The owner of the business used to send liquor to his clients through his delivery boys. On Friday, he bought liquor from Malibu Towne and sent the delivery to Mayfield Gardens, from where the two suspects were arrested,” said Sangwan.The suspects were identified as Bhanu Singh, a resident of Nathupur, and Mahinder Singh, a resident of Mangolpuri in Delhi. The police also recovered a scooter and two cases, containing 24 bottles of liquor, from their possession.During questioning, the suspects revealed that they were involved in the doorstep delivery of liquor for the last three months and were paid a salary by the owner of the business.The police said they have identified the mastermind but he has not yet been arrested. The suspects were produced before the court and were granted bail.A case under the Excise Act was registered at the Sadar police station against all the three suspects, said the police.The police also said they have begun a crackdown against the illegal sale of liquor across the city and strict action will be taken against those found to be violating the rules and regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-men-arrested-for-illegal-home-delivery-of-liquor-mastermind-identified/story-m2SfF6ne51lOGVZaDCindM.html
12-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram police trace 1,538 missing Covid-19 patients||The city police have traced more than 1,538 people who had gone missing after testing positive for Covid since March this year, when the lockdown started. Most of the missing patients had shared incorrect phone numbers and addresses, making it difficult for authorities to trace them.Tracking patients and their close contacts is critical in curbing the spread of Covid-19, police said.Police said most of these patients were either found not living at the addresses provided by them or had mentioned wrong addresses in the form that they had filled at the private labs or at Civil hospital. Apart from the cyber cell of the police, the crime branch has also been reaching out to trace Covid-19 patients and their contacts. Out of the 1,538 people tracked down by Gurugram police, the credentials of at least 1,144 have been verified. Six teams, of seven members each, have been formed in the district to trace patients who had gone missing. The teams comprise officials from the police force along with those drawn from the health and district administration departments.Police commissioner KK Rao said that all efforts are being made to ensure that every single patient who had gone “missing” is traced within the next two to three days. “Four out of every 100 positive case in the district was reported as untraceable, causing a threat to the society as they might be infecting more people. Such patients, fearing stigma, provide wrong credentials and switch off their mobile phones thinking that they cannot be traced by the authorities. It is extremely challenging to trace people who have mentioned wrong addresses as the exercise involves a team of police officials, including officers drawn from the cyber crime unit,” he said.As soon as details of untraceable patients is sent to the police, they start checking the addresses of the patient and a team is sent to the area to verify the name mentioned in the form. Simultaneously, the mobile number is given to the cyber crime team who get out the call detail records (CDR) of the patients and get the correct address of the patients through their friends and relatives.Once traced, according to SOPs in place, the patient is retested for Covid and then put in an isolation centre.“The only threat is that people who test positive roam around freely and infect others, leading to an increase in number of cases and fatalities due to Covid-19. We have registered cases against such people and have warned them of strict action. But still people are not sensitive towards the issue and are risking their lives as well as that of others,” said Rao.Earlier, private and government labs only took samples of patients and maintained data without verifying their mobile numbers and credentials. People took advantage of this fact and started mentioning wrong detail, which led to a high number of untraceable cases, police said.“To control the situation, the district officials starting generating OTPs on registered mobile numbers before sample collection,” said Rao, adding that strict instructions have been given to all the private labs and hospitals to ensure no test is conducted if people have not given their address correctly. “This will ensure the data stored is correct and no fake or wrong information creeps in,” he said.Rao said on Friday itself, the joint teams at least put 61 patients under isolation at different facilities and their contract tracing was being conducted by the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-trace-1-538-missing-covid-19-patients/story-wrYAagt9DFKSd2kBXaCM7O.html
12-07-2020||Gurugram||City sees 112 new cases, total tally inches towards 7,000||Gurugram reported at least 112 new cases on Sunday, bringing the district’s total tally of reported Covid-19 cases to 6,860. The district has so far reported 105 deaths (indicating a case fatality rate of 1.5 percent), with one new death being reported on Sunday.Of the deaths recorded, 68 patients had pre-existing co-morbid conditions.The number of active cases in the district now stands at 1,027, down from Saturday’s tally of 1,036. With 120 new recoveries on Saturday, the district’s recovery rate stands at just above 83 percent, up from 77 percent exactly a week ago. Of the current active cases, 870 are currently in home isolation, 21 are hospitalised, and 136 are under observation at Covid-19 care centres across the district.“So far a total of 5,728 patients have been discharged from hospitals, home isolation and Covid-19 care centres after testing negative. We are still getting between 100 to 150 new positive cases a day, but we are not worried as we have a high recovery rate and also a low test-positivity rate (at around 11 percent),” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.On Sunday, the district collected 2,026 samples (through antigen tests, RT PCR tests, and RT PCR tests in private labs). This marks the seventh consecutive day on which the number of samples collected for testing have exceeded the 2,000 mark. “Our aim is to maintain a steady testing rate of 2,000 tests per day, bulk of them being antigen. A second RT PCR machine is now operational in the city, and we will be able to add about 200 more RT PCR samples to this testing pool each day,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, Gurugram.Meanwhile, Haryana reported 658 cases on Sunday, taking the total tally to 21,240 cases. Of these 15,983 patients have recovered and 4956 patients are still under treatment. On Sunday, the state also reported four new deaths, taking Haryana’s total mortality to 301.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-sees-112-new-cases-total-tally-inches-towards-7-000/story-c1UDriTqeOvKpCxZ7VJcVK.html
12-07-2020||City||Environmental compensation: Recovery from polluting units remains a challenge for Haryana pollution control board||Despite National Green Tribunal’s (NGT’s) clear guidelines, polluting units in Haryana aren’t complying with the environmental standards and making recovery of compensation an uphill task for the state pollution control board. A consolidated report of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) submitted to the NGT mentions the non-compliance of erring units. In its November 2019 orders, the NGT had made it clear that meaningful action has to be taken by the state pollution control boards against the polluting units and the environmental compensation should be recovered as the cost of restoration of the damage to the environment, otherwise there will be no meaningful environmental governance. As per a report of Haryana pollution control board, there are 129 industries in three clusters — 72 in Faridabad, 30 in Gurugram and 27 in Panipat — which have not been complying with the environmental standards for the last five years. The board claimed that 76 units, including 45 in Faridabad, 21 in Gurugram and 10 in Panipat, were facing closure over their non-compliance. As per the report, of Rs 1.53 crore imposed on the erring units in Faridabad, the state pollution control board could recover only Rs 19.53 lakh. In Panipat, Rs 70-lakh fine has been slapped on eight polluting units, of which only Rs 25.47 lakh could be recovered from three units. However, the environmental compensation to be paid by the polluting units in Gurugram was not mentioned in the report.S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said, “The recovery of environmental compensation must be in process and I will get it examined again.”“But the erring units will not be allowed to reopen until they clear the dues. A committee in the state headquarters will probe every case individually and impose the penalty as per the CPCB guidelines,” he added.On why the environmental compensation imposed on the erring units in Gurugram was not mentioned, Narayanan said, “It may not be immediately issued, but is usually done in all cases without any exception.”It is pertinent to mention here that in the reports of polluted industrial areas or clusters monitored in 2018 by the CPCB, Gurugram was at the ninth spot, Panipat at 11th and Faridabad at 63rd. As per the scores, Gurugram and Panipat are in the category of critically polluted areas, whereas Faridabad is a severely polluted area.In the November 2019 orders regarding the status of compliance of orders and recovery of environment compensation from the polluting units in red and orange zones, the NGT had sought the consolidated status report from the pollution control board of the state. As per the information, the NGT is likely to hear the matter next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/environmental-compensation-recovery-from-polluting-units-remains-a-challenge-for-haryana-pollution-control-board/story-LGqBgpSfWQ8PvuXF4QiwQK.html
12-07-2020||Gurugram||Man shoots woman dead in Pataudi, then turns gun on himself||A 34-year-old man allegedly shot dead a 20-year-old woman before turning the gun on himself in village Nanu Kalan, Pataudi, on Saturday night. Both succumbed to the gunshot wounds and were declared dead on arrival at a hospital on Sunday morning. The police said they have registered a case of murder against the man after the woman’s paternal uncle lodged a police complaint.The police said the woman had got married a fortnight ago and had come to visit her relatives in Pataudi. She was supposed to return to her in-laws in Basai on Sunday. The man used to run an eatery in the village and is survived by his wife and three children. The bodies of the victims were discovered around 6am on Sunday, when locals noticed them near a vacant plot and informed the police.According to the police, both the bodies were found lying in close proximity to each other. A countrymade pistol was found next to the man’s body. The police said the woman had been shot in the chest while the man had gunshot wounds on the side of his ear.In the police complaint, the woman’s uncle, who runs a tent shop, said that she had tied the knot on June 29 in Basai and was visiting her relatives in Nanu Kalan village. “A man from our village had called her for a meeting and taken her near some shops in the locality on Saturday night. Today morning, I received information that both had been found dead. I suspect that he murdered her and then shot himself,” said the complainant.Veer Singh, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Pataudi, said, “Prima facie, it appears that the man shot the woman from a close range and then he turned the gun on himself. We have registered an FIR.”A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “It appears that the man wanted to pursue a relationship with the woman and was agitated with her after she had reneged his advances and got married to another man. Last night, he called her for a meeting. He got drunk and after an alleged argument, he shot her dead before shooting himself with the same gun.”The police said both sustained a single gunshot wound and died of heavy blood loss inflicted by the injuries. The bodies were handed over to their respective families after post-mortem examinations.A case has been registered against the man under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), relevant sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Act and the Arms Act at Pataudi police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-shoots-woman-dead-in-pataudi-then-turns-gun-on-himself/story-EJAJrGCy6BKl74D0Ck9uAL.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police reunite 78-year-old woman with her son||A 78-year-old woman who could not recollect her home address was reunited with her 52-year-old son on Saturday night by NM Marg police. The woman identified as Parvati Mhatre came to Mumbai from her native place in Raigad district in February before the lockdown and was working as domestic help. On Saturday at around 1.30pm she was found roaming aimlessly by the police.Police sub-inspector Roshan Raorane spotted her when was inquiring about her whereabouts from a person on the road. Raorane then brought her to the police station, said senior inspector Pandit Thorat of the NM Joshi Marg police station. Two women police constables tried finding her son in the nearby area. They searched for two hours, but they could not locate the place. The women constable then brought her back to the police station. She only remembered her name and her village name Lokole Vadhav in Pen taluka, said Raorane. The woman constable then found her Aadhar card in her bag, added Raorane.“After getting her address I contacted my batch-mate in the Raigad crime branch and asked him to trace her address. After inquiring with several people, we managed to reach her son Moreshwar Mhatre, 52, through the local police station,” said Raorane.A traveling pass was arranged for Moreshwar and his nephew who came to Mumbai in a private vehicle. They reached around 9pm on Saturday night and she identified her son and after verifying address and other documents she was handed over to her son, added Raorane.Moreshwar told in his statement to NM Joshi police that his mother came to Mumbai in February and was working as domestic help in someone’s residence. She might have forgotten the address where she was working, said police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-reunite-78-year-old-woman-with-her-son/story-ktSf2zoWTHvGEv3c9UDhDN.html
12-07-2020||City||Amit Shah appreciates security forces’ role in containing pandemic||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that the world had appreciated India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic. “It was feared that how would a large country like ours would face this challenge given that we have a federal structure of governance, dense population of 130 crore people and no single chain of command,” PTI quoted him as saying. But all states and every individual fought the battle against Covid-19 as one nation under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the home minister said.He said that the health infrastructure in some of the largest developed countries in the world had collapsed under the pressure of Covid-19 but India had managed to successfully handle the coronavirus crisis. Shah was speaking ahead of a mega tree plantation drive at the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Officers’ Training Academy in Kadarpur village in Gurugram. Shah lauded the efforts of the security forces and paid tributes to 31 members of the Central Armed Police Forces who lost their lives due to the pandemic. “Our security forces have contributed significantly to the fight against coronavirus. Their sacrifices of these Corona Warriors will not go in vain,” said Shah.He also welcomed the idea of a mass plantation drives and said that the campaign was a good effort towards safeguarding the environment for future generations. More than 1 million saplings are being planted across campuses of the Central Armed Police Forces across the country as part of a campaign. Shah asked the personnel to take responsibility of the saplings till they reach maturity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amit-shah-appreciates-security-forces-role-in-containing-pandemic/story-sR6DWN6YcwMtiQXQWRkkPJ.html
12-07-2020||City||Truck-car collision snuffs out two lives in Yamunanagar||Two men were killed after the car they were travelling in was hit by a truck in Yamunanagar late on Saturday. The deceased are Prajwal of Fatehpur village and Vikrant of Nabh village.Vikrant was son of local Congress leader Bodhraj, a former aide of ex-MLA Akram Khan.Ghaseetu Ram, a relative of the victims, who is also the complainant in the case, said, “Around 11pm near Buria Chowk, a truck hit their car and its driver fled the spot. Both were taken to a hospital, but were declared brought dead upon arrival.”An FIR was registered under sections 279, 304A and 427 of the IPC at Jagadhri City police station on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-car-collision-snuffs-out-two-lives-in-yamunanagar/story-AHK84LV6wFeG4gHD9EAtWI.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||MHRD approves Panjab University’s proposal to appoint registrar on regular basis||The ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has approved Panjab University’s proposal to appoint registrar on a regular basis.The letter received from MHRD will be tabled in the syndicate meeting on Monday for information. Professor Karamjeet Singh, the present registrar of PU, was given additional charge as registrar on October 1, 2018, after the term of Col onel GS Chadha (retired) ended on September 30 that year.PU had written to MHRD in December last year for permission to fill the post of registrar on a regular basis. MHRD in its letter clarified that no additional financial assistance shall be provided by the central government for this purpose. Also, they said the post will be filled in accordance with prescribed procedures and statutory provisions including UGC regulations and as per recruitment rules.Former vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Grover, said, “Colonel Chadha was appointed full time registrar of PU during my term as V-C. Before his appointment, most registrars were also working as professors. Even when Col Chadha was appointed, I had asked other candidates to leave their positions in teaching departments but most refused to do so.”According to the rules, registrar is appointed for a term of four years which can be extended by the syndicate and senate. Also, posts of chief university security and dean college development council (DCDC) are yet to be filled on a regular basis at PU.Other important agendas of syndicate meetOn Monday, PU syndicate will take a call on the appointment of dean students welfare (DSW). A final call will also be taken on the admission guidelines of affiliated colleges for 2020-21 academic session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mhrd-approves-panjab-university-s-proposal-to-appoint-registrar-on-regular-basis/story-Tq444DWKw9SDjCmCoBhlcI.html
12-07-2020||City||Gurugram: MCG says will be dumping waste at Nuh ‘temporarily’||Gurugram: In light of objections from residents to dumping of waste at the Bandhwari landfill, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) issued a clarification on Sunday that it will instead dump garbage at a proposed site in Nuh on a temporary basis for a period of six months to one year.According to a press release by the MCG, this is being done after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had given an order that waste cannot be dumped anymore at the Bandhwari landfill from January 2020.As per MCG officials, the order further stated that MCG has to clear 25 lakh tonnes of legacy waste at the Bandhwari landfill which is causing various environmental hazards and until it does so, has to find an alternate site to dump and process Gurugram’s waste temporarily.“Adhering to the NGT order, the MCG has found a spot in Nuh district to temporarily dump Gurugram’s garbage for a period of six months to one year. At this place, better management of waste will be done through modern machinery and special care will be taken for cleanliness. Citizens in Nuh will not have to face any kind of trouble. Garbage will be dumped at Nuh only for some time, and as soon as the legacy waste at Bandhwadi is cleared and the waste disposal plant is operational, MCG will return to dumping Gurugram’s waste at Bandhwari,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, in the civic body’s release.The civic agency has finalised a 10 acre piece of land falling under Korali and Mahwan villages, respectively, in Nuh district, located around 40 kilometres from the city, for dumping the waste.Last week, MCG had scrapped its plan for dumping and processing Gurugram’s waste at a 25-acre plot at Chand Nagar Ki Dhani Road in Farrukhnagar following a nearly month-long protest by various villages and political leaders.Subsequently, the MCG had decided to shift the processing and dumping at Nuh, which is also encountering resistance by locals.On Thursday, a maha panchayat of over 20 villages was held at Karoli village where a decision was taken by villagers that Gurugram’s waste will not be dumped in the two villages and further they formed an eleven-member committee that will be dealing with the local administration regarding the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-mcg-says-will-be-dumping-waste-at-nuh-temporarily/story-oHqH9sjWD9Ry9PfnNvisBN.html
12-07-2020||City||25-year-old woman killed as car rams tree||A 25-year-old woman was killed while four of her family members, including her husband, received minor injuries when the car they were travelling in rammed into a tree near Sector 144 Sunday morning.According to police officers, the accident took place on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway around 6 am when the family was on its way to Delhi from Bihar in a Maruti Suzuki Swift car.“The family is from Muzzafarpur in Bihar and was travelling to Delhi for some work. The woman’s husband was driving the car and must have accidentally dozed off when the speeding car lost control and rammed into a tree on the side of the road,” said Pradeep Kumar Tripathi, station house officer, Surajpur police station.Police officers said that the woman, identified as Ruby Devi, was sitting on the passenger side and did not survive the accident. A call was made to the police helpline and she was taken to the district hospital where she was declared brought dead by the hospital authorities. “The others also received minor injuries but were discharged in a few hours after receiving treatment. The woman’s body has been sent for an autopsy and will be handed over to the family,” the SHO said.He added that it was an accident and the family members have not filed any complaint in the matter. Police officers suspect that the deceased was not wearing a seat belt at the time of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-woman-killed-as-car-rams-tree/story-2Avj255AaYRZWsx0PA11FL.html
12-07-2020||City||Noida: Anti-larvae drive intensifies to prevent malaria during monsoon||Noida: With the monsoon season in place, which brings with it malaria-causing mosquitoes called Anopheles, the district malaria department said it has intensified its anti-larvae drive, however, lack of man-power due to Covid-19 duties have limited their efforts to certain areas.According to the officials, while the department had a total of six officials, including three inspectors, and all of them are busy in the sanitisation drive to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, they currently have only one worker to spray temephos – the larvicides.Officials said that while they are also taking help from Gram Panchayats to meet the manpower demand, the department is conducting anti larvae drive upon receiving complaints or spotting larvae breeding.“Our anti-larvae program is going on and so far in July, about 23 areas have been covered such as Morna village, Sector 30 etc. We, however, focus more on the areas which are not falling under Noida authority otherwise the concerned village pradhans complain about us,” said Shruti Kiriti Verma, assistant Malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.She added that the team visits villages and colonies not being covered by the Noida authority, including slums, every third day to check any possibility of still water or sites suitable for larvae.“We currently have only one worker that sprays anti-larvae medicine and even he is busy with the sanitisation drive. So, he carries an extra spray of temefos, and either sprays medicine upon spotting any still water or larvae breeding or upon receiving the complaint,” she added.The malaria mosquito Anopheles breeds from July through October, and the one that causes dengue comes after August. According to the officials, Gautam Budh Nagar saw over 400 cases of malaria in 2019.“There were around 400 cases of malaria in the district last year and a year before that, but thankfully, there were no deaths due to the disease,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. He points out that since the malaria mosquito breeds in still water, they also keep a check on the water stored in parks for animals or birds.“It is easier to control the larvae, but difficult to control the adult mosquitoes. So we try to cover as much area as possible with help of other departments as well,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-anti-larvae-drive-intensifies-to-prevent-malaria-during-monsoon/story-qEwvBF0Pi1c5Av2qjPQyKK.html
12-07-2020||City||Yeida plans to extend industrial area along Yamuna e-way till Bulandshahr||GREATER NOIDAThe Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has decided to acquire agricultural land in nearby Bulandshahr district to extend the industrial area along the 165km expressway. The new area will be used to house aircraft maintenance facilities and other manufacturing units as the demand for land for these businesses will increase once the proposed international airport at Jewar along the expressway becomes operational by 2022-23, said officials.The Uttar Pradesh government on April 24, 2001, had established Yeida to set up industries to generate employment and develop urban areas along the expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra. Around 200,000 hectares from 1,187 villages of six districts -- Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura and Agra -- were notified under Yeida. So far, it has acquired around 16,000 hectares of land for its various schemes. “We are conducting a survey to identify how much land we should acquire from Bulandshahr district in order to meet the increased demand due to airport connectivity in this region. We may identify the required area of land in one or two months and then acquisition will be started,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida. Singh is also the CEO of Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), a nodal agency for the development of Jewar airport project.According to the officials, Yeida has decided to acquire agricultural land in Chola area, which is part of Bulandshahr district and located only 12 kilometers from the city.“We need land for manufacturing units in Bulandshahr’s Chola, where railway connectivity already exists. Many manufacturing units, including companies involved in producing electronics items, want to buy land from us and start business. They want to buy land in this region because it is going to have smooth air connectivity in a couple of years,” said Singh.Once the land area is identified, Yeida will start formalities required to procure it. “We may directly buy the required land from willing farmers. And once the land is procured, we will start developing drains, roads, parks and other services before allotting the same to interested investors,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yeida-plans-to-extend-industrial-area-along-yamuna-e-way-till-bulandshahr/story-wnUtj3gfLC9epKFJSHshrI.html
12-07-2020||City||Two labourers buried alive in Ludhiana’s Daad village||Two labourers were buried alive when a big chunk of earth came down on them while they were digging land for laying a sewage line in Daad village on Pakhowal road on Sunday afternoon.The deceased were identified as Gobind, 20, and Kapil Dev, 42. A third labourer was rescued by the locals and rushed to a private hospital where his condition is said to be stable.As the area falls outside the municipal corporation limit, the work was being carried out by the panchayat through a contractor.The workers began digging at 9am. Eyewitnesses said the monsoon downpour had softened the soil, and when the three labourers started digging, the earth came down and all of them were buried under it.Sukhdev Singh, one of the eyewitnesses, said the locals began a rescue operation immediately and were able to help one the three labourers get to the hospital. Gobind and Kapil Dev were stuck deep under the earth and it took the locals one and a half hour to rescue them. The doctors, however, declared them brought dead.WORKING WITHOUT PROTECTIVE GEAR The locals said that the labourers were working without safety gear, and that if they were equipped properly, the mishap could have been averted.Charanjit Singh, former sarpanch of the village and the contractor, was also in the trench when tragedy struck, but he escaped unhurt.Assistant sub-inspector Harmesh Singh said that as per the preliminary investigation, it was an accident and the kin of the victims have not filed any complaint. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-labourers-buried-alive-in-ludhiana-s-daad-village/story-Qk6JuTKpGKcogAqfq7FqxI.html
12-07-2020||Noida||Over 30,000 samples taken during 10-day massive surveillance drive in Gautam Budh Nagar||On the last day of the mini lockdown imposed in Uttar Pradesh from Friday 10pm to Sunday 5am, the Gautam Budh Ngar district administration conducted a mega camps for rapid antigen kit testing at four places, besides the regular sampling drive at other places on Sunday.District magistrate Suhas LY said that over 3,000 samples were taken from the camps held in Chauda village in sector-22, Kendriya Vihar in sector 82, Baraula and Mamura villages, which were identified by the administration as being prone to infection. “Around 50 people have been tested positive. Incidentally, Sunday was also the last day of 10-day massive surveillance drive. During the last 10 days, we have taken over 30,000 samples through rapid antigen kits and lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). While the number of rapid antigen kit sampling was around 24,000, the number of RT-PCR testing was around 6,000. Besides, some samples were also taken through TrueNat machines,” he said and added that all the sensitive areas in the district are thoroughly being sanitized. Meanwhile, with 64 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported in the district in the past 24 hours, the overall count to confirmed Covid-19 positive cases in the district has gone 3,410 cases on Sunday.According to the daily health bulletin released by the state control room, a total of 2,484 Covid-19 positive patients have been cured and discharged, including 88 on Sunday, in the district so far. “So far, 33 Covid-19 positive patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 893 active cases,” the bulletin stated.The bulletin said that in the last 24 hours, as many as 21 Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh have lost their lives and their death audit report is awaited.According to the state health bulletin, the overall tally of the Covid-19 positive cases in the state has gone to 36,476 with 1,388 new cases in last 24 hours. “While 934 patients have lost their lives due to coronavirus infection in the state so far, 23,334 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the state till the date,” the bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-30-000-samples-taken-during-10-day-massive-surveillance-drive-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-WIPH3BYQDlsGcEp6iaTZUO.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Beggars living on roadside potential Covid risk for all of Chandigarh||With loss of livelihoods and no money to pay rents, seasonal labourers are now turning to begging and living on the roads. And without any money to buy masks or sanitizer, their lives and those of the people they beg from are at risk as Covid cases rise in the city.Near sectors 33 and 34, around 10-15 beggars have been living on the road, using one of the road signs here to hang their laundry. One of them, Prahlad, says he used to work as a labourer before the lockdown, and had no other option but to sit there and beg. “People don’t give us much money these days, but we have no option but to beg. We go to the Sector 20 gurdwara for food and sleep here,” he said.One of the beggars who refused to tell her name said she was from Uttar Pradesh and had nowhere else to go. “We are always on the lookout for policemen. A couple of days back they took away our rations. Even today, they were asking us to vacate. We move when they ask us to, but come back after some time,” she said.Local area councillor Ravinder Kaur Gujral said, “Beggars usually settle here every year. A week back I had asked the police to remove them. I will look into the matter again.”Meanwhile police officials of the Sector 34 police station said they had driven the beggars away earlier, but they will check the spot again to ensure they don’t sit there while breaking the social distancing rules.Similarly, on the Sector 41/42 dividing road, beggars have even put up tents and continue to live here without wearing masks or maintaining hygiene. Speaking about this, local area councillor Hardeep Singh Buterla said, “This is an ongoing problem, and government departments including the police, the UT forest department and the MC are passing the buck. Besides begging, residents of Sector 41C are worried about open defecation that can lead to spread of diseases as well.” Police officials here added that they had asked the people living in tents not to come out begging and to stay within their tents till the pandemic passes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/beggars-living-on-roadside-potential-covid-risk-for-all-of-chandigarh/story-cxAyX0kSfAzEtGazjnzthO.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Eight PG courses at four govt colleges in Chandigarh may be discontinued from next academic session||Fresh admissions into eight postgraduate courses at four government colleges in Chandigarh may be discontinued from the 2020-21 academic session.The recommendation was made by a committee of the UT higher education department earlier this year to rationalise staff and resources at government colleges in the city.The courses that may be discontinued are Punjabi MA-I, MA history and MA (IT) at Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42; MA sociology, public administration and MA-I fine arts at Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 11, and MA Hindi at Post Graduate Government College, Sector 11. At Regional Institute of English (RIE), Sector 32, the committee has suggested to take no new students in MA English for the next session.According to sources, the committee observed that for most of these courses, the enrolment is 40-50% against the sanctioned strength. The principals have been given a proforma and they need to give an undertaking that they will not demand more resources if they want to run these courses for the next academic session. Out of around 450 sanctioned teaching posts, around 100 are vacant at government colleges in Chandigarh. The education department has already held discussions with college principals and the process is likely to be finalised in coming weeks. The higher education department is likely to hold a meeting with college principals before making a final decision.Director of higher education, Chandigarh, Rubinderjeet Singh Brar, said, “We are rationalising resources keeping in mind vacant posts and the situation amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The students will not face any loss and they might be admitted to other colleges in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-pg-courses-at-four-govt-colleges-in-chandigarh-may-be-discontinued-from-next-academic-session/story-fqbJFykpUz6EeynSjeWrlK.html
12-07-2020||Pune||Dismissed constable, journalist, RTI activist booked in fresh extortion case||Dismissed constable Shailesh Jagtap, local journalist Devendra Jain, and RTI activist Ravindra Barhate, who were booked in an extortion case in Kothrud, were booked along with four others in another extortion case registered at Samarth police station on Sunday.While Jagtap and Jain were arrested on Sunday in the second case, Barhate is on the run in both the cases. Three others were arrested in the early hours of Sunday in the case, according to senior police inspector Balkrushna Kadam of Samarth police station. Barhate had applied for an anticipatory bail in a local court in the first case which was denied by the court on Thursday.The three arrested earlier include Parvez Jamadar, 35, a resident of Somwar Peth, Jayesh Jitendra Jagtap, 30, a resident of Ghorpade Peth, and Amir Vinayak Karpe 33, a resident of Rasta Peth, according to police. The two others wanted in the case include Ravindra Barhate, a resident of Sinhagad road, and Prashant Fale, a resident of Sangvi, Pimpri-Chinchwad.“They were all remanded to police custody till Monday. Jagtap and Jain were in police custody in the Kothrud case until Sunday. They were arrested and remanded to police custody in this case,” said PI Kadam.Jamadar was also a constable in Pune police and was suspended along with Jagtap in 2018 and later dismissed from the force in November 2019. Jayesh Jagtap is the nephew of Shailesh Jagtap.The complainant in the second case is a land dealer and developer Hrishikesh Bartakke, 35, a resident of Baner. He paid Rs 72 lakh in a land deal for a piece of 7,500 square feet plot near Shivaji Park along Senapati Bapat road, according to the police. “In 2017, these people approached the complainant and offered the land that they said is the name of Prashant Fale. They told him that the land was disputed and a court decision on the land is expected in three months. After several months when they did not deliver on their promises, he went to meet them and said he wanted to pull out of the deal. That is when they assaulted him and Jagtap threatened him at gunpoint,” said PI Kadam.The others booked in the case were present when the assault happened, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506(2) (criminal intimidation using weapon), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3(25) of Arms Act was registered at Samarth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dismissed-constable-journalist-rti-activist-booked-in-fresh-extortion-case/story-sCG3U1fJJ1IDrG6rNx140L.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man offered legal help, duped of ₹1.60 lakh||A man purporting to be the chairman of the Punjab State Human Rights Commission (PSHRC) and duping a Haibowal resident of ₹1.60 lakh by offering legal assistance to fight cases was booked by the Division Number 5 police on Sunday.Kunwar Onkar Singh Narula, 45, of Ludhiana, had claimed he had close links with the Punjab chief minister (CM) and assured Rajesh Kumar Modgil of Raghuveer Park, Haibowal Kalan, that he would help him with a bounced cheque case filed against a man in the Ludhiana court. Modgil had complained to police that he had met Narula at the New Court Complex in August 2019 where the latter had introduced himself as PSHRC chairman with close links to the CM and assured him that he would get his money back. After asking for ₹1.60 as fee, Narula had allegedly told Moudgil that he would help him with a property dispute case, and went incommunicado after receiving the money.When he investigated the case on his own, Modgil found out that Narula had lied to him and complained to the police.Narula is reportedly heading a non-government organisation, Punjab Human Rights Protection Council.Assistant sub inspector Kuldeep Singh said a case had been lodged under section 420 (cheating) of IPC and efforts were being made to arrest Nagpal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-man-offered-legal-help-duped-of-1-60-lakh/story-Vn0tLpSYxNPGGRYPrq8BML.html
12-07-2020||City||Swelling crowds at markets, roads as Pune Pimpri-Chinchwad enters lockdown from today midnight||Pune Many city residents gave a thumbs down to the Covid-19 safety norms and crowed at vegetable shops, groceries, markets, petrol pumps, chicken, mutton and wine shops, on Sunday, ahead of the ten-day lockdown in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad from Tuesday.With the rising demand, the residents also complained that prices of essentials such as vegetables, fruits, chicken and mutton also escalated following the announcement of lockdown.The scene at the wholesale vegetable market in Gulketkdi early Sunday morning was chaotic as residents broke all the social distancing norms while shopping for vegetables and fruits. Due to the crowd at the market, the roads nearby also witnessed traffic jams.The vegetable tempos and trucks were lined up till City Pride chowk till Market Yard and similarly, vans were seen queued up some 2 km away from Lullanagar chowk.Komal Srivastava, a housewife from Raheja Society, Wanowrie, said, “We had stepped out to buy vegetables, fruits and other food items, but the roads and the markets were crowded.”“We got fruits and vegetables at a much higher price then what we usually pay,” she said, adding that many were not following the social distancing norms and not wearing face masks.BJ Deshmukh, administrator Agriculture Produce Market Committee, said, “People thought that lockdown is starting from Monday and turned out in large numbers leading crowded streets and markets. The markets will be open on Monday as well so people should not involve in panic buying.” “By 10. 30 am, our stocks were over, but people still came in large number,” he saidSher M Khan, a businessman from Wanowrie said, “At 9.30 am there was traffic chaos on the road. It took me approximately 25 minutes to reach from Aai Mata chowk to Market Yard gate no.1.”“When I entered the market many people were bargaining and buying fresh produce without following social distancing norms and were not wearing face masks,” said Khan.“Despite many trucks had arrived with fruits and vegetables, people were into panic buying mode. Trucks were plying from Market Yard signal up to the start of Swargate flyover from morning 6 am. Last night too, a person supplying animal fodder to me, hinted that he was not sure of stock from Tuesday onwards. I was charged high for vegetables which were affordable till yesterday,” he saidSanjay Telang, a fabricator, from Hadapsar, said, “ The vendors were charging double the price for fruits and vegetables. Some action should be taken against them.”Popatlal Osawal from Pune Merchants Chamber, said, “There are enough stocks. The market was open today (on Sunday) and will function tomorrow as well. Residents must follow social distancing and compulsorily wear masks.”“We appeal to all to follow all the guidelines issued by the state government and avoid overcrowding,” he said.Prices of vegetablesCarrots : Rs 40 per kg/ Earlier Rs 5 per pgGreen cabbage: Rs 40/ kg Earlier Rs 5 kgTomato 60/kg Earlier 20/ kgGarlic 120/kg earlier 100/ kg||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/swelling-crowds-at-markets-roads-as-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-enters-lockdown-from-today-midnight/story-cJUOjOpVEtlFo2MtDw1FRI.html
12-07-2020||City||PCMC lockdown: Only medical stores to stay open 24X7; home delivery for groceries till July 18||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has issued guidelines for two-phase lockdown which starts from July 13 midnight to July 23, 1 am.Only medical shops have been permitted to operate for 24x7 in the area. The grocery shops will continue their service from July 19 to 23 between 8am to 12 noon, according to civic officials. Selling of vegetable, fruits, eggs, chicken is totally banned till July 18 while it will start from July 19-23 from 8am to 12 noon.“The people who are working in essential services will be allowed to go out. They will have to provide identity and Aadhar cards as well. Rest should follow the rules strictly,” said Shravan Hardikar, PCMC municipal commissioner.Even for all the essential service workers riding with a pillion rider is not allowed.Till July 12, PCMC recorded 7,276 Covid-19 positive patients, while 4,312 have recovered from the Sars-Cov-2 virus. The city has recorded 107 deaths due to the virus, according to PCMC data.The civic body has also permitted to continue with construction work where staying arrangements are made available to workers.According to officials, violators will be penalised by the civic officials.“Even though the number of covid cases is increasing, one need not fear as they have been provided with quick treatment. Even many senior citizens have recovered from the virus. The lockdown will break the chain of rising cases,” added Hardikar.Civic body has cancelled all the previous epasses and have ordered people to get new passes from epass.addl2@pcmcindia.gov.in.What is allowedHome delivery of milk (6am to 8:30pm)Petrol Pump (9am to 2 pm) only for essential service peopleAll medical services to function 24x7Government officials, essential service providers and media persons are allowed to roam around the city.Bank will function but only for online services. (no entry for customers)One person can travel on a two-wheelerConstruction work at places where workers are staying on the premisesWhat is not allowedExcluding medicals, all shops are closedVegetable/fruit vendors not allowed to operate the business till July 18PMPML bus service will be closedFood delivery service will be closed till July 18||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcmc-lockdown-only-medical-stores-to-stay-open-24x7-home-delivery-for-groceries-till-july-18/story-clIXM1lfZ8Gzd6ApGYqZJL.html
12-07-2020||City||140 govt schools in Punjab to get funds to install incinerators to dispose sanitary napkins||For proper disposal of sanitary napkins, funds of ₹34 lakh have been sent to 140 senior secondary schools across the state to get incinerator machines installed in girl’s toilets.Ludhiana district has received ₹5.7 lakh from the state and the amount, ₹24, 871 each, will be transferred to 23 senior secondary schools by Monday for the installation of the incinerators.The step was taken by the director general of the school education (DGSE) office to promote better hygiene practices in government schools. A letter in this regard was issued by the school education secretary, Krishan Kumar, to the districts and funds were transferred to districts, which will be e-transferred to the schools to purchase the machines. There are 342 government senior and high schools in the district out of which 100 senior secondary schools of Ludhiana already have the incinerator machines, either donated by NGOs or businessmen in the last two years.SCHOOLS WITH MOST GIRL POPULATION SELECTEDAccording to the DGSE office, the authorities selected those schools which are either girl’s schools or the ones who have more strength of girl students. The school principals have been instructed to spend the funds by maintaining a record and take two years annual maintenance contract to get the machines serviced.The incinerator burns sanitary napkins into ashes and this way basic sanitation facilities can be provided to female students. Manju Bhardwaj, a smart school coordinator, said, “I will send the names of schools without incinerators to the head office for approval. The funds will be sent to these schools once we receive consent from the higher authorities.” The school principals have stated that this way the toilets can be kept clean because sanitary napkins are normally thrown in washrooms by students which is unhygienic. Female teachers and girls will be trained to use the machine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/140-govt-schools-in-punjab-to-get-funds-to-install-incinerators-to-dispose-sanitary-napkins/story-SPdebmr8fheZsOMTO26BLP.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||₹11.65 lakh robbery in Ludhiana: Fifth accused lands in police net||A day after four men were arrested for allegedly robbing Rs 11.65 lakh from a gas agency employee in Ludhiana, police arrested the fifth accused in the case, and recovered from Rs 2.6 lakh from him on Sunday.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city-2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said police arrested the accused, Jasveer Singh, near Bapu Market following a tip-off. He was trying to leave the city to avoid his arrest, police said.Four of his accomplices, Vikram Singh Romi of Shimlapuri, Parminder Singh Deepa of Shimlapuri, Varinder Singh of Jujhar Nagar and Parminder Singh alias Prince Sahota of Ishar Nagar were arrested on Friday night and Rs 5.97 lakh was recovered from them.Jasveer told police that he found out his accomplices had been arrested and wanted to flee before police could reach him.On June 6, three of the accused robbed Pawandeep, an employee of Bachan Gas Agency, of Rs 11.65 lakh when he was going to deposit the cash in the bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rs-11-65-robbery-in-ludhiana-fifth-accused-lands-in-police-net/story-7mC7EZjFVSyFBWZnq7ARFJ.html
12-07-2020||City||Mutilated foetus found in vacant plot in Ludhiana||Panic gripped New Gurnam Nagar of Salem Tabri after locals noticed an unborn foetus in the mouth of a stray dog on Saturday evening. On being informed, the Salem Tabri police reached the spot and initiated investigation.The police took the foetus to the mortuary for postmortem. Assistant sub-inspector Satbir Singh, who is investigating the case, said it was a male foetus that had been mutilated by the dogs.The ASI added that the locals had noticed the dog with a foetus in a vacant plot. A shopkeeper, Lalit Kumar, shooed the dog away. The cop said that it was possible that some unmarried woman had aborted her pregnancy and disposed of the foetus.The police said they will check with hospitals, nursing homes and midwives to get the record of pregnant women who had gone through a delivery in the past two or three days.The police have registered an FIR under Sections 315 (Act done with intent to prevent child being born alive or to cause it to die after birth), 318 (Concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mutilated-foetus-found-in-vacant-plot-in-ludhiana/story-eLurKnIseKx2yptrXoBo0I.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||3-member SIT to probe alleged Covid-19 testing scam by private lab: Capt||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced a three-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the alleged Covid-19 testing scam by Tuli Diagnostic Centre, a private lab in Amritsar, while warning that his government would not allow private hospitals or laboratories to earn profit from this unprecedented crisis.The vigilance bureau had on June 24 booked five doctors, including those from the private lab, and owner of a private hospital on the charges of murder bid, criminal conspiracy and corruption for giving fabricated and false Covid-19 test reports allegedly to fleece suspected patients.During his #AskCaptain Facebook Live session, the CM said he had received a complaint against the said private lab and had asked the vigilance bureau to look into the matter, but when initial investigation showed that there was no involvement of any state government department or officer, the case was transferred to the Punjab Police.The SIT tasked with the probe is headed by Amritsar police commissioner, himself a doctor, with civil surgeon as a member, said the CM, adding that he has ordered the SIT to conduct a thorough investigation and submit its findings soon, so that suitable action can be taken.A spokesperson of the CMO later said Amarinder had taken strong exception to SAD leader Bikram Majithia’s attempts to politicise the “simple jurisdictional decision” of transferring the probe to the district police. Apart from the fact that the vigilance bureau had, prima facie, not found any complicity of government department/official in the case, Tuli lab had moved the court challenging the bureau’s jurisdiction, he said.“Rather than raising such nonsensical issues and weakening the morale of the Punjab Police, Majitha should invest his time and energy in pressurising the Akalis’ political masters in Delhi to put a stop on CBI interference in the Punjab Police investigation in the Bargari and other sacrilege cases, and the subsequent policing firing incidents,” said Amarinder.When asked during the FB Live if the recent appointment of Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa as party president by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) rebels was a Congress gameplan, the CM said that what happens in the Akali party “is not our job.”“They keep fighting…history shows that they keep getting divided. There is nothing new in it. At one point of time there were seven Akali Dals. The Akali party is like a rubber band, it keeps expanding and co-added,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-member-sit-to-probe-alleged-covid-19-testing-scam-capt/story-jEBkoqDUeT8AgcKzkYbEoO.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Heads of MSME bodies write to Modi, Gadkari for aid||A day after Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das termed the Covid-19 pandemic the worst health and economic crisis in the last 100 years during peacetime with unprecedented negative consequences for output and jobs, heads of various industry associations in Ludhiana on Saturday demanded government support to tide over the current economic crises.Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) and Ajit Lakra, head of textile division, FICO, sent open letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union minister of micro, small and medium enterprises, Nitin Gadkari, stating that making India ‘atma nirbhar’ is not possible unless the government supports MSMEs and manufacturing sector.“The electricity rate of industrial units should be reduced by Rs 3per kw and liquidity should be available easily for MSMEs at low interest rate. Improvement of transport infrastructure is imperative and GST should be slashed. Besides this, export incentive like no income tax on export should be offered to encourage industrial growth,” Ahuja said.He said the country’s MSME base is the largest in the world after China and if the government abolishes anti-dumping duties for raw material such as steel and plastic, the Indian MSME industry has the potential to touch 200% growth in three years.“The anti- dumping duties makes raw material expensive. This in turn makes finished products costlier, which is why Chinese products are preferred over ours,” he added.Lakra said that amid growing anti-China sentiments, India has a lucrative opportunity to become one of the most industrialised countries of the world.“It is most important to immediately ban import of unnecessary commodities from China or any other country to promote our own industry and create more employment,” he added.He said labour, land acquisition and tax laws must be suitably amended to make them satisfactory for foreign investors to establish their business ventures in India with ease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-heads-of-msme-bodies-write-to-modi-gadkari-for-aid/story-DCU8f3GBIORQcfRNc3peNO.html
12-07-2020||Patna||Covid curve careens in Bihar, highest spike in a day caps the week||The Covid curve in Bihar, which stayed the somewhat gentle upward course till the month of May as compared to some other states, spiralled ominously over the last one week, which saw two sharp single-day spikes and ended with the highest ever single-day spike on Sunday that recorded 1,266 positive cases across the state.The new cases reported Sunday pushed the state’s tally to 16,305, of which over 3,000 were recorded over the last one week.There was no relief in capital Patna, which reported 177 fresh infections on Sunday, when it entered the third day of its latest lockdown. Seven more deaths reported Sunday from different hospitals, meanwhile, took the Covid-19 toll in the state to 144, although the official figure, as mentioned in the bulletin released by the state health department on its Twitter handle on Sunday, stood at 125.The discrepancy flows from the time lag between the health department’s bulletin and daily figures released by hospitals, which come hours later.State’s health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh, however, underlined the brighter side, of the rise in the recovery rate. “In the last 24 hours, 962 patients have recovered, pushing the recovery rate to 72.31%,” he said, adding that 11,953 patients had recovered so far.As per the health department, two deaths were reported from Darbhanga, one each from Begusarai, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, Patna and Siwan. Three of these deaths were reported from Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna. “Two patients from Patna, with comorbidity of heart disease, diabetes and hypertension respectively, died on Sunday, while the other of Bhabua having asthma passed away at the hospital today,” said Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the hospital.The health secretary, meanwhile, said Patna has so far reported 1,868 cases, the highest in Bihar, followed by 996 in Bhagalpur and 734 in Begusarai.Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi said the state capital had 90 containment zones, which included 20 in Patna City, 34 in Patna Sadar, 21 in Danapur, eight in Paliganj 8 and 7 in Masaurhi.Meanwhile, a top functionary of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), who tested positive, was admitted to the intensive care unit at the AIIMS-Patna, after being referred there on Saturday evening. Unlike AIIMS and the NMCH, the IGIMS is not a dedicated Covid hospital.The senior faculty member had come in contact with his driver who was found to be positive early this month.One of the IGIMS superintendents, who was in home quarantine, has tested negative the second time.The reports of 17 nurses, who had come in contact with an infected patient at Indira Gandhi Institute of Cardiology (IGIC), were still awaited. “We were expecting reports on Sunday, but the virology lab of PMCH has not delivered them,” said OP Sah, joint director-cum-nodal officer, Covid-19, IGIC.Hot spotsPatna: 1,868 casesBhagalpur: 996 casesBegusarai: 734 casesCases break-upThe twitter handle of health department while giving of break-up of 1,266 cases said besides 177 patients reported in Patna, Siwan had 98 cases, Bhagalpur 81, Nalanda 78, 76 each in Begusarai and Nawada, Muzaffarpur 72, Munger 61, West Champaran 54, Saran 47, Katihar 46, Bhojpur 40, Vaishali 36, Gaya 34, 29 each in Lakhisarai and Rohtas, Buxar 27, Samastipur 24, Gopalganj 22, Aurangabad 21, 14 each in Araria and Jehanabad, 13 each in East Champaran and Sitamarhi, 11 each in Arwal, Khagaria and Sheikhpura, Supaul 10, Jamui 9, Purnia 7, 6 each in Madhepura and Madhubani, Sahara 5, Banka 4, Sheohar 3 and Dhanbad 1 (sample collected at Gaya).The highest case of 749 last time was detected on July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-curve-careens-in-bihar-highest-spike-in-a-day-caps-the-week/story-mWYKDrEYpLLYr0abWK9V7I.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Newborn baby separated from mother declared Covid-19 positive by mistake||In a major blunder by health authorities, a woman was mistakenly identified as Covid-19 positive and separated from her newborn infant for four days without even being allowed to breastfeed the child. Health officials from the Civil Hospital at Dera Bassi, Mohali, allegedly mistook the woman, Kamalpreet Kaur, for another patient with a similar name from her village who had tested positive, and mixed up their reports.A resident of Ballomajra village in Dera Bassi, Kaur said she had been told she was Covid-19 positive after she delivered the baby at the Civil Hospital and home quarantined. She was not allowed to feed or see the infant during this period, she complained.Four days later, health officials told her that she had been declared positive by mistake, their reasoning being that another woman with a similar name had been infected, leading to the confusion.Dr Sangeeta Jain, senior medical officer (SMO) of the Civil Hospital, said, “We had received information from the health department directing us to isolate the Covid-19 positive patient after which according to the guidelines we isolated her at home. Later we learnt that the woman is actually negative as the reports were mistakenly exchanged with that of a woman with a similar name who had given birth on the same day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/newborn-baby-separated-from-mother-identified-covid-19-positive-by-mistake/story-NrC8MvMxzCvhhLMTo8jpfJ.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Eyeing ₹25 lakh prize money, Chandigarh man loses ₹24,000||Fraudsters duped a Sector-22 resident of Rs 24,000 after leading him to believe that he had won a Rs 25-lakh “Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC)” lottery. Harpreet Singh, who is a locksmith, told the police that he received a Whatsapp call in June, informing him that his phone number had been selected for a Rs 25 lakh lottery. Although he had not participated in any competition, he believed the caller, who asked him to deposit Rs 15,000 and later another Rs 9,000, after which the number was switched off.Realising he had been duped, Harpreet filed a complaint at the public window of UT Police Headquarters in Sector 9A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector 17 police station against unknown persons. Police said they were tracing the accused through the phone number. MAN CHEATED THROUGH MOBILE TOWER LUREA Sector 46 man was duped of Rs 48,350 on the pretext of installation of a mobile tower on his plot in Manakpur, Punjab. Police said Harmeet Singh had agreed to get a tower installed on his plot in November 2019. He had paid a security of Rs 48,350 for this. However, neither the tower was installed nor his money was refunded. Police have registered a case against the accused, Dheeraj of Karnal, under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 34 police station. No arrests have been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eyeing-25-lakh-prize-money-chandigarh-man-loses-24-000/story-JXjpsZsHRps3exMs6VMp8H.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Hire e-bikes to travel across Chandigarh from December||Come December, city residents will be able to rent e-bikes from around 60 cycle docks across the city, in addition to the ordinary cycles.The initial plan of the public bicycle sharing system comprised only ordinary cycles. But, after a recent meeting between the Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL) and the private company entrusted with the implementation of the project, even pedal-assisted bicycles or electric-bicycles (e-bikes) will be made available under the project.E-bikes use rechargeable batteries and can reach speed of up to 30km per hour. The electric motor installed on the cycle is meant to add to human power generated through pedalling and not completely replace it.“In a recent meeting with the company, we requested them to provide e-bikes in addition to ordinary cycles under the public bicycle project. The company has agreed to our request at no additional cost,” said NP Sharma, chief general manager, CSCL.The first phase of the project is scheduled to be completed by November-end. Cyclists in city can expect to start hiring cycles on rent in September itself when a few cycles docks are expected to be ready.In the first phase, 600 cycles, including e-bikes, will be available on hourly rent basis at 60 dock stations across the city. After the project is completed, which is expected by June 2021, as many as 5,000 ordinary cycles and 600 e-bikes will be available at 617 dock stations.According to the agreement, the firm will execute the project in multiple phases over the course of the next 18 months, and has to make available 2,000 cycles at 200 dock stations within the next six months. The firm will set up all requisite infrastructures and in return, it will get advertising rights at dock stations.WHAT ARE E-BIKESIt is a cycle with an integrated electric motorMotor adds to human power generated through pedalling and not completely replace itUse rechargeable batteriesBatteries can be charged electrically or while pedallingCan move at a speed of up to 30km per hourWHAT ARE THE BENEFITSMuch faster than ordinary cyclesBetter for covering larger distances, especially in summerLow cost, energy efficient and emission free like ordinary cyclesHealth benefits similar to ordinary cyclesParticularly useful for the elderly, people with health issues||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hire-e-bikes-to-travel-across-chandigarh-from-december/story-hpmlKho2JCQruF0BCI3SEL.html
12-07-2020||City||13-year-old boy commits suicide in Zirakpur||A 13-year-old boy on Sunday committed suicide at his residence at Swastik Vihar in Zirakpur by hanging from the ceiling fan.The deceased’s brother found him and rushed him to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead. Assistant sub-inspector Ramesh Lal said that when the incident took place, the victim’s parents were not at home, while his elder brother was sleeping in another room.According to the police, the deceased used to watch a lot of videos surrounding the suicide of film actor Sushant Singh Rajput and it was possible that he took the extreme step on the same lines. The body has been placed in the mortuary of Chandigarh Sector 32 hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-year-old-boy-commits-suicide-in-zirakpur/story-yyBxLxI0roEnTV0cbHzxyN.html
12-07-2020||City||Covid shadow: 60% high-end brands cease operations at Chandigarh airport||Though the Chandigarh International Airport resumed its operations for domestic flights on May 25, 16 of the total 28 high-end brands there have ceased their operations owing to huge losses.The remaining 12 are also keeping their shutters down with no visitors.Retailers here say with fewer flights and air passengers amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the footfall has dropped by 90%. Before the lockdown, the airport saw nearly 12,000 passengers, both at arrivals and departures. The number has since come down to 1,000 a day.This is mostly because — of the 44 domestic and two international flights (Sharjah and Dubai) arriving and departing from the airport before March 23, now there are only six to eight a day.“The airport authorities have not taken any decision on rent waiver. Most brands have ceased their operations due to losses. Though they are not pushing us to pay, we request them to take a decision on the waiver soon,” said the owner of one of the stores, wishing not to be named.Airport’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ajay Bhardwaj said including losses in terms of rent from shops, they were overall losing around Rs 9 crore per month. “It will take some months for the airport to tide over this crisis. Authorities concerned will take a decision on rent waiver soon,” he added. The airport’s main source of revenue is from the aeronautical category, whereby the airport charges Rs 800 per passenger from airlines. For instance, an airline flying to Delhi with 80% occupancy pays around Rs 65,000 to the airport per flight. Besides, the airport charges rent from retail shops, office spaces, vehicle parking and advertisements. Total revenue under both categories comes to around Rs 30 lakh per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-shadow-60-high-end-brands-cease-operations-at-chandigarh-airport/story-vK1Qlg3sBxB844NpOrkdSL.html
12-07-2020||City||Office boy held for murdering 60-year-old Ludhiana realtor||A 30-year-old office boy has been arrested for stabbing his 60-year-old employer to death at their real estate office on Malhar Road on Saturday night.Police said the accused, Manish Kumar, a resident of Ranchi Colony, Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, had confessed to have committed the murder to grab his employer’s money.He was employed by the victim, Shamsher Singh Atwal, a realtor and resident of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, as office boy one week ago.“Before confessing, the accused kept changing his statements. On Saturday night, he claimed he killed Shamsher as he was involved in illegal activities, but could not provide details about this. Then he claimed his boss ill-treated him by hurling abuses,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Civil Lines) Jatinder Chopra.Eventually, the accused revealed that his father, who is an electrician in Sunet village, owed money lenders Rs 1 lakh. He had asked Shamsher to loan him Rs 1 lakh, which he assured to return in a year. But, Shamsher turned him down.Recently, he found out that Shamsher would receive Rs 1.25 lakh from his client on Saturday. So, he planned to murder his employer to grab the money.The ACP said on Saturday evening, even before the client brought the money, Manish stabbed Shamsher with a knife at their office. Shamsher put up a fight, causing injuries on Manish’s hand.“But, Manish managed to overpower Shamsher and stabbed him multiple times. After confirming he had died, the accused locked the office, took his boss’ car and got admitted to a hospital,” the police official added.Shamsher’s body was discovered by his wife, Pupinderjit Kaur, who, along with her family members, had reached the office on Saturday night after her husband did not respond to her phone calls. On reaching there, they were shocked to see Shamsher lying dead in a pool of blood, and informed the police.The ACP said Manish had been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. They were questioning him to find out if he had any accomplices.The deceased leaves behind his wife, a son and a daughter, who are settled in Canada||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/office-boy-held-for-murdering-60-year-old-ludhiana-realtor/story-rMLarNSQeLMbHwPSlEp4FM.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sirsa magistrate’s steno, accomplice held with drugs worth ₹3 crore||The stenographer of a Sirsa magistrate and his accomplice were arrested by a special task force (STF) for drug peddling on Saturday night near Sahnewal and 580 kg heroin estimated to cost ₹2.90 crore in the international market was recovered from them.Police had reason to believe that the men were coming to Ludhiana to deliver the consignment.Giving estimated costs, assistant inspector-general of police (AIG) STF Snehdeep Sharma said Dheeraj Kumar ‘Dhiru’, 41, lived in Guru Nanak Nagar, Khairpur, in Sirsa, and had been working with the magistrate for the last 10 years. His accomplice, Sanjay Nagpal alias Ripu, 27, was unemployed. Both men were addicts and had been peddling drugs for the last three years to feed their habit. They were arrested near Sahnewal Bridge when they were waiting for people to pick up the consignment.A case under sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been lodged against them at STF Mohali.Investigations revealed that the men procured a man named Rahul in Delhi’s Dwarka and sold it to addicts.Nagpal was also facing trial in a case of drug peddling at Shri Fatehgarh Sahib and was expected to reveal important information on drug dealing in the area during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sirsa-magistrate-s-steno-accomplice-held-with-drugs-worth-3-crore/story-Xo2a1ZMY6mtxFjKr5v2SGP.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Find ways to educate students with no internet access: Capt to edu deptt||Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday asked the education department to work out ways to ensure delivery of education to students with no internet access.“Given the Covid situation, which is preventing regular offline classes, it is imperative to ensure equal educational opportunity and access for all students, including the poor and rural students,” the CM said in response to a question during his #AskCaptain session on Facebook on Sunday.“The education department is exploring ways and means to deal with the challenge of imparting education to those who do not have access to online systems,” he said, adding that the new processes would be put in place very soon to ensure that students do not suffer due to the prolonged suspension of physical classes.In response to a question, Amarinder said his government had already filed a Letters Patent Appeal (LPA), challenging the high court decision to allow private schools to charge fee even where no online classes are held.On the issue of university and college exams for final-term students, the CM made it clear that he does not agree with the latest UGC guidelines making it mandatory for exams to be held by September.“The UGC should leave it to the states to decide, given their ground realities,” he said, adding that he hoped the Prime Minister, to whom he had written on Saturday, would understand the state’s concern and intervene in the interest of the safety of students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/find-ways-to-educate-students-with-no-internet-access-capt-to-edu-deptt/story-b6oRUMKvNDL7TbbHvX4M5I.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||2 dead bodies of women found from western suburbs||The Mumbai Police, on Sunday, recovered bodies of two women in the western suburbs, of which, one was a doctor and was found dead in her residence at Powai, while the other body was found in a nullah adjoining the Western Express Highway at Bandra, is yet to be identified.According to the Powai police, on Sunday morning, a woman called the control room number and informed them that her sister who stays alone in her flat at Powai’s Paradise building was not responding to the door or phone calls. Vijay Dalvi, inspector from Powai police station said, “After receiving the call a police team was dispatched and they forced open. The police found the sister lying on the bed. As she was not responding, she was rushed to the Rajawadi hospital where she was declared dead before arrival,”The deceased identified as Aruni Ravindra Diwanji, 56, was a doctor by profession and as her son stay’s in London she was living alone. “Nothing suspicious was found as such, however, we have registered an accident death record (ADR) and are awaiting a detailed postmortem report,” Dalvi added.Meanwhile, in another case, the body of an unidentified woman was found in a nullah near the Indian Oil building, western express highway, Bandra. According to the police at around 11am on Sunday someone contacted the control room number and informed them about a decomposed body in the nullah. The police team recovered the body and sent it to Sion Hospital for post-mortem. The woman must be between the 45 to 50 year age group.Shashikant Bhandare senior inspector from Nirmal Nagar police station said,” we are assuming she may be washed ashore from somewhere. This nullah (where the body was found) is connected with the Mithi river. Initial Postmortem report suggests she may have died 5 to 6 days before, but a detailed report is still awaited, which will clear the cause of her death. We have registered an ADR as of now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-dead-bodies-of-women-found-from-western-suburbs/story-Ax3QITAIb6XgK3BWqIWvvM.html
12-07-2020||City||23-year-old murders sister over property dispute in Jalandhar||The police here have booked a 23-year-old Goraya villager for allegedly killing his sister over a property dispute in the wee hours of Sunday.Police said a criminal case against the accused, identified as Resham Lal, has been registered on the statement of Gurpal Singh, father of deceased Pardeep Kaur (28).He stated in his complaint that my two sons Resham Lal and Gurdeep Singh were demanding their share from my house in the Rurka Kalan area, and that is why they were also at loggerheads with their elder sister, who worked in Chandigarh.Pardeep returned from Chandigarh on July 11, and later that evening Resham and her had had an argument over the property dispute, Gurpal said.“I saw Resham roaming around my daughter room at 4am and suddenly he pulled out a pistol and shot his sister in the forehead. Resham then escaped from the house,” the bereaved father added.A case under Section 302 (punishment to murder) of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act has been lodged at Goraya police station in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-year-old-murders-sister-over-property-dispute-in-jalandhar/story-tB5Qz2XkHaNAeBqvBD3lcL.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four of family among 10 fresh Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||Ten new cases of Covid-19, spread across different sectors, were reported in Chandigarh on Sunday, taking the city’s tally to 559.The patients include six men and four women. Four family contacts of a patient from Sector 45 are among those who have tested positive. They include two men, aged 28 and 58, and two women, aged 30 and 50.Two other positive cases are from Sector 21 — a 45-year-old woman and a 23-year-old man, both family contacts of a previous case.A 39-year-old man from Sector 32 and a 60-year-old man from Sector 19 have also been found infected. The former’s 11 family contacts and latter’s four family and workplace contacts each have been found asymptomatic.The ninth case is of a 54-year-old woman from Sector 63. Samples of her two family members have been taken. A 58-year-old man has also been found infected in Sector 7. “He is working in Chandigarh but is a permanent resident of Delhi and is a contact of a previously case there,” the health department said.Meanwhile, four patients who were in home isolation have completed their 10-day quarantine period and declared discharged. Three of them are from Manimajra, including two women, aged 27 and 54, and a 19-year-old youth. The fourth person is a 63-year-old man from Sector 21.Currently, there are 134 active cases in Chandigarh as 417 patients have recovered and eight have succumbed to the disease.Three fresh cases in PanchkulaIn the neighbouring Panchkula district, three new cases surfaced on Sunday, taking its total count to 147. The patients include a 31-year-old woman from Sector 10, a 42-year-old man from Sector 21 and a 42-year-old man from Sector 25. As many as 113 patients have been cured so far while one has died of Covid-19. The number of active cases stands at 33 in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-of-family-among-10-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh/story-qSfnFGuFCtT5NNK9YUCTCO.html
12-07-2020||City||Couple dies after roof collapse in Amritsar||A couple died as the roof of their room collapsed after heavy rain and storm in Dhapai locality of Amritsar on Saturday night.The deceased have been identified as Ravinder Singh, 33, and Harpreet Kaur, 27.Ravinder’s father, Amarjit Singh, said the couple had retired to their room after dinner. Around 11pm, he heard a crashing sound and rushed outside to find that the roof of the couple’s room had collapsed. He said that a neighbour’s wall had first crumbled and fallen on the roof, which led to the collapse.Amarjit said that neighbours and other family members managed to remove the debris and pull the couple out but they had died by then. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Shishupal Singh, in-charge of Putlighar police post, said they have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc). The couple had got married just about a year ago, family members said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-dies-after-roof-collapse-in-amritsar/story-TMNaCuD9To96LfJzsYO0vK.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury continues to dip amid rains in Chandigarh||With 45.8mm rain recorded in early hours of Sunday, maximum temperature in Chandigarh dropped to 31.8°C from the previous day’s 34.1°C. Even minimum temperature went down from 24.6°C to 21.8°C.While maximum temperature has seen a fall of four degrees in the past two days, the minimum has dropped by six notches in the same period.With the weather department predicting more rain in the coming days, mercury is expected to remain on the lower side.“Chances of light to moderate rain up to 60mm will continue in the city on Monday, though the intensity is likely to be weaker than that on Sunday. On Tuesday and Wednesday, there might be a further dip before the monsoon system picks up once again,” said the weatherman.In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 34 and 35 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 23 and 24 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercury-continues-to-dip-amid-rains-in-chandigarh/story-cped2NoWRlqBz5XbrMwurL.html
12-07-2020||City||Climate change: Snow cover declines in major river basins of Himachal Pradesh||Rapidly changing climate is degrading the snow cover of Himalayan rivers originating in Himachal Pradesh, according to a recent study by the State Centre on Climate Change under the aegis of the Himachal Council for Science Technology and Environment (HIMCOSTE).The state witnessed a marginal decrease of about 0.72% in its snow cover from October 2019 to May this year in comparison to 2018-19 i.e total average area under snow has reduced from 20210.23Km2 to 20064.00Km2. Further, during peak winter months, the snow cover area has reduced gradually from February onwards which may affect the runoff patterns during the summer months. Based on the data analysed, more snow cover has been observed in the Satluj basin during winter months (November to January) than the Beas and Ravi basins, whereas the Chenab basin has not shown much change in the area under snow during this period. Based on summer month analysis, in Chenab basin (65% of the total basin area) and Satluj basin (50% of the total basin area) will contribute as snowmelt in the river system after May onwards in comparison to Beas basin (45%) and the Ravi basin (26%) of the total basin area this year.State Centre on Climate Change has successfully utilised the applications of space technology in carrying out studies related to Cyrosphere comprising the snow and glaciers in Himachal in collaboration with Space Applications Centre (ISRO), Ahmedabad. The Cryospheric studies are important as the one-third part of the state is characterised by this great Himlayan reserve and the studies of which using any other conventional method is not possible due to the inaccessibility of this area.Himachal Pradesh receives winter precipitation in the form of snow at the higher altitudes. About one-third of the total geographical area of the state remains under thick snow cover during the winter season. Most of the major rivers like Chenab, Beas, Parvati, Baspa, Spiti, Ravi, Satluj, and its perennial tributaries originating from the Himalayas depend upon the seasonal snow cover for their discharge dependability. Besides this, the snow cover also helps in controlling the accumulation and ablation patterns of the glaciated regions in the state.Considering the importance of seasonal snow cover as a major input in controlling the hydrology of the river basins, director (environment science and technology)-cum-member secretary (HIMCOSTE) DC Rana said that although we have the information about the total snowfall that takes place during the winter season from the various observatories operating throughout the state as point information and therefore its spatial extent cannot be ascertained. Thus by using satellite data of different resolutions, it has now become possible to map the geographical extent of the area covered under snow during the winter season. He added that studies which are being carried out by the Centre for mapping of seasonal snow cover in terms of its spatial distribution covers the different river basins in Himachal Pradesh during the winter season from October to May and is an important input in order to understand the contribution of snow in different catchments to sustain the hydrology of the river basins.Considering the present trend of winter snowfall in Himachal Pradesh, the winter precipitation was mapped in all the basins viz Chandra, Bhaga, Miyar, Beas, Parvati, Jiwa, Pin, Spiti and Baspa using AWIFS satellite data having a spatial resolution of 56 mts from October to May. During 2019-20 snowfall was estimated and analysed with reference to the average value of the total area under snow in each month from October to May in 2018-19, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/climate-change-snow-cover-declines-in-major-river-basins-of-himachal-pradesh/story-Yy1ah7mt6ZY11ugUfGq4hI.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali cloth trader killed in Chandigarh hit-and-run||A cloth trader from Mohali district was killed in a hit-and-run in Chandigarh, police said on Sunday. Cops are on the lookout for a “white car” that sped away after hitting victim Angrej Kumar’s bike in Raipur Kalan on Friday night. Kumar was a resident of Modern Enclave in Baltana, Zirakpur.As many as 19 people have been killed in 17 accidents in Chandigarh this year.A police constable witnessed the Friday road mishap, which took place near the government school in Raipur Kalan around 11:30pm, and called an ambulance. Kumar was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where he died of his head injuries on Saturday, said police.A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Mauli Jagran police station. Officials privy to the matter said currently it was only known that a white car was involved in the accident. CCTV footage of the area is being scanned to identify its make and registration number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-cloth-trader-killed-in-chandigarh-hit-and-run/story-EzzeeiqMLxyKjfn238sS6I.html
12-07-2020||City||Owners counting losses as Rs 50 crore beer stock expires in Punjab’s closed bars||Four months into the lockdown, bar owners in Punjab are a worried lot as beer worth an estimated Rs 50 crore they had stocked in their outlets has crossed its due consumption period.Entrepreneurs in the hospitality industry say the state government should work out a plan for the bar owners in the Unlock 2.0 phase as the sector is struggling for survival.Industry sources say bottled bear comes with an expiry date of six months whereas the ‘best before’ date of drought beer is one month from the day of packaging of a keg containing 20 litres of the beverage.Devinder Toor, who is running a hotel in Abohar town for the last 15 years, had sourced for his bar stock packaged in late December onwards.“Being a hub of pesticide stockists, Abohar witnesses considerable movement of business executives throughout the year. Keeping in mind the usual business, I had purchased about 150 litres of drought beer and 150 cases of bottled beer. Now, my entire stock has expired and I have no support from any quarter to compensate for the loss,” he said.Satish Arora, the state president of Punjab Hotel, Restaurant and Resorts Association, says there are 1,500 bars and over 500 pubs in various districts.“Unlike liquor, beer comes has a best before date. Since the lockdown, the hospitality sector is on the verge of collapse as bars have not been permitted to open and there are no customers in restaurants. The state government should announce a relief package to the industry that contributes to about Rs 160 crore per month to the state’s tax kitty,” he said. Gurdeep Singh Walia from Patiala said since the beer season begins from March onwards and bar owners ensure sufficient stock to cater to their customers. “Bar owners pay a hefty fee for annual licence renewal and duty on beer sourced from identified dealers. As there is no business now, excise licence fee should be deferred for at least six months and the validity of the bar licence period should also be extended,” he said.Rakesh Kaul, a leading hotelier in Pathankot, said lowering of electricity tariff from the existing about Rs 12 per unit would be a major relief.“I had a considerable stock of drought beer for the wedding and tourist season starting March onwards and investment in it is uncertain. The entire stock is not worth consuming now. We do not demand complete waiver on taxes but the sector should be compensated,” added Kaul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/owners-counting-losses-as-50-cr-beer-stock-expires-in-punjab-s-closed-bars/story-mhbVyFiwSjAPUfKlnD2JuN.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali records highest ever spike with 26 Covid-19 cases||Mohali district recorded its highest ever spike on Sunday with 26 Covid-19 cases taking the count to 392, including 17 women and three children.Those who tested positive were from Nayagaon, ( three women, 25, 26 and 29); Kharar (woman, 33 from Shivjot Enclave; woman, 54, from Gillco Valley; woman, 58, and man, 34, from Shivalik Homes and woman, 41, from Sunny Enclave); Dhakoli in Zirakpur (two men, 43 and 63, and 41-year-old unidentified person); Zirakpur, Sunny Enclave (woman, 30, man, 55, and a girl, 8 ); Sohana (two women, 24 and 22); Sector 97 (woman, 67); Dera Bassi (woman, 69); Jhanjheri (woman, 65, and man, 20); Kurali, Ward No 15 (girl, 6, boy, 2, woman, 20, and man, 34); Ward No 4 (man, 30, woman, 30).The highest cases recorded last time were 22 on June 10, most of them from the Dera Bassi subdivision.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali said, most of these cases either had travel history or were contacts of positive persons.A majority of the patients have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, and the others at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh; and at Chandimandir in Panchkula.Most of the persons are asymptomatic and are responding well to treatment, Dr Singh added.Of the 392 cases, 271 have recovered, 114 are active and seven persons have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-records-highest-ever-spike-with-26-covid-19-cases/story-1V5kNtN3qp6z0Ih2ZlsHfJ.html
12-07-2020||City||Part of Ghaggar’s bank near Moonak town damaged||A part of the Ghaggar bank was damaged due to water leakage near Moonak on Sunday. Farmers said a pipe had been installed to drain water from the fields, which led to the bank erosion. “Though the state government claims to have spent crores on strengthening the banks, the first rain of the season has exposed the arrangements. The damaged bank is being strengthened by the locals as officials are not paying any heed,” said Aam Aadmi Party’s local leader Jasvir Singh Kudni.Executive engineer of the drainage department, Gagandeep Singh Gill, said work to strengthen the bank is in progress. Last year, a breach of over 150-ft was reported in Ghaggar river at Phulad village in Sangrur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaggar-bank-damaged-near-moonak/story-TkVChR8ocVFjlCYFw1kMAO.html
12-07-2020||City||As infections rise, Patiala admn tightens vigil||In view of the rising Covid-19 infections in the district, Patiala administration has decided to tighten the curbs and have round-the-clock police deployment in containment zones.The district’s tally has already crossed the 550-mark, with as many as 149 cases being reported in the last four days alone.During a meeting with key administration officials on Sunday, deputy commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit said, “We will have round-the-clock police deployment in containment zones to limit the movement of people. We cannot compromise with the safety of rest of the residents.”Directing officials to take strict action against violators, the DC said, “In case anyone is found without a mask or not adhering to social distancing norms, they should be immediately fined.”Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra was directed to ensure comprehensive testing to identify suspected cases.Deploying ADC (D) Preeti Yadav to monitor Covid-19 testing, isolated cases and home-isolated persons through sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) and civil surgeon, he said that check will also be kept on all Level-1,2 and 3 facilities.He also issued directions to the SDMs to take the recent spike in Covid cases as an emergent situation and keep a strict vigil on outsiders with the help of flying squads, revenue patwaris, police, NGOs, Asha and anganwari workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-infections-rise-patiala-admn-tightens-curbs/story-oZByBpTG0WV45HRQkAAjJM.html
12-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 1,573 new coronavirus cases, recovery rate almost 80 per cent||After recording 1,573 new cases of coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours on Sunday, Delhi’s cumulative tally reached 1,12,494. Total 37 deaths have been recorded, according to the state health bulletin released on Sunday evening. The city’s recovery rate has recorded an upward trend as a total of 89,968 people have recovered, discharged or migrated, pushing the recovery rate to 79.9 per cent. As of Sunday, the city has a surplus of beds vacant in hospitals and dedicated COVID care centres as over 18,000 beds are still available for treating coronavirus patients. On Sunday, 9,443 RTPCR tests and 11,793 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the national capital. The authorities have tested 7,89,853 people in Delhi so far. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases till date.With increased testing and tracing of cases, the number of containment zones in Delhi has risen exponentially, especially in the last five days as the count of such areas has gone up by almost 200. As of Sunday, there are total 652 containment zones in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-1-573-new-coronavirus-cases-recovery-rate-almost-80-per-cent/story-g2bVRtCcq9PI2EnUDbSvqO.html
12-07-2020||City||Authorities order partial lockdown in parts of Srinagar due to spike in Covid-19 cases||Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday ordered a partial lockdown in Srinagar—the worst affected district— by designating over 60 containment zones amid a surge in coronavirus cases over the past week, officials said.The lockdown will be imposed in 68 containment zones of the city from Monday and no movement would be allowed in these areas without permission, they said.“In view of a major spike in Covid-19 cases, we will have to carve out containment zones for effective restrictions in different areas of Srinagar. Local cooperation is solicited in the best interest of public health,” said Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Chaudhary.The total tally of Covid-19 cases in J&K reached 10,156 on Saturday in 125 days since the first case was reported on March 9. The death toll has risen to 169 in the UT with 153 fatalities reported in Kashmir and 16 in the Jammu division till Saturday.The total number of positive cases in Srinagar has reached 1,611, out of which 1,075 are active. The death toll in the district is 42.The official added that 24 existing containment zones have been partially denotified as no new cases emerged in these areas. “We are thankful to the public for cooperation and observing norms to bring their areas out of it. Gratitude to field teams for all the efforts. Let’s continue to observe precautions,” Chaudhary said.With no let-up Covid-19 cases in Kashmir, health experts have been warning that hospitals could “crumble under pressure” if the administration does not impose a lockdown soon.The UT, particularly Kashmir valley, is witnessing an increase in death toll for the past one month. More than 73% of the total fatalities due to Covid-19 in J&K have come since June 7. As many as 68 people have died due to the virus in the past 11 days alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/authorities-order-partial-lockdown-in-parts-of-srinagar-due-to-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-sm2gtNwX6ALC0GLRmFltjM.html
12-07-2020||City||Cloudburst near Manali triggers flash floods, devastates apple orchards||Heavy rainfall to continue in the state till July 18Extensive damage was caused to orchards and fields following flash floods triggered by a cloudburst at the Saroh Nullah near Kanyal village in Nasogi Panchayat of Manali district last night. Manali sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Raman Gharsanghi confirmed the report and advised people to stay away from the river banks.Nasogi Panchayat Pradhan ShivRam said that the flooded nullah damaged the apple orchards and fields. The losses are yet to be ascertained, he said.Heavy rainfall is very likely to continue throughout the state as a yellow warning has been issued for July 13 and in lower and middle hills for July 16.Director of State’s Meteorological Department Manmohan Singh said that rainfall in the state is likely to continue till July 18.Rainfall occurred at many places in the state during the last 24 hours. Minimum temperatures were one to two degrees below normal while maximum temperatures were normal.The highest rainfall occurred in Pandoh which witnessed 46mm rain followed by Mandi which received 44mm rain. Nahan in Sirmaur district received 35mm rain, Manali received 27mm, Hamirpur received 25mm, Kufri 22mm, Bilaspur 19mm while Shimla and Una received18mm rainfall each.The maximum temperature in the state’s capital Shimla was 24.4°C and 17.1°C in Kufri.Maximum temperature in prominent hill stations like Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie was 26.0°C, 29.4°C and 21.5°C respectively.Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Una, district Sirmaur recorded 31.5°C, 34.5°C, 34.2°C and 36.4°C maximum temperatures respectively.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded 26.0°C maximum temperature.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest in the state as it recorded 8.9°C degrees minimum temperature while Mandi was the hottest as it recorded 37.1°C maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cloudburst-near-manali-triggers-flash-floods-devastates-apple-orchards/story-hXLgis8Z4Jw4ZSWUXSpH1I.html
12-07-2020||City||Dharamshala hoteliers demand change in SoPs, to keep hotels shut till July 30||Seeking changes in the ‘unreasonable’ Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the Himachal Pradesh government to resume tourism activities, hoteliers in Dharamshala have decided to keep their hotels shut till July 30.President of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Dharamshala Ashwani Bamba said the SOPs issued by the state government are difficult and will not help in reviving tourism and hospitality sector.“A meeting of the association was held on Saturday and we have decided to keep the hotels shut as these SOPs are not acceptable to us,” Bamba said. He said they want an amendment in the five-day advance hotel booking condition for tourists. “Tourists are not willing to visit the state due to the irrational condition,” Bamba said, adding that the government should reduce the limit to two-days.He said even during the peak season, the average stay of a guest in tourist destination is not more than two days. “The association has got feedback from travel agents who say that the tourists are reluctant to come due to the conditions,” he added.He said when the government has made a Covid-19 negative certificate mandatory for tourists, the condition of five-day booking is utterly unreasonable.Similarly, the condition related to vehicle sanitisation is also impractical given the fact that the government has not mentioned about which agencies will issue the certificate.Bamba said the SOPs also require hotel owners to allow entry of tourists even if they are having Covid-19 like symptoms. “This will cause unnecessary trouble for hotel owners and if a tourist tests positive for the virus, the premises will be sealed and staff quarantined.He, however, said the hotels which are ready to comply with the current SOPs are free to operate. Tourism activities in Himachal are closed since March due to Covid-19 outbreak. Under the guidelines for Unlock Phase-II, the government has allowed tourism activities to resume with certain restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dharamshala-hoteliers-demand-change-in-sops-to-keep-hotels-shut-till-july-30/story-BXHSUZruJ45NYernCR4plL.html
12-07-2020||City||Una administration offers free online training to JEE aspirants under ‘Super 50 programme’||Even as regular classes remain suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Una district administration is providing free online coaching to JEE aspirants under its ‘Super 50 Stars programme’.Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said that meritorious students selected under the programme were trained using various information technology tools.“Online sessions are conducted on a daily basis to help students prepare for competitive exams,” said Kumar.Under the programme, 50 students from each of the five subdivisions of the district who have already been selected on the basis of a test are eligible for free coaching to crack the JEE entrance test for admission to engineering colleges.“We had set up three coaching centres equipped with smart classrooms in Una, Thana Kalan and Ambota. However, regular classes this year were affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Kumar.Kumar, who personally reviews the progress of the programme on regular intervals, added that the study material including books and notes were provided to students at their doorstep.Meanwhile, Siddhant, a student selected under the programme said, “We can prepare for JEE exams at the comfort of our homes. All our queries are being answered by teachers on a regular basis.” Another student Swastik Sharma said that in areas with low internet connectivity, students are provided pre-recorded videos of each session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/una-administration-offers-free-online-training-to-jee-aspirants-under-super-50-programme/story-xvber03s1o1AyVJSpfueWI.html
12-07-2020||City||Online classes in Himachal schools to resume today||The online classes for school students in Himachal Pradesh will resume from Monday and the Doordarshan and All India Radio will start relaying study programmes from July 20, officials said.The online classes will be held through WhatsApp groups and teachers will work from home till further orders, said director higher education Amarjeet Kumar Sharma.However, the principals can call the teachers to the school if needed. Schools in Himachal were closed on March 22 due to Covid-19 outbreak and online classes were suspended on May 18 after the government declared holidays in the schools.The schools in the state will remain closed till July 31 as per the guidelines issued by the central government for Unlock Phase-II.Since the holidays are over, the state government has decided to start online classes. The education department has already prepared the study content for a month. Sharma said students who don’t have smartphones or internet connection will be delivered study material at home. “Schools authorities will identify such students and make arrangements to provide them the study material,” he said.He said the admission to Class 11 will be held online from July 13 till July 31. Students who don’t have a means to take online admission may submit the forms at the schools. If some students are unable to do so due to some genuine reason, they will be allowed submit the forms in August. “Schools principals have been directed to inform the parents about admission process on phone,” said Sharma.He said the state government will also prepare a school and district-level education programme which will be submitted to the Union human resource development ministry. Under this programme, the education department will collect data of students studying through various means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-classes-in-himachal-schools-to-resume-today/story-hnh5XEpDH0nQ90T7OlAtrK.html
12-07-2020||Pune||51-year old money lender found dead in Kondhwa||A 51-year-old money lender was found dead in his house in Kondhwa, Pune on Saturday morning. The man was identified as Ghanshyam alias Pappu Padwal, a man with a crime record of 16 cases including one of attempted murder.“We suspect that the body had been in the house since Thursday, the doctor’s opinion on the exact time of death is awaited,” said senior police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of Kondhwa police station who went to the house where the body was discovered.The body was found by Padwal’s niece who claimed to have been trying to reach him for a few days before she decided to come and check on him.“The house was locked from outside. She got a spare key and then opened the lock,” said PI Gaikwad.The man used to live in the area under the jurisdiction of Samarth police station where 9 of 16 cases against him are registered. The last case registered against him is from 2010. A case of illegal money lending is also registered against him in 2006 in Pune, according to police.“He majorly earned money through money lending,” said PI Gaikwad. Whether he had the required license to be a money lender is not yet confirmed.The man was found with multiple injuries caused by a sharp weapon on his face and hands. The left forearm was missing, according to police officials who went to the house.A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Kondhwa police station against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/51-year-old-money-lender-found-dead-in-kondhwa/story-BXt1E3wkrXddY8lzSd3RwK.html
12-07-2020||City||Delhi govt cancel exams at all state universities||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Saturday cancelled all end-semester examinations in eight state universities across the capital in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, a move that will impact more than 130,000 students. This came on a day when Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to intervene and scrap exams for students from central universities. In Delhi’s state universities, students across all years will now be evaluated on the basis of internal assessments and previous examinations. Deputy chief minister and Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia at a digital press conference said it would be unfair to hold exams for students as the pandemic had disrupted all teaching-learning activities since March. Sisodia added that the Delhi government’s decision did not extend to Delhi University (DU), Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and other central universities in the national capital.While DU has postponed its first-ever online open book exams to August amid student outrage, JNU had asked its schools and centres to opt for online and offline modes of exam following consultation with students and teachers.The Delhi government runs eight state universities — Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU), Delhi Technological University (DTU), Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research University (DPSRU), Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women (IGDTUW), Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology Delhi (IIIT-D), Ambedkar University (AUD), Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology (NSIT), and National Law University Delhi (NLU).“Though online classes are being conducted, the absence of in-person lessons, including lab classes, practicals, and field research has hampered the students’ learning. It will be unfair and difficult to hold examinations for the semester for which teaching-learning was hampered,” Sisodia said on Saturday.These universities have been directed to evaluate students on the basis of exams already conducted in previous semesters, internal assessments, or other progressive ways, Sisodia said.“The ones who were to appear for semester examinations should be promoted to the next semester on the basis of internal assessment and their performance in the mid-term exams. The final semester/year students should also be evaluated on the previous semesters, performance in internal assessments. Awarding degrees to students is very important because they have studied for three or four years and now want to start working and support their families as well as the economy,” he said.The decision comes after the University Grants Commission (UGC) on Monday asked all universities to conduct end-semester examinations for final-year students by September whether through offline or online modes, or a blend of both. After Punjab, West Bengal, Odisha, and Maharashtra, Delhi becomes the fifth state to say it won’t be able to adopt UGC guidelines.However, UGC secretary Rajnish Jain on Saturday told HT said that UGC guidelines are to be adopted by all states for universities and colleges across the nation.In his letter to the Prime Minister, Kejriwal said the UGC’s order had caused anger among students, teachers, and parents. “When renowned institutes like IIT and NLU have awarded degrees on the basis of internal assessments, why can’t other universities do the same,” he asked. The chief minister said that while all state university exams had been cancelled in Delhi, decision for central universities like DU, can only be taken by the Centre.”HT reached out to several senior officials in the Prime Minister’s Office for comment on Saturday, but did not receive a response. However, some students said the Delhi government’s decision holds little significance for students from institutes like Ambedkar University (AUD), where the focus is on continuous assessments through the entire semester instead of weightage on end-semester examinations.Shubhojeet Dey, a member of AUD students’ council, said the university had in April announced that the semesterwould continue online. “Generally, professors have flexibility over end-semester examinations at our university. For instance, there can be two assignments throughout the semester with a combined weightage of 60% and the rest would be for end-semester exams. Faculty members of various courses can make this decision over how much weightage can be given to final exams and assessments each throughout the year. For many subjects, no single end-semester examinations are conducted and evaluation is entirely based on the assessments,” he said.Dey, a postgraduate student who said he already received his grades, said the varsity came out with a flexible assessment process in April by allowing an option to students who couldn’t appear for online assessments.“Students who couldn’t submit presentations were asked to submit 1,000-word essays instead. Those who couldn’t submit any online assessments were offered an option to appear for exams whenever the situation was conducive,” he said.For final-year students of Delhi Technological University, who had previously written emails to government and university officials asking for cancellation of online exams, the decision doesn’t help a lot since their exams were conducted last month.“There is considerable disappointment among students. The decision should have come before because we had appeared for the papers in June itself. Now it is too late for us and even our grades suffered. Our juniors might benefit from this,” said Rizwan Saifi, who graduated from DTU this year.However, students from other universities welcomed the move. “Our end-semester exams were scheduled to take place on July 14. Following deputy CM’s announcement, we are waiting for the university to clarify the method on the basis of which we are promoted,” said Ankita Gaur, a student at DPSRU.Expressing disappointment over the delay, Rajesh Jha, DU executive council member, said, “DTU had already conducted its online exam despite the opposition from students. Now, Delhi government has cancelled all the exams, whereas the MHRD-UGC has made all the exams including final-year exams, compulsory. In this whole process, students suffer the most.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-cancel-exams-at-all-state-universities/story-UgLbs02ixKbD6QKnWfiRCK.html
12-07-2020||Delhi||Five new courses in Ambedkar University from this academic session||Ambedkar University of Delhi on Saturday announced five new programmes for the 2020-21 academic session in addition to its existing 37 undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) programmes, the varsity said while releasing its admission brochure on Saturday. The new UG programmes are Bachelor of Vocation (Accounting and Finance Programme) and BBA, offering 35 seats each. The PG programmes are MBA in Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Venture Development (IEVD) and MA (Hindi), offering 35 and 42 seats, respectively. AUD is also launching an MPhil course in Disability Studies with eight seats this academic session onwards. Around 1,800 seats will be available in the upcoming academic session for admission to UG/PG courses.Vice-chancellor Anu Singh Lather announced that the admission process will be carried out completely online in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Earlier, students used to come to the campus to get their documents verified and pay their fee. That process will be carried out online to ensure students don’t have to come to campus,” she said.Students can upload their self-attested documents online, which would be checked by university officials. While there are no measures to check for fraudulency, the university said the documents will be verified whenever students return to campus.While the state university said it would release the admission schedule next week after consulting state authorities, it expects to begin classes for its existing students by August. “While the final call will be taken based on the prevailing situation then and government directives, we are hoping to start classes in August through a blended learning model (both online and offline classes),” Lather said.For admission to its various UG, PG, Mphil, and PhD programmes, the university will give admission based on merit. While undergraduate admissions have always taken place based on Class 12 results, the university would conduct interviews and tests for PG/MPhil/PhD courses. In the wake of the pandemic, the university is not sure what alternate plans will be made in this regard.Established in 2008, the state university reserves 85% seats for students from the National Capital Region and has separate cut-offs for them. Apart from NCR applicants, the university also has a quota for co-curricular activities and the single girl child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-new-courses-in-ambedkar-university-from-this-academic-session/story-KxUGY9efdJjYhucdg8iqnK.html
12-07-2020||Pune||Rural Pune to support 10-day lockdown, strict enforcement to ensue||The villages on the outskirts of Pune declared as containment zones by the district administration on July 8 will support the10-day lockdown called by divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar.The villages which were sealed include Manjri, Kadamwakvasti, Narhe, New Kopre, Khanapur, Shevalewadi, Wagholi, Gujar-Nimbalkarwadi, Khadakwasla, Kirkitwadi, Pisoli, Wadali wadi, Bhilarewadi, Urali Kanchan, Loni Kalbhor, Nanded, Manjri, Kunjirwadi, Kondhwe-Dhavade and Dehu.“People have been following all the norms for the last three days. Now people will be following the 10-day lockdown as declared by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday,” said Sachin Baravkar, Haveli sub-divisional officer.“We are yet to take a decision on how to allow essential services and milk distribution,” added Baravkar.On Saturday, villagers at Kirkitwadi were following 10am- 2pm rules promptly. The gram panchayat volunteers were taking a fine from people who were not wearing masks.“Most of the people are wearing masks, so we haven’t had many problems in the last three days. Most of the people are following rules,” said Satish Jadhav, Gram Panchayat volunteer, Kirkitwadi.The volunteers were on duty from 9am to 7pm. In Gujar-Nimbalkarwadi, there was pin-drop silence on roads after 2pm.“Generally people don’t roam outside after 2 pm, since morning people follow social distancing norms,” adds the owner of Indira medical.Two-day break for six villagesSix villages, including Hinjewadi, Mangaon, Marunji, Nerhe, Jambhe and Kasarsai which had called a shutdown for a week starting from July 9 have taken a two-day break.“The villages have been given a two-day break to stock up essential commodities as a 10-day lockdown has been declared,” said Tulshiram Raykar, village development officer, Hinjewadi.However, villages are still not clear about whether industries and IT parks will work or not.“We are waiting for a complete order to come, whatever district administration decides we will follow it. We might give people a break on July 13 as well,” said Samir Buchade, Marunji sarpanch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rural-pune-to-support-10-day-lockdown-strict-enforcement-to-ensue/story-NPgkzmmWJnMR4S9FlIshCN.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Perfectly alright’: Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari says after reports of self-isolation||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said on Sunday some of the news reports regarding his health are “baseless” and that he is not in self-isolation after more than a dozen members of his staff tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation had said earlier that Bhagat Singh Koshyari has isolated himself after 16 members of the Raj Bhavan staff tested positive for Covid-19. Koshyari will undergo the test for Covid-19, if required, in the coming days, they had said.“I am perfectly alright and not in self-isolation. I underwent relevant tests, the result of which came in the negative. There are no symptoms of Covid-19 either,” he said in a statement.“However, considering the Covid-19 situation elsewhere, I am discharging all my official duties strictly adhering to protocols like social distancing, sanitizing, wearing of masks, etc,” he added.BMC officials had said out of the 16 staff members of Raj Bhavan, two had tested positive more than a week ago. Around 100 members were then tested for the viral disease by the governor’s office on Saturday at state-run JJ Hospital. BMC officials said around 14 staff members have tested positive for Covid-19.Maharashtra, India’s worst-hit state, on Saturday reported 8,139 new cases of Covid-19—the first time when the state crossed the 8,000-mark in a day—taking its tally to 146,600.The death toll of the state also breached 10,000-mark after 223 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The toll stands at 10,116, according to data released by the health department. Mumbai reported 1,284 new coronavirus disease cases, which have taken the city’s tally to 91,745.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/perfectly-alright-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-says-after-reports-of-self-isolation/story-urSnYSqL2sw2shz2eGhasN.html
12-07-2020||Pune||Covid impact: Restaurateur, auto driver turn vegetable vendors||The Covid-19 pandemic is not only impacting people’s health but also forcing them to change professions.Akshay Khatmode, the owner of North and South Station snack centre, Baner has converted his restaurant into a vegetable shop while Dadarao Rasal—an auto driver has turned his autorickshaw into a vegetable cart in Aundh gaon.For both of them, the pandemic put a brake on their businesses and with no source of money generated in the last two months, the duo decided to change their profession and begin selling vegetables.“After sitting at home for two months, I was completely frustrated and the government was extending lockdown every 15 days, so I decided to change my field and started selling vegetables,” said Khatmode who runs a vegetable shop at Pancard club road, Baner.Following Khatmode, a couple of his restaurant owner friends switched their profession too.“There was no way out to earn money. The government has now given orders to open a hotel but our head cook has gone back to Bihar and out of a staff of nine, I am the only one left. How I will run a restaurant?” added Khatmode who inaugurated his snack centre 14 months ago.Khatmode’s tea had a loyal customer base on Pancard Club road and most of the IT companies used to order from him, but now since the IT companies are working with 33 per cent workforce Khatmode has no plans of selling tea again.“Starting the snack centre again looks very difficult. How people will respond to dine in after it is allowed is a question mark, so I will continue selling vegetables for now. No plans of restarting the restaurant again” added Khatmode.Survival is toughThe thought of paying school fees for his children and earning bread butter inspired auto driver Rasal to start selling vegetables and make a living. A resident of Aundh gaon, Rasal now wakes up at 5 in the morning daily for his new business.“Life is different now, go to the vegetable market, bring vegetables, clean it and sell it. This is my new business and I am proud of it as I am able to earn money again,” said Rasal who is a father of two daughters.In the pre-Covid era, driving an autorickshaw gave Rasal a good amount of money but now people’s perspective has changed.“People are not feeling 100 per cent at comfort while asking for an auto. There is fear in their mind of catching the virus,” said Rasal who is against the 10-day lockdown.“The state government should have taken some time in unlocking the state, now people have started their businesses and they have planned lockdown again. It will impact everyone financially and the government should think about it,” added Rasal.Box:Auto driver turns cloth-seller Dilip Gujar who runs an auto on Sinhagad road is facing a financial crunch as people are not keen on taking an auto-rickshaw.“I was left with no option, so I decided to start selling clothes to earn money. All auto drivers are suffering badly and I request the state government to help us,” added Gujar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-impact-restaurateur-auto-driver-turn-vegetable-vendors/story-55mOxkvzahDsAzshxKsncL.html
12-07-2020||Pune||Did resistance to lockdown being pushed by other IAS officials and politicians cost Gaikwad his job as civic chief?||Shekhar Gaikwad, a 2003 batch IAS officer, had a short yet most eventful stint as Pune municipal commissioner chief. The order about Gaikwad’s sudden transfer on Saturday raised many eyebrows as it came just at a crucial juncture when Pune will be undergoing a ten-day stricter lockdown, starting Tuesday, after a spike in Covid-19 cases.During the meeting called by Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and guardian minister, in the city, on Friday, Gaikwad was among the very few officials who resisted the lockdown. This, according to sources close to him, was an immediate trigger used by other IAS officials for pushing the case of his transfer.“I have just got to know about the news. Even I am trying to figure out about the transfer. As a civic chief, I tried to give my best despite limited days,” said Gaikwad, immediately after the order was issued by the state government.“Decision to transfer Gaikwad is wrong. He has been made scapegoat. I feel the transfer was for political reasons,” said Pune MP Girish Bapat. Gaikwad, who shared proximity to Pawar was brought as civic chief from sugar commissioner in January this year had barely any breathing space to get a grip on civic issues as Covid pandemic changed the focus of PMC after the first week of May. Before taking charge as the sugar commissioner, Gaikwad had served as commissioner of the groundwater survey and development authority, district collector of Sangli and chief executive officer of Thane zilla parishad.During the last leg of lockdown in May, Gaikwad had taken a consistent stand about opening up while offering more relaxations in Pune as compared to other cities. However, as the city’s Covid tally began witnessing spike, his stand over more relaxations came under scrutiny especially when the government has brought ten IAS officials to coordinate with him while dealing with the crisis. Some of the officials who are more experienced were working under Gaikwad. Interestingly, Gaikwad had shifted in the official Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) bungalow just a week ago. However, within seven days, he will have to vacate it after transfer orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/did-resistance-to-lockdown-being-pushed-by-other-ias-officials-and-politicians-cost-gaikwad-his-job-as-civic-chief/story-AgWsDQqFCLmwgUj9MgFMvK.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Girl whose cremation was stopped in Mohali died by suicide: Police||A day after police took the custody of an 18-year-old girl’s body at the Balongi cremation ground after a priest conducting her last rites grew suspicious on seeing injury marks on her neck, her death by suicide was confirmed on Sunday.Rajeev Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Mataur Police station said medical reports indicated that she had died by suicide. The SHO said her parents wanted to perform the last rites quickly because of unsafe conditions due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The girl who worked in a boutique died at home in Mataur village. Her father in his police complaint said he and his wife and other children had gone out for work on Saturday and returned to find the door locked. When they broke it down they found her hanging.However, when the body was taken to the cremation ground the priest stopped the last rites on seeing injury marks around the neck and informed the police.Their statements had been recorded and inquest proceedings under Section 174, CrPC (police to inquire and report on suicide) started. The girls parents have also informed the police that she was not stressed and did not own a mobile phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/girl-whose-cremation-was-stopped-at-balongi-on-sat-died-by-suicide-police/story-Bz7pcMTux6uSClJIER1vaJ.html
12-07-2020||Pune||Eight-days-old girl, youngest Covid-19 casualty, among 16 deaths reported on Saturday||An eight-days-old female baby, youngest Covid-19 victim in the city, was one among the 16 deaths reported on Saturday, taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 816, according to the health department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).In addition, 827 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported within 24 hours, taking the total count of positive cases in Pune city to 26,904.Out of the 9,092 active cases in the city, 461 are in critical condition, and 64 are on ventilators and 397 in ICU (intensive care unit). Also 808 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 16,996.A total of 1,59,341 samples have been tested till date in the city out of which 4,398 were tested on Saturday including the antigen kits. Dr Parikshit Prayag, Covid-19 consultant, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said, “The mother of the eight-days-old baby has also tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 virus. It is highly possible that it was a vertical transmission wherein the child could have been infected even before the birth or during birth.” The cause of death is stated to be meconium aspiration syndrome neonatal Covid-19 positive pneumonia. The child was residing at Chaitanyanagar on Pune-Satara road. The baby was admitted at the hospital on July 3 and was declared dead on July 10 at 7.44 am. Two more deaths were reported from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital that of a 74-year-old male from Market Yard and another 75-year -old male from Keshavnagar, Mundhwa.Nine deaths were reported from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) including a 61-year-old male from Hadapsar, a 67-year-old male from Phursungi, a 55-year-old male from Kondhwa, 74-year-old male from Tingarenagar, 50-year- old male from Kasba peth, a 68-year-old male from Shukrawar peth, a 53-year-old male from Bibwewadi, a 63-year-old male from Kondhwa and a 90-year-old female from Katraj. Another 69-year-old female from Bopodi was declared dead at Civil Hospital, Aundh, a 35-year-old female from Phursungi, a 69-year-old male from Noble Hospital and a 64-year-old male from Somwar peth. Two deaths were also reported from out of PMC limits including a 35-year-old female from Mulshi, at Symbiosis hospital and a 70-year-old female from Wadki Haveli from Sassoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/eight-days-old-girl-youngest-covid-19-casualty-among-16-deaths-reported-on-saturday/story-4iL1zUPTZ0CAqLARiwTwRL.html
12-07-2020||Pune||BJP steps up attack on government over Lockdown 3.0 in Pune||If residents were angry due to sudden announcement of lockdown in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was also quick in its response.Several BJP leaders, including party national vice-president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, city MP Girish Bapat and Shivajinagar legislator Siddharth Shirole said the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has no concrete plans to deal with the crisis.Besides Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, other cities to go or already under lockdown are Thane, Aurangabad, Nanded, Solapur and Amravati.Calling the lockdown as an ad hoc approach and confusion between opening up and restrictions, Sahasrabuddhe in his letter to the chief minister said the government is taking decisions arbitrarily with “safe-play”.“Many believe that this re-lockdown in just few days after declaration of ‘Mission Begin Again’ smacks of utter confusion at various levels of administration. It is believed that these decisions are taken arbitrarily as they can be described as case of convenient safe-play,” said Sahasrabuddhe.Shirole said the city has reported maximum Covid-19 positive cases after Mumbai and Thane, but the CM is yet to visit the city or have not acknowledged the situation here. Leadership that is paramount in times of such crisis is missing.“Let alone a visit to #Pune, Hon CM @OfficeofUT ji has not had a single update or review call / video conference with elected representatives of the City who are working on the ground during this unprecedented Pandemic. Even emails from me are yet to receive a reply. Why is the leader of our state Hon. CM @OfficeofUT ji ignoring #Pune, a city closest to his home, and has one of the highest mortality & infection growth rates in India ? Why has the CM not visited #Pune or held a conference call with local representatives in past 100 days?,” said Shirole in series of tweets.The announcement of lockdown made in Pune by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar came just days after NCP chief Sharad Pawar advocated resumption of activity in the state. While taking the decision, Ajit did not consult any public representatives in Pune, angering many in the BJP.“Ajit Pawar’s decision is unilateral and makes no sense. He should have at least discussed the issue with MLAs and MP before going ahead with lockdown measure. People are already frustrated because of poor economic activity,” said city MP Girish Bapat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-steps-up-attack-on-government-over-lockdown-3-0-in-pune/story-Q6dlY4etkWnv7nOcY1TMZP.html
12-07-2020||Ranchi||Maoists blow up 12 buildings of Jharkhand forest department in West Singhbhum district||Twelve buildings of the Jharkhand forest department were blown up by suspected Maoists in West Singhbhum district, police said on Sunday. According to Superintendent of Police Indrajeet Mahatha, a group of armed Maoists had barged into the buildings in Berkela forest area of the district on Saturday night and asked all staffers to vacate the premises.Several employees were also beaten up by the miscreants, and warned of consequences if they informed the police, he told PTI. The naxalites then blew up the buildings, located one after another in the forested area, with Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), Mahatha said. “Preliminary investigation showed that the Maoists had also felled trees in the forest to prepare a route, which they would have possibly used to attack the security forces,” the SP said. A massive search operation is under way in the forest, and more details will be available after further investigation, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/maoists-blow-up-12-buildings-of-jharkhand-forest-department-in-west-singhbhum-district/story-gVpeXUMjccPUjZZmavs9pJ.html
12-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi man gets challan for speeding, over 20 days after car was stolen||A resident of the national capital has received a traffic challan for speeding more than 20 days after his car was stolen from near Vivek Vihar Police Station in east Delhi. A resident of Hari Nagar in West Delhi, Yogesh Poddar’s vehicle was stolen on June 6 and remains untraceable, police said. However, on June 28, he received a challan for speeding near Millennium Depot. According to Poddar, he parked his car near Vivek Vihar Police Station on June 5 at around 8 pm. “I visited my in-laws in E-block, Jhilmil Colony, behind Vivek Vihar Police Station on June 5. Since the streets there were congested, I parked my vehicle on the main road near the police station. However, the next day, my car was not there,” Poddar, who deals in packaging of pharmaceutical materials, said, adding that he filed an FIR online.Police claimed that there were no CCTV cameras near the spot where Poddar parked his car and despite analysing the footage from nearby areas, they could not spot his car. “The area where his car was parked did not have a CCTV camera installed but we scanned footage from multiple CCTV cameras installed in the adjoining areas to identify the culprits who fled with the vehicle but we could not find anything,’’ an officer privy to the investigation said. “Despite our best efforts, we could not trace the car and after a few days, following due procedure, we filed an ‘untraceable report’ in the court,” the officer said. However, barely a week later on June 30, the complainant received the challan along with a photo of his stolen vehicle. Poddar immediately informed the investigating officer as he was hopeful that police will now be able to trace the stolen vehicle. “Until I received the challan on June 30, I thought the culprits must have either dismantled the car or sold it to someone outside Delhi,” Poddar said. “But after I received the challan with the photo, I was surprised to see that neither the colour of my car nor its registration number had been changed, only a few stickers and an idol on the dashboard were missing. Despite this, police have failed to trace my vehicle,” claimed Poddar. Although, the untraceable report was filed before the car was challaned, it is still pending with the court and efforts are being taken to trace the stolen vehicle, senior police officer said. Earlier this month, the husband of a Delhi court judge received a traffic challan for speeding two months after their car was stolen from their west Delhi residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-gets-challan-for-speeding-over-20-days-after-car-was-stolen/story-z8rBi4a0CN2C18jpnNglsN.html
12-07-2020||Delhi||Restaurants open but grapple with decreased sales, few dine-in customers||Restaurants across Delhi may have reopened their doors a month ago after being allowed to resume their business post the Covid-19 lockdown, but are still grappling with decreased sales, staff shortages and few dine-in customers. Due to the Covid-19 restrictions, many restaurants have not commenced dine-in facilities and are relying on takeaways to drive their business.According to Rohit Aggarwal, director, Lite Bite Foods, post ‘Unlock’, the situation has not been “very motivating, walk-in numbers are extremely low and the operational cost is soaring”.“The highest number of dine-in guests we have served on a single day after opening following the Covid-19 lockdown is just 15 at Punjab Grill’s Saket outlet. We are hoping to serve the same number of guests we had before very soon and are positive that this number will go up eventually. “We are making just 20 per cent sales of what we used to do. Dine-in sales account for just 25 per cent of the existing 20 per cent sales and rest all are delivery and takeaway orders,” he said.Aggarwal said people are still apprehensive of stepping out and going to confined public places such as malls and restaurants. Currently, only two restaurants under the Lite Bite Foods portfolio are open for dine-in -- YouMee (GK2 Delhi and Bangalore outlets) and Punjab Grill (four outlets across Delhi-NCR ) -- but both are experiencing extremely low footfall, Aggarwal said.With movie halls shut and restrictions on liquor service, customers have no motivation to go out and eat. Even the restaurants in mall are finding it difficult to attract dine-in guests, he added.The shortage of staffers, many of whom had gone back to their hometowns, are also the reason behind many restaurants opting to open takeaways.“Our workforce is the biggest concern as most of the people are from different cities and we need time to call them back. Our prime concern is and will always be the safety of our staff. “With most of the state borders still closed, we don’t want to take any risk. The other pain points are not being able to serve liquor and to operate with less than 60 per cent seating capacity to maintain social distancing,” said Joy Singh, co-partner, Raasta and Yeti restaurants.As late hours make up the lion’s share of our revenues, the 10 PM deadline will further hurt business, Singh said, adding that with the given restrictions, they are still contemplating whether it’s worth opening up at the moment.“Currently, we are focusing on home deliveries with our brand Yeti,” he added.Karan Tanna, founder Ghost Kitchens and co-founder BroEat, also echoed similar reactions and said expenses have begun but business is down by 70-75 per cent.However, he said the silver lining is all this is that there is a week on week increase in footfall and due to precautions taken by restaurants, customers are slowly feeling confident to eat out.Ashwin Jain, co-founder, Instapizza, said they have seen a reasonable recovery in sales in the last four to six weeks, and consumers have looked to their favourite and most trusted brands in-home delivery to find a little bit of respite from the ongoing challenges of the crisis.So the question arises -- when do restaurants think of resuming dine-in facilities, asked Chef Irfan Pabaney, country head, SodaBottleOpenerWala and added that the restaurants might resume dine-in facilities within a month or two. He said restaurants are relying on takeaways currently but they hope that the situation will normalise in some time.Pabaney said the major challenge for their workforce is maintaining social distance given that they have to interact with each other during the preparation of dishes. They maintain social distancing and regularly wash hands, he said.Aggarwal also says the coronavirus pandemic has changed consumer behaviour forever.“‘Contact-less dining’ seems to be the buzz of the future with customers’ hesitation for sociable activities and they being more cautious about their health. At Lite Bite Foods, we have revamped our menus thoroughly in the lockdown period.“Although, all the high sellers and most of our specialities have been retained, the overall menu size has been decreased. This is to ensure that our chefs also maintain proper distancing at the workplace,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/restaurants-open-but-grapple-with-decreased-sales-few-dine-in-customers/story-s4xviE7FgQwQNAyAB71faO.html
12-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally may double in next 15-30 days: Health minister||The number of coronavirus cases in Karnataka may double in the next 15 to 30 days and the coming two months would emerge as a big challenge for the government in tackling the pandemic, state Health Minister B Sriramulu has said.However, there was no need for any panic and people should follow the Covid-19 related regulations to stay safe, he said in a series of tweets.As on Saturday, the cumulative tally of Covid-19 cases in the state touched 36,216, including 613 fatalities and 14,716 discharges.“Lockdown has been announced in Bengaluru from Tuesday 8 pm for the next seven days. Abide by the regulations. Everyday more than 2,000 cases of coronavirus are coming to fore,” Sriramulu said late Saturday.“The number of coronavirus cases may double in the next 15 to 30 days in Karnataka. The next two months set to pose a big challenge before us,” he tweeted.Asserting that the state government was initiating all measures to control the coronavirus, Sriramulu said: “There is no need to panic or lose hope.” Meanwhile, former chief minister and JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy supported the complete lockdown announced by the government in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts from July 14 to 22 in the wake of a spike in new cases in the past several days.He said there was a need to impose lockdown in other ‘critical’ districts and also demanded banning inter-district travel except for the transportation of essential commodities.“As Covid-19 cases are increasing in the state day by day, based on the advice of experts, complete lockdown will be imposed in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural from July 14 Tuesday 8 pm to 5 am on July 22,” Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had said in a statement on Saturday.The announcement came as the state recorded its single-day highest of 2,798 new cases and 70 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-s-covid-19-tally-may-double-in-next-15-30-days-health-minister/story-kFs4bVGRCuyM9sKHqm8CCK.html
12-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi sees over 23,000 vehicle registrations in June||In a sign of revival of economic activities in Delhi, over 23,000 vehicles were registered in the city in June, up from just 8,455 a month ago, Transport department officials said here on Sunday.Registration of cars and two-wheelers picked up after the restrictions due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown were relaxed, they said.“The registration of vehicles picked up after ‘Unlock 1’ was declared, and total registrations were 23,940 in the month,” said a senior Delhi Transport department officer.Official data shows the registrations in June included 18,741 two-wheelers(motorcycles and scooters) and 4,755 four-wheelers, he said.Seventy-four three-wheelers (both goods and passenger vehicles) and 280 e-rickshaws were also registered in the month, it stated.In comparison, 6,711 two-wheelers, 1,650 cars, 72 e-rickshaws and seven three-wheelers were registered in May, the figures showed.The situation is still far from what it used to be before Covid-19. Back then, nearly 40,000-45,000 vehicles were registered in Delhi every month, the officials said.J S Nayol, president of the All India Car Dealers Association, said the Covid-19 pandemic ravaged the business and the situation will take time to return to normal.“People are facing financial hardships, so they are going for used cars instead of new ones. We have demanded the government to give relief from GST so that sale of new cars also picks up,” he said.Most of the vehicles being bought by the people are in the range of Rs one lakh to Rs eight lakh. There is not much demand in high-end cars upwards of Rs 10 lakh. The highest demand is in the small car segment, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sees-over-23-000-vehicle-registrations-in-june/story-8JaHG3t4YWIEL6xrQBrDHJ.html
12-07-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19, Amphan help RSS to spread wings in rural West Bengal||In the last three months the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) intensified its activities to provide food and medical help to migrant workers during the coronavirus pandemic and relief to those affected by Cyclone Amphan as it made a political point that the ruling Trinamool Congress failed to manage the two simultaneous disasters.RSS, the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has around 1,800 sakhas (branches) in West Bengal. It could not hold daily assemblies because of nationwide lockdown that started in March but its members have tried to help people during the crisis.“The Covid-19 pandemic is the worst thing that has happened in India. Helping people should be our sole objective,” Jishnu Basu, general secretary of the RSS state unit, said while speaking to HT. The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), the RSS’ trade union arm, in a bid to provide work to migrant workers has set up help desks to provide employment opportunities in the eastern state as well as in others like Kerala, Maharashtra and Gujarat. The BMS claims it is contacting local employers as well.“We are operating 38 help desks across Bengal. According to our estimate, 80% migrants will leave the state again. We are preparing records of these people and helping them to get work,” said Ravi Singh, the BMS’ state working president. “Our 121 active unions in Bengal have distributed food and sanitisers among 1.62 lakh families at 665 locations in 23 districts. Tarpaulins, food and relief materials were distributed in Amphan-hit areas as well,” Singh added. The National Medicos Organisation (NMO), an organisation of doctors and volunteers of the RSS, along with two other outfits, have so far held 80 medical camps in East Midnapore and the South and North 24 Parganas, the Amphan impacted districts.“We have treated about 25,000 people so far, thanks to 80 doctors, 250 volunteers and help from the BJP medical cell. Masks and medicines have been distributed. We are preparing a list of people who need surgery,” said Dr Prabhat Singh, state president of NMO.Sahakar Bharati, a nationwide cooperative movement backed by RSS, has in recent years set up multipurpose, agricultural and fisheries cooperatives depending on location and requirement, said Vivekananda Patra, its organising secretary in West Bengal, Sikkim, Odisha and the Andamans.These cooperatives are now helping people affected by lockdown.Basudeb Sarkar, who is associated with Sahakar Bharati, said he has been able to help the families of many of his neighbours who went to other states for work and faced crisis during the lockdown.Sarkar is a resident of Nandangram village of North Dinajpur district in north Bengal.“Around 2.24 lakh people from North Dinajpur were stuck in other states. We helped some of them through the Sahakar Bharati network in those states. Now our main objective is to help women whose husbands have not returned. We are inducting them in cooperative societies for packaging and marketing organic farm products,” said Sarkar.Political fallout:Political observers say that with RSS cadre working on the field helps the BJP for the crucial 2021 assembly polls. The humanitarian work, they say, gives the BJP the same strong platform that the RSS ensured for the party in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Assam and other states. The BJP bagged 18 of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019, unsettling the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the districts. The party’s leaders are now publicly saying that they will win 200 of the 294 assembly seats in 2021 assembly polls.Amal Kumar Mukhopadhyay, former principal of Presidency College, said the RSS was doing a great job for people affected by the lockdown and Cyclone Amphan.“I don’t support the RSS ideology but TMC activists are not doing anything of this kind. They are more interested in robbing the money that has come from the government as a grant,” said Mukhopadhyay.“Because of these welfare activities the BJP is trying to have its strongholds, particularly in the rural areas that represent the majority of the voters. If RSS continues this work it will surely help the BJP do much better in the coming election,” he added.The outreach of the RSS could hurt the TMC, a senior minister, who did not wish to be named, admitted. “In 2011, we could overthrow the Communist Party of India (Marxist) despite its phenomenal cadre-based organisation because voters turned against the Left. In the coming war, our main weapon against the BJP is the TMC government’s performance,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-amphan-help-rss-to-spread-wings-in-rural-west-bengal/story-OL4wNeVTGZYitkCmHlZefJ.html
12-07-2020||Lucknow||UP to conduct door-to-door medical screening, 15,000-20,000 antigen tests per day||With Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath instructing to increase the Covid-19 testing capacity, 15,000 to 20,000 antigen tests will now be conducted per day in the state. The Chief Minister has also stated that the state government has also given instructions to conduct door-to-door medical screening. “Medical screening and testing are the most important means to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection. Your government has given instructions to conduct door-to-door medical screening. If anyone is detected with the symptoms, they will be tested by taking their samples. You all should be aware, be alert. Staying protected is treatment,” Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath wrote on Twitter (translated from Hindi).While addressing the regular press briefing, Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Awanish Awasthi on Saturday said, “More than 1.40 lakh teams have been formed for medical screening tasks. Chief Minister has instructed to increase testing capacity continuously so the testing capacity via RTPCR testing has reached 30,000 per day in the state. 15,000 to 20,000 antigen tests will be conducted now per day and 2,000 tests should be conducted per day via True Net machine.” Uttar Pradesh has reported 35,092 Covid-19 positive cases so far, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-to-conduct-door-to-door-medical-screening-15-000-20-000-antigen-tests-per-day/story-uO60Yml7zVEGKPr5QuqoEO.html
12-07-2020||Kolkata||SFI holds protest rallies against MHRD advisory on university exams||The Students’ Federation of India (SFI) on Saturday held protest rallies in Kolkata demanding that the advisory of the Ministry of Human Resource Development asking universities to complete final semester examinations by September 30 be withdrawn.Over 200 activists of the SFI, students’ wing of the CPI(M), demonstrated at College Street and Gol Park areas during the day.“We strongly oppose the advisory which said that examination should be held in the unlock phase. We don’t think holding offline tests is possible during such a pandemic. And online tests will also be discriminatory for a large section of students. There should be other ways of evaluation,” an SFI leader said.The demonstrators also demanded that no tuition fee be taken from students of educational institutions during the lockdown period.The body of vice-chancellors of state-run universities of West Bengal has already aired their opposition to the advisory of the MHRD which said final-year examinations in universities will have to be conducted by September-end, deferring the schedule from July in view of a spike in Covid- 19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/sfi-holds-protest-rallies-against-mhrd-advisory-on-university-exams/story-UqaY8APRq3h6znJHkYH6cL.html
12-07-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal reports 1,344 new Covid-19 cases||A total of 1,344 new Covid-19 cases and 26 deaths reported in West Bengal on Saturday, according to the bulletin of State’s health department.As per the bulletin, there are 9,588 active Covid-19 cases in the state and the total tally stands at 28,453 A total of 611 persons have been discharged after treatment, taking the total number of discharged patients to 17,959 in the state.The death toll due to Covid-1 stands at 906 after 26 deaths reported on Saturday.The total number of positive cases in the country stands at 8,20,916, including 2,83,407 active cases, 5,15,386 cured/discharged/migrated and 22,123 deaths, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-reports-1-344-new-covid-19-cases/story-q1mUbWk82U5pu0MwHpkQdM.html
12-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Covid-19 case tally at 6,748, highest in Haryana state||On Saturday the district had 170 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count of cases to 6,748, out of which 1,036 are active cases, and 5608 have recovered till now.In the last 10 days (July 1- 10) there were 1,231 new Covid-19 cases, an 18.4% rise from that of the previous 10 days (June 21-30) when it was 1040. Before that it was 1761 (June 11-20), 1772 (June 1-10_ and 535 (May 22 to 31).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageGurugram currently has the highest number of cases among the 22 districts in Haryana.The health department and district administration officials attribute the latest spike to increased testing.Dr. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of the district, said, “The cases will continue to emerge as more testing is done through rapid antigen kits and reverse transcription -polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). But at the same time, recovery rate is almost 83%. The city’s current positivity rate is 11%. Ideally, it should be around 5% as per the World Health Organization ( WHO), but through our interventions in large outbreak areas and containment zones, we are trying for 8% to 10%.”Experts who have been monitoring Gurugram and state Covid-19 data said that the spike is due to unchecked transmission of the Sars-CoV-2 infection.“In the last 10 days, Gurugram saw 18.4% rise in the coronavirus cases detected in the city, when compared to the data of the previous 10 days from June 21 to 30. More testing leads to higher detection of so far undetected infection in the community. But at the same time it also points at the unchecked transmission of the coronavirus among susceptible hosts. Tests are detecting only a portion of such infected lot,” said Dheeraj Singh, data scientist who has been monitoring district’s Covid-19 data.The total count of the coronavirus cases has crossed the mark of 20,000 in the state to record 20,582 with 648 new cases. Out of these, 4891 are active cases, while 15,394 have been discharged, according to the state bulletin. The Covid-19 death toll in the state stood at 297, out of which 104 are reported alone in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-covid-19-case-tally-at-6-748-highest-in-haryana-state/story-OP4lWl7Yv9bnJXcfcv89BJ.html
12-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to cloudy skies, IMD predicts light to moderate rains over next few hours||The residents of the national capital woke up to cloudy skies on Sunday with the weatherman predicting light to moderate rains and strong surface winds over the next few hours.Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said light to moderate rains would occur over Delhi, Faridabad, Gurgaon, Meerut, Rohtak, Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida over the next two hours.Winds gusting up to 60 kilometers per hour will also sweep across the capital, he said.On Saturday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 36.4 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal.In July so far, the Safdarjung weather station has recorded 43.5 mm rainfall, which is 23 per cent less than the normal of 56.5 mm.Since June 1, when the monsoon season started, the city has gauged 79.4 mm rainfall against the normal of 112.1 mm -- a deficiency of 35 per cent. The monsoon reached Delhi on June 25. Normal rainfall is predicted in the national capital during the season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-cloudy-skies-imd-predicts-light-to-moderate-rains-over-next-few-hours/story-6mHKUHTyyKaM3Bv4TMZ15I.html
12-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan registers nearly 24,000 Covid-19 cases; death toll at 507||Rajasthan reported four more Covid-19 deaths on Sunday, taking their number to 507 as 153 new cases of the infection pushed the tally in the state to 23,901.Of the new cases, 42 were reported from Alwar, 31 in Jaipur, 25 in Ajmer, 14 in Kota, 13 in Sirohi, eight in Karauli, seven in Barmer, four each in Bundi and Jhunjhunu and two in Banswara. Three patients from other states also tested positive for Covid-19, according to an official report.A total of 17,902 patients have recovered from the disease so far, and there are 5,492 active cases in the state at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-registers-nearly-24-000-covid-19-cases-death-toll-at-507/story-uSqpfe1ODnOHNk5kXY4NNN.html
12-07-2020||Lucknow||Locusts leave behind trail of destruction in Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur district||A swarm of locusts has left behind a trail of destruction in half a dozen blocks of Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur district.Farmers and officials of the administration on Saturday scared away the locusts out of the fields by clanging thalis and producing sounds, however not before crops in more than half a dozen areas of the district including Machhehata, Misrikh, Khairabad, Biswan, Mahmudabad, Pisawan were destroyed.Arvind Mohan Mishra (Deputy Agricultural Director) said that locusts from Hardoi district had entered Sitapur and damaged crops.“Last (Friday) night, swarms of locusts attacked crops in four to five villages of the district. The administration with the help of responsible officers of the agriculture department and the fire brigade sprayed chemicals so that the locusts cannot sit on the crops,” Mishra told ANI.The official said that a team was constantly surveying the damage to the crops. “We are motivating farmers to scare away locusts by clanging thali-tali and producing sound from vehicles so that farmers can save their crops from locust attack in time,” he added.Farmers in various parts of the state have been using different tactics, including desperate measures -- beating steel utensils during late afternoons and evenings, playing loud music at night, creating wood-fire and running the tractor inside their fields -- to scare away the locusts.Earlier on July 7, Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare had said that locust control operations were carried out in more than 2.75 lakh hectares area in the states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhatisgarh, Haryana and Bihar from April 11 till July 6, 2020.Presently 60 control teams with spray vehicles are deployed in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and more than 200 Central Government personnel are engaged in locust control operations, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/locusts-leave-behind-trail-of-destruction-in-uttar-pradesh-s-sitapur-district/story-uuMHVcliG3nNA86qu8kwZJ.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari in isolation after 16 staff test Covid-19 positive||Maharashtra’s Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has isolated himself after 16 members of the Raj Bhavan staff tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation have said.Koshyari will undergo the test for Covid-19, if required, in the coming days, said a BMC official.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOut of the 16 staff members of Governor House, two had tested positive around eight days ago, according to BMC officials.After this, tests of around 100 staff members was undertaken by the governor’s office on Saturday at state-run JJ Hospital. Of the 100, around 14 have been tested positive, BMC officials said.Maharashtra, India’s worst-hit state, on Saturday reported 8,139 new cases of Covid-19—the first time when the state crossed the 8,000-mark in a day—taking its tally to 146,600.The death toll of the state also breached 10,000-mark after 223 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The toll stands at 10,116, according to data released by the health department. Mumbai reported 1,284 new coronavirus disease cases, which have taken the city’s tally to 91,745.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-in-isolation-after-16-staff-test-covid-19-positive/story-Q9XvuQnOtR55Pv7ldspfSL.html
12-07-2020||Jaipur||Coronavirus: Rajasthan issues regulations on inter-state movement of people||Rajasthan government on Saturday imposed restrictions on inter-state movement of people, in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases in the State.As per an order issued on Saturday, those going out of Rajasthan will have to obtain passes from authorities. People travelling by road shall be screened at check post to be established on state borders.“Those arriving at airports, railway stations and bus stands within Rajasthan will be screened. All persons who intend to move outside the State shall be required to obtain a pass from the nearby government offices,” read the order by the state’s home department.In case of personal emergency, persons shall be exempted from the requirement of a pass for travel outside the State, the order said.Also, people travelling by scheduled flights, trains and state roadways buses on July 12, with a prior confirmed reservation, will be exempted from the requirement of passes, the order said.Rajasthan reported 170 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the total number of positive cases to 23,344, according to a health bulletin issued by the state health department.Two deaths were also reported on Saturday, the health department said. So far, 499 people have lost their lives due to the virus. Currently, there are 5,211 active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/coronavirus-rajasthan-issues-regulations-on-inter-state-movement-of-people/story-i2vHG2SDKim9cCWVYIS1VN.html
12-07-2020||Kolkata||Barred from entering home upon return from Delhi, family spends night in crematorium||A family who returned from Delhi to their home in West Bengal’s Howrah district had to spend a night at a crematorium after locals stopped them from entering the area, fearing they might spread coronavirus, officials said on Saturday.Mohua Mukherjee and her son Rohit returned from Delhi by Rajdhani Express on Friday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMohua, who lost her husband a couple of years back, lives in the national capital with her son who has a jewellery business there. As their business was not doing well due to the pandemic, the mother and the son decided to return to her father’s place, located in Raghudebpur-Dakbunglow in Rajpur police station area.As they reached the area, locals stopped them, saying they have returned from Delhi and they might be infected with coronavirus.Mohua said that she spoke to a local panchayat member and had informed her about their return.Failing to convince the people, Mohua along with her son went to Sahapur in Panchala police station area where her father has another house. The people of that area too did not allow them, leading to a war of words.Finally, Mohua along with her son, father and a brother went to the nearby Basudebpur Agunkhali crematorium where they spent the night in a room in which bodies are kept during bad weather.As police officials got to know of the incident on Saturday morning, they took the family to their Raghudebpur- Dakbunglow house, officials said.Mohua and her son, who heaved a sigh of relief after being able to return home, were asked by district officials to stay in home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/barred-from-entering-home-upon-return-from-delhi-family-spends-night-in-crematorium/story-iQy8ry6Tm7mQMWE1ppQtWN.html
12-07-2020||Lucknow||Vikas Dubey was ready for ‘big action’ day before ambush||Gangster Vikas Dubey had set a plan in motion for what he called ‘big action’ on July 2, a day before he and his men killed eight policemen, injured seven others and looted five police weapons, police officials said on the basis of questioning of Dubey in Ujjain after his arrest on July 9. Dubey was subsequently killed in an encounter as he tried to escape when he was being brought to Kanpur from Madhya Pradesh early on July 10, according to the police. The gangster spoke about what happened before the July 3 ambush during his day-long questioning at Narwar police station in Ujjain rural and then at the police training school (PTS) in Ujjain, police officials said.“He was calm and relaxed during the questioning. He said he was getting regular inputs from the police about the developments. He knew the raid was imminent and he prepared accordingly a day before,” said an official who spoke to his Madhya Pradesh police counterpart. On July 2 and July 3, he had food prepared for 30 people living in his house, Dubey told the police, the officials added.After he was certain that an attempt to murder case was going to be lodged against him following a complaint by villager Rahul Tiwari, he asked his supporters to prepare for a hard battle, the officials said. He told them it was time to do something big, the officials said. After asking them to take their licensed weapons and checking the stock of bullets, he arranged 50 more bullets of different bores, the officials said. About 35 firearms licences, were issued to his men and close relatives 2007 onwards, according to investigation by the Kanpur police. The weapons, along with bullets, were moved to rooftops in advance. There were 25-30 men involved in the shootout. Vikas Dubey had already told them that he meant business this time and all of them were mentally prepared to take on the police, the official said. An official said his team fired aggressively and cornered the police team during the ambush. They shot them from a close range, not once but many times, the official said. Vikas Dubey told the police that Babban Shukla, one of his aides, was the first to reach the road and he shot four policemen. The Kanpur police said the criminals fired close to 100 rounds in 15 minutes.Vikas Dubey had planned to burn the bodies of the policemen in a small toilet, the officials said. It was in this toilet that the bodies of five policemen, one piled on the other, were found, they added. He told his men he had 50 litres of fuel stocked at his house. The policemen were killed in other parts of the village and their bodies were dragged to the toilet, he said. While five bodies were piled in the toilet and others were being brought, his men spotted two-three cars on the main road close to Bikru. They took them for police vehicles and Dubey left for Shivli on a motorcycle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/vikas-dubey-was-ready-for-big-action-day-before-ambush/story-eyAE2jlMSbbUrB1vzXZDhO.html
12-07-2020||Delhi||2/3rds of Covid beds in Delhi hospitals vacant||The number of people in the city hospitalised with Covid-19 has been declining consistently over the past week, with the number of beds occupied dipping below the 5,000-mark on four consecutive days. This means over two-thirds of beds in Delhi designated for the treatment of Covid-19 patients remain vacant, as on Saturday.Currently, there are 15,244 Covid-19 beds across government and private hospitals, of which 4,502 were occupied as on Saturday evening. An additional 1,000 beds are available at the field hospital in Dhaula Kuan built by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The last time the number of people in the hospitals was as low was on June 10, when Delhi had been recording between 1,000 and 1,500 new cases a day. The daily new case count shot up to 3,947 on June 23, but has significantly lowered, especially over the past week.The government, however, has no plans to de-escalate the preparations made for Covid-19 treatment. “We cannot start de-escalating preparations made for Covid-19 right now even though the number of howspitalisations has gone down. In many places across the world — even in Mumbai — the number of cases has gone up after showing a decline. We have to stay alert,” said a Delhi government spokesperson.However, hospitals have put any further expansions on hold. “Only about a third of the beds in the AIIMS Trauma Centre and Jhajjar campus are currently occupied, and there is no need for more. The burns centre will not be converted to a Covid-19 hospital for the time being,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). The hospital has 1,250 beds in its cancer centre at Jhajjar and 260 beds in the trauma centre on ring road earmarked for Covid-19 patients. Currently, just over 400 patients are admitted to both, Dr Sharma said.The number of admissions started going down at the hospital 10 days ago. The highest number of active cases that the hospital had was just over 600 mid-June.At the 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital, Delhi’s biggest Covid-19 facility, the number of admissions have gone down from about a 100 a day 10 days ago to about 50 to 60 in the last 10 days. “The number of cases has certainly gone down, but the cases we are getting are more serious ones, where the patient is semi-conscious or is already on life-support. This means more and more people are staying in home isolation rather than coming to hospitals. However, whether or not to start other services is a decision that has to be taken by the government,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital.Experts also agreed that it would be premature to scale down the number of Covid beds. “I visited two private hospitals in the city as a part of the committee observing Covid-19 patient care and found that 50% of the beds were empty. It is encouraging to see that the number of new cases and hospitalisations are going down, but it is too early to shut down these facilities. The government should review the situation again in a few weeks to examine the trend,” said Dr Mahesh Verma, vice-chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University. He chaired a committee set up by the Delhi government in June that estimated infrastructure needs to treat Covid patients.The committee had said there would be 100,000 cases by June-end, which would consequently necessitate at least 15,000 beds.Another member of the committee Dr Arun Gupta, president of the Delhi Medical Council, said, “The number of people hospitalised in the city is consistently going down by 200 to 300 every day. This is very encouraging, but the government cannot lower their guard yet. In countries like China, Spain and US the number of cases has risen after a decline.”Assuming the initial trends of the sero-surveillance data to be true, he said, Delhi is a long way away from herd immunity.“There were reports that there is a 15% prevalence of the antibodies against Covid-19 in Delhi. This is not enough for herd immunity, which can protect those who are uninfected. Besides, we don’t even know whether the antibodies are enough to prevent a second infection — studies have shown that antibody levels are lower in asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms. Plus, we also don’t know how long the antibodies last in a person. The infection is spreading in the other parts of the country and there is a possibility of resurgence in Delhi,” said Dr Gupta||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-3rds-of-covid-beds-in-delhi-hospitals-vacant/story-WzQ7HNdeWrEzyaM12xZriI.html
12-07-2020||Delhi||Pre-wedding shoots, parties likely to be allowed at Waste to Wonder park||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to allow paid pre-wedding shoots, birthday parties and brand promotions at the popular Waste to Wonder park, which has replicas of the Seven Wonders of the world, officials associated with the matter said. Spread across seven acres and located at Rajiv Gandhi Smriti Van near Sarai Kale Khan ISBT, the park has replicas of Leaning Tower of Pisa, Eiffel Tower, Pyramids of Giza, Taj Mahal, Statue of Liberty, Colosseum and Christ the Redeemer -- all made out of waste. Opened in February 2019, the park has become a popular tourist spot. Till February this year, nearly 1.55 million people visited the park, earning the municipal corporation Rs 8 crore in ticket revenues. The entry fee to the park is 50 on normal days and Rs 100 on Sunday.  The standing committee, the highest decision making body of the SDMC, cleared a proposal on Friday which seeks to allow pre-wedding shoots, social gatherings such as birthday parties, corporate parties or promotion of a product or brand at the Waste to Wonder park. According to officials, the municipal body had been getting requests from people who wanted to hold events at the popular park. They said they have prepared a rate list for different kinds of events. The proposal will now be taken up for discussion at the SDMC House later this month for a final approval. A senior SDMC official said that until the lockdown, they were getting 10-15 requests daily for pre-wedding shoots and birthday celebrations. “We were getting many requests until the lockdown. A proposal made by the horticulture department was tabled in the standing committee meeting yesterday (Friday), which we have passed. It will now go to the House for approval,” Rajdutt Gehlot, chairman SDMC standing committee, said.A senior SDMC official said that bookings for pre-wedding shoots and other social events will bring in more revenue for the corporation once the park opens. He said the civic body was yet to decide the mode of booking, online or offline. “We are working out modalities,” he said. The official said that rates have been fixed for different events (See box for rates).For pre-wedding shoot, Rs 26,000 have to paid out of which Rs 10,000 will be the refundable security amount and Rs 15,000 will be the booking charges. Rs 1,000 will be charged for sanitation purposes.For birthday party celebrations, one will have to pay Rs 16,000, which will include Rs 10,000 booking charges, refundable security deposit of Rs 5000 and Rs 1,000 for sanitation of the park after the party. “The permission will be granted by the horticulture department of the SDMC. This move will generate revenue for cash-strapped civic body. We are also planning to allow film shooting there,” a senior SDMC official said.The park has been built by the SDMC as part of its initiative to process waste, under meaningful projects and add aesthetic value to the city. Nearly 150 tons of scrape and waste material were used to create replicas of wonders of the world. The park showcases grand replicas of the Taj Mahal (20ft), Eiffel Tower (60ft), Statue of Liberty (30ft), Great Pyramid of Giza (18ft), Leaning Tower of Pisa (25ft), Christ the Redeemer (25ft), and Rome’s Colosseum (15ft) – all made of scrap material.The theme park is currently closed due to coronavirus pandemic. The authorities are likely to open this park by the next weekend. Some monuments such as Qutub Minar, Red Fort were opened for tourists last week. The civic body’s officers are preparing a standard operating procedures (SOP) for the purpose which recommends reducing the timing of visitors to stay in the park to one-and-a-half hours from existing four hours. As per the new guidelines, the new timing of the closure of the Park is likely to be at 7pm instead of 11pm. “There will be no entry without masks and thermal screening of visitors will be conducted. Visitors will be sent in batches. To ensure social distancing we will allow visitors to stay only for one-and-a-half hour instead of four hours. Guidelines are still under discussion and we will finalise these in a few days,” the official said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pre-wedding-shoots-parties-likely-to-be-allowed-at-waste-to-wonder-park/story-IGb8M5Xfa6t4RNTBEElhtI.html
12-07-2020||Delhi||New traffic advisory for Ashram Chowk||Delhi Traffic Police on Saturday issued an elaborate traffic management plan for Ashram Chowk, one of the busiest intersections in the capital, with the work on an underpass that will connect the Nizamuddin railway overbridge and Mathura Road resuming after a prolonged lull first in the wake of Shaheen Bagh protest and then the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. The 750-metre underpass which was conceived in December 2015 aims to provide a signal-free ride from Nizamuddin to New Friends Colony on Mathura Road. According to the traffic police advisory, the construction work would affect commuters between East Delhi, South Delhi, Faridabad and Noida for at least a year. The diversions will be implemented from Saturday between 7am and 10pm. The Ashram chowk is an important link between central and south Delhi with the satellite towns of Noida and Faridabad. The intersection connects Mathura Road, National Highway-2 and the Ring Road (linking Lajpat Nagar-Sarai Kale Khan and DND flyover).While releasing the traffic diversion plan for the Ashram intersection, traffic police advised commuters to avoid the intersection because of the ongoing construction work. “The construction work is expected to last until next year, so traffic management will be a problem here. There are hardly two lanes available for the movement of vehicles now,” said a senior traffic police official, explaining the situation on the stretch. According to the traffic plan, private vehicles coming from Sarai Kale Khan and Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) Flyway going towards Badarpur or Faridabad, will now be directed towards CV Raman Marg before Ashram Flyover. From there they can take the Mata Mandir Marg, MA Jauhar Marg or Modi Mill flyover loop to reach Mathura Road.Similarly, commuters coming from Dhaula Kuan side will be diverted towards Captain Gaur Marg under Lajpat Nagar flyover, from where they can take the Modi Mill Flyover via the Outer Ring Road and reach Mathura Road.Goods vehicles destined towards Badarpur or Tughlakabad, from Sarai Kale Khan, will now have to take the Ashram flyover and make a left turn on Captain Gaur Marg from the Lajpat Nagar flyover crossing. Those coming from the other side (from Dhaula Kuan) will also have to use Captain Gaur Marg.Traffic cops said that the Ashram crossing gets a daily load of nearly 4 lakh-4.5 lakh vehicles. In fact, from December last year, when the traffic movement towards Kalindi Kunj was blocked because of a sit-in protest at Shaheen Bagh, this number to 6 lakh vehicles every day, according to a traffic police estimates.“Ashram has remained a traffic management nightmare for us. From 2015 to the end of 2018, the stretch was dug up for Delhi Metro work and then when that opened and traffic jams were finally easing, the PWD has taken over,” another senior official of the local traffic circle said.The underpass was to be completed by March 2018, but the expenditure finance committee of the Delhi government approval it in November 2018. After 2018, the project faced delays because of the delayed permissions, protests at Shaheen Bagh and then the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown. “The work resumed by May end and we will require a year to complete the work,” the PWD confirmed.Dr S Velmurugan, senior principal scientist at CRRI said the underpass will ease the perennial snarls on the Ashram intersection. “The construction period will be a problem, but that can be dealt with,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/new-traffic-advisory-for-ashram-chowk/story-wgkvGCBBJ7dBDfsBHpiNlI.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid toll crosses 10K; cases up by 8,139||Maharashtra’s death toll due to Covid-19 on Saturday breached the 10,000 mark with 223 deaths reported in the past 24 hours, as the state’s case tally also registered its highest single-day spike of 8,139 infections — first in excess of 8,000.The toll stands at 10,116 and the tally at 246,600, according to data released by state health department, which also stated that active cases rose close to 1 lakh at 99,202. The state reported its first Covid-19 death on March 17, which means it took 117 days to cross the grim 10,000 markSaturday was also the second consecutive day the state reported its sharpest single-day spike after it recorded 7,862 cases on Friday. Meanwhile, Mumbai maintained a sort of stability in the number of fresh cases. On Saturday, it reported 1,284 new cases, taking the tally to 91,745. Of them, active cases are 22,782. Mumbai’s toll stands at 5,244 after 39 more deaths were reported.The number of recovered patients in the state also increased to 1,36,985 after 4,360 patients had recovered in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate has improved to 55.55%.Maharashtra is looking at a surge as the tally of new cases has crossed the 8,000-mark. The cases are going up across the state, whereas the situation in Mumbai appears to be slightly under control when compared to last month. Mumbai’s contribution to total cases has reduced to 37.20% (with 91,745 cases) from 58.09% (with 43,492 cases) on June 3.“Everybody is agreeing that Mumbai is seeing a plateau, in the sense that cases are not coming down, but they are not rising either. Most people are predicting that it will stay so for a while. We are keeping our fingers crossed,” said a senior BMC official.In contrast, the number of daily cases in other eight cities of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) looks like spreading at a rapid speed. Their contribution in total cases has been increased to 25.56% (63,039 cases) from 15.49% on June 3 (11,594 cases).The cities are Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayander, Ulhasnagar, Panvel, Vasai-Virar and Bhiwandi-Nizampur.On Saturday, Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 640 fresh infections, Thane 455, Navi Mumbai 256, Ulhasnagar 304, Mira-Bhayander 260, Vasai-Virar 305, Panvel 169 and Bhiwandi-Nizampur recorded 63.Amid the rise in number of cases in MMR, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with commissioners of civic bodies in the region on July 9 and termed the situation a “concern”. This was Thackeray’s second interaction with the civic chiefs in under two weeks.Expressing dissatisfaction over the health infrastructure in many cities in MMR, Thackeray has directed them to follow the example of Mumbai and ramp up health facilities for Covid-19 cases. The CM, during a video conference, also asked to set up field hospitals to treat patients. The areas that are not in red zone (apart from 19 cities) are also experiencing a surge in cases. Their contribution in total cases rose to almost double in more than a month. It has now gone up to 17.56% from 9.32% on June 3. This indicates a rise even in rural areas of the state.Dr Archana Patil, director, Directorate of Health Services, said they are working only on enhancing healthcare facilities and cannot say that the peak has started. “Currently, we are monitoring the growth rate of fresh infections and based on that, making projections for the coming weeks. I cannot say that the peak has started. Our priority is to augment healthcare facilities because more cases need more medical facilities. We will have to match the health infrastructure with the rise in fresh cases in each and every district of the state,” Dr Patil said.As number of Covid cases is rising, stricter lockdown restrictions have been imposed in several cities and districts by the local administration. On Saturday, Solapur municipal corporation also declared that lockdown will be imposed between July 16 and 26 to break the chain. Solapur municipal commissioner Milind Shambharkar made the announcement after 77 fresh cases were reported in the city. The case count went up to 3,085.On Friday, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies had decided to impose a 10-day lockdown from July 13, while Mumbai’s neighbouring Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli civic bodies, too, have extended their ongoing lockdown for seven more days till July 19.Along with spike in cases, the state is also facing large number of deaths on daily basis. In the past 11 days (since July 1), it has recorded 2,110 Covid-19 casualties.With 9,893 deaths, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded 4.15% on Friday. It is second highest in the country after Gujarat, where the CFR is 5.05% with 2,022 deaths (40,069 cases) till Friday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.Maharashtra still has highest number of deaths across states in the country.After forming a task-force of expert doctors in all districts and the state has now decided optimum use of the testing infrastructure and also start rapid testing to bring down CFR.In a letter from the health department earlier this week, all district collectors and municipal commissioners have been directed to bring down the positivity rate to less than 10% and reduce CFR to less than 1%.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that they are focussing on reducing CFR and for this they have decided to increase daily number of testing in the state. “We have decided to conduct more testing so that more people can be traced and CFR as well as positive rate against total testing can be reduced and be brought under 10%,” Tope said.Currently, the positivity rate against total tests is 19.17% as 246,600 tests were found positive, out of the total 1,285,991 samples tested so far.Currently, 47,376 people have been kept in institutional quarantine and 6,80,017 people have been put under home quarantine across the state. The health minister said the existing institutional quarantine facilities in metro cities need to be augmented, considering aggressive tracing in slum areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-toll-crosses-10k-cases-up-by-8-139/story-pTDIVtBt2P7E4vkmhiqUUO.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||CM made a cautious decision to ease lockdown: Pawar in Saamana interview||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday commended Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray for deciding to ease the curbs during the Covid-19 lockdown at the right time in his “cautious” style of functioning. Pawar, in an interview with the Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana, insisted there was no difference of opinion between him and Thackeray over the way the government brought in the relaxations during the lockdown. This is the first time Saamana has published a three-part interview of a politician who is not Sena’s top leader. The newspaper had previously only carried such interviews of late party founder Bal Thackeray and Uddhav Thackeray.In the interview with Saamana’s executive editor and Sena MP Sanjay Raut, Pawar said he came to the conclusion that curbs should be gradually lifted to revive the economy, after discussions with several people, and then brought it to the notice of the CM. “During this entire situation, I have been in touch with the chief minister, and am even today... During this time, I had discussions with labour bodies, business-owners, etc. I formed an opinion based on that and brought it to the notice of the CM,” Pawar said. The Maharashtra government under Mission Begin Again started relaxing lockdown norms from June. There were speculations that Thackeray was earlier unwilling to open up the state, but Pawar intervened to get the curbs eased.Pawar refuted reports of differences between him and Thackeray on lifting the lockdown. He also categorically denied that there were any differences between Sena and its ruling partners, the NCP and Congress. “This is not called a difference of opinion. Delhi and Karnataka allowed relaxations, and there were consequences, but economic activities started again. Such steps have to be taken. If the entire state and the country’s economy are disrupted, then the ill-effects will be far greater than coronavirus,” he said.“The decision that came was true to the nature of the chief minister. Meaning, a decision should be taken but with caution – to take a step by seeing all sides, so that there is no need to go back on it,” Pawar added.He pointed out that three parties with different ideologies have managed to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak in the state. The Maratha strongman denied that he is either the “remote control” or the “headmaster” of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, amid a buzz that Pawar has been directing Thackeray from behind the curtains, and running the government.“I am neither. If headmaster, he would have been part of a school. In a democracy, governments or administration do not function with remote control,” he said, giving an example of the political scenario in Russia.The veteran leader denied that the alliance between the member parties of the MVA —the Sena, NCP, and Congress— was an “accident”. Pawar pointed out that in the Lok Sabha elections last year, there was no change of government, but before the state assembly polls, the people had decided to bring about a change.He said Sena’s voters and supporters were uneasy during the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Sena government between 2014 and 2019, and the party paid a heavy price for its association.“The BJP continuously took a stand to sideline Sena and, keep it quiet. They functioned as if it was only a BJP government. Earlier too, there was a Sena-BJP government under Manohar Joshi, but the atmosphere was not like this then. The BJP sidelined the Sena; this did not go down well with the people of Maharashtra,” Pawar said.Without naming former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Pawar said, “No political leader should take the people for granted saying ‘I will come back again’.” He said that voters do not tolerate it if they are taken for granted. “Powerful leaders with a mass base like Indira Gandhi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee had been defeated. It means that in terms of democratic rights, the common man is wiser than the politicians. If we politicians cross the line, he teaches us a lesson.” Pawar added the Sena made a major contribution to the BJP’s assembly tally of 105 seats in 2019. “Had it not been for the Shiv Sena, that number would have been around 40-50.”Pressing on about the incompatibility of the BJP and Sena, Pawar claimed that Bal Thackeray’s functioning style and ideology were not similar to that of the BJP. “He respected leaders like Atal Bihari Vajpayee, LK Advani, and Pramod Mahajan,” he said. “The Sena had struggles with the Congress, but it was never permanent, I think. Shiv Sena was never at loggerheads with the Congress,” Pawar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-made-a-cautious-decision-to-ease-lockdown-pawar-in-saamana-interview/story-T8xitlwNc4C3pGLvocsWuK.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects bail plea of woman who didn’t act against husband for raping their 2 daughters||The Bombay high court (HC) last week rejected the bail plea of a woman accused of passively supporting her husband who raped two of their daughters and tried to sexually assault the third.The woman’s bail application was based on claims that the accusations against her were false. However, a single bench of justice Vibha Kankanwadi took note that the entire story narrated by the daughters in the first information report (FIR) was “consistent” and “shocking”, and rejected the woman’s plea.On April 2, the three sisters, who were badly beaten and locked in a room by their parents, were rescued by Kaij police in Beed district. The husband, a school headmaster, and his wife were arrested after the eldest daughter filed a complaint with the police.According to her complaint, on March 31, the man tried to molest his 20-year-old eldest daughter, but she and her two sisters caused a commotion. The parents then beat them up and locked them inside a room in the house. The sisters, however, managed to communicate their condition to a friend who then informed the police.The eldest daughter narrated her ordeal to the police, and in her complaint stated that she was raped by her father in 2012. She told the police that she was beaten by her father after she informed her mother about the incident.The complainant further alleged that while her father kept molesting her intermittently, he also sexually assaulted her younger sister, who is now 18-years-old, since the time she was studying in Class 5. The three sisters were beaten after the matter was reported to their mother, and they were warned not to disclose the acts to anyone.The 20-year-old further alleged that in 2018, her father tried to rape their youngest sister, who is now 15-year-old. In this instance too, their mother remained silent even after the incident was brought to her notice.Acting on the complaint, police arrested the headmaster for rape, and his wife for abetment, for passively supporting her husband.The woman had moved the high court seeking bail, claiming the complaint was false and that her 20-year-old daughter had made wild allegations because she was reprimanded for moving around in bad company. “It is highly impossible that the mother would keep quiet when her husband was molesting her daughter and would allow such activity to be continued for years together,” her lawyer had argued.The judge rejected the woman’s bail plea, primarily noting that the entire story that had been narrated in the FIR appeared to be consistent with the statements of the sisters.Justice Kankanwadi said the entire story was shocking, and the defense put forth by the applicant mother appeared baseless. The judge felt that no daughter would go to the extent of making such serious allegations against her parents simply because they were opposed to her relationship with a particular boy having bad antecedents. The judge said that even if the complainant went to that extent, the other two sisters would not have supported her against their parents if the allegations were false.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-woman-who-didn-t-act-against-husband-for-raping-their-2-daughters/story-9BtwBOOBhJPaOdz6VdwKfI.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||UP businessman comes to Mumbai to see actor, stabbed in Juhu; two arrested||Two persons, who stabbed a 35-year-old cloth merchant from Uttar Pradesh (UP), and robbed his mobile phone and money, were arrested by Juhu police on Saturday. The complainant, Aquil Shaikh, came to the city in the last week of June, defying lockdown rules, to catch a glimpse of a Bollywood actor. He hoped to spot the actor by staying on the footpath near his bungalow in Juhu.On July 4, the two accused, Sanjay Gopi Kharwa alias Rajendra alias Khidki, 25, a resident of Bhayander, and Suresh Kanji Kharwa, 20, a resident of Matunga Labour Camp, spotted Shaikh sleeping on the footpath and cornered him. “The accused first asked Shaikh to consume alcohol, which he refused. They then took the complainant to an isolated spot and again insisted him to consume alcohol. An argument ensued between Shaikh and the two accused, and they started to assault him. One of the accused then took out a knife and stabbed Shaikh on hand, chest, and stomach,” said Pandharinath Wavhal, senior inspector, Juhu police station. The accused then robbed his mobile phone and money before fleeing the spot.Some locals rushed Shaikh to Cooper Hospital where he is undergoing treatment. A case was filed and Juhu police began the probe. The suspects were identified after the police scanned CCTV footage of the area. Sub-inspector Harish Biradar said, “Based on a tip-off, we arrested the duo from Pushpa Park.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/up-businessman-comes-to-mumbai-to-see-actor-stabbed-in-juhu-two-arrested/story-trsfJzILbPhB08igvpposJ.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||State transfers Pune civic commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad||Amid an increase in Covid-19 cases in Pune city, the Maharashtra government on Saturday transferred Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad. Vikram Kumar has been appointed as the new commissioner of the civic body. Kumar was serving as chief executive officer (CEO) of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). Gaikwad has been posted again as the sugar commissioner, a position he was serving in before joining as Pune municipal commissioner in January this year.The Covid-19 case count in Pune has reached 13,837 after 456 new cases were reported on Friday. The tally on June 3 was 7,390, but the city witnessed a spike of 6,447 cases in a little over a month. The civic body decided to impose a 10-day lockdown starting July 13 to contain the spread.The state has also posted Saurabh Rao as officer on special duty at Pune divisional commissioner’s office. Rao was working as the sugar commissioner in Pune. The government has transferred agriculture commissioner Suhas Diwase as chief executive officer at PMRDA. Another bureaucrat Jitendra Dudi, serving as project officer, Integrated Tribal Development Project and assistant collector, Manchar sub-division in Pune, has been appointed as chief executive officer of Sangli Zilla Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-transfers-pune-civic-commissioner-shekhar-gaikwad/story-VVv7zau1McVmVUnSuFdBgM.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||BMC assistant commissioner dies of Covid-19||In yet another tragic incident, assistant municipal commissioner Ashok Khairnar died due to the Covid-19 on Saturday. He is the second senior civic official to succumb to Covid-19 after deputy municipal commissioner Shirish Dixit had died in June.The 57-year-old, was in charge of H-East ward (Bandra, Santacruz), which includes chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s private residence, Matoshree. Khairnar started feeling unwell and tested positive for Covid-19 in the first week of July. He was initially admitted to Gurunanak Hospital in Bandra but was later shifted to SevenHills Hospital in Andheri. After several treatment measures were ineffective, he was moved to Fortis Hospital, Mulund, where he died on Saturday while undergoing treatment. Civic officials suspect that he may have gotten infected while in the field.Khairnar was at the forefront of implementing several containment measures to contain the spread of the Sars Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, in Bandra. In a press statement, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) praised the official for using effective containment strategies, testing and isolation which helped H-East ward to increase its doubling rate of cases to 134 days – the highest among the 24 wards, and for bringing down the growth rate in the ward to 0.5%.Khairnar was in the service of the BMC from February 1988. Before becoming an assistant municipal commissioner, he was posted with the solid waste management (SWM) department as an executive engineer. He had taken on the post of assistant commissioner in January 2018. “Today we lost @mybmcWardHE AC Ashok Khairnar ji to covid. As I offer my heartfelt condolences to his family, I might as well add that we have lost a covid hero today. He managed his ward with brilliance, the doubling day rate being at 134 and infection rate being lowest at 0.5%,” state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-assistant-commissioner-dies-of-covid-19/story-tFXuB78ggmnuyy8TjT1kyK.html
12-07-2020||City||Kalyan hospital fined ₹5K for dumping biomedical waste in residential area||The waste management department of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) imposed a fine of ₹5,000 on a Covid-19 hospital at Kalyan’s Tilak Chowk on Saturday, after a video, showing hospital staffers dumping medical waste on road was shot by locals and sent to the civic body.“Locals complained about the waste being dumped outside the Covid-19 hospital, following which our team reached the spot and found used plates and hand gloves from a bin nearby. We have fined the hospital ₹5,000 for it. Covid-19 hospitals are allowed to dump any waste from the facility at public places,” said Ramdar Kokare, deputy commissioner, KDMC.On Wednesday, residents living around the hospital had opposed the civic body’s decision to take over the hospital for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.“This is why we opposed the decision to use the hospital as a Covid-19 facility. If medical waste is dumped openly, it may lead to spread of infection,” a resident of the area, who did not wish to be named, said.In a similar incident, locals from Dombivli MIDC Phase-2 complained that red-coloured bags containing bio-medical waste was dumped on the service road of Durvakur Hall. According to Kokare, biomedical waste is dumped in red bags.Social activist Mangesh Koyande,38, took pictures of the bags after learning about the incident and complained about it to the civic body.“I have noticed that from the past six days, that sacks containing PPE [personal protective equipment] kits and other biomedical waste were being dumped in the area. I have asked the civic body to take strict action against those responsible,” said Koyande.“As soon as we received the complaint, my team visited the spot and cleared the bags. We are also trying to find out who is dumping the waste at open spaces and will take a strict action against those responsible,” said Kokare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-hospital-fined-5k-for-dumping-biomedical-waste-in-residential-area/story-VZ1lDY6pQoki3RLc7pBopL.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||City’s Covid toll jumps to 5,244 with 751 past deaths added in June, July||The city has added 751 deaths from Covid-19 to its death toll from June 19 till date as part of an exercise to reconcile pending death figures. These deaths occurred earlier and were reported late to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Mumbai recorded 1,284 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, raising the total number of cases in the city to 91,745. Of these 24.8%, or 22,782, are active. So far, 63,431 patients have recovered. The death toll from Covid-19 is 5,244 and the mortality rate is 5.7% in the city. On Saturday, 39 deaths were recorded in Mumbai.Previously, BMC had issued two warnings (on June 18 and June 26) to public and private hospitals to report pending figures for Covid-19 deaths, and thereafter report all Covid-19 deaths within 48 hours. After the first warning, reconciled figures of Covid-19 deaths between June 19 and June 26 totalled 353. After the second warning, 398 deaths from Covid-19 from June 26 till date were added to the toll. The delay in reporting deaths has been attributed to hospital staff being overworked and limited means of communication during lockdown.Municipal Commissioner IS Chahal said, “This is a continuous, ongoing process of reconciliation of hundreds of hospitals in Mumbai, [being done] in a very transparent manner by unearthing past deaths of March to June.”An officer from BMC’s health department said, “It is not only late reportage from hospitals. There are a lot of factors. Some deaths that occurred in Mumbai are of persons residing outside of Mumbai in the jurisdiction of nearby municipal corporations,” said an officer from BMC’s health department.According to BMC’s daily press release, 69 deaths were added on July 1, over and above that day’s death toll. Similarly, 57 additional deaths were recorded on June 30; 71 on June 27; 64 on June 28; 64 on June 27; 73 on June 26; 40 on June 25; 82 on June 24; 65 on June 23; 46 on June 22; 61 on June 20; and 59 on June 19. These figures were reported apart from the daily figure of deaths that occurred in the previous 48 hours.On June 16, the state had added 862 deaths to Mumbai’s Covid-19 death toll (1,328 reconciled Covid-19 deaths were added to the state’s death toll). Following criticism for this reconciled figure, BMC had clarified on June 6 that the municipal commissioner had carried out a thorough investigation after a private hospital reported 17 deaths to BMC on a single day even though 16 of these were from earlier dates. Subsequently, on June 8, all private and public hospitals were instructed to reconcile the numbers of the dead and submit these within 48 hours.A senior civic officer said, “After hospitals reported pending deaths, the death audit committee examined them and took a final call on whether they are deaths due to Covid-19. As and when the audit committee confirmed the figures, they were added to BMC’s daily press release.”Dharavi has become an international role model: CM A day after the World Health Organization (WHO) director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus praised efforts taken to tackle the spread of Covid-19 in Dharavi along with other areas, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the Dharavi slums have emerged as a “global role model” for containing the spread of the virus“Dharavi is an inspiration for the world on how to curb the spread of a pandemic,” he said in a statementThe CM also praised the integrated efforts taken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, NGOs and Dharavi locals, and congratulated them, calling it a success of their efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-s-covid-toll-jumps-to-5-244-with-751-past-deaths-added-in-june-july/story-TMhUITW5MlDwc7Vz53pCFK.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||Dahanu fishermen rescue 10 injured turtles; moved to forest dept centre for treatment||On Friday evening, a group of fishermen rescued 10 injured turtles, including hawksbill, green sea and Olive Ridley turtles, and contacted the forest department. The turtles have been taken to the turtle rescue centre in Dahanu.Rahul Marathe, assistant conservator of forest (ACF), Dahanu, said, “We were informed by the fishermen that they rescued the turtles at Chikale village in Dahanu. All the turtles were injured. We reached the spot and took them to our centre where they are being treated. So far, we have rescued 41 injured turtles in June and July, and all of them are at our centre.” He added that a huge number of injured turtles wash ashore due to the moderate and heavy rainfall. He said the turtles get injured while combatting high waves.Marathe said Olive Ridley turtles, which are found along the coasts of Kelwe, Mahim, Tembhi, Shirgaon in Palghar, and Rajodi, Vasai to Zai in Dahanu, either get injured by trawlers or get entangled in fishing nets. The injured turtles will be released in the sea after treatment, when the conditions improve in August-September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dahanu-fishermen-rescue-10-injured-turtles-moved-to-forest-dept-centre-for-treatment/story-6qTDWrZ1KUM3lhqrIVmcdO.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: 50-beded hospitals owned by docs out of Clinical Establishments Act||After uproar by private hospitals over the Clinical Establishment Act, implemented from July 1, to regulate the functioning of more than 50-beded private hospitals, the government has decided to keep the health facilities owned individually by doctors out of the purview of the Act.“The government has decided to keep hospitals having more than 50 beds owned by doctors out of the purview of the Act. A formal amendment in the Act will be done in the next assembly session,” Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said. The Punjab cabinet had in May notified the Punjab Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Ordinance, 2020, applicable to clinical establishments having more than 50 beds. The ordinance provides registration and regulation of clinical establishments in a professional manner to ensure compliance of clinical standards and protocols and transparency in the functioning of these establishments for fair and proper delivery of health services to the common man.Terming the ordinance “anti-doctor” and “anti-public”, the Punjab chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) held state-wide protests on June 23 and shut hospital OPDs leaving the patients in the lurch. As per provision of the Act, the newly formed Punjab State Council, different from Punjab Medical Council, will regulate the functioning in these hospitals and would formulate rules and regulations, including insuring basic requirements in the hospital as per bed capacity and the professional fee being charged from the patients for a particular ailment.The health minister said the idea behind regulating the fee and infrastructure through the Clinical Establishments Act was aimed at the hospitals against whom the department has received of complaints of overcharging.Initially the government was not ready to soften its stand and all meetings of the IMA representatives with the government failed to reach any consensus. Following this, the IMA had threatened to go on strike amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “We had been busy convincing the government that the hospitals owned by the doctors are not purely into profiteering business and there is a huge difference in the treatment charges in these hospitals as compared to facilities being run by business managements,” said IMA’s Punjab chapter president Dr Navjot Dahiya.The IMA claims that doctors individually are already being governed by the Punjab Medical Council and he or she is liable for penalty and action by the council in case found involved in any unethical practice.“The IMA is of the view that government should regulate functioning of all private hospitals, big or small, being run by non-doctors, but why to create unnecessary inspector raj when we are already being governed by so many laws,” Dahiya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-50-beded-hospitals-owned-by-docs-out-of-clinical-establishments-act/story-rETK0javZ8kFTjFiMZvjvN.html
12-07-2020||City||Lockdown extended in Ulhasnagar, Navi Mumbai||After Thane and Kalyan, the Navi Mumbai and Ulhasnagar municipal corporations, too, have extended the lockdown to July 19 and July 22, respectively. Thane district collector has also extended lockdown in rural areas and talukas, which do not come under any municipal corporations, till July 19.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), which had earlier announced a 10-day lockdown from the midnight of July 3 till July 13, has extended it by six days till midnight of July 19. This comes as the city crossed the 9,000-case mark on Saturday. With 253 new cases and eight new deaths, the case count in the city is 9,132 and death toll 292.NMMC commissioner Annsaheb Misal said, “It has become necessary to extend the lockdown to control the spread of the pandemic in the city, and to take requisite action and precautions. Only health and essential services will be permitted. All the rules and regulations will continue as per the present 10-day lockdown order.”NMMC had ordered departmental stores and dental clinics to shut down during the lockdown and had only allowed home delivery for essential goods.Similarly, the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) also extended its lockdown till July 22. UMC commissioner Raja Dayanidhi, in a notification issued on Saturday, said all the restriction imposed during the 10-day lockdown will continue.“The lockdown will be imposed till 5pm, July 22. All the rules and regulations mentioned by the civic body earlier should be followed strictly,” he said.CASE COUNTSPanvel city reported 169 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 3,680 while fatality stood at 94.On Saturday, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 615 new cases and nine deaths, taking case count to 12,152 and death toll to 181. Of the total cases, 5,681 are currently active while 6,290 patients recovered and have been discharged.Thane city recorded its highest one-day spike of 456 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 12,528. The death count also increased to 480 with 17 new deaths.Thane Municipal commissioner and mayor conducted a webinar with all corporators to discuss the measures taken and the problems faced by the residents.Thane Matadata Jagran Abhiyan, a citizens’ forum, has alleged that while the city has been recording more than 400 cases daily for the past two days, there are no beds available in hospitals. Sanjeev Sane, president of the forum, said, “The corporation is not taking the situation seriously. The city has thousands of private practitioners who are sitting at home and can be roped in to resolve the scarcity of doctors. The hotels in the city can be converted to hospitals to make arrangements for more beds. We will stage a protest if people continue to suffer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-extended-in-ulhasnagar-navi-mumbai/story-khsNxlSYaPvsUiTQVSpjLN.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||10-22% decline in rents for Mumbai’s luxury apartments after lockdown||The Covid-19 outbreak has resulted in decline of rents charged for high-end luxury apartments across the city by around 10-22% from what was being quoted before the Covid-19 outbreak.For instance, the rent for a 5-BHK (bedroom-hall-kitchen) flat at Planet Godrej building in Mahalaxmi has come down to ₹3.60 lakh per month, from ₹4 lakh-₹4.25 lakh charged four months ago. In close proximity is the Raheja Vivarea complex at Mumbai Central, where a 3-BHK flat which used to be available for a monthly rent of ₹3.50 lakh in March is now being offered for ₹3-lakh rent.Another well-known complex, Parel’s Ashok Towers, is also witnessing a decline in its rental prices. Before the lockdown, a 2-BHK flat in the complex would command a rental price of ₹1.25 lakh, but now flats are available for a monthly rent of ₹1 lakh. At Lodha Park, Worli, a 3-BHK house which used to be leased for ₹1.50 lakh four months ago, is now being given for ₹1.25 lakh per month. The rent for a 2-BHK apartment at L&T Realty’s signature project Crescent Bay is now ₹75,000 per month. Four months ago, tenants had to shell out ₹85,000 every month as rent for a flat.The situation is no different in the suburbs either. The monthly rent for a 4-BHK apartment at Oberoi Sky Heights in Andheri is now being quoted at ₹2.75 lakh against the ₹3.50 lakh priced before the Covid-19 outbreak.Owners have attributed the decline in the rates to job losses, salary cuts, and losses in businesses as well as oversupply of rental apartments. For years, these gated communities commanded high rentals owing to the sheer number of amenities and open spaces in their premises. Most of these apartments were rented by high-level executives working with multinational companies as well as by entrepreneurs. However, the Covid-19 outbreak has resulted in loss of incomes and hence many are resorting to renting on lower rentals.Mustafa Chhil, one of the partners in Kamna Estates, which specialises in renting luxury apartments, said owners are being “practical” in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.“Luxury apartment owners have realised that there is no point in waiting for higher rents and are ready to lease out at discounted rates. The high-level executives are now facing salary cuts, resulting in the decrease of their disposable incomes. Also, the insecure job market has made the executives reluctant to take apartments on such higher prices,” said Chhil.Real estate data analytics firm Liases Foras attributes the decline in the rents to the oversupply in the luxury homes market. “After the lockdown, many investors have now put their apartments on rent to generate some income from their properties, as they have realised that they will not be able to sell the flats,” said Pankaj Kapoor, founder and managing director, Liases Foras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-22-decline-in-rents-for-mumbai-s-luxury-apartments-after-lockdown/story-FBN1vUnSzjItIyex7rXhOM.html
12-07-2020||City||Pharmacist, aide sell Remdesivir for four times its price, held||A pharmacist and his aide were arrested on Friday by Mira Road police for selling Remdesivir, a drug used to treat Covid-19, at four times its price. A medical store inside a reputed hospital in Mumbai is also under the scanner after the two arrested accused — Sonu Darshi, 25, who works in a medical shop in Mira Road, and his aide Rodriques Raul, 31 — alleged they got the drugs from the said hospital to sell in the black market. A social worker from Thane, Dr Binu Verghese, tipped off the police about the duo selling remdesivir for around ₹20,000 for one vial while the retail price is ₹5,400. “Following that tip-off, we sent Verghese as a decoy customer. At first, the accused asked for ₹30,000 per vial, but later settled for ₹20,000. They said the drug was being sold in black market from a medical store of a reputed hospital in Mumbai for ₹21,000 each, but they negotiated it to ₹20,000,” said senior inspector Sandeep Kadam.The police caught them in the act when they were handing over the vials to Verghese. “We arrested the duo under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955; Food Drug Administration Act, 1940; and Drug Price Control Act, 2013. They have been remanded in police custody till July 15 by the Thane court on Saturday. We are probing the accused’s statement that they had procured the medicines from a store inside a Mumbai hospital. The store was closed when we went there,” Kadam said, adding they are investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pharmacist-aide-sell-remdesivir-for-four-times-its-price-held/story-SKZ31dAFKV4xf0qXfdaVaM.html
12-07-2020||City||8 deaths, 230 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Punjab on Saturday reported eight coronavirus deaths and 230 new cases, a development that takes the state’s count to 7,587 positive patients with 195 deaths.Two people died, while 75, including Jalandhar RTA secretary, tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar district. Among positive are 14 cops of the Mehatpur police station. Kapurthala reported one positive case while six people contracted the in SBS Nagar. Ludhiana district’s death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 31 after an 83-year-old resident of Maya Nagar succumbed to the virus on Saturday.The district also reported 29 fresh Covid-19 infections. With this, the district’s tally has touched the 1,300 mark. In yet another major spike in a single day, 52 persons tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala district on Saturday.Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said of total cases, 27 are from Patiala city, 20 from Samana, one each from Patran and Rajpura and three from different villages across the district. Fourteen people, including the additional deputy commissioner (ADC) of Gurdaspur district, contracted the infection in Punjab’s Majha region. Gurdaspur ADC, TP Singh, was tested positive for the disease from the viral research and diagnostic laboratory (VRDL) at government medical college (GMC), Amritsar.Amritsar district reported 13 fresh cases. Among the infected persons are the deputy director of the local bodies department, Rajat Oberoi, and his wife. A 62-year-old man died of Covid-19 at Government Medical College Patiala on Friday night. The deceased was identified as Vinod Jain of Malerkotla town. Meanwhile, the health officials said that six patients were tested positive for coronavirus -3 from Malerkotla, 2 from Moonak and 1 from Longowal.Eight people tested positive in Ferozepur district. Five persons contracted the infection in Bathinda and four in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-deaths-230-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab/story-HkaZ0DL448ixSCFuGUo0RI.html
12-07-2020||Mumbai||Man accused of raping minor daughter denied bail||A special court constituted under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act rejected the bail plea of a 50-year-old man accused of raping his 16-year-old daughter. The court refused the bail even after the minor, the complainant in the case, and her mother sought to withdraw the complaint against the man.According to Antop Hill police who arrested the accused on January 20, the man repeatedly sexually assaulted the minor between 2015 and January 2020 whenever his wife would visit their hometown.The incident came to light after the minor narrated the ordeal to her friend, who then contacted the minor’s mother and told her about it. The minor then filed a complaint with Antop Hill police station.The accused in his bail plea claimed the daughter had filed a false case as he had refused to permit her to go out frequently. But the prosecution objected to the plea claiming that it was not a compoundable offence and rape of a daughter was a heinous offence.The court also considered the medical evidence collected by the police during investigation which supported contentions of rape on the minor. “The medical evidence shows direct involvement of the accused…The submission, that now the mother and the survivor want to withdraw the complaint saying the allegations are not true, is rejected,” the court observed while rejecting bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-accused-of-raping-minor-daughter-denied-bail/story-SuDDvWuRCOF807WczaKMzI.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Waste processing plant row: Court allows contempt plea by Jaypee Group, directs Chandigarh MC to file reply||The district court has upheld the application moved by Jaypee Group against Chandigarh municipal corporation for taking possession of the Dadu Majra waste processing plant despite a stay order, and has further stated that “proceedings can be initiated” if the order is proved to be violated.The court of additional district and sessions judge Vijay Singh has directed Jaiprakash Associates Limited and Chandigarh MC to file their replies so that the court could ascertain “whether respondent (MC) has taken the possession of the plant forcibly and illegally by violating the order dated June 19 wilfully and deliberately” and if so, what were the effects of it.The matter will be heard on August 19.The Jaypee Group had been running the garbage processing plant at Dadu Majra till its contract was terminated by the MC on March 5 and sought possession within seven days. After the group had moved the court challenging the termination notice, on March 12, the court had granted some relief to Jaypee Group by staying MC’s notice for three months.Later on June 19, the court had allowed another application and extended the stay for one month. The MC was informed about the court order regarding extension of stay telephonically and by email, but despite that the civic body had forcibly taken possession of the plant, the Jaypee group mentioned.The court was also informed that on June 25, the high court had passed an order that “the possession shall be maintained as it exists on the date of passing of the order till the decision on the application under Section 17 of the Act”.The HC had also directed that a sole arbitrator be appointed to resolve the dispute between the parties and the Arbitral Tribunal on June 30 had said that arguments shall be heard on August 22.The district court directed both parties to submit their list of evidence and witnesses so that the issue could be decided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/waste-processing-plant-row-court-allows-contempt-plea-by-jaypee-group-directs-chandigarh-mc-to-file-reply/story-S3r1gizkA3xaBjLyVPxdoL.html
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four held for robbing ₹11.65 lakh from gas agency employee in Ludhiana||Five days after three motorcycle-borne masked men robbed a gas agency employee of Rs 11.65 lakh cash in Lohara of Daba, police arrested four accused on Saturday. Police have recovered Rs 5.97 lakh, the motorcycle used in the crime and 130 gram narcotic powder from them.The arrested accused have been identified as Vikram Singh Romi, a resident of Shimlapuri, Parminder Singh of Shimlapuri, Varinder Singh of Jujhar Nagar and Parminder Singh, alias Prince Sahota, of Ishar Nagar. One of the accused, Jasveer Singh Sonu, has yet to be arrested.While Parminder Singh, alias Prince Sahota, was the main conspirator of the crime, he did not commit it himself.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said Romi, the other Parminder and Sonu committed the robbery, following which they assembled at Varinder’s house in Jujhar Nagar and divided the cash among themselves. They gave Varinder Rs 30,000 as his share, police said.The ADCP added that Prince was a customer of Bachan gas agency and would go there often for LPG cylinders. He heard some employees talking about usually having to deposit large amounts of cash in the bank. He discussed with his friend Jasveer, and they hatched a robbery conspiracy. They followed an employee of the station, Pawandeep Singh, for four days. On Monday, when he was going to deposit the cash in the bank, the accused intercepted and robbed him.The ADCP added that the hunt was on for Sonu’s arrest . Romi, one of the accused, is already facing trial in two cases of theft and liquor smuggling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-held-for-rs-11-65-lakh-robbery-in-ludhiana/story-qmp9WT75vgDcrs0RjdpLeI.html
12-07-2020||Gurugram||DTCP calls for cancellation of property registries that lack NOCs||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has asked the district administration to cancel the registries of property deeds registered without no-objection certificates (NOC) from the department and initiate action against their holders. In a letter dated July 7, the director of DTCP said that the drive against illegal development was not effective due to the registration of such properties. In his letter, the director, Makrand Pandurang, stated that it was brought to his notice that registrations of sale deeds in the urban area notified under Section 7A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 were taking place in Gurugram district without NOCs and the details of such registries had been sent to the office of the deputy commissioner, Gurugram. As per the rules, an NOC has to be obtained from the enforcement wing of DTCP to register a plot of land less than two-kanals in size to ensure that the land would not be sub-divided to create smaller plots as part of unauthorised colonies. The letter further said that the registration of such sale deeds without NOCs was resulting in widespread sub-division, leading to the development of unauthorised colonies. “As deputy commissioner-cum-registrar, it is incumbent upon you to ensure that such sale deeds do not get registered without an NOC from concerned DTP. Hence, you are requested to explore all possible legal mechanisms to undo the damage arising out of registration of such sale deeds, which are executed without obtaining NOC, including annulment/cancellation/withdrawal of such registrations or initiating judicial process etc [sic],” read the letter. Basti Ram, the district revenue officer, said that action has already been initiated against officials who have allowed registries in unauthorised areas. “We have also issued directions to all the sub-tehsils that no registry should be carried out without an NOC. We are also coordinating with the town and country planning department and will ensure that no violations take place,” he said, adding that they would take strict action against erring officials. A district administration spokesperson said that they have already designated a team of officials from the department of town and country planning (DTCP) to work in coordination with the revenue department at the tehsil-level to prevent these registries. “Officials of the DTP, enforcement, have been deputed tehsilwise for coordination in tehsils/sub-tehsils daily to ensure that no sale deeds are executed in contravention of rules,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-calls-for-cancellation-of-property-registries-that-lack-nocs/story-Y7yCeFed3DJfHbN9qgtRxJ.html
12-07-2020||Gurugram||MCG sets up thermal cameras at offices||After several of its officials tested positive for coronavirus, the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has installed thermal cameras, which can detect body temperature, at three of its main offices in sectors 34, 42 and 39. It is also exploring ways to install the same at its Civil Lines office where they are currently facing technical difficulties.At the MCG main office in sector 34, two officials, one each from the audit and IT wing tested positive last month. Last week, three officials in the tax wing of MCG’s zone 3 office in sector 42 tested positive. The three included a zonal taxation officer (ZTO). Sector 39 is where its health department is located and although none have tested positive till now, they are at high risk of contracting the infection.In each case, the officials had attended their duties at these offices a day before the confirmation report.“A large number of MCG officials are deployed on the ground and engaged in various Covid-19 related work. Therefore, the possibility of them contracting the infection always remains high. In addition, a large number of them are also interacting with the public on a daily basis. Hence, to ensure their symptoms are detected at the earliest, thermal cameras have been installed at all important MCG offices,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.MCG officials have been also been deployed to transport patients who died of Covid-19 to the burial or cremation ground for last rites, collect data of those under home isolation, set up rapid antigen testing centres, collect biomedical waste, among others.As per officials privy to the matter, all staff members have been told, unofficially, that they will be permitted entry into MCG offices only after they are screened on the cameras. Earlier, officials were checked for temperature with hand-held infrared thermometers, which they said did not represent the most accurate results, and which also put the person checking it at risk.“The biggest advantage of a thermal imaging camera over a hand-held thermometer is that the former covers a larger surface area. Often, there are 3-4 officials entering the offices at once, and sometimes the person with the hand-held thermometer may miss a person entirely. With the thermal camera, the temperature of more than one person is measured at the same time. It ensures that no one can enter the office without their temperature being checked,” said an official privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-sets-up-thermal-cameras-at-offices/story-quBpNCtfeYGj9fjb2i9dyK.html
12-07-2020||Noida||With two more deaths due to Covid-19, toll reaches 33 in GB Nagar||With reports of two more deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, the overall toll in the Gautam Budh Nagar district has risen to 33. However, the details of deceased have not been revealed by district health officials. Also, the district on Saturday reported 89 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the past 24 hours, taking the total count of positive cases to 3,347, according to the daily health bulletin released by the state control room.A total of 2,396 Covid-19 positive patients, including 175 on Saturday, have been cured and discharged, in the district so far, the bulletin said. “So far, 33 Covid-19 positive patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 918 active cases,” the bulletin stated.As per the bulletin, in the last 24 hours, as many as 25 Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh have lost their lives and their death audit report is awaited.The overall tally of the Covid-19 positive cases in the state has gone to 35,092 with 1,403 new cases in the last 24 hours. “While 913 patients have lost their lives due to coronavirus infection in the state so far, 22,689 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the state till date,” the state health bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-two-more-deaths-due-to-covid-19-toll-reaches-33-in-gb-nagar/story-gBvSVylNb3LKJtTwCjPyYK.html
12-07-2020||Noida||Couple ends lives, woman’s 8-month-old daughter found hungry, crying in room||A couple, in their 20s, ended their lives by hanging at the houses they rented in an area under the Sector 49 police station jurisdiction. An eight-month-old girl, the woman’s child, was found crying in the room where the bodies were discovered, police said, adding that they are yet to ascertain the child’s identity.According to police, they received a call from the couple’s landlord around 11am on Saturday saying that he noticed a foul smell coming from the room that the couple had taken on rent and that he could hear a baby crying.“When we reached the spot, the room was found locked from inside. Upon breaking down the door, the man and woman were found hanging from a ceiling fan while the child was found crying nearby. The NGO managing Childline, a helpline for children, was contacted and the infant was taken to a private hospital for treatment,” said Dharmendra Kumar Sharma, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.Police said the child is critical due to complications from being without food for almost two days. “The doctors said that she is on ventilator support. Once she gets better, the matter will be presented to the Child Welfare Committee,” said Satya Prakash, programme manager, FXB India Suraksha, the NGO that manages Childline.Police said no suicide note was found at the spot. However, during investigation, police got to know that the man had eloped with the woman and her daughter from Bihar on July 4 and had rented the room in Noida on July 7. Bihar Police were already searching for them in connection with an abduction case filed after the child went missing. The matter will be handed over to them after the local probe, Noida police said.“From the condition of the bodies, it seems that the duo had taken their lives a day or two ago. Their bodies have been sent for autopsies and only the report will clarify the cause of death. It seems the child was left hungry since then. There is no evidence of foul play, or injuries on the body. Prima facie, it seems that they both took their lives but the cause is unclear at the moment,” said Sharma.He said their families in Bihar have been informed and are on their way to Noida.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/couple-ends-lives-woman-s-8-month-old-daughter-found-hungry-crying-in-room/story-Y0WKfiKGP7PsuRxCBpznfI.html
12-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Residents welcome cap on Covid treatment cost in private hospitals||Residents of Gautam Budh Nagar have welcomed the Uttar Pradesh government’s move to fix a price cap on the Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals. The residents had been requesting for such a move for a while.According to the guidelines, districts in the state have been divided in three categories. With GB Nagar being in category A, NABH accredited hospitals in the district will have to provide an isolation bed for a day at ₹10,000 for moderate sickness, ₹15,000 for ICU and ₹18,000 for ICU with ventilator. The prices include the personal protective equipment (PPE) cost, the order said.Though residents feel that the prices are on the higher side, the capping will be helpful in the coming days.“The residents had been pushing for such an action for a long time. More adjustments are needed, but it is the first step in the right direction. Apart from PPE kits, the government should also clarify whether medicines and other items are included in these prices,” said Amit Gupta, president of apartment owners’ association, Prateek Wisteria Sector 77.The residents feel that the capping will put an end to exorbitant prices being charged by private hospitals.“There have been incidents when patients received extraordinarily high bills for treatment. This is a good move. But sometimes hospitals keep on adding extra charges for tests, medicines, etc, and it should be clarified what the package includes. Also, it is important that these prices are strictly implemented. Otherwise, it won’t be beneficial to the common man at all,” said Col (retd) Shashi Vaid, chairman, Arun Vihar residents’ welfare association.Currently, the district has four private hospitals offering Covid-19 treatment -- Fortis, Kailash, Yatharth and Jaypee.A spokesperson for Yatharth hospital said that the prices fixed by the government include the cost of PPE, basic medicines and basic tests.“The new prices will be implemented. We have a dedicated premises for Covid patients, and will continue providing good health care,” said Dr. Kapil Tyagi, managing director, Yatharth.Jaypee hospital is also working to revise the price structure according to the new guidelines. “We have prepared a new structure and will implement it. We currently have 63 Covid-dedicated beds and will keep a multi-bed structure for now,” said a Jaypee hospital spokesperson.Fortis Hospital refused to comment on the issue, while spokesperson of Kailash Hospital did not respond to calls.Nepal Singh, additional chief medical officer of the district, said, “Action can be taken against those hospitals which don’t follow the set guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-residents-welcome-cap-on-covid-treatment-cost-in-private-hospitals/story-UgViNuXkyXHGR9vOIVTzQP.html
12-07-2020||Pune||After resentment and chaos over lockdown, Pune civic chief’s transfer catches city by surprise||Just when Pune was coming to terms with announcement about 10-day lockdown starting Monday, Maharashtra government on Saturday transferred Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad. Vikram Kumar, who is serving as chief executive officer (CEO) of Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), will be the new civic chief. Gaikwad has been posted again as sugar commissioner, a position he was serving before joining as municipal commissioner in January this year. Kumar, a 2004 batch IAS officer, on the other hand has served in various capacities, including CEO of Maharashtra Maritime Board before taking charge in PMRDA in 2019.The bureaucratic reshuffle in Pune came when Covid-19 cases in city have reached 26,904 as 827 fresh cases were reported on Saturday. The rising cases forced administration to announce lockdown, prompting sharp reactions from business community and political circles as many were looking to make up losses in business.The announcement about lockdown, which according to officials, will be far more stricter, hasn’t gone down well among residents too as they rued the “flip-flop” approach as it came just days after chief minister announced “mission begin again”.Puneites on Saturday stepped out in large numbers to stock grocery and vegetable after the lockdown announcement was made. As a result, prices of essential commodity like vegetables went up.As the administration declared that grocery shops and vegetables sale will be shut during the first phase, fear of shortage gripped many parts with citizens coming out for panic shopping. “I stepped out at 7 am first to fill up petrol in my car and then headed to D-Mart for grocery. However, I found that people had already gathered since early morning,” said Rahul Chavan, a banker residing on Pune-Satara road.Places like D-Mart and Grahak Peth, a cooperative departmental store, saw huge crowd, reminiscent of scenes during March and April when the Centre and state had announced lockdown.Several BJP leaders, including party national vice-president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, city MP Girish Bapat and Shivajinagar legislator Siddharth Shirole said MVA government led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has no concrete plan to deal with the coronavirus crisis.Industry bodies and associations in Pune and Pimpri–Chinchwad also opposed the state government’s decision to impose lockdown once again fearing that post restrictions since March will disrupt the industry and increase further losses for the companies and business establishments. PCMC MLA Mahesh Landge too has petitioned the state government seeking no lockdown for PCMC industries while Federation of Traders Association of Pune has stated the lockdown will result in huge losses causing tremendous financial and physical suffering to the business owners and their employees. The PCMC administration has already declared ten day lockdown in PCMC area as per the directions of the state government.Besides’ Gaikwad’s transfer, state government has also posted Saurabh Rao as officer on special duty at Pune divisional commissioner office while agriculture commissioner Suhas Diwase will be new chief executive officer at PMRDA. Rao was working as sugar commissioner in Pune. Another bureaucrat Jitendra Dudi serving as project officer, Integrated Tribal Development Project and assistant collector, Manchar sub division in Pune has been appointed as chief executive officer of Sangli zilla parishad||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-resentment-and-chaos-over-lockdown-pune-civic-chief-s-transfer-catches-city-by-surprise/story-Yb8HgiJiNPuYS95tBfrNUL.html
12-07-2020||Pune||State transfers Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad||In a major reshuffle, the Maharashtra government on Saturday transferred the Pune Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad as sugar commissioner. Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) metropolitian commissioner Vikram Kumar replaces Gaikwad as the new municipal commissioner.Vikam Kumar said, “Pune municipal commissioner is a challenging post. I will try to take stakeholders into confidence and sort out the issues. My first priority to bring down Covid-19 cases in the city. I will take charge either tomorrow or Monday.”Gaikwad was appointed as municipal commissioner in January 2020 and served for hardly six months. Officials on condition of anonymity claim that the sudden transfer is because of his opposition to lockdown.Before the state and central government’s official announcement, he was in favour of unlocking the city.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in a meeting called on Friday to review the Covid-19 situation in Pune had taken the decision for 10-day lockdown beginning Julu 13. Gaikwad expressed his views about not introducing the lockdown at the meet.After joining as municipal commissioner, Gaikwad took a different stand on Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) terming as not useful and asked for the project’s review.As part of the Covid prevention measure, he acquired many private hospitals and created Covid care centers in the city. He scaled up the bed capacity up to 18,000 in the city during the last three months.Both Kumar and Gaikwad could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Vikram Kumar was appointed as a Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) metropolitan commissioner in March 2019.A 2004 batch IAS officer, Kumar before joining as PMRDA metropolitan commissioner, was chief executive officer of Maharashtra Maritime Board.As per the instructions by Ajit Pawar, almost 12 IAS officers were working under Gaikwad for handling the Covid-19 situation. Many senior IAS officers who earlier served as municipal commissioner were also appointed to help the Gaikwad.Gaikwad shifted to the official PMC bungalow a week before and now again need to vacate it. Gaikwad shifted after the previous municipal commissioner Saurabh Rao vacated the place. Before joining as municipal commissioner, Gaikwad was posted as sugar commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-transfers-pune-municipal-commissioner-shekhar-gaikwad/story-MzV80mmRXHd0HMg22XtnEK.html
