13-07-2020||City||Yamunanagar blind murder case solved, victim’s neighbour arrested||Nearly three weeks after the mutilated body of a railway employee was found at her house in Yamunanagar, police arrested her 34-year-old neighbour, who confessed to his crime.Addressing mediapersons on Monday, Yamunanagar superintendent of police (SP) Kamaldeep Goyal said, “A team of special detective unit had on Sunday managed to arrest the accused from Jawahar Colony.”The accused, who is already convicted of murder, had shoved a bottle into the victim’s private parts, the police said.SP Goyal said, “Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code will be added to the FIR. We are waiting for the forensic science laboratory’s report.”On June 23, the 55-year-old victim, who lived alone, was found murdered. During questioning, the accused told the police that a day before, he had consumed alcohol with his brother-in-law. “I was in an inebriated state. I knew that an old woman lived alone near my house, so I barged into her property in search of money to buy more alcohol. As the woman raised an alarm on seeing me, I hit her head with a pot repeatedly and dragged her to the bedroom,” he added.“I bludgeoned her to death after finding Rs 300. But I stayed in her house till five in the morning,” the accused told the police.He was arrested in 2011 and awarded life imprisonment two years later. He had come out of jail in 2017.The accused was produced in a court on Monday, which sent him in two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamunanagar-blind-murder-case-solved-victim-s-neighbour-arrested/story-7WU81qzZkjqV4i9TRxHCnL.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||3 new medical colleges to come up in Haryana||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has accorded approval to set up three new medical colleges in Sirsa, Kaithal and Yamunanagar.An official spokesperson said doctorate of medicine in cardiology at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, will also be started. The medical college in Sirsa would be set up on the land of Haryana agricultural university, whereas in Kaithal, the medical college would be built in Sarpankheri village. In Yamunanagar, the medical college would come up on a panchayat land, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-new-medical-colleges-to-come-up-in-haryana/story-tR7Jyc19NqfRhW4dvxTcXP.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala records 105 new cases, Haryana’s tally touches 21,929||Ambala district on Monday recorded 105 new cases of Covid-19 as the state’s patient tally reached 21,929 with the addition of 689 more infections in the past 24 hours. The death toll also mounted to 308 after seven people succumbed to the disease — three in Rohtak, two in Gurugram and one each in Palwal and Yamunanagar. However, the number of patients ‘cured’ of Covid stood at 654.But it was Ambala where the sharpest single-day spike in cases was registered, causing a flutter in the health department.“It’s (surge in cases) a warning and a day for Ambala residents to get alerted for the future...,” Dr Sanjiv Singla, Ambala deputy civil surgeon, said. According to him, of total 105 fresh cases, 55 were from Ambala City, 16 from Barara, 27 from Ambala Cantt, three each from Naraingarh and Chourmastpur and one from Shahazadpur area.“The contacts of the cloth market cases are being traced and nearly 33 fresh infections are from the same chain,” Dr Singla said. He said as per the guidelines, the health department was testing, tracking and giving treatment, besides enhancing sampling through rapid antigen tests kit.With Monday’s spike, Ambala now has 612 cases, 208 of which are active.As of Monday evening, the state had 4,984 active cases, while the tally of Covid-19 patients ‘discharged/recovered’ stood at 16,637. Over 65% cases were reported from 18 districts even as Faridabad reported the highest (130) new cases and Gurugram registered 106 infections.Other districts where people tested positive for the virus included Rohtak (63), Sonepat (60), Mahendergarh (46), Palwal (26), Hisar and Bhiwani (24 each), Jhajjar (18), Rewari (15), Panipat (13), Karnal (10), Kurukshetra and Charkhi Dadri (9 each), Nuh and Panchkula (8 each), Sirsa (7), Kaithal (6) and Yamunanagar (2). As per the health bulletin, of the total 4,984 active cases, Gurugram had 1,050, Faridabad 898, Sonepat 614, Rohtak 373, Rewari 230, Hisar 226, Panipat 204, and Ambala 208 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-records-105-new-cases-haryana-s-tally-touches-21-929/story-pLNH6FWqaGezBUWsZ2xFbK.html
13-07-2020||City||Gurveen Kaur of Ludhiana scores 99.8% in CBSE Class 12 exam||Gurveen Kaur, a student of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana scored 99.8% in humanities in Class 12, the results of which were declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday.She scored a perfect hundred in four subjects- English, Political Science, Geography, Hindustani Music and 99 marks in economics. Kaur was not able to appear in the geography exam as the board has first postponed the exam due to outspread of covid-19 and then cancelled it in July.While Jasmine Kaur Mangat of the same school scored 99.2% marks in the humanities stream and secured the second position in the district. In commerce stream, Amisha Dang, a student of DAV Public School, Pakhowal Road scored 99% while Aryaman Mahajan of DAV Public School, BRS Nagar scored 98.6% in the medical stream. Four students—Rudra Partap Singh of DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, Yashika Malhotra of DAV Public School, Pakhowal Road, Shreya of Green Land Senior Secondary School, Jalandhar bypass and Shaurya Gupta of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar scored 98% in the non-medical stream.In commerce stream, Harshit Aggarwal, a student of DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, and Navya Jain of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar scored 98.6% in the commerce stream, sharing the second position. Prerna Singh, a student of Nankana Sahib Public School and Akriti Arora of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar secured the second position with 98.2% in the medical stream. Humanities steam topper Gurveen who aims to join the judiciary said, “During my childhood days, I have decided to join judiciary and will pursue law. My father is an advocate and I want to follow his footsteps.”While commerce topper Amisha Dang aspires to become an IAS officer. Sharing her exam preparation strategy, Amisha said, “Tuitions and self-study have really made a huge difference as I have always been regular in my classes.”Medical topper, Aryaman Mahajan who is a sports enthusiast said, “I feel relaxed after playing sports and can better concentrate on my studies.”His father, SK Mahajan is a veterinary surgeon at GADVASU and mother, Aarti Mahajan is a science teacher at a government school in Birmi.Rudra Pratap Singh who aspires to become an IAS officer is preparing to get admission to one of the IITs. He said, “I used to study for 10 hours every day. My physics teacher, Ashish Kapoor guided me well and my parents were very supportive who always motivated me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurveen-kaur-of-ludhiana-scores-99-8-in-cbse-class-12-exam/story-8tHptGOWTkMd8MzbHwZGmK.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran: Punjab Health minister inaugurates mother-child care unit already being used as Covid ward||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday inaugurated the newly constructed maternity childcare unit at the Tarn Taran civil hospital even as it is already being used as a 100-bedded isolation ward for Covid-19 patients for the last three months.In the unit, constructed at the cost of Rs 6 crore, nine coronavirus patients are currently being treated. Also, at the time of the inauguration of the ward, considered a sensitive zone for contracting the virus, more than 100 people gathered throwing the social-distancing norms to the wind.Besides the health minister, three local MLAs— Dharambir Agnihotri, Harminder Singh Gill and Santokh Singh Bhalaipur—and senior officials of civil and police administration, including deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya, were also present on the occasion.This comes soon after Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh issued a complete ban on all public gatherings, while restricting social gatherings to five and marriages/other social functions to 30 instead of the current 50.“The ward will not be operational as maternity childcare unit till the pandemic ebbs,” said civil surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar.The minister said, “We are trying our best to maintain social distancing, but people don’t follow it sometimes. Also, there was no Covid-19 patient in the unit at the time of inauguration.”‘4,000 posts of doctors, paramedics to be filled’The minister said around 4,000 posts of doctors and paramedical staff will be filled by September to accomplish the ‘Mission Fateh’ campaign started by the state government against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tarn-taran-punjab-health-minister-inaugurates-mother-child-care-unit-already-being-used-as-covid-ward/story-5NSxl7N8Gv0YQUhpuqPcvL.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Oshil Bansal is tricity topper in CBSE Class-12 exams||A commerce student, Oshil Bansal, 18, of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, Chandigarh, has emerged the tricity topper in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examinations conducted for Class 12. A Panchkula resident, she secured 99.4% marks, with perfect scores in accountancy, economics, business studies and maths. Daughter of businessman Rajesh Kumar Bansal and homemaker Ritu Bansal, Oshil wants to pursue her career in Indian Economic Service. “Being consistent in studies and believing in myself helped me,” she says. As many as 17,621 students had appeared from Chandigarh, out of which 16,314 have passed the exam, making it a pass percentage of 92.6% for the UT. Details of Mohali and Panchkula have not been shared by the CBSE.The exams were conducted in February-March, but as many as 12 papers were cancelled due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Students were evaluated on the basis of average of marks in exams they had appeared for before the lockdown. The highest score in humanities, 99%, has been shared by Aradhana Kumari of St Soldier’s School, Sector 16, Panchkula, and Krisha Sethi of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula. Aradhana aims to join civil services and is the daughter of subedar major Gagan Deo Prasad and Rekha Devi. Krisha wants to become a lawyer. She is the daughter of Sanjay Sethi and Geetika Sethi, both directors of The British School, Panchkula.In non-medical stream, Anirudh Garg, a student of Stepping Stones Senior Secondary School, Sector 37, Chandigarh, has topped the tricity with 98.8%. Son of Sanjiv Kumar Garg, an assistant commissioner with Punjab’s Food and Drug administration and Priyanka Garg, who works in the same department, he wants to be a software engineer.With a score of 98.6%, Shruti Goel of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Chandigarh, has topped in the tricity in the medical stream. A Panchkula resident, she aims to join medical profession. Her mother, Mamta Goel, works at Panjab University and father, Vineet, Goel works with a private firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/oshil-bansal-is-tricity-topper-in-cbse-class-12-exams/story-CYRExY2OyneQWc9HzA7QjK.html
13-07-2020||City||CBSE results: Northeast Delhi students say cancelled papers affected scores||New Delhi: Principals of most private schools in northeast Delhi said their pass percentage in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 exams had improved due to the revised assessment scheme. Students in the riot-hit area, however, said they could have performed better if they had appeared for their papers. Nupur Sharma, a student of Arun Modern Public School, which was damaged in the February riots, said she wasn’t satisfied with her marks. “I couldn’t appear for my English and Hindi papers because it was cancelled due to Covid-19 and the riots. The average marks I received in these two subjects were in the 70s. I would have scored better if I had appeared for these papers,” said Sharma, who has applied to study English (Honours) in Delhi University. “With the cut-throat competition in the university, securing a seat will be tougher for me.”The Class 12 results were declared on Monday.Due to the communal violence in various northeast Delhi in February, CBSE was unable to conduct papers on four examination days and “a very small number of students from and around this district were not able to appear in exams on six examination days,” the board had said in April. A revised schedule had been announced but the board was unable to conduct the exams due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation.According to the revised assessment scheme formulated by CBSE, students of northeast Delhi, who could appear in only one or two subjects, would have their results based on their performance in the appeared subjects and performance in internal/practical/projects assessment.Jyoti Rani, principal of Arun Modern Public School, however, said CBSE’s revised assessment scheme had helped improve the overall result. “Our pass percentage stands at around 90% this year, which is more than last year. This is because of the revised assessments scheme,” she said.Om Prakash, manager of MRL Senior Secondary in Karawal Nagar, said, “We haven’t been able to access the website since there were server issues so we do not have a detailed breakup of marks yet. Not all students have been able to access results. However, our pass percentage has increased up to five percentage points this year.”Though CBSE said these students will be allowed to write an improvement exam to be conducted when the situation is conducive, students remain uncertain about it.“Though I want to appear for the improvement papers, we don’t know when that will happen since Covid-19 cases are still continuing and the college admission process has already started. Waiting for the retest does not look like an option because I run the risk of losing a year,” said Muskan Sharma, a class 12 student from Yamuna Vihar.Mansi, a student of a government-run school in Brahmapuri, said she too does not plan to appear for the improvement papers due to the uncertainty. “I was not able to appear for English, Hindi, and Home Science — three of the most scoring papers. Marks scored in my History, Economics, and Political Science were used for aggregate, which is why my aggregate stands at 63%. I will not wait to appear for the papers and instead opt for web designing courses,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-results-northeast-delhi-students-say-cancelled-papers-affected-scores/story-45yX72IRYmS2GEOopaTjRK.html
13-07-2020||City||CBSE results: Girls shine again, Lucknow girl scored 600/600||New Delhi: Lucknow girl Diyanshi Jain scored 600 out of 600 as girls outshone boys by nearly 6 percentage points in the overall success rate in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 results announced on Monday based on alternative assessment system adapted after some tests had to be cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Though students across states scored high marks with schools reporting their toppers, the CBSE did not release a merit list and replaced the term “fail” with “essential repeat” because of the “exceptional circumstances”. The pass percentage of girls was 92.15 and that of boys was 86.19. Divyanshi Jain, a student of Lucknow’s Navyug Radiance Senior Secondary School, didn’t lose a single mark in any of her six subjects scoring a 100 in each of them. “This is unbelievable. I am elated and surprised at the same time,” said a jubilant Divyanshi.Jain scored full marks in English, Sanskrit, History, Geography, Insurance and Economics.CBSE Regional Officer (RO) Shweta Arora said, “Divyanshi got maximum marks in the Prayagraj region. She appeared in five out of six exams.”The Dehradun region recorded a 9.65% increase in pass percentage compared to last year, said officials.Ranveer Singh, CBSE regional director, Dehradun, said, “The pass percentage of Dehradun region has increased by 9.65% compared to last year, despite the fact that areas such as Noida and Ghaziabad were removed from the region this year.”Devjyoti Chakrabarti from Shemford Doon School in Dehradun and Sagar Garg from DSB International Public School in Rishikesh scored 498 out of 500 marks each.Garg told local media that he aims to join the Indian Police Service and serve the nation. “I aspire to become an IPS officer and the credit for my result goes completely to my parents who kept me motivated,” said Garg.In Indore, Shubhra Jyotsana Singh of Delhi Public School scored highest marks in the city with 99.2% marks. “I am preparing for CLAT (common law admission test). My dream is to join the judiciary,” said Shubhra.In Bhopal, Ananya Tripathi, a commerce student of Delhi Public School, secured 99% marks. Many students in Kolkata also scored in excess of 95%. Kinjal Ajmera of Delhi Public School, Ruby Park, scored 98%. She told the local media that she plans to appear for the National Defence Academy entrance test.At South Point School, West Bengal’s biggest school in terms of number of students, ten students scored between 96.2% and 99 %. Debarati Pal topped the list with 99% marks. Ritobroto Chanda of the South Point School, who had suffered a severe injury during a football match and had to write exams with the help of a scribe, scored 88.4%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-results-girls-shine-again-lucknow-girl-scored-600-600/story-Fv0jXuwBZGF194EtvOTDhI.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi high court dismisses petition challenging Haryana DGP’s appointment||The Delhi high court on Monday dismissed a petition challenging the appointment of Haryana director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava.Justice Jyoti Singh of the HC said the petition is not maintainable in view of a 1997 Supreme Court (SC) judgment and provisions of the Administrative Tribunals Act.“It would, however, be open to the petitioner to approach the central administrative tribunal for determination of his grievances on merits,” the HC order said.A 1986-batch Haryana cadre IPS officer, Prabhat Ranjan Deo, had sought quashing of the recommendation and empanelment of 1988-batch IPS officer Manoj Yadava by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and his appointment as the Haryana DGP. Quoting a ruling of the constitution bench of the apex court, the Delhi HC said the SC had laid down that the tribunals created pursuant to Article 323-A or under Article 323-B of the Constitution are competent to hear matters entrusted to them and will continue to act as only courts of ‘first instance’ in respect of the areas of law for which they have been constituted. “It is clear that after the authoritative pronouncement of the apex court, this court cannot entertain the present petition and remedy lies only before the CAT,” the HC said. Deo’s counsel, however, said the fulcrum of the argument is that the Supreme Court had on March 25, 2019, granted liberty to the petitioner to approach the jurisdictional high court and as the office of UPSC is located within the territorial jurisdiction of this court, the jurisdictional HC is Delhi high court. The Delhi HC, however, said the contention that the apex court intended to confer jurisdiction upon this court, which it does not have, cannot be sustained. The argument that the petition has been pending in this court since March 2019 and should be entertained, no doubt appeals at first blush, but cannot be sustained due to lack of jurisdiction. No court can usurp a jurisdiction, it lacks and I am afraid, this plea does not take the case of the petitioner forward, Justice Jyoti Singh said.The petitioner had contended that Haryana government on January 25, 2019, had sent a list of 11 eligible officers, who had completed 30 years of service, to the UPSC for consideration and empanelment to the post of DGP. The petitioner said the UPSC had on February 18, 2019, empanelled three IPS officers to the post of DGP, but his name was not among them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-high-court-dismisses-petition-challenging-haryana-dgp-s-appointment/story-ZbthalSLwE38NVmt86HKWM.html
13-07-2020||City||CBSE results: Marginal dip in pass percentage of foreign schools||New Delhi:The pass percentage of Class 12 students in Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) affiliated foreign schools saw a marginal dip this year -- from 95.43 % last year to 94.26% this year.There are over 210 CBSE-affiliated schools in 25 countries across the globe. A total of 23,844 students from foreign schools have appeared for Class 10 examinations, while 16,103 students had registered for Class 12.Girls have performed better than boys in these schools as well: 96.41% girls passed the exams compared to 92.02 % boys.The CBSE had announced in April that it would not be conducting the pending exams in foreign countries. However, several representations and questions were received from students who were concerned about their future prospects, including admissions in foreign universities.“There are several CBSE schools located in 25 countries,” a board official said. “Each of these countries were also under lockdown and had decided to close down the schools for various and differential lengths of time.” “Under such circumstances, it was felt that the board will not be in a position to hold differential set of exams for each of these countries. Also, in the present situation, it was be difficult to bring the answer books to India for evaluation purposes,” the official added.Girls outshone boys by nearly six percentage points in the CBSE Class 12 examination results on Monday based on an alternative assessment system adapted after some tests had to be cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-results-marginal-dip-in-pass-percentage-of-foreign-schools/story-ZBY9osUDacq1wVL982gJaO.html
13-07-2020||City||28-year-old jumps off Thane creek||A 28-year-old man jumped into Kasheli creek, near Owla, between Thane and Bhiwandi. Regional disaster Management team and Narpoli police is searching for the man in the creek. Regional disaster management cell (RDMC), Narpoli police and the fire brigade reached the spot with an emergency tender, but are yet to trace the person. P Wani, inspector, said, “We have informed his family. We are investigating further and search operation is going on. “According to Narpoli police, the victim came on his bike around at 11.30am and parked his bike near the Kasheli creek bridge near Balkum pada no.3, Thane. He then jumped off from the bridge. Some passers-by informed police about the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/28-year-old-jumps-off-thane-creek/story-SqmKyhWnYCaNJyPjnOpg5K.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||399 fresh infections, Punjab hits 8,000 mark in 96 days||In the biggest ever single-day spike in coronavirus cases in Punjab, 399 fresh infections were reported on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 8,220. The state crossed the 8,000 mark in 96 days. Also, five deaths were reported, two in Amritsar and three in Jalandhar. On Monday, 88 patients were detected in Patiala, 80 in Ludhiana, 53 in Jalandhar, 31 in SAS Nagar, 25 in Amritsar, 20 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 17 in Sangrur, 11 in SBS Nagar, 11 in Ferozepur, nine in Bathinda, nine in Pathankot, eight in Moga, seven in Muktsar, six in Kapurthala, five in Hoshiarpur, four in Faridkot, four in Ropar, three in Fazilka, two in Barnala, one in Mansa and one in Gurdaspur.53 test positive in JalandharThirty men and 23 women tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar district on Monday, said Dr TP Singh Sandhu, nodal officer for the pandemic. He said 33 of the new infections are contacts of positive patients while in 20 cases the source is not clear. Three deaths were also reported in the district as per the state government’s daily bulletin. 28 infections in MalwaEleven people, including two BSF troopers, tested positive for the virus in Ferozepur district on Monday. A registered medical practitioner (RMP) was among seven people found infected in Muktsar district. Official sources said contacts of the RMP have been traced.Nine people tested positive in Bathinda. Civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu said four patients were from Bathinda cantonment and as many from the city area. One patient is from Raman Mandi town.In Fazilka, three people tested positive on Monday. One had come from Tripura, another from Bihar, while the third was a 24-year-old local resident with no recent travel history.A 24-year-old man tested positive in Mansa district.Two deaths and 25 fresh infections were reported in Amritsar district on Monday. SHO among 17 patients in SangrurIn Sangrur, 17 patients, including the station house officer Ahmedgarh (city), tested positive for coronavirus in Sangrur on Monday, confirmed civil surgeon Dr GB Singh. Ahmedgarh DSP Karanveer Singh said the SHO is asymptomatic and has been isolated at home.In Moga district, five people, including Bagahpurana DSP, tested positive for covid-19 on Monday. Moga civil surgeon Dr Amardeep Kaur said among the patients, four are police personnel and two jail inmates. “All the patients are asymptomatic,” she said. Four people tested positive in Faridkot on Monday. In Kapurthala district, six people tested positive on Monday. Two patients have a travel history while four are close contacts of patients.Mohali district recorded its highest ever spike on Monday with 31 Covid-19 cases, taking the district to 423 cases. Out of 31 patients, 14 are women and two minor boys. The cases are spread throughout the district.(With inputs from Bathinda and Sangrur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/399-fresh-infections-state-hits-8-000-mark-in-96-days/story-e8soPgkxSzkmIlBd3aLPPN.html
13-07-2020||City||State Congress chief meets CM to discuss department issues||Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday to discuss the issues related to the departments held by the Congress ministers. “The Congress has already discussed various issues with the CM and have requested him to discuss the issues faced by the departments held by them. We had requested him to give equal importance to the Congress in decision making. The things are improving after our meeting with the CM last month,” said a Congress leader. The leader said that a coordination meeting between the three parties is expected to be held soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-congress-chief-meets-cm-to-discuss-department-issues/story-872hjOZnLb2KO3KwMj77dO.html
13-07-2020||Gurugram||92.36% of students in Haryana clear CBSE Class 12 examination||More than 90% of students of Haryana, who appeared for the Class 12 examination of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), managed to clear their tests, as per the results declared by the board on Monday. While no city-wise topper was declared by the Board owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, students in multiple schools in the city scored percentages above 90 with many obtaining a perfect score in multiple subjects.In Haryana, a total of 97,161 students appeared for the examination that included 54,790 boys and 42,371 girls. Out of these, 89,739 students cleared the examination. The number included 49,531 boys and 40,208 girls. The pass percentage for the state stood at 92.36%. Boys fared comparatively better than girls. While the pass percentage for boys was 94.9%, the same for girls was 90.4%. Earlier in March, the CBSE had canceled board examinations across the country in 12 subjects owing to the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. The pending examinations were scheduled to take place from July 1 but were eventually called off after protests from parents and state governments. The board later announced an alternative assessment formula, on the basis of which students were graded based on their performance in the subjects for which tests were held. At Delhi Public School, Sector 45, Disha Mukherjee was the school topper with 99% in Humanities. Mukherjee said that she was relieved with the results, given the uncertainty prevailing over the pending examinations. “I wasn’t expecting such high scores since there was a lot of uncertainty surrounding the assessment of papers. The result date was not being announced which added to my stress. Finally, the results came in. My teachers shared with me the happy news,” said Mukherjee, who plans to pursue an Honours course in Psychology from Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi University. She has secured a perfect 100 on the same subject.Aditi Misra, Disha’s principal, said that she was happy with the results that had come in a rather difficult academic year. “This is a landmark year. I want students to feel satisfied with their performance. They should learn from their mistakes and move ahead. At the end of the day, they should focus on what they have and not what they could have had. A year from now, these marks wouldn’t matter so much,” said Misra.At Amity International School, Sector 46, Dhruv Lowe and Kushagra Sahni scored 98.4% in Science stream, while Aakarshi Agarwal scored 98.4% in Humanities. The school’s average stood at 90.1% with 28 students scoring a perfect 100 and 42 students scoring 99. Satwik Ghildiya secured 98.2% at Amity International School, Sector 43. At Shiv Nadar School, Palak Modi was the school topper with 98.7% in Humanities. Ketaki Sarin topped her school, Heritage Xperiential Learning School, with a score of 98.8% in the Science stream. Around 3.6%, or 44 students of the school, scored 95% and above.Neena Kaul, the principal, Heritage Xperiential Learning School, said that students have done very well in a challenging year. “Our students have come out shining in the board exams despite the uncertainties due to the pandemic. I couldn’t be happier,” said Kaul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/92-36-of-students-in-haryana-clear-cbse-class-12-examination/story-AHvrJ3pp9aTuL41pbTqObP.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||PSEB to cut syllabus by 30% for classes 9 to 12 on CBSE pattern||Amid coronavirus pandemic, the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has decided to reduce its syllabus for classes 9 to 12 for the current academic session by up to 30% on the pattern of the Central Board of School Education (CBSE).A committee comprising subject experts from the PSEB and State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) set up by the school education department has finalised its suggestions for a reduction in the course load to ease the burden on students.School education secretary Krishan Kumar said the committee was set up under SCERT director Jagtar Singh last week to take into consideration the views of different stakeholders, including academicians, teachers, and parents, and suggest the reduction in the syllabus for the academic year 2020-21. The exercise will take another two to three days, he said.The CBSE had last week announced to reduce the syllabus of classes 9 to 12 by almost a third to make up for the academic loss that happened due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Earlier, the Council for the Indian Schools Certificate Examination (CISCE) had also revised its syllabus for the same reason.The panel comprising subject experts of PSEB and SCERT is going by the CBSE pattern for reduction of up to 30% in syllabus, according to two officials familiar with the committee’s proceedings. “The topics to be dropped from the syllabus have been selected for several subjects, but there is still some work left,” one of them said.PSEB uploaded the lists of “reduced syllabus topics” of several subjects for secondary and senior secondary classes on its official website on Sunday, but these were quickly removed the same day. As per the uploaded list of subjects for Class 10, three chapters, including those on the Anglo-Sikh wars and annexation of Punjab, and state’s struggle for freedom, are to be dropped from the history syllabus, besides map work. Similarly, two chapters each are reduced from geography and civics syllabus.Another PSEB official said the approval of the academic council will be required before any topics or chapters are reduced from the syllabus. Punjab, which was among the first states to impose a curfew on March 23 and shut its schools, has tried to give a push to online teaching, but there have been questions about its reach as a significant number of children enrolled in government schools belong to the economically disadvantaged families and do not have smartphones and connectivity required for accessing digital lessons.Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had on Sunday also asked the school education department to ensure equal educational opportunity and access for all students, including the poor and rural ones. The department also tied-up with television and radio channels to go ahead with the academic calendar, but there have been problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pseb-to-cut-syllabus-by-30-for-classes-9-to-12-on-cbse-pattern/story-cfu6U4lVODXTkiYjQC7QtK.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||CBSE results: Higher scores will lead to higher cut-offs, say DU officials||With a significantly high number of students scoring in the 90-95% range in the Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE) Class 12 examination , Delhi University (DU) officials and principals on Monday said the results are likely to push up the cut-off marks for admissions to undergraduate courses this year. Compared to last year, the number of students scoring 95% and above has increased by 118.6% and those getting 90% and above by 67.48% this year. “If the number of students scoring over 90% is high, cut-offs will be higher too,” a senior Delhi University official said, requesting anonymity. Asked about the likely date for cut-offs, the official said the university is waiting for the University Grants Commission (UGC) to issue the revised academic calendar.Last year, 94,299 students had scored in the 90-95% range, keeping the DU cut-offs high. Hindu College had the highest cut-off of 99% in 2019, only slightly higher that Lady Shri Ram College’s 98.75% in 2018.“There are a lot of interlinked factors. For instance, students who want admission in science courses are also likely to appear for the Joint Entrance Examination and the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test. If they get admission to engineering and medical institutes, they might drop out of the undergraduate courses. The entrance tests for DU courses are to be conducted by National Testing Agency, which will conduct other entrance exams as well. We will factor these in while planning the cut-off dates,” the official said.Registrations for various undergraduate, postgraduate and MPhil courses began on June 20 and will continue until July 18. A total of 237,117 students had registered for the undergraduate courses till Monday evening. Last year, 205,434 of 258,388 applicants in DU were from CBSE.Dean (Admissions) Shobha Bagai said the students who had already registered for admission and paid their fee could update their CBSE marks on DU’s website. “The tab to update the academic section is already available. They can update their marks till the cut-offs are announced,” she said. During a webinar conducted on Sunday attended by students, parents, and other stakeholders, Bagai had said that cut-offs were likely to be released in September.“Looking at the preliminary information, we don’t think we’ll be able to keep the percentage low. The results have been declared today and the data will emerge gradually once students start submitting it to the university. Once the university sends this data to the colleges, we can take a look at the courses and students who have applied for the courses and then decide the cut-offs accordingly,” Anju Shrivastava, principal of Hindu College, said.Though exams were not conducted for some subjects, including Geography, Computer Science, and Sociology, principals across DU colleges said it was unlikely to impact the cut-off for those subjects.Bijayalaxmi Nanda, the acting principal of Miranda House, said, “The cut-offs will only be slightly higher or the same as last year and students should not be despondent. However, the diversity that comes to Delhi might be different because of the Covid-19 situation. Parents will be nervous about sending their children away in such uncertain times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cbse-results-higher-scores-will-lead-to-higher-cut-offs-say-du-officials/story-pHpEhX15zKycdcyWhatk1N.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Arrested BSF jawan worked for Pak-based handler: Punjab DGP||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan, who was arrested on Sunday for allegedly running a drug and illegal arms smuggling racket, was working at the behest of his Pakistan-based handler, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Monday said. The accused, Sumit Kumar of Gurdaspur district, was posted as a constable in Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir. He was arrested along with three other members of the racket —Simarjit Singh, alias Simma, Manpreet Singh and Amanpreet Singh, Gupta said in a press statement. The DGP said after the police in Jalandhar arrested Amanpreet Singh on July 11 in a case of murder he revealed during investigation that he along with his brothers and Sumit was in touch with one Shah Musa of Pakistan for smuggling narcotics and weapons across the Indo-Pakistan border.Foreign-made weapons, including a 9mm pistol (made in Turkey), 80 cartridges with a Pakistan ordinance factory marking, two magazines and two cartridges of 12 bore gun besides Rs 32.30 lakh drug money were recovered from the BSF constable.Amanpreet further revealed they came in contact with Shah Musa through Manpreet of Darapur village in Gurdaspur and the BSF constable.He said Sumit was earlier lodged in the Gurdaspur jail in a murder case, where he came in contact with Manpreet.The DGP said that the conspiracy to smuggle drugs and weapons was hatched in the Gurdaspur jail.“He is learnt to have facilitated the entry and delivery of heroin and weapons across the border fence where he was deployed. He received Rs 39 lakh for this,” the DGP said. MODUS OPERANDIGupta said photos of drug consignments and weapons from Pakistan were sent to Sumit by Manpreet and Sukhwant Singh. Sumit would send his location, border pillar number and details of the surrounding villages to the smugglers further shared the coordinates with their Pakistani handler, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/arrested-bsf-jawan-worked-for-pak-based-handler-punjab-dgp/story-zSUeSyOIXwZPy7rYxc0TGN.html
13-07-2020||City||Rural pharmacists seeking regularisation hold protest in Amritsar, refuse to join Covid-19 duties||Pharmacists posted at dispensaries under the Punjab panchayats department staged a protest outside the zila parishad office in Amritsar and raised slogans against the Congress government for failing to regularise their jobs and increase salaries. It has been 25 days since they boycotted their Covid-related duties in support of their demands.“Rural pharmacists have been working for the last 14 years for Rs 10,000 a month. The government hired us on contractual basis and our contracts were not renewed this time. We have been assigned emergency Covid-related duties at public places like the Golden Temple, Durgiana Temple, ICP Attari, Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, to medically screen people. Despite working in the emergency situations, the government is not regularising the contractual employees,” said Gurdeep Singh, district president of Punjab Rural Health Pharmacy Officers Association.“The government had promised us to increase our salaries but nothing was done. The government should increase the salaries of frontline warriors and provide us medical insurance so that we can work without any concern,” he added.Kamaljeet Singh Chauhan, vice-chairperson of the association, said, “We boycotted our Covid-19 duties on June 19, but the government is acting as a mute spectator. We will not resume our duties til the government assures us to regularise our jobs and increase our salaries. A similar protest is being held at all the districts of the state. We will intensify our protest if our demands are not fulfilled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rural-pharmacists-seeking-regularisation-hold-protest-in-amritsar-refuse-to-join-covid-19-duties/story-7gXHd5gfEHnvSauy4v9zMK.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Absconding peddler held with 1kg heroin, drug money in Sultanpur Lodhi||Police on Monday arrested an absconding drug peddler with 1kg heroin and Rs 46, 000 drug money in Sultanpur Lodhi town of Kapurthala district. The accused, Gurbejh Singh of Kapurthala, was declared a proclaimed offender (PO) by a court in two cases of drug peddling registered against him.Addressing a press conference, superintendent of police (investigation) Manpreet Singh said a naka was set up after they got a tip-off that a smuggler was coming to the city to sell drugs.“The occupant of a Hyundai Verna car (PB38-3786) sped away when the police team signaled to stop the vehicle. The cops nabbed him after a brief chase and recovered the drugs and money from him. He was already facing five drug cases across Punjab. His father, mother and brother were also facing smuggling cases,” he added.A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered Gurbejh, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/absconding-peddler-held-with-1kg-heroin-drug-money-in-sultanpur-lodhi/story-5dmVam5sGG8PK05CciszdI.html
13-07-2020||City||Moti Nagar police station shut after four cops test positive||The Moti Nagar police station in Ludhiana has been shut for two days after four police personnel posted there tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal said that residents of Moti Nagar can visit Jamalpur police station regarding any complaint during these two days i.e Tuesday and Wednesday.He said that the building will be sanitised and all police personnel will have to undergo the Covid-19 test. The police chief also added that people can send their complaints at id cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in.The police are not allowing more than two persons at a time in any police station. Sentries at the main gate of police stations are equipped with a thermal scanner.The police are also conducting the Covid-19 test of arrested persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/moti-nagar-police-station-shut-after-four-cops-test-positive/story-FhRDygsOlUww8eAtkm8LMI.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||SACRILEGE CASES: Cong govt framing followers to get political mileage, says Dera committee||The Dera Sacha Sauda’s state committee on Monday said the Punjab Police’s ongoing probe into alleged sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib was a conspiracy of the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government to defame the sect to get political mileage. In a first press conference ever since the investigation into the 2015 desecration incidents started, members of the dera’s Punjab committee said the “government of the day” is carrying out a shady probe into the cases for reasons best known to it. “Maybe it’s the dera’s call to support the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the previous elections that the sect followers are being implicated to get even with us,” said Harcharan Singh, a state committee member. “The successive governments have settled scores with the sect for supporting their rival parties. In 2002 and 2012, we supported the Congress but SAD came to power. At that time too, efforts were made to implicate the dera followers in false cases,” said Harcharan, who was accompanied by fellow member Kewal Brar and dera lawyer Vivek KumarThe committee members alleged that such was the desperation of the present government to frame the sect followers in the sacrilege cases that it was for the first time in India’s justice system that the police’s special investigation team (SIT) conducted a false and parallel probe when the CBI was already looking into the matter. “Case files and the FIRs are still with the CBI, which has given a clean chit to the dera followers. But the SIT ignored the probe and arrested our people to file a chargesheet in these cases. The SIT appears to have worked on flimsy grounds just to show the dera’s involvement in these cases,” said the dera lawyer.The CBI probe has found Mohinder Pal Singh Bittu, who was named as the main accused in the cases by the SIT, and other accused to be innocent, Vivek Kumar said. Bittu was murdered in a Patiala jail last year. “The sect followers were tortured in police custody and were compelled to give written statements claiming their involvement in sacrilege. But when the accused offered the CBI to conduct their narco test, the agency found them innocent. How can there be such difference in the probes conducted by the two agencies?” he questioned.The committee members said even the Ranjit Singh commission constituted by the Amarinder Singh government to look into the sacrilege case did not conduct an independent probe and instead relied upon fabricated theories of SIT.They claimed that the SIT’s recent move to name sect head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in the case was highly condemnable and shows that the government can go to any extent to show the dera in a bad light. “The government is trying to create a divide among different faiths and it will only spoil communal harmony in Punjab,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sacrilege-cases-cong-govt-framing-followers-to-get-political-mileage-says-dera-committee/story-rY7BJb7zGgzPOyNGdSR47O.html
13-07-2020||Lucknow||Never felt ashamed of being called ‘bhaiya’ from UP: Gopal||Former Test off-spinner Gopal Sharma has said he could have played many more Tests if he had agreed to represent Mumbai in the 1980s when he was given an open offer to do the same by Mumbai’s top cricketers who were calling the shots at the time.Sharma, who took 20 international wickets, 10 each in five Tests and 11 ODIs, was the first cricketer from Uttar Pradesh to play Tests in the post-Independence era. In the pre-Independence era, Pusapati Vijaya Ananda Gajapathi Raju (Maharajkumar of Vizianagaram) had captained India during the 1936 tour of England.“They (including a former captain) always wanted me to play for Mumbai, but I turned down the offer as I was keen to make a name for myself as well as for Uttar Pradesh. I faced many challenges during my career, but I never felt ashamed of being called ‘bhaiya’ from Uttar Pradesh,” Gopal Sharma said on Monday, 30 years after his retirement from the game in 1990.“I never lost my cool and always tried to live up to expectations. Even though my performance was up to the mark, I was dropped from the side,” said Sharma, who turns 60 on August 3.FAVORITISMKanpur’s Sharma said he also felt there was favoritism in Team India selection those days when he was denied the chance to play for India against New Zealand in New Zealand in the 1981 series.“I was named the first stand-by and I was supposed to leave for New Zealand the next day to replace an injured Shiv Lal Yadav, but the team management chose to call Ravi Shastri then,” he said, adding, “My name was announced by Raj Singh Dungarpur during commentary and I had my bags packed for the tour while playing in a Ranji Trophy game against Mumbai in Kanpur. But suddenly I came to know that Shastri, who took just one wicket in that game, was going in my place.”“Today, I feel that if I had accepted the offer to play for Mumbai, I would have played many more matches for the country,” said Sharma.As a member of the national selection committee from the Central Zone in the 2003-04 season, Sharma played a key role in getting at least four Uttar Pradesh cricketers drafted into Team India.The cricketers included RP Singh, Mohd Kaif, Suresh Raina and Piyush Chawla from UP and Railways’ JP Yadav, who made a comeback during Sharma’s tenure. “All cricketers selected by me did well for Team India and I still remember that the four other members in the committee, including the then chairman Kiran More, used to ask me ‘Gopi tu kahan se laata hai yaar such brilliant cricketers?’ (from where do you get such fine players?).”DEBUT MATCHSharma, who had to wait for four years to play his debut match in 1985 despite being selected for Team India in 1981, said he became a victim of a fight in the cricket board in 2004. “As soon as one group came to power in the BCCI, I lost my position in the selection panel. I am sure that if I had been in the committee for a few more years, many more cricketers from central zone could have played for India.”Sharma made his Test debut against England on his home turf at the Green Park Stadium in Kanpur, where he bowled long and hard, sending down 60 overs for 3/115.“It was always difficult to get into the Indian side as a spinner as I had to compete for the off-spinner’s spot with Shivlal Yadav and later Arshad Ayub. Other spinners of different varieties also in the fray were Laxman Sivaramakrishnan, Maninder Singh, Narendra Hirwani, Ravi Shastri and youngsters like Anil Kumble and Venkatapathy Raju, but I kept performing well whenever I got a chance.”For the record, Sharma did play in Sri Lanka in 1985-86 and then against Pakistan in 1986-87. When he bowled alongside Yadav against Pakistan at Jaipur, he was the more successful one, taking four wickets while Yadav took one. The next innings in the Ahmedabad Test, however, saw him pick up one and Yadav four. After that he was in the wilderness for three years.Sharma, who was very accurate, still recalls the day when he came to know about his selection for Team India. “It was announced on radio and I was told by someone. I could believe it only when I saw my name in the next morning’s newspapers. It was a dream come true,” said Sharma who took 353 wickets in 104 first-class matches, besides hitting two fighting centuries with the willow.FIRST A PACERIn fact, very few know that Sharma was originally a medium pacer and only a tricky situation forced him to become an off-spinner. In 1974, he was selected for the UP government’s first-ever cricket hostel in Lucknow as a medium pacer after doing well in the Under-19 team. Within a few days, he developed a backache and found himself unable to bowl quick at the nets.“I was just wondering what to do and I started bowling slow deliveries then and I felt no pain. My first coach Rohit Chaturvedi then advised me to stick to spin bowling and I did that,” he said.“I could have been kicked out of the hostel had I not changed my bowling style. After a year, the Lucknow hostel was shut down and I was shifted to Kanpur hostel (Mohd Kaif belongs to same hostel),” he said.DISAPPOINTEDHowever, Sharma sounded disappointed over the below par standard of government-run cricket hostels across the state. “Cricket is almost finished in the hostel and sports colleges. The concept of joint training is no more prevalent. Now, private academies have taken over the system,” he said.“There was competition amongst us when we were in the hostel. But now fata-fat cricket has become the key attraction for UP cricketers.”He said if UP cricketers won more matches at the national level, they would attract the national selectors’ attention. “UP cricketers need to play good cricket. Both the UP Sports Directorate and the UP Cricket Association should come out with a plan jointly so that the standard of state cricket could be raised. Once it is done, our cricketers would be an automatic choice in Team India.”“Through ‘jugar’ system, one can play up to the state level. But to play for India in any format of the game, you need to have a special quality. Infrastructure has been raised to top standards in the state. But we still need good coaches as well as dedicated cricketers,” he said.While Maharajkumar of Vizianagaram represented India only in Tests, Gopal Sharma and Mohd Kaif (2000-2006) did so in Tests and ODIs, Rudra Pratap Singh (2006-11), Piyush Chawla (2006-12), Suresh Raina (2005-18), Praveen Kumar (2007-12), Bhuvneshwar Kumar (debut in 2013) and Kuldeep Yadav (debut in 2017) have played in Tests, ODIs and T20s. Three others i.e. Rudra Pratap Singh Senior (1986), Gyanendra Pandey (1999) and Sudeep Tyagi (2009) have played only ODIs.CRICKET HISTORYThe team was formed in 1934 under the name of ‘United Provinces’. The team’s best performance in the Ranji Trophy in their early years came in 1939-40 when they finished as runners-up. In the 1950-51 season, the team’s name was changed to ‘Uttar Pradesh’.Uttar Pradesh have not been strong in the Ranji Trophy cricket for any prolonged period in their history. Their only victory in the Ranji Trophy Elite Group was in the 2005-06 season. The Ranji Trophy win was one of the most spectacular comebacks in cricketing history, since at one point of time in the season Uttar Pradesh were on the brink of relegation.They have finished runner-up twice before, once in 1997-98 against a strong Karnataka side, and once in 1977-78 against the same team under the captaincy of Mohammad Shahid and the team manager was Abdul Karim Chishti, former captain of Uttar Pradesh. They finished runners-up in the 2007-08 season, reprising a performance, similar to the one witnessed in the 2005-06 season, when they came back from the brink of relegation to win the championship. This time though, they lost to Delhi in the final.Their best performance in the Vijay Hazare Trophy came in 2004-05 when they were joint-winners with Tamil Nadu. In 2006 they won the Nissar Trophy, defeating Sialkot cricket team in Dharmasala. Their only appearance in the Irani Trophy came in the 2006-07 season in which they lost to the Rest of India team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/never-felt-ashamed-of-being-called-bhaiya-from-up-gopal/story-K4DCJJk5XGwB0hXo8YJKSP.html
13-07-2020||City||Man celebrates birthday on street in Ludhiana’s containment zone; held for lockdown violation||A man was arrested from Isa Nagri in Ludhiana for allegedly violating the lockdown order and social distancing norms by celebrating his birthday with his 20 friends on a street in the area, police said on Monday. Division Number 3 police have registered an FIR against Akash Soni, a resident of New Hargobind Nagar. Isa Nagri has been declared a containment zone due to an outspread of coronavirus in the area.The attendees were identified as Raja Oberoi, Rokin, Mandeep, all residents of Khud Mohalla, Sammy of Sector 32, Chandigarh, Laddi of Samrala road, Sahil Bajwa and Vishu of Division Number 3 Chowk, while 12 are yet to be identified. ASI Sikandar Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the police received information that some people had gathered at Isa Nagri Chowk and were cutting a cake on a street. When police reached the spot, they found that the persons were not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms.A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-celebrates-birthday-on-street-in-ludhiana-s-containment-zone-held-for-lockdown-violation/story-zYVbFsyN8vyQPvejN7NpNP.html
13-07-2020||Lucknow||Former powerlifter trying to eke out a living by selling ‘vada-paav’||Former international powerlifter Shatrughan Lal is an inspiration for many. Even at the age of 50, he lifts a good amount of weights every day while coaching trainees at the Chowk Stadium here.He has also learnt the art of cooking ‘vada-paav’ from YouTube and has been running a small roadside shop in Durgapuri, Mawaiya for the last one week to make ends meet.A silver medalist at the Senior Asian Championship, Lal is among the 400-odd ad hoc coaches on the state government’s rolls, who have been facing a tough time for the last three months. Reason: No payments have been made to them in the absence of any sports events due to the Covid-19 pandemic.But the never-say-die attitude of Lal has helped him fight the odds.“That’s the only way for me in this crisis situation,” said Lal, a native of Lucknow, on Sunday. The former power lifter doesn’t mind letting people know that he has 12 international medals (10 silver and two bronze) and 35-odd medals at the national championships. “Seeing kids without food etc was very difficult for me. But I decided not to succumb to the situation and instead to fight against it,” said Lal, whose eatery fetches him a daily business of Rs 300-400. He bagged his first international medal (a silver) at the Senior Asian Championship in Taiwan in 1993.He is connected with his trainees even on phone (free of cost).“They (trainees) call me and ask for support and I help them. Some visit my shop to meet me and I don’t feel bad in doing this business as it’s the best way to live with honesty and dignity,” he said, adding, “It’s a slow start on the business front, but hoping to get people’s attention soon.”A graduate from Lucknow University, Lal had been an ad hoc coach at the Chowk Stadium from 1999 to 2001.“In 2001, I moved to Hindalco Industries in Renukoot in search of a good opportunity and stayed there till 2012. But I came back to Chowk Stadium as hoc coach in 2015 when I came to know about a better job here.”As an international player of his time, Lal gets Rs 25,000 per month for 11 months a year, as per government norms.“My daughter is pursuing graduation from Lucknow University while my son is in Class 9. But I don’t have money to spend on my son’s online classes. The school has asked for Rs 5,000 as first installment and I don’t have the money for this. Don’t know how things will unfold in future, but for now my family is hoping for better days,” said Lal, who has taken a loan of Rs 35,000 to start his business.“Friends and relatives helped me start this business, but I feel that something has to be done to help all ad hoc coaches. Many of them are running roadside vegetable and tea shops across the state as they have no other option left,” said Lal.It is learnt that last week, the district administration in Kanpur came to the rescue of 17 ad hoc coaches, giving them Rs 15,000 (at Rs 5,000 per month) as a special relief fund for the last three months from the ‘Khelkood Protsahan Samiti’. The coaches would continue getting Rs 5,000 per month till the resumption of sports activities in UP.“This system has to be followed everywhere in the state to help the struggling ad hoc coaches. When the government is distributing foodgrain and Rs 1,000 to labourers in the state, something has to be done for the ad hoc coaches also,” said a taekwondo coach.Though UP Sports Directorate authorities had been promising to help ad hoc coaches, nothing had so far been done on the ground level. “We are in the process of doing something for them… waiting for a green signal from the top,” said RP Singh, director (sports), UP.In view of restrictions due to the pandemic, there have been no sports activities. Stadiums are open but only for walk and yoga activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/former-powerlifter-trying-to-eke-out-a-living-by-selling-vada-paav/story-Adiz3Hsy6ADQQu1o1Mzi7L.html
13-07-2020||City||Three get bail in northeast Delhi riots cases, one denied relief||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to three accused in different northeast Delhi riots’ cases, stating that there was no evidence on record and mere identification by constables is “weak evidence”. The court also denied bail to one person, observing that there is enough material on record to show that he had actively participated in the arson in which a book shop was completely charred.Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav ordered the release of Abdul Khaliq, an accused in a case related to the riots in Dayalpur, and Shyam Patel and Sonu Kumar in connection to the violence in Bhajanpura.Appearing for Khaliq, his counsel said his client was not named in the FIR and there was no CCTV footage where he can be seen. He said Khaliq was arrested just on the basis of being named by one constable, Piyush.Patel and Kumar’s lawyer Saroj Kumar Jha told the court that both the applicants were named in 10 cases and granted bail in eight. He said there was no CCTV footage in which they can be spotted.Appearing for police, the Special Public Prosecutor told the court that they had been identified by a constable named Yogesh and had been involved in the riots.Opposing the bail of Khaliq, the police said Piyush was the beat constable of the area and knew the accused as a resident of the same locality. The SPP said on March 7, his statement was recorded by the IO in the matter where he had named the accused and two other persons to be part of unlawful assembly.The court, however, found that in both the cases, mere naming of the accused by the constables was “weak evidence”. Granting bail to Khaliq, the court said, “ …naming of Khaliq by constable Piyush in the matter is prima-facie, a very weak kind of evidence”.The court said if Piyush was present at the spot and identified the accused (Khaliq) as one of the rioters, then he should have reported to the nearest police station, which he did not do.He ordered the release of Patel and Kumar, saying there is nothing on record such as independent witnesses, CCTV footage or any video recording to show the presence of the accused at the spot or that they were involved in rioting and chanting slogans against the other community.The court said identification by constable Yogesh, in absence of reason on why he did not report the matter to the police station when he saw the accused, is a weak piece of evidence.The same judge denied bail to Mohammad Furqan after observing that there was enough material on record to show that he had actively participated in the riots. The court said his presence has been duly seen in CCTV footage and his identification by one constable Pawan at this stage cannot be considered as weak evidence.Furqan was arrested for rioting and setting a book store on fire in Dayalpur. Appearing for Furqan, his counsel had contended that nothing had been recovered from his client and that he had clean antecedents. He said there was a delay of 10 days in the recording of FIR in the matter.The court said it is a matter of record that more than 10,000 PCR calls were received in the Dayalpur police station on the date of the incident and it was very difficult for police to revert or respond to all callers.“The atmosphere in or around the area was frightening and as such the complainant did not come forward to report the matter to the police. There is a clear explanation of the delay in recording the FIR,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-get-bail-in-northeast-delhi-riots-cases-one-denied-relief/story-X2nHmlQGk3PaG9xXqGYwqN.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||PU to request UGC to review decision on holding exams||Panjab University (PU) has decided to request the University Grants Commission (UGC) to review the final semester examinations this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic.This was unanimously resolved at PU’s syndicate meeting on Monday after members debated for hours before resolving that conducting examinations in the current situation would not be safe for students as well as staffers.“We have decided to request the UGC to review their decision to conduct examinations. There will be no sanctity of conducting exams during this situation,” said syndicate member Rabindernath Sharma.The Union ministry of human resource and development had said on July 6 that the final year examinations in the universities will be held in September.Though exams were not on the agenda, members discussed the issue at length given the students’ concerns.The syndicate also constituted a committee under the chairmanship of Professor Navdeep Goyal to figure out when the exams could be held in the next session.The committee, which has been directed to submit its report within a week or two, includes syndicate members HS Dua, DPS Randhawa and Anu Chatrath. They will draft a proposal on the feasibility of holding the exams and a likely time frame.Before the meeting, students affiliated with Students for Society (SFS), All India Students Association (AISA), Ambedkar Students Association (ASA), Punjab Students Union (PSU- Lalkaar) and Youth For Swaraj held a protest outside the University’s administration hall against UGC’s decision to hold the examinations. They also urged the University to resolve the issue of the final semester examination at the earliest.While taking a call on the admission guidelines for the affiliated colleges, the syndicate members decided to hold the Common Entrance Test for post graduate and BEd coursesentrance in affiliated colleges for the 2020-21 academic session. The syndicate also approved holding admissions in both online and offline mode in affiliated colleges this year.Professor SK Tomar’s tenure as dean students welfare (DSW) of Panjab University till May 2021 was approved on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-to-request-ugc-to-review-decision-on-holding-exams/story-zIppHTf6EyMa2vj848ClPI.html
13-07-2020||City||Free meals resume at Delhi homeless shelters||New Delhi: The Delhi government has asked all the shelter management agencies in the city to immediately resume providing two meals a day free of cost at all homeless shelters. While distribution of free lunch and dinner started from Monday, a few shelters were left out on day one. The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) has about 200 shelter homes, including porta cabins and permanent buildings, where around 7,000 homeless people stay at present. The government has roped in various NGOs to run these shelters, which will also provide meals to occupants. The board in an order issued on Sunday asked all shelter management agencies concerned to provide free lunch and dinner to homeless people who stay at DUSIB shelter homes from July 13. The free distribution of cooked food had started during the nationwide lockdown when the government started feeding occupants of these shelters as well as migrants and others in need through its 2,500 hunger relief centres. The DUSIB had, however, discontinued free meals from July 1, triggering appeals from NGOs and activists to resume the scheme. The meals include khichdi for lunch and dal, chawal, chapatis and vegetables for dinner. “We started providing meals from today. The shelter occupants, who were really upset about the food distribution being stopped earlier, were more than happy to receive the meals. There are a lot of senior citizens in these shelters, who are sick and cannot go out for work and hence require daily meals,” said Prabhas Chaudhary of Safe Approach NGO, which has nine shelters in North Delhi under its supervision. At some other shelters, occupants complained of not being provided breakfast. A senior DUSIB official said on condition of anonymity said the free meal scheme had been resumed and food was provided at most shelters on Monday. The remaining shelters will be covered from Tuesday. “Since the order was issued just a day before, some NGOs could not arrange for the meals. The scheme was under assessment and in view of many homeless people still not getting jobs or enough money, it was decided to resume the meals till the situation improves,” the official said. He said the government plans to start community kitchens at some of the shelters, which are housed in permanent structures. “There are around 18 shelters, which are designated for families, and 17 others, which are only for women. We plan to start a kitchen in these complexes where dry ration and cooking equipment will be provided to occupants and they will be able to cook their meals. It is expected to start soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/free-meals-resume-at-delhi-homeless-shelters/story-r0zO5vMPDIHiQFaoIlRfBN.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||Hotels, restro-bars told to sell beer stock nearing expiry to liquor vends||The Delhi government has asked restro-bars, hotels and clubs in the city to sell their beer stock expiring on July 31 to liquor shops in the city, senior government officials said on Monday.This is the third time since May that the government has allowed restro-bars, hotels and clubs to clear their stock of beer. While 864 liquor shops in the city are currently operational, around 800-odd restrobars, hotels and clubs, have stayed shut since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was put in place to contain the spread of Covid-19.Hotels, clubs and restaurant licensees are required to prepare an inventory of all beer stock with barcode, which is then to be transferred to licenced vendors, the excise department said in an order issued last week. “Beer has a shorter shelf life and the order was issued to give some relief to the owners of these establishments,” said a senior excise official.Vinod Giri, of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverages, said: “We welcome the decision of the Delhi government to allow bars to sell beer that is getting old. This is what we had recommended to the government in May this year. The hospitality sector is under great stress and this may help recover some investment stuck in stocks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hotels-restro-bars-told-to-sell-beer-stock-nearing-expiry-to-liquor-vends/story-v8wB6aeyd36sIvOZnAwZ2O.html
13-07-2020||City||Jamia violence: Court tells cops to file reply on pleas seeking relief||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Monday gave two days to Delhi Police to file their replies to pleas seeking relief in connection with the violence that had broken out at Jamia Milia Islamia during the anti-CAA protests, after some of the petitioners said they had not received a copy of police response to all the petitions. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan told the counsels for Delhi police, advocate Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair, to file the replies within two days after it was informed by the counsel for some of the petitioners that Delhi Police had filed its response only in a few petitions and not all. The pleas sought registration of FIRs against the erring police officers among other reliefs.“Respondents (Delhi Police) have filed consolidated replies in a few matters. We direct the respondents to file replies in all the matters within two days. Rejoinder, if any, be filed in four days thereafter,” the bench said.The court said copies of counter-affidavits and rejoinders should be supplied to all the parties before the next date of hearing on June 21.Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for some of the petitioners, said police had not filed the reply in three petitions seeking compensation for alleged injuries to students by police and action against the erring officials.The consolidated affidavit of the police was filed in six of the nine petitioners in the Jamia violence matter.Meanwhile, the petitioners filed a list of issues to be adjudicated in the matter. During the hearing, the counsel for one petitioner objected to the police filing the names of the victims and those arrested in sealed covers. She said copies should be given to the petitioners.Opposing a batch of PILs seeking setting up of a judicial commission to look into the violence, police termed the claim of brutality as utter falsehood.The police filed the affidavit in response to various petitions moved by lawyers, students of JMI, residents of Okhla in south Delhi, where the university is located, and the Imam of Jama Masjid opposite Parliament House, seeking medical treatment, compensation and interim protection from arrest for students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jamia-violence-court-tells-cops-to-file-reply-on-pleas-seeking-relief/story-J3JeSHicCfgDTJuhFA1iSI.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||Unidentified man charred to death in fire in portacabin||An unidentified man was charred to death in a portacabin that was to serve as a Mohalla Clinic in central Delhi’s Daryaganj in the early hours of Monday, the police said.Sanjay Bhatia, the deputy commissioner of police (central), said that prima facie, the dead man was a homeless person who was using the cabin to sleep. “Since the body was charred, there is nothing to help us identify him. We are speaking to local residents to help us with the identification,” the DCP said.The portacabin located near Delhi Gate was locked from the outside and never used as the Mohalla Clinic for which it was set up, the DCP said.The fire department said it received a call about the blaze a little after midnight and sent three fire tenders to douse the flames.“While the blaze was doused quickly, we recovered the charred body of a man in the remains. We informed the police about it,” a fire department official said.The DCP said that the window of the portacabin was open, and it was likely that the man used the opening to enter and exit the cabin.The police have registered a case of causing death by negligence and are investigating the incident even as the trigger for the blaze remains unknown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unidentified-man-charred-to-death-in-fire-in-portacabin/story-7QlSZvwPDU3mCQt2lzAxeO.html
13-07-2020||City||Requisite info, maps to be submitted to delimitation panel in July: J&K CEO||Amid strong reservations of Kashmir-based political parties, especially the National Conference, Jammu and Kashmir chief electoral officer (CEO) Hirdesh Kumar Singh on Monday said the information sought by the delimitation commission is being compiled by all the 20 district commissioners and will be sent to the apex authority this month.BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav had said the legislative assembly will be formed in J&K after completion of the delimitation process. Also, J&K lieutenant governor GC Murmu had recently told HT that the assembly polls in the UT can be held after or before delimitation of parliamentary and assembly constituencies.The CEO said, “The commission has not visited J&K as yet but has sought substantial information from us in various formats like maps, statistics, 2011 Census figures, new tehsils, patwars and halqas. The information is being compiled district wise by all the 20 district commissioners and will be sent to the panel this month itself.”“After we send all the requisite information followed by a preliminary exercise, the commission will visit J&K to interact with political parties. It is not clear if the panel will meet people from both the regions. However, whatever is required by the commission will be done,” he said.The Union law ministry has constituted the Delimitation Commission headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai to redraw Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.Election commissioner Sushil Chandra and election commissioner of J&K and the four states are ex-officio members of the commission.All five Lok Sabha MPs from Jammu and Kashmir including Dr Farooq Abdullah, Hasnain Masoodi and Muhammad Akbar Lone from the National Conference and Dr Jitendra Singh and Jugal Kishore from the BJP have been nominated as “associate members” to assist the panel in redrawing parliamentary and assembly constituencies.However, in May, the National Conference had said that its MPs will not participate in the exercise as the party was unwilling to accept the events of August 5 last year.“The delimitation commission is a product of the J&K Reorganization Act 2019, which the party is challenging in and outside the Supreme Court,” the NC had said.Meanwhile, J&K Congress has announced a 10-member committee to deal with the issue. Former minister Peerzada Mohammad Sayeed was named as chairman of the committee and the members included former deputy chief minister Tara Chand, former MP Madan Lal Sharma, former ministers Taj Mohiuddin, RS Chib and MS Niaz, and former legislators Ravinder Sharma and AS Micky.According to Section 60 of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, the number of seats in the legislative assembly of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir will be increased from 107 to 114. Out of these, 24 seats are in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. The constituencies in the erstwhile state were last delimited in 1995 and the state assembly had then unanimously agreed upon putting a freeze on any such exercise till 2026.As per Census 2011, J&K has a population of 12,541,302.The erstwhile state of J&K that comprised Kashmir, Jammu and Ladakh regions had six Lok Sabha seats—one in Ladakh, two in Jammu and three in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/requisite-info-maps-to-be-submitted-to-delimitation-panel-in-july-j-k-ceo/story-xPZL1XGxA7XYeCrgUJIAkI.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Stop private schools from indulging in loot, YAD asks Capt||Youth Akali Dal (YAD) president Parambans Singh Romana on Monday asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to stop private schools from indulging in loot by charging unjustified fee from students.In a statement here, Romana also advised the chief minister not to do doublespeak. “On one hand CM was saying it was unjust to take fee from children who were not attending school and on the other schools being run by his family were charging fee much over what was mandated by the Punjab and Haryana high court,” said YAD president adding the YPS school managements at Mohali and Patiala had charged students bus fee, sports fee, extracurricular charges and even hostel charges.“The YPS management has become a symbol of fee loot and if (CM) he was really concerned about the welfare of students, he should direct the school authorities to return all excess fee charged by them. The Congress government should also deposit the admission and tuition fee of all children whose parents’ income has reduced during the lockdown,” demanded Romana.The YAD chief also pointed out that the Congress government had played a friendly match with the private school managements in court and had allowed them to have their way by putting up a weak defence deliberately. “Now, it is up to the government to take corrective action immediately or be ready for an agitation,” he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stop-private-schools-from-indulging-in-loot-yad-asks-capt/story-Yzb1pA95XCXuQHskKwhJXI.html
13-07-2020||Noida||Noida: 28 people arrested, owners of 1,941 vehicles penalised for violating Covid-19 curbs||Twenty-eight people were arrested and owners of 1,941 vehicles penalised across Noida and Greater Noida on Monday for allegedly violating curbs imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police said. Also, four vehicles were impounded for similar violation during a 24-hour period till Monday night in Gautam Buddh Nagar, which has recorded 3,95 positive cases of Covid-19, the highest for any district in Uttar Pradesh, and 33 deaths so far, according to official figures. Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four persons, is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar, whose urban areas fall in the ‘Red Zone’ for Covid-19. “Altogether 14 FIRs were registered and 28 people arrested for violating the curbs. A total of 4,750 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 1,941 of them, while four were impounded,” the police said in a statement. Altogether, Rs 2,93,700 were collected in fines during the action, the police said. The Noida-Delhi border continues to remain sealed except for essential services and people having passes issued by the district administration, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-28-people-arrested-owners-of-1-941-vehicles-penalised-for-violating-covid-19-curbs/story-2QUk088zJBgnzKIU2cP4fL.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||NGOs, industrialists oppose Punjab govt’s decision to set up industrial park near Mattewara forest||NGOs and a section of industrialists have opposed Punjab government’s decision to set up an industrial park over an area of 1,000 acre near Mattewara forest.While NGOs stated that it will lead to deforestation and pollution, the industrialists rued that the government should first develop existing industrial areas which are in bad shape for a long time. Members of Naroa Punjab Manch, a Faridkot-based NGO, have written to chairman of National Green Tribunal and Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana high court, opposing the state government’s decision.Coordinator of the manch, Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja, said, “Only around 3.65% of the state’s area is under forest. If an industrial park is developed there, it will also add to pollution of the Sutlej river.”Earlier, members of another NGO, Ecosikh, had raised concerns over the same and demanded that the state government should reconsider the decision.A section of industrialists have also opposed the move stating that it will damage the forest area and the government should first upgrade existing industrial areas, which are in poor condition.Rajeev Jain, district president of Laghu Udyog Bharti, an industrial organisation, said, “The existing focal points and industrial areas are in bad shape. But, rather than improving existing infrastructure, the government is creating more industrial parks. The government will not be able to attract new industry until it upgrades existing infrastructure. Both Union and state government should help existing upgrade industry so that it can compete with China.”Managing director of GST Group, Ranjodh Singh, said, “Setting up an industrial park will ruin ecological balance of the habitat. Further, pollution will affect the Sutlej water and air. Mattewara forest is home to many birds and animals such as peacock, antelopes, deer and other old varieties of flora and fauna. The government should reconsider its decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ngos-industrialists-oppose-punjab-govt-s-decision-to-set-up-industrial-park-near-mattewara-forest/story-Q9WVU6yFkgRM3GX04iXqSK.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi singer Anmol Gagan, two others join AAP||Punjabi singer Anmol Gagan Maan and two others joined Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday.Gagan was inducted into the party by AAP’s state unit president Bhagwant Mann at a press conference here in the presence of leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh.Besides her, former Shiromani Akali Dal leader Ajay Singh Libra and former treasurer of Revolutionary Marxist Party of India Lal Chand Kataruchak joined the AAP.Libra is from Fatehgarh Sahib whereas Kataruchak belongs to Bhoa assembly constituency in Pathankot. “The induction of persons with clean image will boost the morale of those waging a battle against Amarinder and Badals. More eminent personalities will join the party in the coming days,” the AAP state president said.A number of other party leaders also attended the press conference where social distancing and face mask norms were not followed by several persons.Mann said the AAP would give priority to the youth of the state in the 2022 assembly elections. “There is no doubt that the party made mistakes in the past, but it has learned from the experience,” he said, accusing the conventional political parties of using the youth for their own interests and to grab power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjabi-singer-anmol-gagan-two-others-join-aap/story-Yrrl0wvVN1TEil6qhWVwzJ.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||BJP leader seeks details of promises fulfilled by Capt govt||Reacting to an article written by Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh in Hindustan Times on Monday, in which he had stated that his government has implemented 75% promises made during the 2017 Punjab assembly elections and was keeping Covid-19 cases under control, former minister and BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia said it would have been better for the CM to specifically mention the promises kept by the Congress.“The claim of maximum investment in health, education, security, law and order, drugs, agriculture, industry, employment and governance lack figures. May I remind you that you had promised to eradicate the menace of drugs within four weeks of coming into power by taking oath with Gutka Sahib in hand? After over three years of Congress rule, while the drug problem is far from solved, illegal distilleries have come up, causing a revenue loss of over ₹5,600 crore,” said Kalia.He added that during the assembly elections, a promise of complete debt waiver was made to farmers, which comes out to ₹90,000 crore, and out of it ₹4,700 crore stands waived till now as claimed by you, which is not even close to 80% fulfilment.The claim of industry-friendly initiatives includes investment proposals of ₹57,735 crore, but how many of them have been realised on the ground has not been mentioned, Kalia pointed out.“After coming to power, you promised to give employment to 5 lakh youths each year. By that count, it comes out to 17.5 lakh jobs to the youth. Your claim of employment to 13.42 lakh youth itself shows that your government has failed to meet the target,” the former minister said.Kalia added that Congress MLAs and MPs were not satisfied with Captain’s governance and have been raising their voice against the government from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-leader-seeks-details-of-promises-fulfilled-by-capt-govt/story-KqeHDjTdgasvVKO8qB9JRJ.html
13-07-2020||Lucknow||UP Vidhan Sabha speaker dismisses pleas to disqualify two Congress MLAs||In a major relief to rebel Congress MLAs Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh, Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit on Monday rejected their party’s pleas to disqualify them. The speaker dismissed the petitions against both the lawmakers saying they “lacked substance”, a Vidhan Sabha spokesperson said.Reacting to speaker’s ruling Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Aradhana Misra said a legal opinion is being taken on the issue.  “The Congress party had filed two petitions before the Assembly speaker under the tenth schedule for disqualification of Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh from the a Assembly. I believe the evidence that we had presented and the rules were overlooked,” Misra said. “We have full confidence that on the basis of the evidence that we presented we will get full justice from the court,” she said. Misra has also filed separate petitions in a Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court. The bench of justices Dinesh Kumar Singh and Pankaj Kumar Jaiswal have listed the matter on July 14 with a direction to serve notices to the MLAs using their email ids and WhatsApp numbers.  The Congress party had earlier petitioned the Speaker seeking disqualification of its Rae Bareli MLA Aditi Singh and Harchandpur MLA Rakesh Singh. Aditi Singh was served a show-cause notice for attending the special session of the Vidhan Sabha on October 2 last year, defying the party’s whip. She had not responded to the notice. She was sent a reminder for her reply but she refrained from responding to it after which the party had filed the disqualification petition. Rakesh Singh and Aditi Singh, Congress MLAs from Harchandpur and Sadar respectively in Rae Bareli, won the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly election on Congress tickets. In the case of Rakesh Singh, the Congress leader in UP Assembly, Aradhana Misra, had alleged that he worked against the party during the 2019 general elections by working for the BJP candidate from Rae Bareli from where Congress president Sonia Gandhi was contesting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-vidhan-sabha-speaker-dismisses-pleas-to-disqualify-two-cong-mlas/story-MjWVbRzmXlc1OK6Oz7GcJP.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Woman held for killing 7-yr-old to beget child through black magic||A case has been registered against a 20-year-old woman for allegedly murdering a seven-year-old boy whose body was found in the bushes close to Shakrullapur village near Kharar on July 10 as part of suspected practice of sorcery or occult.Amandeep Kaur allegedly drowned her neighbour’s son Harpreet Singh in a drum filled with water and disposed of his body in the bushes.Mohali superintendent of police (SP), rural, Ravjot Kaur Grewal, said she grew suspicious after finding no injury marks on Harpreet’s body.“Investigations revealed that the 20-year-old married woman living next to the victim’s house killed him. During interrogation, the woman admitted that she had killed the child as someone had told her to sacrifice a child as she was not having any children and she killed him after drowning him in a drum of water. But the exact cause of murder will be ascertained only after examining his postmortem reports, which are yet to come,” Grewal said.Amandeep was married thrice and gave birth to two daughters who did not survive, Grewal added.She will be produced in court on Tuesday.Harpreet’s father Gurmail Singh had said on July 9 that they started searching for him after he went out to play and didn’t return home after several hours.When Harpreet’s body was found a day after Gurmail had alleged that his son was murdered.Earlier, Kailash Bahdaur, station house officer (SHO), Gharuan police station, had said that Harpreet could have been bitten by something poisonous||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-suspected-of-killing-7-yr-old-boy-to-beget-child-through-black-magic/story-Vt9mJmLm3fjM2OiMBjZAhO.html
13-07-2020||City||Govt implemented lockdown to hide its failures: BJP||PUNE The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has implemented the lockdown so that it can complete the health infrastructure development works in the city which it failed to do during the last three months, said Siddharth Shirole, BJP, Shivajinagar MLA, on Monday.Pune will go into a two-phase, 10-day lockdown from Monday, July 13, midnight, till Thursday, July 23.“The city was limping back to normalcy after a three-month lockdown period. The sudden decision to implement the lockdown has been taken in an attempt to hide the failures of the state government,” said Shirole.The legislators criticised the state government saying that it lacked the vision to prepare a long term plan to combat Covid-19 pandemic and it was unprepared for the worst-case scenario.MP Girish Bapat said that the lockdown decision is unilateral and will lead to chaos.“Why is the administration holding 96 per cent of the citizens to task when only four per cent of the population is Covid-19 positive? he said.“Merely announcing a lockdown is not the solution and won’t curb the Covid-19 positive cases,” said Bapat.“The elected representatives and people should be taken into confidence before going ahead with the lockdown,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-implemented-lockdown-to-hide-its-failures-bjp/story-1BdB59OU36Vi9derNRlvrK.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||30 fresh cases take Himachal’s Covid-19 tally to 1,243||Thirty more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 1,243.Twenty-one cases were reported in Solan, four in Hamirpur, three in Kangra and one each in Mandi and Shimla districts.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a 53-year-old man and his 21-year-old son had tested positive in the district. The patients had travelled to Noida and returned home on July 9. A 32-year-old man, who had returned from Delhi on July 6, tested positive.All three were institutionally quarantined at Alampur and have been shifted to a Covid-care centre in Baijnath.The district’s tally has climbed to 312, of which 261 people have recovered and two have succumbed to the disease. The recovery rate stands at 83.6%.A taxi driver from Jogindernagar sub-division of Mandi district also tested positive. The man had returned from Delhi and was under institutional quarantine.In Solan, 15 workers of a Baddi-based industrial unit have tested positive. Four cases have been reported in Nalagarh area and two in Bilawali.Four cases have been detected in Hamirpur and one in Shimla, details of which are awaited.292 ACTIVE CASES, 927 CUREDSince the outbreak, Himachal has recorded 1,243 cases, of which 927 have been cured while there are 292 active cases. Nine people have succumbed to the contagion while 13 patients have migrated. Till date, 1,01,196 samples have been tested.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 312 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 276 cases. Solan has 208 cases, Una 141, Chamba 61, Shimla 60, Bilaspur 52, Sirmaur 46, Mandi 40, Kinnaur 35, Kullu eight and Lahaul-Spiti district has four cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/30-fresh-cases-take-himachal-s-covid-19-tally-to-1-243/story-XsCFf6GNHMftvz2bMs3uPJ.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana vet varsity honours scientists who worked for Covid-19 testing at govt medical colleges||Vice-chancellor (VC) of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Inderjit Singh, on Monday felicitated 10 scientists of the university who worked for Covid-19 testing in diagnostic laboratories of Government Medical College, Patiala and Amritsar, from April 19 to July 3.The scientists include Rajnish Sharma, Mudit Chandra, JS Arora, Niraj K Singh, Harsh Panwar, Omar Khaleel, Mohan Jairath, Deepali, Jaspreet Kaur and Astha. They were honoured with mementoes and certificates of appreciation.The V-C said GADVASU has been selected by Punjab government for establishing a Covid-19 lab, which is almost complete, and will be functional shortly.Director of research, Dr JPS Gill, said testing is vital for diagnosis of Covid-19. He added that GADVASU was the first one to come forward and support the medical community by offering services in terms of both equipment and scientists. He said the successful containment of the disease demands widespread testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-vet-varsity-honours-scientists-who-worked-for-covid-19-testing-at-govt-medical-colleges/story-SaEPNM7NX1ihu14jU7Rf2O.html
13-07-2020||Lucknow||21 deaths, 1,654 fresh Covid-19 cases in UP; total count 38,130||Twenty-one more people died from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh as the state reported a record daily spike of 1,654 infections, pushing the total number of cases to 38,130, a senior official said Monday. So far, 955 have died from the infection in the state. Click here for Covid-19 coverage“In the past 24 hours, 1,654 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 21 deaths were reported,” Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Awanish Kumar Awasthi told reporters. “The total number of those who died in the state is now 955 and the tally of the infected has risen to 38,130,” he added. On Monday, three deaths each were reported from Lucknow and Allahabad, followed by two each in Varanasi and Etah; and one each in Meerut, Saharanpur, Firozabad, Bareilly, Hardoi, Kannauj, Ballia, Jhansi, Kushinagar, Mahoba and Mirzapur.  The maximum 94 deaths have been reported in Agra followed by 91 in Meerut. The state now has 12,972 active cases as 24,203 patients have been discharged after treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/21-deaths-1-654-fresh-virus-cases-in-up-total-count-38-130/story-oVgXGB5IBHi57gFee8NObM.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Gym manager held for embezzling Rs 14 lakh in Ludhiana||A former manager of Chisel Gym, Pavilion Mall, Ludhiana, has been booked for embezzling Rs 14 lakh. The accused has been identified as Vivek Sharma, 27, a resident of Haibowal Kalan. Police said he collected subscription fees from customers but did not deposit it in the gym’s account.A case has been registered by division number 8 police based on the complaint of Sandeep Bawa, 37, a a partner at the gym.Bawa said he employed Sharma on April 21, 2018. He said the accused had taken an advance of Rs 3 lakh and promised to return it within two months, but did not.He said that in November 2019, they found some of the members of the gym had not paid their subscription fee. When they inquired, the customers said they deposited their fee with Sharma on time.Bawa said they sacked Sharma in November and filed a police complaint. Sharma had agreed to pay back the money by January , but did not keep his word, the complaint stated.ASI Ranveer Singh, investigating officer in the case, said police have registered a case against Sharma under Sections of 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code. The accused is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gym-manager-held-for-embezzling-rs-14-lakh-in-ludhiana/story-au62n7ceAXEwIeByx70U5O.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana DC asks residents to not visit govt offices||In view of the surging cases of Covid-19 in Ludhiana district, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said on Monday that residents are advised not to visit government offices for any work and should instead submit their applications/complaints/memorandums through email, WhatsApp or call.In the orders issued here, Sharma said some government officials tested positive for Covid-19 last week. He said redressal of residents’ problems is necessary, but safety and well-being of government officials cannot be ignored as well in public interest. He added that the number of positive cases is increasing daily and there is need to break the chain.While exercising powers under Epidemic Act 1897 and National Disaster Management Act, 2005, the DC appealed to residents to not visit government offices for any work.He said that any applications/complaints/memorandums related to the DC can be sent to dc.ldh@punjabmail.gov.in or dc.ldh@punjab.gov.in, for ADC (general) to adcldh@gmail.com, for ADC (D) to drdaludhiana@gmail.com; ADC (Jagraon) to adcjagraon@gmail.com, SDM (east) to sdm.east.ludhiana@gmail.com, SDM (west) to sdmldhwest@gmail.com; SDM, Jagraon, to sdmoffjgn@gmail.com, SDM, Khanna, to sdmkhanna2010@yahoo.com, SDM, Payal, to sdmpayal@gmail.com, SDM, Raikot, to raikotsdm@gmail.com, SDM, Samrala, to sdm1samrala@gmail.com, complaint branch to sangatdarshan@gmail.com and regarding MA branch to mabrldh@gmail.com.He said a complaint box has been installed at the main gate of district administrative complex and complaints/applications/memorandums can be sent at WhatsApp number 6284789829 or by calling at phone number 0161-2403100 from 9am to 5pm on any working day.He clarified that complainant can appear in person only in case of emergency.He also directed that hand sanitisers should be kept at entry points of all government offices and officials should be deputed to check whether people visiting are wearing masks, hands are sanitised and their temperature is checked using thermal thermometers.The DC clarified that memorandums will be accepted only through email/WhatAapp. He added that no organisations/person will be allowed to enter offices for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-dc-asks-residents-to-not-visit-govt-offices/story-8B9DRDYR6pZU2URkot05ZP.html
13-07-2020||Noida||90 new cases push Gautam Buddh Nagar’s tally to 3,495||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar district on Monday recorded 90 new patients of Covid-19 which pushed its tally of cases to 3,495, the highest for any district in the state so far, official data showed. The number of active cases, however, came down to 872 from 893 on Sunday as 106 more patients got discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection, according to the data released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department for a 24-hour period.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage So far, 2,590 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals in the district, which has recorded 33 deaths linked to the novel coronavirus, the data showed. The recovery rate of patients rose to 74.10 per cent while the mortality rate in the district stood at 0.94 per cent, according to official statistics. Gautam Buddh Nagar (872) currently has the third highest active cases of Covid-19 in UP after state capital Lucknow (1,460) and adjoining Ghaziabad district (1,248), the data showed. They are followed by Kanpur Nagar (622), Meerut (512), Varanasi (420), Jhansi (383), Aligarh (361), Bareilly (333), Gorakhpur (319), Moradabad (283), Bulandshahr (266), Allahabad (262), Hapur (257), Allahabad (245), Ballia (242), Barabanki (231), Jaunpur (200), it stated. Since Sunday, 1,664 new Covid-19 cases were reported across districts in the state, while 869 patients got discharged from hospitals and 21 deaths were recorded, it showed. As of Monday, there were 12,972 active Covid-19 cases in UP, while 24,203 patients have been discharged from hospitals and 955 deaths recorded so far, it added. There are 3,01,609 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, while a total of 5,53,470 patients have been discharged and 23,174 deaths recorded so far, according to a central government data updated till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/90-new-cases-push-gautam-buddh-nagar-s-tally-to-3-495/story-ApMXKGZAd9CYgT0Gzxbu1J.html
13-07-2020||City||Traders welcome Pak’s decision to allow Afghan export via Attari-Wagah||Traders welcomed Pakistan’s decision of allowing Afghan export through the Attari-Wagah border from July 15.They said the decision comes after international pressure was built up over the neighbouring country’s deliberate attempt of halting Afghan export to India.Pakistan’s ministry of foreign affairs said that at the special request of the government of Afghanistan and with view to facilitating transit trade, Pakistan has decided to resume Afghan exports through Attari-Wagah border from July 15, after implementing Covid-19 protocols.With this, Pakistan has fulfilled its commitments under the Pakistan-Afghanistan Transit Trade Agreement (APTTA), the statement says, adding that Pakistan has restored bilateral trade and Afghan transit trade at all border crossing terminals to pre-Covid-19 status.“We welcome Pakistan’s decision. In May end, three Afghan trucks laden with goods had crossed over to India, but after that no truck had come in,” said Rajdeep Singh Uppal, senior representative of the Confederation of International Chambers of Commerce and Industry.“We had been getting reports that the movement of goods trucks was not being allowed by Pakistan at Afghanistan’s Chaman and Torkham border. India’s trade with Afghanistan through the land border had continued even during the wars of 1971 and 1962. International pressure was built by Afghanistan forcing Pakistan to not cause any hurdles in trade,” said Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association president Anil Mehra.A senior Land Port Authority of India official posted at the integrated check post (ICP) in Attari said, “We got intimation that Pakistan has allowed Afghan export from July 15. Our teams are prepared as India had allowed trade movement on the border since last week of May.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traders-welcome-pak-s-decision-to-allow-afghan-export-via-attari-wagah/story-qQNFTeCnDcCl1p0m04adoM.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four mobile phones recovered from inmates of Ludhiana central jail||Four mobile phones were recovered from six inmates of Ludhiana central jail on Sunday during special checking.Assistant jail superintendent Pardyuman Kumar lodged a complaint stating that the phones have been recovered from Shubham, Pawanjit, Surjit Singh and Anil Kumar.Assistant sub-inspector Karnail Singh, who is investigating the case, said police will bring the accused on production warrant for questioning to know how they managed to get mobile phones inside the prison.A case has been registered under Section 52 A (1) of Prison Act at division number 7 police station.On July 5, a mobile phone was recovered from youth Congress leader Shubham Arora, who was lodged in jail in an attempt to murder case. The police have also booked his accomplice Ankush Arora and assistant superintendent of police Karanvir Singh for helping him procure the phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-mobile-phones-recovered-from-inmates-of-ludhiana-central-jail/story-GYAG49ICdjzYDRNj2AaYuN.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Cong govt trying to cover up Amritsar pvt lab scam: Majithia||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday said private-owned Tuli Diagnostic Centre Laboratory and EMC Hospital in Amritsar were being given protection by the civil and police machinery at the behest of Congress government.The laboratory and hospital are involved in a fake Covid-19 test reports case.In a statement issued here, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said it was fallacious of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for transferring the case back to the district police from the vigilance department because no officer was found involved.“Transfer of the case back to the district police after the vigilance department registered a case for attempt to murder against the owners of Tuli lab and EMC hospital has sent a wrong signal to the civil society,” said Majithia.Telling the CM the issue was one of crime against humanity, Majithia said Tuli lab declared Covid-negative patients as infected, with the sole purpose of extorting lakhs of rupees from them in association with the hospital management.Stating that the state officials were also involved in the racket, the Akali leader said the testing permission had been given to Tuli lab by district officials.Similarly, officials also tried to hush-up the complainants and even harassed and intimidated them, he said, adding that in such a situation, the officials could not hold an inquiry against themselves.Majithia said even Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, who was from the Congress party, had raised the issue in public interest.Asking Capt to take corrective action, Majithia said the suffering caused to innocent victims by the private lab and EMC Hospital were unimaginable, and they should not be let off under any circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-govt-trying-to-cover-up-amritsar-pvt-lab-scam-majithia/story-yiEbKQhGJ1n96TW3yiHhbL.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Kashmir leaders allege govt imposed restrictions to stop Martyr’s Day celebrations||Leaders of mainstream political parties in the Valley have accused the government for imposing restrictions on Martyr’s Day to prevent leaders from going to Mazar-e-Shohda where a function has been held every year since 1948 in memory of those who revolted against the Dogra rule on July 13, 1931.National Conference spokesperson Inam ul Nabi tweeted that the party was not granted permission to hold a function. “The revolution started in 1931 will be never forgotten, undermined, tokenised,” he said. However, NC held a function at its party headquarters at Nawai Subh office where tributes were paid to the martyrs of 1931 revolt. Senior NC leaders were in attendance. Many leaders and common people paid tributes to the martyrs of 1931 on social media. Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari termed the restrictions imposed on the visit of political parties to Mazar-e-Shohda for paying homage to July 13, 1931, martyrs highly regrettable.‘UNJUSTIFIABLE CURBS’Bukhari said that the martyrs’ graveyard in Old Srinagar symbolises the legacy of those bravehearts and sons of the soil who sacrificed their lives to lay the edifice for democracy and natural justice in J&K.“Putting curbs on the visit of political parties to martyrs’ graveyard for paying homage to our heroes who laid down their precious lives against autocracy and oppression is unjustifiable,” he said in a statement.He said July 13, 1931 was a historic day for the people of J&K as the day marks the beginning of a struggle against suppression and inequality. Martyr’s Day will remain relevant for the times to come.While paying glowing tributes to 1931 martyrs, Bukhari cautioned that the suppression of democratic activities under any pretext does not augur well with the constitutional guarantees enjoyed by the citizens in this country. “The lives laid down by the martyrs on July 13 were principally meant to free the society from autocracy and lay edifice for a democratic set up. These sacrifices were not made on any communal lines as is being unfortunately projected by some sections of society. The day assumes significance because our 22 fearless souls showed undaunted courage to uphold the principles of democracy and human dignity and that had nothing to do with any particular dynasty or clan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kashmir-leaders-allege-govt-imposed-restrictions-to-stop-martyr-s-day-celebrations/story-zyEclurfDLGX38SRaNPn3N.html
13-07-2020||City||Bar council suspends license of Patiala bar association president||In a strict order, the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana High Court has suspended the license of advocate JPS Ghuman, who is president of the Patiala Bar Association.The bar council debarred Ghuman from appearing in any court in country and issued a notification regarding this by supplying copies to all courts concerned.The bar council has constituted an ad-hoc five-member committee to run the day-to-day affairs of the Patiala Bar Association and formed a three-member committee to conduct elections.As per norms, the incumbent president is the returning officer for the next elections. And if he wants to contest again for the said post, the vice-president has to be the returning officer.Despite announcing his candidature, Ghuman violated the rules and instead of the vice-president, he appointed another advocate as the returning officer. After this, the bar council took suo moto notice and asked him to appear before a committee constituted to probe the matter.As Ghuman fails to appear and didn’t supply the requisite information, the committee found him guilty of deliberately violating norms and non-cooperation. “Outgoing president Ghuman has behaved in an irresponsible manner which is not expected from an elected president. He has done so because he is again contesting for the post of president in the ensuing elections,” read the orders of Karamjit Singh, chairman of the HC bar council.Meanwhile, Ghuman blamed his rival groups for his suspension. He said that he has done nothing wrong and had not appeared before the committee due to Covid-19 restrictions. “I am in touch with my colleagues and will challenge this undemocratic decision,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bar-council-suspends-license-of-patiala-bar-association-president/story-4L3BF0wIMRszENIoKdjUXP.html
13-07-2020||City||Centre to give 50% subsidy for kinnow storage, transport: Harsimrat||Union minister for food processing industries Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Monday said the central government would provide 50% subsidy on storage and transportation of kinnows to the consumption centres.Interacting with kinnow growers at Badal village in Muktsar, she urged them to take advantage of Operation Greens, a pro-farmer central scheme which was conceptualised to make India self-reliant.She said the scheme would also protect fruit and vegetable growers from distress selling due to lockdown and would reduce post-harvest losses.Former chief minister Parkash Singh and Lok Sabha MP from Ferozepur Sukhbir Singh Badal were also present in the meeting.On the occasion, Harsimrat said Operation Green scheme has been recently extended from TOP (tomato, onion and potato crops) to all notified horticulture crops.The scheme would be valid for a period of six months starting from June 11, she added.The Union minister said apart from individual farmers, food processors, FPO/FPC, co-operative societies, licensed commission agent, exporters, state marketing, co-operative federations and retailers engaged in processing and marketing of fruits and vegetables are also eligible entities under the scheme.She said the ministry would provide 50% of the cost of transportation of eligible crops from surplus production cluster to consumption centres, and hiring of appropriate storage facilities for a maximum period of three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-to-give-50-subsidy-for-kinnow-storage-transport-harsimrat/story-wVkOmaePHPc406cFgaWZYP.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Hookah on terrace, no social distancing, Chandigarh bar owner, 8 others held||The owner of Reef, a bar cum lounge in Sector 7 and eight customers were arrested for not following social distancing norms and, among other things, having hookah on the terrace.Eight others from the city were arrested for violating night curfew orders.A police party that checked the bar found it functioning despite various rules not being followed.Reef owner Ankit Grovar lives in Sector 38. The others arrested included Jagjot Singh Khehra of Sector 45; Arshpartap Singh Randhawa of Sector 36; Rattan Chand and Saurabh Goyal from Panchkula; and Vishesh Gupta, Anmol Garg and Abhinav Chadda from Ambala, police said .Even as Grovar said he had made arrangement to serve customers at the terrace, he was arrested for violating social distancing norms while dining out, added police officials.A case was registered against them under sections 188, 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 26 police station on Sunday.Caught at nightEight others were arrested from various spots in Chandigarh for violating night curfew.Abhey of Bazigar Basti, Banur, was arrested near the Sector 28 market. Jitender Kumar of Sector 28 was nabbed near the Bapu Dham Colony (BDC) light point, Sector 26. Rahul Kumar alias Chamunda of Sector 30 was caught near Khalsa School, Sector 30 and Manoj Kumar of Manimajra was arrested near Sunrise Hotel, Daria Village. Rahul, also of BDC, was spotted near a liquor shop in Vikas Nagar.Bikramjit Singh of Sector-68, Kumbra and Bahadur Singh of Burail, were arrested for being outdoors without face masks near the Sector 45 turn.Nikhil of Sector 56 was arrested near the Sports Complex in the sector.All of them were later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hookah-on-terrace-no-social-distancing-chandigarh-bar-owner-8-others-held/story-m4apfQrU9mDhJEqz0AiH9N.html
13-07-2020||City||3 Mohali girls score 97% in CBSE Class 12 exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) declared the results of All India Senior School Certificate Exam (AISSCE) Class 12, on Monday.Sehajpreet Kaur of Guru Nanak Foundation Public School, Sector 92 and Pragati Sharma of Lawrence Public Senior Secondary School Sector 51, scored 97% in humanities in Class 12 examinations. While Harpreet Kaur Gill of Doon International School, Sector 69, scored 97% in the medical stream and Khush Harman Singh Sekhon of the same school topped the district in the non-medical stream with 96.4%.Sehajpreet aspires to pursue a degree in fashion designing and has already cleared the entrance examination of the National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT). Sharing her exam preparation strategy, Sehajpreet said, “It’s important to prepare one step at a time and revise the syllabus three to four times to perform well.”Harpreet Kaur Gill who aspires to become a cardiologist said, “It was important to study from extra textbooks but revising the NCERT books was the most important.”Sekhon aims to pursue software engineering and wants to move abroad for further studies. Mohali has two toppers for the commerce stream – Gurleen Kaur of International Public School, Kurali and Harsimranjit Kaur Kaler of APJ Smart School, Kharar – each scoring at 96.2%. While Harsimranjit’s schoolmate Ramanpreet Kaur scored 96% in commerce.Hardik Singhal of Dikshant International School, Zirakpur scored 95.4% in the non-medical stream.In Humanities, Muskaan of Dikshant International School, Zirakpur came second with 96.2%. In the medical stream, Manmeet Kaur of DAV School, Mohali scored 96.8%.Students with disabilities shine brightTwo specially-abled students of Dikshant International School, Zirakpur, Jaya Narang with locomotor disability (dystonia with cerebellar symptom) was the school topper in English with an average aggregate of 88%, while Riya Nagpal who has intellectual learning disability scored 79.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-class-12-result-doon-international-school-student-tops-mohali-with-97-in-medical-stream/story-R75u0ecKo2DWCsZHF3T68H.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||Consumers protests over inflated bills||Consumers protested against inflated bills in various parts of the state on Monday. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, protests were held in Bhiwandi, Bhandup and Palghar. Pratap Hogade, a power activist said that those consuming less than 300 units must be exempted from paying bills of the last 3 months. Consumers across the state have complained of receiving high bills in June 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/consumers-protests-over-inflated-bills/story-uSt7A3efp3tp6maSpqQ1jJ.html
13-07-2020||City||Rollback decision to reopen Himachal borders: Cong to state govt||The Himachal Pradesh Congress on Monday staged a protest against the state government’s decision to reopen borders during Unlock 2.0, outside the secretariat here.The party demanded a rollback of the state government’s decision.Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Rathore said the borders should not be reopened until the government develops a basic framework of testing people for Covid-19 at the state’s borders. Rathore said the party is not against reviving tourism and other sectors but there is a need to remain vigilant at present. “Even hoteliers and other businessmen are not in favour of this decision and the state government should reconsider it,” he said.He said the Congress will not let the state government turn Himachal into a Covid-19 destination. “There was a time when Himachal did not had a single coronavirus case but now the number of infections has reached around 1,150 and nine people have lost their lives. It is because people coming from other states were not tested properly,” Rathore said.The Congress also submitted a memorandum to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur through Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap. In the memorandum, the Congress demanded that the state government should take back the proposal of hiking bus fare by 25%, abolish anti-employee and anti-pension decisions, reel back Dearness Allowance (DA) of all employees, reduce diesel and petrol prices, include Above Poverty Line (APL) families who were struck off from ration subsidy, increase provident fund of employees which was earlier reduced and provide financial relief to youth who have been unemployed for the last four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rollback-decision-to-reopen-himachal-borders-cong-to-state-govt/story-TOGcOGCedsONY1tCcRFN6L.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||5 from Dera Bassi recover, then test positive again for Covid-19||Five persons from Dera Bassi subdivision have been retested and found Covid-19 positive after recovering and being released from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur 15 days back.The five persons were again tested positive in various hospitals in June, readmitted to Gian Sagar and then discharged later. According to the revised discharge policy , patients discharged from hospital were not retested and allowed to go home after 10 days if they were asymptomatic.That could be the reason why perhaps most of them might not have recovered completely or could still be carrying remnants of the virus, experts said.“I was discharged on June 20 from Gian Sagar Hospital and they did not do a retest, but when I applied for a fitness report on July 6 from the Lalru Civil Hospital, my samples tested positive,” said a patient from Dappar in Dera Bassi who did not wish to be named.Another person from Shivam Complex in Dera Bassi said he was discharged from Gian Sagar on June 21 and moved to Meritorious School in Sector 70 for institutional quarantine. “Doctors took a sample as a routine precaution and I tested positive on June 23,” he said.Reacting to the development, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said he would be asking the district civil surgeon for a report. However, Dayalan added: “One case I remember is that a person was discharged and again came in contact with a positive person and tested positive. As per revised policy, there is no retesting as most of the patients are asymptomatic.” Dera Bassi subdivision in Mohali district, meanwhile, is struggling to shed the tag of a coronavirus hotspot, as it accounts for more than half of the Covid-19 cases reported so far. The first case was reported on April 4 in Jawaharpur village and since then the flow of patients has not stopped.Of the 423 cases reported in the district, the highest, 31, was recorded on Monday. In the last three months, 170 cases have been recorded in Dera Bassi .Dera Bassi subdivision comprises of Dera Bassi town, Zirakpur and Lalru with a population of around four lakh. All the towns are located on Delhi-Chandigarh highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-from-dera-bassi-recover-then-test-positive-again-for-covid-19/story-b64r8XvsmUygzvE9tfw4LP.html
13-07-2020||City||Jai Ram dedicates developmental projects worth ₹76.25 crore for Shimla’s Jubbal area||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth ₹76.25 crore in Jubbal area of Shimla district through video conferencing.The projects dedicated by the CM include ₹4.14 crore Dhansar village link road constructed under PMGSY which had provided facility to about 352 people, upgradation and metalling of Ghayan- Sojala link road completed with a cost of ₹3.85 crore to facilitate about 450 persons, ₹54.46 lakh Malog-Pansari link road which will benefit 210 persons, ₹61.11 lakh Badal-Banana-Katarala-Naliban link road which will facilitate about 221 people and ₹30.78 lakh Mural-Veergarh link road. The CM also inaugurated the drinking water supply scheme for Shilli gram panchayat, which was constructed at a cost of ₹79.09 lakh and ₹40.78 lakh water supply scheme for partially covered habitations of Mandal gram panchayat. He also inaugurated sub-division office and store of public works department at Saraswati Nagar (Hatkoti) constructed at a cost of ₹39 lakh. Thakur laid foundation stones of 66 KV sub-station at Hatkoti to be constructed at cost of ₹39.58 crore to facilitate about one lakh people, auditorium of Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Degree College Saraswati Nagar to be built at a cost of ₹8.37 crore and building of veterinary hospital Nakarari to be constructed at a cost of ₹30 lakh.He also performed foundation stone laying ceremonies of ₹1.07 crore Kharshal-Shiloli via Dhansar link road, construction of sub-division office, Jubbal, and residences of PWD officials, ₹73.42 lakh Sarali-Kapari-Sanoli link road to facilitate about 260 people, ₹45.40 lakh Salana village link road to provide road connectivity to about 253 people, ₹38.63 lakh Jakhaila-Dogari-Madek link road to facilitate about 302 persons, ₹38.63 lakh Chhikali village link road and ₹34.23 Shili-Raushal link road.Thakur laid foundation stones of ₹6.43 crore lift and flow drinking water supply scheme at Ravi, Thana, Pandranu, Jhalta, Giltadi and Anti gram panchayats under Jal Jivan Mission, ₹2.77 crore lift and flow drinking water supply scheme at Kathasu, Mandol, Kot-Kaena, Sari, Baral and Dhar panchayats, ₹1.74 crore lift and flow drinking water supply scheme at Jharag, Nakarari, Jhalta and Ravi gram panchayats, ₹1.23 crore lift and flow drinking water supply scheme at Shili, Parali, Jai Pidi Mata and Sheel panchayats and augmentation of drinking water supply scheme for Jubbal town and Nagar panchayat to be done at a cost of ₹37 lakh.Thakur said construction work at a cost of ₹49 crore was in progress in Jubbal-Kotkhai area on 14 roads under the NABARD, two roads are being completed under Central Road Fund at a cost of ₹20 crore and ₹68 crore were being spent on construction of sixteen roads under PMGSY, ₹25 crore was being spent on construction of 42 buildings of various departments. Similarly, ₹7 crore on annual maintenance of 51 roads in the area, he added.The CM said an amount of ₹13.81 crore was being spent on various water supply and irrigation schemes during the current financial year in the area and ₹10.51 crore to strengthen horticulture activities. He said ₹7.95 crore have been provided to about 881 horticulturists of the area for providing anti-hail nets and ₹3 crore to farmers for purchase of tools, power sprayers, power tillers and for construction of water storage tanks in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-dedicates-developmental-projects-worth-76-25-crore-for-shimla-s-jubbal-area/story-bYRidXl2wwVyuM2p85qg2H.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||More people recovering daily from Covid-19 in Delhi than contracting it||The first 12 days of July have largely reported more cases of people recovering daily from the coronavirus than the fresh ones added to Delhi’s Covid-19 count, according to the Delhi government data.From July 1-12, the city recorded 25,134 cases, while 31,640 people recovered. Barring July 1 and July 6, all days this month recorded more recoveries than fresh cases.The recoveries from July 1-12 too have been sharp – six days saw recoveries in the range of 2,000, three days in the range of 3,000 while one day (July 9) saw over 4,000 recoveries.Overall, 89,968 recoveries took place till July 12, while the total number of cases stands at 1,12,494.On July 1, a total of 1,644 patients recovered, while the next day, the number of recoveries was nearly double at 3,015.July 3 saw a slight decline in the recoveries recorded within 24 hours at 2,617 and the next day the number of recoveries stood at 2,632.On July 6, when the total number of cases crossed the one-lakh mark, the city recorded recoveries at 749, but the number spiked to 2,129 the next day.The recovery rate of Delhi stands at nearly 80 per cent, much higher than the national average.In June, the coronavirus recovery rate had gradually started increasing and was over 66 per cent by the end of the month.Last month, the national capital added over 64,000 fresh cases to its tally, while over 47,357 patients recovered, were discharged or migrated.Delhi’s recovery rate breached the 50-per cent mark on June 20, after hovering below it for almost a month. On June 19, Delhi’s recovery rate was 44.37 per cent while it climbed to 55.14 per cent the next day.Since then, the recovery rate has been on an upward spiral even on days when the case tally breached the 3,000-mark. One June 23, when Delhi reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases, the recovery rate was 59.02 per cent.Amid a surge in the cases, the national capital has ramped up testing and is conducting nearly 20,000 tests every day and has completed a serological survey to assess the spread of infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/more-people-recovering-daily-from-covid-19-in-delhi-than-contracting-it/story-Q3FuA4oN2w6kYV2ZAmRk6L.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab bars public gatherings, violators to be booked; weddings limited to 30 people||Chandigarh: Stepping up its fight against Covid-19, the Punjab government has put a complete bar on all public gatherings, while restricting social gatherings to five and marriages/other social functions to 30 instead of the present 50.These are part of the revised guidelines issued today in line with the announcement made on Sunday by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.Mandatory first information reports (FIRs) shall be filed against those found violating the curb on public gatherings, which now stand strictly disallowed. A detailed notification issued by the government says joint teams of police and civil administration shall strictly enforce the restrictions on social gatherings (restricted to five under Section 144 of the CrPC imposed in all districts) and weddings and social functions. The management of marriage palaces/hotels shall be held responsible and shall face suspension of licence in case of violation of norms. Further, the management of marriage palaces/hotels/other commercial spaces will have to certify that adequate arrangements for ventilation of indoor spaces have been made.The state government has also partnered with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Chennai, experts to intensify surveillance, using technology to identify super-spreader gatherings in the past that have resulted in spread, to guide future action.Wearing of masks has been made compulsory in work places/offices/closed places, as per the new guidelines, with also directs strict enforcement of the health department advisory on air conditioning and ventilation/air circulation. Public dealing in offices may be curtailed to cater to need-based and urgent issues, according to the guidelines, which provide that the online public grievance redressal system recently approved by the cabinet should be extensively used.There shall be no physical presentation of demand charters by associations, serving of tea, has to be avoided, as are physical meetings of more than five persons, at the workplace, as per the revised management and containment strategy.To ensure optimum utilisation of health infrastructure, asymptomatic/mildly symptomatic persons with no co-morbidities/vulnerabilities will have to be in Covid care centres/home isolation where applicable. Beds in levels 2 and 3 facilities will not be used to cater to such patients. Further, a person in a level 2 or 3 facility who no longer needs this facility must be referred by way of reverse referral to a lower level treatment facility.The state government has also clarified that the memorandum of understanding (MoU) with private healthcare facilities does not mean blocking of beds for patients referred by the government at a later stage, it only provides the charges payable by the government to its referred patients.DCs/CPs/SSPs have been mandated to ensure that all hospitals that can undertake care of Covid positive patients have supplied information on their beds availability and are not denying treatment to positive patients.Cognisant of the risk of water-borne diseases during the monsoon, the state government has also decided on a sanitation drive, to be undertaken by both urban local bodies and panchayati raj institutions on campaign basis, for the prevention of dengue/vector-borne diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-bars-public-gatherings-violators-to-be-booked-weddings-limited-to-30-people/story-XyhJMziyiTuALtZOAZlZOJ.html
13-07-2020||City||Himachal panchayats to go to polls in Nov-Dec: Minister||The elections for Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) are likely be held in November-December as per fresh guidelines issued by the Election Commission in wake of Covid-19 pandemic, panchayati raj and rural development minister Virender Kanwar said on Sunday.While interacting with media on sidelines of a district-level review meeting in Bilaspur, Kanwar said the 2011 reservation roaster will be implemented in the elections. “The polls will be held in 3,226 panchayats in a phased-manner and the government will provide face covers, sanitisers, gloves at polling stations as per the Elections Commission guidelines to prevent the spread of virus,” he said.“The Election Commission had asked the government if the panchayats elections are feasible in the state. We have assured them that the state government is fully geared to conduct the polls,” he added.Kanwar said assembly elections are being held in some states and there is no point in withholding the panchayat polls.The minister said the seats will be reserved for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes on the bases of population. “Reservation will not be applicable in the panchayats where the SC, ST population is less than 5%. However, 50% seats will be reserved for women candidates and 15% for Other Backward Classes (OBC) candidates,” he said.Kanwar said deputy commissioners have been entrusted the task to finalise the reservation roaster in their respective districts on the basis of 2011 census. The seats reserved for women in the previous elections will be opened for general and other category candidates.He said given the situation due to Covid-19, the state government has cancelled the delimitation and formation of new panchayats. The five-year term of panchayats is ending in December this year. As per the rules, the polls to constitute new panchayats must be held before the term ends. The panchayat elections in the state were last held in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-panchayats-to-go-to-polls-in-nov-dec-minister/story-tvy5ogJg5BFkV5NeRetnDN.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||Let’s show some TLC for baby birds: Dos and Dont’s of bird rescue||Delhi is a haven for bird lovers as it is home to over 300 species of birds. And this is the time of the year when baby birds start to hatch. As is the law of the jungle, they are faced with hardships, the most common one being dislocation from their nests. Due to reasons that may range from storms or people sweeping away their nests in a bid to clean their houses, these baby birds find themselves in a state of shock, injury and hunger. Musician Manta Sidhu, who runs Angel Eyes Bird Rescue, released a video on her social media elaborating on how to save abandoned baby birds. “Our natural tendency to pick up a baby bird and bring it home is unnecessary in most cases. Immediate priority should be finding the nest, putting the babies back and reuniting them with their families,” she says in the video. Caution should be exercised when handling a fallen bird as there are chances the baby bird might be injured. “Put a towel over it so that it cannot see you. If a baby bird can’t see you, it won’t try to attack, nor would it try to flee, ensuring its safety. Put it in a cardboard box and make small holes in it. Try and locate its nest, but in case you can’t find it, contact a rescue centre,” says Muhammad Saud of Wildlife Rescue.Baby birds can be classified into two stages of development, and depending on their physical characteristics, they are called nestlings and fledglings. Nestlings are too young to leave their nests, have no or few feathers and have not yet learnt to hop, perch or walk, whereas, fledglings have grown all their feathers and are now learning to fly. “If you have found a nestling, remember that its nest will be directly above the area where it was found since it cannot fly or walk. If it is a fledgling, you must observe it from a distance for an hour or two hours; in most cases, the parent birds can be seen hanging around the baby. If after observation, the baby bird is still found on the ground, identify the species and the parents, and follow their movements to locate the nest. If the nest is too high to reach, place the baby at an accessible height that is as close to the nest as possible,” advises Sidhu.Birds of prey, as well as elements like traffic, pose a threat to the survival of these fallen baby birds. Then there are people who try and sell them, looking to make a quick buck. The recovery rate among fallen birds, then, depends on their age and nature of injury. “They weigh more when they are young and their feathers aren’t developed either. They fall with a thud, leading to fractures and internal injuries. If they are slightly older, their feathers help them glide as they fall, cushioning the impact. It is best to contact experts or bring them to a centre for proper medical care,” says Saud.“Rescued baby birds must not be force fed any food or water without consultation with an expert,” seconds Sidhu. With a little bit of patience, baby birds can be rescued and given a new lease of life. Every act of kindness goes a long way. How you can help:1. Learn about bird species so that identification becomes easier.2. Make provisions for nesting in your house. It could be safe corner or a hole in the wall, away from the prying eyes of crows and cats.3. Keep water in bowls on your terrace or balconies. 4. Grow vines and climbers at your house if possible. They help provide necessary shade and shelter.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/let-s-show-some-tlc-for-baby-birds-dos-and-dont-s-of-bird-rescue/story-Sf5gfSZb4AITZsb7uvtrJJ.html
13-07-2020||City||HP govt approves 15 industrial project proposals worth ₹450 crore||The Himachal Pradesh government on Monday approved 15 project proposals for setting up new industrial enterprises and expansion of existing units involving a total proposed investment of approximately ₹450.97 crore and employment potential for about 1,285 people. While presiding over the 13th meeting of the State Single Window Clearance and Monitoring Authority (SSWCMA), chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said Himachal continues to attract investment despite overall slowdown in the economy.New proposals approved by the authority include M/s Shoora Tractors India Limited, Bumbloo village, sub-tehsil gagret, Una district for manufacturing of CI Casting of Tractor Parts, SG iron casting of tractor parts, M/s National Enterprises, Dhela village in Solan for manufacturing of autoclave, clean room, electrical panel, medical equipments, fabrication/job work etc. M/s Auraya Healthcare Unit-II, Plot No. 39, EPIP Phase-I Jharmajri in Solan for manufacturing of water for injection, liquid viral and liquid ampoule, M/s Biotrendz Medicament Pvt. Ltd. IA, Jharmajri, Plot No. 62, EPIP Phase-1, Baddi for manufacturing of dry injection, tablet, capsule, dry syrup, soft gel capsules, M/s RRD Oils and Fats Private Limited, Gondpur Jaichand village in Una for manufacturing of refined edible oil and M/s Prosperity Drugs Private Limited in Belikhol village, Solan, for setting up of industrial unit for manufacturing of bulk drugs, formulations, gluco strips, plastic moulding.Expansion proposals approved by the authority include M/s Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited in Ganguwala village, Sirmaur, for manufacturing of Esomeptazole, M/s Super Hoze Industries Private Limited in Dhela village, Solan, for manufacturing of Hyd Hoses and Hose Assemblies, M/s Kundlas Loh Udyog, Balyana Buranwala village, Solan, for manufacturing of Angle Channels TMT Bars, M/s Amer Sil Ketex Private Limited Unit-II, IA, Gagret, Phase-II, Plot No. 30, 31 and 61, Una, for manufacturing of technical textiles for industrial use, M/s Vimal Industries Regd, Johron village, Kala Amb, Sirmaur, for manufacturing of non woven spun bond fabric, face mask, disposable shoe cover, PPE kits etc, M/s Ideal Pet Industries, Moginand village, Kala Amb, Sirmaur, for manufacturing of pet bottles, corrugated boxes, M/s Morepen Laboratories Limited, Malkumajra village, Baddi, for manufacturing of bulk drugs, formulations, gluco strips, plastic moulding, M/s RK Laboratories Private Ltd. VPO Manpura, Baddi, for manufacturing of LVP bottles, SVP Ampoles and M/s DS Engineers in Dasomajra, Baddi, for manufacturing of tractor and auto parts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-approves-15-industrial-project-proposals-worth-450-crore/story-tp5wb3KlCnpnia1t62ZPhJ.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Strict weekend curbs likely as Mohali logs highest Covid-19 spike in 2 days with 31 cases||The district administration was deliberating over strict weekend restrictions as Mohali recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases for the second day running with 31 testing positive on Monday following 26 cases on Sunday. This takes the district’s count to 423.Of the 31 patients, 14 were women and two were minor boys. Concerned over the increasing Covid-19 cases, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Monday directed the entire safety protocol enforcement team, including municipal corporation and municipal council officials and subdivisional magistrates to activate teams for stricter enforcing of social distancing and wearing of masks in critical crowding locations such as market areas, malls, restaurants/eateries, public offices and banks immediately.With the increased transportation/commuting relaxations in the ongoing unlock phase, a disease surge was expected because of which safety measures had to be implemented.Denying that authorities had been lax in imposing rules, Dayalan said, “the cases that have surfaced are not due to people coming on their own to flu centres/hospitals for checking. Rather, the administration is going for extensive sampling of target groups( contacts of active cases, travel history) which has led to surfacing of positive cases.”Those testing positive on Monday included five persons from Kharar, including a man, 82, a woman, 33, and a boy, 11, a 70-year-old man from Dashmesh Nagar and a 51-year-old man from Sunny Enclave.Others included a woman, 60, and a boy, 4, from Sector 116; a woman, 80, and a man, 59, from phase- 4; a woman, 22, from Kumbra; two women, 67 and 35,from Sector 97; a man, 40, from Balongi, three women, 55, 25 and 20, from Lalru; a woman, 50, from Sector 88; a man, 45, from Phase-3 B2 and another man, 64, from Phase-6.Six people, including three teenagers: two males, 16, and a female, 17, were among those infected in Peermuchalla in Zirakpur, where a woman, 36, and three men, 20 and 35, also tested positive. Five men, including two 19-year-olds and others aged 45, 50 and 53, were from Avinash Colony in Dera Bassi.Most of the patients were contacts of other Covid-19 cases and had travel history, said Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali. “Most of the patients are asymptomatic and are responding well to the treatment.”All the patients had been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, he added.Of the 423 cases, 271 have recovered, 145 are active and seven persons have died.Dayalan also confirmed that Behda in Dera Bassi had been declared a containment zone as it had over 15 cases. The Majat village charcoal factory and Peermuchalla were now micro containment zones (with more than five but less than 15 cases). Sector 66 Mohali had been declared a cluster (with more than two but less than 15 cases).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/highest-covid-19-spike-in-mohali-in-two-days-with-31-cases/story-5tImgyQlq6WVkKGnVJ08qO.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||Bail for 85 Kyrgystan nationals chargesheeted in Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat case||A Delhi court Monday granted bail to 85 Kyrgyzstan nationals who were chargesheeted for attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation here allegedly in violation of visa norms, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur granted the relief on furnishing personal bond of Rs 10,000 each.Till date, 532 foreigners from 34 countries, who were chargesheeted in the case, have been granted bail by the court.The police had in June filed 59 charge sheets, including supplementaries, against 956 foreigners belonging to 36 different countries in the case.The accused who were granted bail Monday will file their plea bargaining applications on Tuesday, said advocates Ashima Mandla, Mandakini Singh and Fahim Khan, appearing for them.  Under plea bargaining, the accused pled guilty to the offence, praying for a lesser punishment. The Criminal Procedure of Code allows for plea bargaining in cases where the maximum punishment is 7-year imprisonment; offences don’t affect the socio-economic conditions of the society and the offence is not committed against a woman or a child below 14 years.During the hearing, all the foreigners were produced before the court through video conferencing.The investigating officer had earlier told the court that the investigation was completed against the 956 foreigners in the case and each has been allegedly found to have independently committed the offence for which he/ she has been chargesheeted.Further investigations are pending, the IO said.These foreigners had attended the event in March, following which in April Covid-19 cases across the country spiked after hundreds of Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz event, tested positive.According to the charge sheets, all the foreigners have been booked for violation of visa rules, guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure.They have also been for the offences under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act.The punishment for these offences ranges from six months to eight years of imprisonment.The Centre has cancelled their visas and blacklisted them. The foreigners have not been arrested yet and are residing at various places approved by the Delhi High Court.At least 9,000 people, including the foreign nationals participated in the religious Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz. Later, many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country.An FIR was registered against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and six others on March 31 on a complaint of the Station House Officer of Nizamuddin under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act (2005), Foreigners Act and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code.Kandhalvi was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to Covid-19, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/court-grants-bail-to-85-kyrgystan-nationals-chargesheeted-in-delhi-s-tablighi-jamaat-case/story-PmpnSyl9XZoP5ibeP8P6CK.html
13-07-2020||Pune||Man booked for selling fake lockdown e-pass in Pune||A 27-year-old man was arrested for cheating by posting on social media about having access to e-passes for travel in and around Pune city for a price.The arrested was identified as Mahesh Waghmare,27, a resident of Magarpatta, Hadapsar.“He is in police custody for two days. We will check if he has taken money from anyone else before this. This is the first case against him,” said sub-inspector ShivajiJadhav of Hadapsar police station who is investigating the case.“Cab services are available for within Pune and out of Pune with an e-pass. We also provide an e-pass service” was the post made on social media by Waghmare, according to the police.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sharad Dedage of special branch, Pune police, contacted the number mentioned on the post and pretended to be interested in a ride from Pune to Nashik.Waghmare asked the complainant to send him a photo of his Aadhaar card. Upon sending a picture of the Aadhaar card, the accused sent a picture of a medical certificate made in the name of the complainant.The man charged him Rs 1,500 and produced a forged medical certificate in the name of Dedage with credentials of Lonikalbhor public health centre medical officer. Upon completion of the process, the man told the complainant that Rs 1,000 will be charged.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code were registered at Hadapsar police station.HOW TO GET A DIGITAL PASS-The police pass for travel can be applied for on punepolice.in-For medical emergencies, medical certificates should be provided in the application-There is no charge for this process and is only available on the given platform-The police have urged citizens to report any person promising e-pass through any other means”Regarding the upcoming lockdown, digital passes will be given through the web portal www.punepolice.in as per the guidelines in lockdown order by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Subject to the order, e-passes given earlier to e-commerce / IT / industries will be renewed automatically,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune who is heading the e-pass initiative in a press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-booked-for-selling-fake-lockdown-e-pass-in-pune/story-EOKV0GQHsePZxAu9G4jXCO.html
13-07-2020||Pune||People rush to vegetable markets ahead of 10-day lockdown in Pune||A large number of people made their way to vegetable markets in Pune on Monday, ahead of the 10 day-lockdown which will come into effect from midnight today.Residents of the city complained that the prices of essential items had gone up, and requested the government to look into the matter.“The prices of essentials have increased, and the government should look into it,” said a local. “I came here as essentials are expensive where I stay. After coming here, I got to know that things are even more expensive here at this market. There is a lot of rush; the public isn’t thinking about it ... people should stay at home in order to stay safe,” said Archana.Those present at the market could be seen violating the social distancing norms.“The fear of coronavirus has gone from here; people are not wearing masks, not maintaining social distancing or using sanitisers. Even the vendors are not using masks or sanitisers,” said Sagar.A 10-day complete lockdown was announced for Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and some parts of rural Pune from Monday in two phases due to rising number of Covid-19 cases, Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said on Friday.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is 2,54,427, including 1,03,813 active cases. While 1,40,325 patients have been cured/discharged/migrated, the death toll stands at 10,289.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/people-rush-to-vegetable-markets-ahead-of-10-day-lockdown-in-pune/story-nSJTsqhNEy1wO8TgRaGqZI.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||59, including 14 excise department employees, test positive in Patiala||In a major spike, as many as 59 people, including 14 excise department employees, and a naib tehsil with the revenue department have tested positive for the coronavirus disease in Patiala on Monday, taking the Covid-19 count to 634.Of total the total cases, 35 are from Patiala city, five each from Nabha and Rajpura, three from Patran, two from Samana and nine from different villages across the district. After a naib tehsildar stationed at the Patiala mini-secretariat where the offices of senior officials, including a deputy commissioner are situated, was found infected, the health department carried out an extensive sanitation drive. Work and public dealings remained suspended at the mini-secretariat. Even the Suvidha Centre remained closed for two days. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said 35 patients are direct contacts of Covid-19 patients, seven are inter-state travellers and 17 are new cases.“The increase in number of cases in Patiala city is due to local transmission as most people found positive are those residing in containment and micro-containment zones,” he said. Meanwhile, the health department has initiated a door-to-door survey in containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/59-including-14-excise-department-employees-test-positive-in-patiala/story-XyTQTHICSAKL99N6lHdk8O.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM rules out quota in private jobs for state youths||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday ruled out quota for the state’s youth in private sector jobs, saying Haryana’s decision to give reservations to local candidates in such jobs will not stand judicial scrutiny.The chief minister was responding to questions by several youngsters during a ‘AskCaptain’ Facebook Live session. The Haryana cabinet on July 6 had approved a proposal paving way for an ordinance to give 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs to the youth of the state. The Constitution and the law bars any such discrimination in the matter of private jobs, Singh said when asked why his government could not follow the Haryana model of reservation in private sector jobs. The chief minister pointed out that Punjabis were employed all over the country, with no restrictions by any state. “We cannot stop youths from other states taking up jobs in Punjab,” he said.Singh added that he did not believe Haryana’s decision could be upheld in the courts.To a question on the encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey in Uttar Pradesh, the chief minister said he could not comment on the issue but the Congress was right in demanding an inquiry. The truth needs to be revealed, Singh was quoted as saying in an official release. To a concern expressed by a Amritsar resident on the tender for supply of ‘desi ghee’ to the Golden Temple by a Pune-based company instead of Milkfed, Singh said he was not in favour of this as dairy was the “second crop” for Punjab and had to be supported. Commenting that no ‘ghee’ is better than Punjab ghee, he hoped the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) would reconsider its decision. The SGPC, an apex gurdwara body, had allotted a tender worth Rs 60 crore for the supply of ‘desi ghee’ and skimmed milk for making ‘Karah Parshad’ and ‘langar’ to a Pune-based firm. Earlier, the religious body was purchasing these items from Punjab Milkfed (Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers Federation Limited).            To a question on the slow pace of land mutations, he said he had directed the chief secretary to conduct a special drive to accelerate the process and clear pending mutations at the earliest.           On a point raised by a Khanna resident regarding the Punjab School Education Board certificate not recognised for international studies in some countries like Australia, the chief minister said he will take up the issue with the Australian government and urge it to give due recognition to PSEB school degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-rules-out-quota-in-private-jobs-for-state-youths/story-xdKUlGaZ3Ih4UeOtm8gdbN.html
13-07-2020||Lucknow||242 more coronavirus cases recorded in Uttar Pradesh||242 more coronavirus cases have been reported from Uttar Pradesh on Monday.Among the 4,160 samples, 242 were detected Covid-19 positive at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) including 109 from Lucknow, 49 from Moradabad, 46 from Hardoi, 20 from Sambhal and 11 from Shahjahanpur.With the highest single-day spike of 28,701 cases, India’s total number of Covid-19 cases has reached 8,78,254, informed the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry on Monday.The country’s death toll now stands at 23,174 with 500 more deaths in the last 24 hours.Out of the total number of cases, as many as 3,01,609 are currently active. Over 5,53,471 people have been cured/discharged or have migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/242-more-coronavirus-cases-recorded-in-uttar-pradesh/story-rEnKuilaWbR6UqFcm4qFdO.html
13-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan registers over 500 Covid-19 deaths; 24,487 cases||Ninety-five new Covid-19 cases were reported in Rajasthan on Monday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 24,487, said the state health department.“95 new Covid-19 cases reported in Rajasthan today, as of 10.30 am. The total number of cases in the state is now at 24,487,” said the state health department in a bulletin. Out of the total cases, 5,735 are active cases. Four new deaths were reported due to Covid-19, taking the death toll in the state to 514.With 135 patients recovering from the disease, the number of those who have recovered now stands at 18,238.A total of 10,54,080 samples have been tested so far of which 10,24,895 samples have tested negative and results of 4,298 samples are awaited.With the highest single-day spike of 28,701 cases, India’s total number of Covid-19 cases has reached 8,78,254, informed the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry on Monday.The country’s death toll now stands at 23,174 with 500 more deaths in the last 24 hours.Out of the total number of cases, as many as 3,01,609 are currently active. Over 5,53,471 people have been cured/discharged or have migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-registers-over-500-covid-19-deaths-24-487-cases/story-lJRXTw1k59XkhGYOo8xgcM.html
13-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka plans to operate 800 buses from Bengaluru ahead of Covid-19 lockdown||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has planned to operate 800 buses from Bengaluru to other places in the state on Monday and Tuesday ahead of the seven-day lockdown.The state government decided to impose the lockdown between July 14 and July 22 after a sudden spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). KSRTC issued a priority notice, saying 249 buses were already operating from Bengaluru from 10am on Monday and that 6,641 passengers had travelled on them. It added 231 buses have been booked in advance.The notice said thermal screening was being conducted for the passengers and they were being allowed to travel by adhering to social distancing norms. “Passengers need not worry about the buses, there are many buses that are already planned for operation,” it said. According to the Union ministry of health, Karnataka recorded nearly 39,000 cases and 684 deaths due to the coronavirus disease. Karnataka’s health minister B Sriramulu said on Sunday that the number of cases in the state would double in the next 15-30 days and next two months would be a big challenge for the state government to combat the infection. Sriramulu added there was no need to panic and that people should follow the requisite regulations to stay safe from the virus.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-plans-to-operate-800-buses-from-bengaluru-ahead-of-covid-19-lockdown/story-dPQElD0B4FYm5sqT9lav6J.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||658 new Covid-19 cases in Haryana, tally at 21,240||Haryana on Sunday reported 658 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state’s coronavirus tally to 21,240.According to the state’s health department, the total figure includes 15,983 recoveries and 4,965 active cases.The state’s Covid-19 death toll now stands at 301. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, with the highest single-day spike of 28,637 cases and 551 fatalities in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 count reached 8,49,553 on Sunday even as the recovery rate marginally improved to 62.93 per cent.According to the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry, this includes 2,92,258 active cases, and 5,34,621 cured and discharged or migrated patients. The toll due to the disease has reached 22,674 in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/658-new-covid-19-cases-in-haryana-tally-at-21-240/story-OGzPJhPbHxjQltRju3ge8N.html
13-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 death toll rises to 31||Jharkhand reported seven Covid-19 deaths on Sunday, taking the toll to 31, while 80 new infections pushed the coronavirus tally to 3,760 in the state, a government bulletin said. This is the highest single-day Covid-19 deaths reported in the state since March 31.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Two of the deceased belonged to Ranchi while one each hailed from Deoghar, Dhanbad, East Singhbhum, Godda and Koderma districts, the bulletin said. The 80 new Covid-19 positive cases, pushed the states tally to 3,760, it said. Of the total 3,760 Covid-19 cases, 1,421 are active while 2,308 people have recovered from the disease. Forty-five people recovered from Covid-19 on Sunday. The recovery rate in Jharkhand is 61.38 per cent while the mortality rate is 0.82 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-31/story-qwjmi0XE0tQbBReyB6cpSO.html
13-07-2020||Kolkata||BJP’s Bengal poll campaign film enacts rape scene, police report sought||The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights has sought a report from the Kolkata Police on a short poll campaign film made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) showing theatrical enactment of an alleged rape. The information technology cell of the detective department has started a probe, said joint commissioner of police (crime) Murlidhar Sharma.The BJP has intensified its social media campaign against the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) on various issues.On July 9 and 10, the party posted three films on its official Twitter handle. The films are less than a minute long and show crime against women. One of these films portrays two minor children though their faces are not clearly shown. The film claims that the mother of the minors was raped and slashed with a broken bottle in Birbhum district. The messages say that people of the state will no longer tolerate crime against women. The videos in question have still not been taken down from the party’s Twitter handle.The commission, which is under the state women and child development and social welfare department, has written to Kolkata police commissioner Anuj Sharma that using minor children in such scenes is punishable under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and it also violates Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The commission has sought a report from the Kolkata Police.BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said his party is not bothered by what the commission says. “It (the commission) has no credibility. People who head these bodies owe their allegiance entirely to ruling party leaders. They will do anything that they are asked to. We are neither worried nor bothered,” said Basu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-s-bengal-poll-campaign-film-enacts-rape-scene-police-report-sought/story-KSkGSJZBbSGE6EBcgQdoII.html
13-07-2020||Pune||Pune lockdown starts from today. Here’s what you need to know||A comprehensive two-phase lockdown has started in Maharashtra’s Pune from Monday and will continue till July 23 in yet another attempt to break the chain of the coronavirus infections.Pune will go into a two-phase, 10-day lockdown from Monday midnight till Thursday, July 23. Officials have said the first five days, from July 13 to July 18, will be very strict.Many of the earlier relaxations have been retracted and further new restrictions have been imposed in the city in an order signed by Vikram Kumar, Pune Municipal Corporation’s new commissioner.Also read: Grocery, gardens, salons closed... PMC chief signs lockdown orderHere is what you need to keep in mind:* Grocery stores, retail and wholesale stores will remain shut for the first five days, in phase one of the lockdown, from July 14 to July 18.* In phase two, only shops and wholesalers selling essential items will be allowed to remain open from July 19-23 between 8am and 12pm.* Online food delivery portals will not be allowed to function till July 23.* Wholesale and retail grocery, vegetable and fruit markets and loading areas will remain completely shut from July 14-18; and from July 19-23 will remain functional between 8am and 12pm.* Shops selling eggs and meats, including mutton, chicken and fish will remain closed till July 18 and then from July 19-23 will be allowed from 8am to 12pm.* E-commerce delivery will only be allowed from July 19 onwards.* Government offices can function with 10% staff and IT companies have been allowed to operate with 15% staff. * Banks will function with minimum manpower.* Petrol pumps will be operational from 9am to 2pm every day only for those in essential services. * Newspaper printing and delivery has been allowed from 6am to 9am. * Intercity and inter-district supply chain for industries will remain unaffected. MIDC employees will have to obtain passes for travelling. * Nurses and helpers for senior citizens and the needy can work. These will be shut till July 23* All private offices will remain closed* Public and private playgrounds, and gardens, will remain completely shut and morning walks and evening walks will also not be allowed.* No political, religious, entertainment or sports activities will be allowed and places of worship will remain shut.* Lodges (except those used for the Vande Bharat mission), hotels, restaurants and bars, resorts, malls, and markets, will not be allowed to operate.* All beauty parlours, salons and spas will remain shut for this period.* Schools, colleges, educational institutes and tuitions will remain shut.* Private two-wheelers, three-wheelers and four-wheelers will not be allowed without prior permission, except for essential services, travel to railway stations or airports, or for medical emergencies.* Public transport and private bus services, trucks, tractors and all goods vehicles will not be allowed, except those providing essential services, including the PMC, police and medical services.* Construction work will only be allowed for those with in-situ labour.* All theatres, gyms, swimming pools, entertainment facilities and marriage halls will remain shut.* Wedding halls which have been booked prior to the order can be allowed to function with only 20 people in attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-lockdown-starts-from-today-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-vIerpuBotfhKXIAc05UGKI.html
13-07-2020||Pune||NIA arrests two people from Pune in case related to Islamic State: Report||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested two persons from Pune in connection with a case related to activities of the Islamic State-Khoradan Province (ISKP), sources said on Sunday.The accused were identified as Nabeel Siddique Khatri a resident of Pune’s Kondhwa and Sadiya Anwar Sheikh resident of Yerwada from Pune.They were arrested by the NIA team in an earlier case registered with them with the help of local ATS and Pune city Police.Sheikh (20) was earlier arrested by the ATS team in connection with ISIS links in 2015 and was later released after counselling.In 2015 she was arrested from Airport while allegedly attempting to fly Syria to join ISIS.Both accused are being sent to jail and further investigation is underway, according to sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nia-arrests-two-people-from-pune-in-case-related-to-islamic-state-report/story-NlJTKdt7FUjqKhwu7cHiEP.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||Online nature quiz sees 1,200 take part||Nature enthusiasts from across India and other countries on Sunday participated in The Great Indian Nature Quiz, which was conducted online for the first time. The quiz, organised by the Delhibird Foundation, was held between 5pm and 6.30pm on Zoom and Facebook.“It was one of the biggest nature quizzes held in the country. Around 1,200 people participated in the quiz; we had to turn down at least 600 more people who joined in a bit after 5pm and were in waiting. People from across the world, including London, California and Malaysia, and those from various parts of the country, including Ladakh, Nainital, Pune, Bengaluru, West Bengal, Odisha and Kerala, among others, joined the quiz,” said Nikhil Devasar, founder, Delhibird Foundation, one of the oldest birding clubs in the city.Participants who gave the correct answers the fastest won rewards. The first prize — a pair of binoculars for wildlife watching from Zeiss — was won by 16-year-old Maitreya Sukumar. Prizes were given to 50 winners.People from all age groups participated in the quiz, according to the foundation. There were seven rounds of 10 questions each on flora and fauna. For every question, participants had 20 seconds to guess the correct answer.For instance, one of the questions was about a Frenchman who has a mammal, a fish and a bird named after him. The answer to this was Alfred Duvaucel.Bikram Grewal, a Delhi-based author and ornithologist who was also the quiz master, said: “We received around 100 calls and messages from people saying they couldn’t join in and asked us if we could do it more often. We plan to increase the scale of the quiz next time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/online-nature-quiz-sees-1-200-take-part/story-BnzErIu4OHr7MG55JvVOeI.html
13-07-2020||Ranchi||Lalu Yadav has set up a ‘darbar’ in hospital, violates jail manual: alleges BJP||Jharkhand BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo on Sunday alleged that veteran RJD leader Lalu Prasad Yadav who is currently lodged at RIMS Hospital here is violating the jail manual by setting up a ‘darbar’ there. Taking to Facebook, Shahdeo posted a photo of Lalu Yadav alleging that the latter was”openly violating the jail manual”.“Openly violating Jail Manual. The darbar of former (Bihar) Chief Minister Lalu Prasad has been adorned even during the Corona period. The excuse - he had to see the Health Minister Banna Gupta ji. He is also talking on mobile. Take action Honorable Chief Minister.” Shahdeo captioned the post in Hindi.The photograph also shows State health minister.Lalu Prasad has been convicted in four fodder scam cases and was awarded up to 14 years of imprisonment. Imprisoned for corruption in Jharkhand, he has spent a large part of his sentence undergoing treatment at the RIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/lalu-yadav-has-set-up-a-darbar-in-hospital-violates-jail-manual-alleges-bjp/story-nW1elZj6hDDrBnuUelFP6K.html
13-07-2020||Patna||Plasma therapy a ray of hope as Covid-19 patient comes out of ventilator support||Plasma therapy as a cure to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has kindled a ray of hope after a doctor from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur was weaned off ventilator support, besides two other patients, at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna.All the three patients have recovered from Covid-19 and are now lined up for discharge in the next few days from the AIIMS-Patna, said its doctors.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHowever, with clinical trials on plasma therapy still not over, doctors are reluctant to bet their money on its treatment.“As per scientific logic, plasma therapy should work on Covid-19 patients. However, we do not know its efficacy as yet. The evidence is still anecdotal,” said Dr Ravi Kirti, additional professor and head of medicine department at AIIMS-Patna.“The clinical trials are being done on the principle that any patient who is infected with a virus develops antibodies against it. We expect the antibody to fight the virus. Plasma therapy is collecting antibody from a person who has already recovered from the disease and transfusing it in another infected person. This is also called passive immunity,” he added. “The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is conducting big multi-centric trials in India. We have to wait for its results. Recovery trial in the UK is simultaneously testing several modalities. The interim reports suggest that hydroxychloroquin is ineffective whereas low dose corticosteroid is helpful in saving lives in moderate and severe cases,” he added.“Unless it is contraindicated, we are administering low molecular weight heparin (a blood thinning agent, which prevents clotting in the artery), Dexamethasome (a corticosteroid group of drug, which works as immunity suppressant) and giving oxygen therapy to all moderate and severe Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Kirti.He said Remdesivirm Toclizumab and plasma therapy were investigational drugs, which clinicians decided on a case-to-case basis after talking to a team of doctors and informing the relatives of patients.Dr Umesh Bhadani, professor and head of anaesthesiology who is handling the critical care unit at AIIMS, echoed Dr Kirti’s views.“We give two kinds of ventilator support — invasive and non-invasive — as part of the execution of treatment to very serious patients. As of now, we have 12 patients on invasive ventilator support and four on non-invasive ventilator support, through a mask,” said Dr Bhadani.“Plasma therapy has had good result, but it cannot be given to critical patients or those with multi-organ failure or in shock,” said Dr Neha Singh, blood transfusion officer who is also the principal investigator in the ICMR trial on plasma therapy at the AIIMS-Patna.“We have tried it on a few patients, who have recovered and will be discharged from our institute soon,” she added.Dr Devender Bhushan and Dr Neeraj Kumar, assistant professors and co-investigators in the trial, are part of the supportive team of medicine and anesthesiology department, besides senior residents and postgraduate students of the two departments under the guidance of their faculty members who provide 24x7 support at AIIMS-Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/plasma-therapy-a-ray-of-hope-as-covid-19-patient-comes-out-of-ventilator-support/story-wDfKvKlPQsE29XUq5YMbxO.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||India’s clinical protocol has kept death rate low: Harsh Vardhan||India’s clinical protocol has focused on early detection through widespread testing, surveillance, prompt triaging and clinical management of cases. This has resulted in one of the lowest case fatality rate of 2.66%, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday after inspecting the 10,000-bed Covid Care Centre in Chhatarpur.Apart from inspecting the centre, the health minister also interacted with 12 patients admitted at the facility after donning a personal protective gear. He also reviewed the hygiene and sanitation conditions in the facility. The inspection was a part of a series of reviews that the health minister has been carrying out of various dedicated Covid-19 health facilities on Sundays for a few months now.“Our success can be seen in the recovery rate which is almost 63% with more than 5.3 lakh patients recovered,” said Harsh Vardhan.The facility that started on July 5 has 123 cases with mild symptoms.According to the staff members, only five patients were serious enough to be referred to a hospital for advance treatment.Out of 10,200 beds at the facility, 2,000 are currently in use.About 91 doctors are deployed at the centre, who work on a rotation basis in three shifts, and are available around the clock. The medical team is sent for quarantine after 8 days and new staff comes to replace them. Also, 10 per cent of medical personnel are kept as contingency reserve.In-house psychological counselling and psychiatry services are being provided by counsellors trained at the NIMHANS (National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences). Daily meditation and yoga sessions are also conducted for the patients, and the facility also follows naturopathy and protocols of Ayurveda to boost immunity. Telemedicine support is being provided by referral hospital, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/india-s-clinical-protocol-has-kept-death-rate-low-harsh-vardhan/story-5DRRcTNMmRWv67AMJWtRGM.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||Live streaming now: Shravan puja takes a virtual detour during Covid-19||Like most things during the pandemic, puja rituals in the month of Shravan have also gone virtual. Quite a few temples in NCR are shut, including some in Delhi’s hotspot areas. To ensure social distancing, there’s limited entry allowed at most temples, even during the month dedicated to lord Shiva. This has led devotees to take to the virtual route to ensure that they don’t miss out on the essential puja and rudra abhishek. For many devouts, it’s a ritual to offer milk while worshipping Shivlinga in the holy month of Shravan, every year. What’s coming in handy in times of social distancing, is ‘virtual sankalp’ and thereafter a live streaming of the rudra abhishek. Indra Kumar Tripathi, a priest in Faridabad, says, “The temple premises are shut and we are not allowing anyone inside because of the corona scare. Doors are shut, but one can worship from outside. With no special physical ritual happening this year, we are taking orders for virtual puja. Someone from California has made a booking for rudra abhishek, and we will be live streaming the puja for her so that she can see and participate, from her home.” To put together the entire two hour rudra abhishek, there are various packages. “We are charging ₹3,100 for the ritual. Since no one will be available physically, we will take the sankalp (resolution) with their names and complete the puja here, in the temple itself. And not just from America, we are receiving queries from various parts of the world,” adds Tripathi. Besides the NRIs, devotees in India are also opting for virtual pujas to maintain social distancing. Pooja Maheshwari, a Kanpur-based homemaker, says, “Every year, in the month of Shravan, we organise a grand puja and worship lord Shiva. But, no temples are open near my house this year, and I have had to book for a particular puja in a temple in Noida. One of my relatives who lives in Noida told me that the temple in their society is open, and the pandit ji there was organising such live streaming of pujas for others as well, for which I have paid ₹5,100.” Situated in Noida, Gopal Panditji, who has been assigned the task to perform the ritual as requested by Maheshwari, says, “Is saal humare paas har baar se jyada bookings hai, but most of them are for virtual sankalp and puja. This used to happen at popular shrines earlier, but now during Covid-19 it has become a common practice to ensure puja paath doesn’t stop during the pandemic. Aur is time pe zaruri bhi hai, sabki achchi sehat ke liye.” Not just the pujas in Shravan, but even other rituals have found a never seen before dimension in these times. Quite a few devotees who couldn’t go to bring gagajal on kawars, due to the ban on Kanwar Yatra, have taken to charity for the entire month of Shravan. “It’s believed that one needs to bring the holy water of Ganga twice, and I’m supposed to go again this year but I can’t. So, I’ve thought of an alternative. For this whole month, I’ve decided to feed the stray dogs in my vicinity,” says Madhav Arora, a Faridabad resident. Now that’s another way to practise godliness while giving back to the society. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/live-streaming-now-shravan-puja-takes-a-virtual-detour-during-covid-19/story-9rAtm5IHJIqyy36evmkv1H.html
13-07-2020||City||India’s main opponent is China, not Pakistan, says Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and former defence minister Sharad Pawar in an interview published by Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamna on Sunday said that India’s main opponent is China and not Pakistan, but New Delhi cannot afford a direct war with Beijing. He said that India must resolve all issues with China through dialogue and diplomatic strategies with the help of other nations and the United Nations (UN). Pawar, in the second part of the three-part interview to Sena parliamentarian and Saamana’s executive editor Sanjay Raut also said that the Modi government tried to take a “different stand” on foreign policy but it did not work. “We never changed our foreign policies and bilateral relations with other countries and they were in continuation since Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and even Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s regimes. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tried to take a different stand by calling Chinese President Xi Jinping on friendly visits and made him sit on a swing [at Sabarmati riverfront]. Modi tried to portray that he has forged ties of friendship with our neighbours. But these efforts have not worked,” the former Union minister said.Pawar said that China successfully wooed all the neighbouring countries, including Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka against India. “Modi’s first visit after taking over charge as the prime minister was to Nepal, which was considered India’s friend and the sole Hindu nation, but the neighbour now stands with China. Pakistan had already shifted its loyalty. India played a major role in the liberation of Bangladesh, but the latter recently inked an agreement with China. Same is the case with Sri Lanka. This means all the countries surrounding India have started talking against us. The disagreement in relationship with the neighbours is the latest contribution [of Modi government],” he said.The NCP chief said that the issues with China cannot be resolved by war. “Our military strength is just one-tenth as compared to that of China’s and in such a backdrop we cannot afford to have a direct war with them. It is true that we have readied our forces and can have a war and are ready to pay the price if the need be. But instead of that we should try to solve the issues diplomatically through dialogue. We lost our territory to China more than 50 years ago and the dispute over it still persists. We should build pressure with the help of other countries and the UN to regain the territory,” he said.Pawar said that though China’s first enemy, almost three decades back, was the United States and Japan, it has now started to pose a threat against India and this was its strategy all along. “When I visited China as the defence minister in 1993 and met the then president of China, he had hinted at this. He had said that his country did not want to have any clashes with its neighbours, as their prime rivalry at the time was the US. He had said that China will “look” at the neighbouring countries after about 25 years,” said Pawar in the interview.The veteran politician, while replying to a question on the country’s economic situation, said that the Modi government should consult with experts such as former PM Manmohan Singh to revive the Indian economy. “As the finance minister in the Narsimha Rao government, of which I was a part too, Manmohan Singh gave new a direction to the economy which was reeling under the crisis in the early 1990s. There is a need to take such similar steps with the help of economic experts. The Modi government lacks in dialogue with those belonging to different ideologies even during such challenging times when there is a pandemic. When Singh, Pranab Mukherjee and P Chidambaram were finance ministers, they would constantly meet experts and political leaders across the party lines and get a sense of the issues faced by the country. It does not happen now,” he said.When the former Maharashtra chief minister (CM) was asked what he thought about PM Modi calling him his ‘political guru’, Pawar said such statements are “convenient stands” taken by politicians and there was no concept of political gurus.Pawar also has praised CM Uddhav Thackeray for his performance in the first six months of the government and said that “though the written exam is over and practicals are pending, he will pass the exam”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/india-s-main-opponent-is-china-not-pakistan-says-sharad-pawar/story-G1jiHFDoT6o6AnMZoy983M.html
13-07-2020||City||Truant constable, two other Mumbai Police cops who marked him present suspended||Three constables attached to the local arms division were suspended from the force. One of the constables, Pravin Deshmukh, was suspended after the police discovered that he visited his native place at Nashik for around 45 days in April without taking an official leave, but was marked present for bandobast duty. “Two other constables, who were in-charge of assigning duties, helped him by marking him present at duty. They have been suspended as well and an inquiry is ongoing,” additional commissioner of police S Jaykumar said. The police said, prima facie it appears that the two constables, Pankaj Mali and Ashish Nerkar, reaped monetary benefits by marking the constable’s attendance.The incident was brought to light by a police personnel after he discovered that though Deshmukh was not reporting for duty, his attendance was being marked. Following this, an inquiry was conducted and it was found that Deshmukh never attended duty in April.On probing further, the police discovered that the duty chart was maintained by Mali and Nerkar. Based on the police’s inquiry, a disciplinary action was taken against the three constables and they were suspended till the completion of the probe, the police said.The police force is facing a staff crunch after the commissioner exempted all the personnel above the age of 55 years from reporting to duty owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. Consequently, the leaves of all the other personnel were cancelled, and those who went on leave or were absent from work were asked to report to duty immediately. Around a week ago, two constables were dismissed from the force for not reporting to duty despite several warnings. Both were suspended earlier and were asked to be present for an inquiry. However, after they failed to be present for the inquiry, their dismissal orders were passed. In June, a criminal case was registered against six personnel attached with Borivli police station for not reporting to duty despite several warnings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truant-constable-two-other-mumbai-police-cops-who-marked-him-present-suspended/story-oeXGdwqutWhfvBvd9lSqVO.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai received 82% of average July rainfall||Intermittent moderate to heavy showers on Sunday, especially in the suburbs, helped the city edge closer to its monthly rainfall target. On Monday, the city is likely to witness cloudy conditions with moderate rainfall, with the possibility of heavy showers in isolated areas.The Santacruz weather observatory, which is representative of Mumbai and the suburbs, recorded 52mm rainfall over a span of nine hours (between 8.30am and 5.30pm), taking Mumbai’s total monthly rainfall to 690.4mm, which is 82% of the average rainfall (840.7mm) received in July.The Colaba weather station, which is representative of south Mumbai, recorded 18mm rain between 8.30am and 8.30pm on Sunday, taking the tally for July to 533.9 mm or 75% of its average rainfall. South Mumbai receives an average rainfall of 711.6mm. Over the past 24 hours (between Saturday 8.30am and Sunday 8.30am), the suburbs recorded 21.9mm rainfall, while south Mumbai received 13mm rainfall.Mumbai received 1085.4mm rainfall between June 1 and Sunday (5.30pm), which is 47% of its seasonal target. The city’s seasonal average rainfall is 2,317.1mm. The suburbs and south Mumbai recorded 23% and 22% excess rainfall respectively for the same period.The weather bureau on Saturday issued a yellow alert (heavy rain warning for isolated areas) from Monday to Wednesday. After an increase in rain intensity on Sunday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) revised its district rain forecast and issued a yellow alert till Thursday with the possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places on Wednesday in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar. “Westerly to southwesterly winds pushed frequent cloud bands over the north Konkan coast, including Mumbai, leading to a rainy Sunday. Monsoon conditions are likely to get further intensified in the coming days with the possibility of heavy to very heavy rain on Tuesday and Wednesday,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.According to location-wise rainfall, most of the central and northern suburbs recorded 40-80mm rainfall, while areas further north of Mumbai, such as Bhayander and Mira Road, recorded over 100-120mm rain in over nine hours. Most of south-central Mumbai recorded rain between 20-40mm, while areas such as Malabar Hill, Haji Ali, Worli, Parel and Prabhadevi received 45-55mm rainfall.Sunday’s showers led to cool conditions throughout Mumbai. The day temperature in the suburbs was 28.6 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees Celsius below normal, while south Mumbai recorded 29.6 degrees Celsius, which is a degree Celsius below normal. The night temperatures were also a degree Celsius below normal. The maximum wind speed over the city was 28-30 kilometre per hour (kmph), while the humidity was 92%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-received-82-of-average-july-rainfall/story-QEuXawLJRg1whoA1m2AF6J.html
13-07-2020||City||Youth held from Gujarat for threatening comedienne||Vadodara police on Sunday night arrested a man for allegedly threatening to rape a stand-up comedienne over her alleged insulting remarks against Chhatrapati Shivaji and abusing her.The accused, Shubham Mishra, is booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Information Technology Act. Vadodara police commissioner Anupam Singh Gehlot said, “The accused is in our custody.”Earlier in the day, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh directed the Mumbai Police to take action against Mishra after a video containing abusive language by the accused went viral.Deshmukh tweeted, “Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj taught us to respect women.But if someone is using/threatening the wrong language about women, then there is a law for them. @MahaCyber1 verify this video. @CPMumbaiPolice take appropriate legal action against the person in the video as per the rules.”The comedienne apologised on social media for her comments and deleted the year-old video in which she made comments on the upcoming memorial for the Maratha king. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-held-from-gujarat-for-threatening-comedienne/story-kIblRwKQoMdQuGNXVLh8bP.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Twice abandoned, now at home||He is only three years old but has already been with four different families, in four different cities — all of them in the National Capital Region. Leo was living in Delhi, Ghaziabad, and, until very recently, Greater Noida. He moved to his current address in Gurugram just 10 days back. He is a dog who has been abandoned twice.“He is part of our family now,” declares Sapna Khajuria, lawyer and home-maker, on WhatsApp video. The lady is out with Leo for their 4pm walk in the “dog park”—a fenced stretch tucked in the grounds of her apartment complex in Sector 30 that is reserved for the residents to walk their pets. Ms Khajuria is with Leo and her other dog, Cookie, who has been with her for three years.But Leo, it has to be said, is the one who is standing out, with his white conical post-surgery protection mask. It, at first, looks like a stylishly designed shield to prevent oneself from getting infected by coronavirus.Ms Khajuria shakes her head, explaining that Leo is recovering from a wound. “He had a boil that later got infected... it all happened before he came to us.”Leo has been with her family—husband and two sons—for only a few days so far but has grown attached to Ms Khajuria so much that her two boys tease him as “mamma’s poonch (tail).” Indeed, sometimes he starts to cry if he doesn’t see Ms Khajuria around. “This is because, I think, he is anxious that he might be abandoned once again.”The other day Ms Khajuria was in her room, and Leo was sobbing and scratching the door with great vigour.According to the information Ms Khajuria received from the dog-rescuer who helped her get Leo, he was initially living in a home somewhere in west Delhi where his family ejected him “after the birth of a (human) baby in the house.” Leo found a new home in Ghaziabad, where his second family decided to get rid of him “due to money problems arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic.” In fact, just as he was being pushed out, an acquaintance of the family appeared and was moved enough to take Leo temporarily to his residence in Greater Noida.That lucky chance saved Leo from living out his days on the road. Today, he is surrounded with love and companionship. Right now he is wagging his tail and looking very happy. His surgical mask suits him well, making him appear like a society snob in one of his Elizabethan collars.Ms Khajuria says she first spotted Leo in a photo put up for adoption in a WhatsApp group of pet owners, and “the heart of everyone in my family melted on looking at him.”After signing a declaration contract that she would never abandon Leo—with the dog rescuer who facilitated the adoption—she drove with her husband to pick up their new family member from Greater Noida. “We took Cookie with us so that she could get used to Leo in the long drive.”In the first two days of his arrival, Leo wasn’t eating anything other than milk and bread, probably the food he was used to in his foster home. Now he heartily dines on chicken, soup, and veggies.Not everything, however, is picture perfect. Ms Khajuria confesses that Cookie and Leo continue to squabble a lot. She explains it as a case of sibling rivalry. “They fight the way human siblings do, like my boys — who will eat first, who will exit the door for a walk first, who will get the toy first...”Meanwhile, it is time to return to the apartment— Leo’s fourth and, hopefully, final home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-twice-abandoned-now-at-home/story-RVGiblLW4XqzWQoUUF3l6K.html
13-07-2020||City||Mumbai-Vadodara Expressway gets CRZ nod, 1K mangrove trees to be lost||The state has granted coastal regulation zone (CRZ) clearances to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to cut 1,001 mangrove trees for the eight-lane Mumbai-Vadodara Expressway, which will pass through the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).The details of the clearance came to light earlier this week when the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) published the minutes of its June 11 meeting, during which the proposal was discussed and accorded conditional clearance. It has now been recommended to the Union environment ministry.The 379-km greenfield expressway connecting Mumbai to Vadodara expects to reduce the travel time between the two cities to four hours instead of the current seven through national highway (NH)-8. Of the 379-km, 78.1km (phase II) extends from Vasai to Talasari across 4km CRZ area, encompassing 32.4 hectares (ha) crossing the Vaitarna River. Of this, 3.2ha is CRZ1A (the most protected coastal zone), which is home to 1,001 mangrove trees, while 2.68ha is mangrove buffer. The maximum mangrove losses would occur at Navghar and Vadiv villages in Palghar, falling under the Safale forest range. “As the project proponents (NHAI) have decided to build much of the road through the mangroves on stilts and considered the least damaging alignment to forest cover, the project was issued conditional clearance,” said a senior MCZMA official.On September 17, 2018, the Bombay high court (HC) had said that no development permission shall be issued by any authority in Maharashtra for any area under mangroves. “Regardless of ownership of land having mangroves, all constructions taking place within 50 metres (m) on all the sides [of mangrove stretches] shall be forthwith stopped,” the HC had said.According to Neenu Somraj, deputy conservator of forest and member, MCZMA, NHAI will need permissions from the HC to cut the trees. “Minimal mangrove areas will be affected. However, the planning body will need permissions from the HC, and apply for forest clearance under the Forest Conservation (FC) Act, 1980. An area for compensatory afforestation will be identified during the forest clearance process.”The exact loss of mangrove trees was identified by the Dahanu forest department, but NHAI has not been asked to obtain any clearances from the Dahanu Taluka Environment Protection Authority. According to the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) report for the project, which HT has reviewed, the project is likely to have an impact on a total forest area of 191.58ha across Vasai, Palghar, Talasari and Dahanu (including Dahanu taluka eco-fragile zone across 28 km) would lead to the diversion of 13% reserve forest, 2% mangrove forest, 71% protected forests and 14% private forests, and a total of 69,095 trees are expected to be lost. The expressway would pass at a distance of 1.28 km from the boundary of the Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary and 0.45 km away from its eco-sensitive zone boundary, the EIA read.NHAI had applied for clearances under the FC Act for 94.5ha forest diversion for phase II in 2018 but retracted the proposal as a much larger forest area is involved.“We welcome the CRZ clearance. Based on the clearance, we will be applying for FC for the entire 191.58ha. All the conditions proposed by the authorities concerned will be followed. We are ready to ensure compensatory afforestation as much as 10 times the number for the mangroves lost,” said B Mukhopadhyay, general manager, environment, NHAI. Meanwhile, during MCZMA’s meeting on Tuesday, a conditional clearance was accorded to the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) to construct sea walls (anti-sea erosion bunds) at Gharapuri Island, Panje village in Uran, and a boat landing jetty at Nhava. The proposal was deferred last year by the coastal authority over concerns of mangrove loss.“Loss of mangroves is yet to be ascertained but JNPT needs to obtain the HC’s clearance,” said Somraj.Environmentalists were upset with the latest decisions. “At a time when we need to protect the remaining mangroves and wetlands in MMR, such clearances defeat the purpose of having an environment and climate change department,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation, a not-for-profit environment group.Debi Goenka, a petitioner before the HC in the matter of mangroves, said, “A short-sighted approach under the guise of creating artificial infrastructure is destroying natural carbon sinks without any realisation of how it will impact us in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-vadodara-expressway-gets-crz-nod-1k-mangrove-trees-to-be-lost/story-AK3KlvS0K0G94zEiQUfefM.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Activist Gautam Navlakha’s bail plea rejected, NIA to get 10-day custody||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Sunday refused to grant a ‘default’ bail to civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha in the Elgar Parishad case. The court also granted NIA his custody for 10 days for interrogation.The special court pronounced the order on the plea of NIA, in which the central agency sought an extension of the 90-day period to file a charge sheet against Navlakha and another accused, activist Dr Anand Teltumbde. The NIA claimed that its officers were unable to investigate properly owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. The agency also sought Navlakha’s custody on the grounds that they need to interrogate him to “unearth the conspiracy”.Navlakha sought a bail claiming that NIA failed to file a charge sheet against him within the stipulated period of 90 days. All the three applications were heard together by the court.Navlakha was arrested in Delhi by the Pune Police on August 28, 2018, but his arrest was quashed by the Delhi high court. However, after the arrest was challenged, Navlakha and some other accused were put under house arrest from August 29 till October 1, 2018. This year in April, Navlakha and Teltumbde were arrested again.Under the provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the agency gets a total period of 180 days to investigate a case and file a charge sheet. However, after the completion of 90 days, the agency has to show the progress in the investigation to seek an extension of 90 more days.While seeking a default bail, Navlakha’s lawyers claimed that the period during which he was put under house arrest should also be considered as period of detention for calculating 90 days.The court, however, refused to accept the contention, observing that the period of house arrest cannot be included in the period of detention. The court also held that during the period of house arrest, Navlakha was never under the detention of police for investigation.After rejecting his bail plea, the court directed the Taloja prison authorities to hand over Navlakha’s custody to NIA from July 13 till July 22. The agency is directed to produce Navlakha before the special court on July 22. Meanwhile, the court also gave 90 more days to NIA to investigate the case and file a charge sheet against Navlakha and Teltumbde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-activist-gautam-navlakha-s-bail-plea-rejected-nia-to-get-10-day-custody/story-4USsdHE8lCycDQI5xzI2FM.html
13-07-2020||Admission||DU admissions: SRCC students roll out fellowship in finance to help aspirants||It wouldn’t be wrong to say that any talk in our lives begins now with a reference to the pandemic and the uncertainty of future that is dominating our minds. But, this hasn’t been able to impact the conscious efforts of the youth, who understand the relevance of being there for each other in such trying times. And the new Research Fellowship by Finance and Investment Cell (FIC) of Delhi University’s Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) is an exemplary effort to bridge the gap between the process of learning and the seeker of knowledge. “Although the pandemic has posed major uncertainties, it also has also provided us with ample time to learn and grow. In times of such distress, students all over the country are looking up to their seniors for guidance and support. So we have come up with a fellowship that is a peer-to-peer model, which aims to create a holistic and intuitive learning environment, by giving students an opportunity to explore ideas beyond the horizon of school textbooks’’ says Rishabh Khetawat, secretary of the cell at SRCC.The fellowship program is for students who aspire to make a career in finance, in the years to come, by acting as a catalyst to develop their interest in the subject. This will be achieved through workshops and sessions with industry experts. Prakhar Tandon, a student of Ryan International School, Noida, who has enroled himself in this program, feels “This course will be the first step towards the world of finance and investment, for me. The selection process itself equipped me with clarity in my opinions. I hope to learn something extraordinary that our education system has failed to impart.”Devashish Miglani, president of the program, explains, “The mentors shall teach important concepts of finance and connect them to their practical application with examples. Lectures with industry experts for important topics such as technical analysis and bond valuation will also be conducted as part of the curriculum. The program will encompass interactive activities and competitions to break the boundaries of today’s classroom based education.” Explaining how the program will help the participants, Sai Lakshmi, research head, says, “Literate, yet uneducated, is not something the nation expects of its citizens. Our vision is to create an impact on student lives when they are young so that in every purchase they make, they understand the difference between ‘expense’ and ‘investment’ and in every endeavour they undertake, they know that the benefits of the ‘asset’ they create will be reaped by future generations! This initiative of FIC is a small step, which will hopefully yield some great dividends.”Besides gaining a chance to learn new concepts and grow, the participating students are happy that this platform will provide them a chance to spend time with their seniors. “It’s an amazing opportunity to go beyond the school curriculum and develop necessary skills to navigate an increasingly competitive world and strengthen my comprehensive ability pertaining to finance. But what’s more exciting is to be able to interact with the seniors at DU before I actually begin my college life there,” says Viraj Lohia, a student of Welham Boys’ School, Dehradun, who hopes to make it to DU for higher education. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/college-admissions/du-admissions-srcc-students-roll-out-fellowship-in-finance-to-help-aspirants/story-G7biyvtftynfDyVQLXoANM.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||Suspecting husband of having an affair, woman blocks his car on road, leads to traffic jam||The traffic movement on Pedder Road was briefly affected on Saturday evening due to a fight between a couple on the road. The traffic police issued a challan to the woman for abandoning her vehicle in the middle of the road, which led to traffic jam. However, no criminal offence was registered, police said.After a video of the incident went viral on social media, police sources said the woman was chasing her husband’s Range Rover on Pedder Road. The woman’s husband allegedly had a female co-passenger in his car.The woman, who reportedly suspected that her husband was having an affair, obstructed the Range Rover, got out of her vehicle and yelled at her husband to come out. She also climbed on the bonnet of the vehicle. When the man stepped out the car, she kicked him.  ALSO WATCH | Mumbai couple’s dramatic ‘street fight’ brings traffic to a haltMeanwhile, the other woman was trying to drive away. Upon noticing it, she ran after the vehicle and when the car stopped at a signal, opened the door and tried to assault the woman. Traffic police present at the scene intervened and took all three people and the two vehicles to Gamdevi police station.“This occurred on Saturday evening. We have issued a challan to the woman for obstruction of traffic,” said Pravin Padval, additional commissioner of police (traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-creates-scene-on-road-leads-to-traffic-jam-gets-challan/story-SaLontdmPccfbzKrXkVInI.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||Education department set to train 40,000 teachers for online learning||As schools across the state have started their new academic year from June 15, the state education department has decided to train teachers in using various teaching tools for online learning. In a recent circular, the department announced that the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) would train about 40,000 teachers of government and aided schools across the state in the first phase of training. “In the first phase, priority will be given to teachers from aided schools and junior colleges. The training will later be extended to teachers from private unaided schools,” reads the circular. Teachers who wish to enrol for the training in the first phase have to send their details to the department by July 16. The department has also planned to set up Google classrooms for every school free of cost. Officials at the education department said that training all the teachers and setting up online classrooms would bring in some consistency. Currently, schools in the state are using the means available to them for online teaching. “This is a new challenge for all of us, but we are prepared to overcome issues and ensure continuous learning for all students,” said an official. Teachers said that while the training is a welcome move, some steps also need to be taken to ensure good internet connectivity to students as well as teachers. “Currently, students and teachers are both struggling to get good connectivity. Not all students can afford internet. Some provision needs to be in place for those who cannot,” said the teacher from a civic school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/education-department-set-to-train-40-000-teachers-for-online-learning/story-OWEJZNdU5UojxexzvVaJrM.html
13-07-2020||City||Elgar Parishad case: P Varavara Rao hallucinating we are waiting for him outside jail, claims family of Telugu poet||Stating that Veteran Telugu poet P Varavara Rao’s health was “deteriorating” and he was “hallucinating”, his family and intellectuals on Sunday sought medical help for him.Rao, 81, one of the accused in the Elgar Parishad case, is currently lodged in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. He had moved a plea for interim bail on May 15 amid the spread of Covid-19 in Mumbai jails. While the plea was still pending, Rao’s health condition deteriorated. On May 28, Rao was taken to JJ hospital after he fell unconscious in jail and was discharged after two days.In a conference organised through a digital platform on Sunday, Rao’s family –wife P Hemalatha and daughters P Sahaja, P Anala, P Pavana – alleged he was discharged in haste even when he had not recovered fully, a day before his plea for interim bail was scheduled for hearing. “It was done only to facilitate the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to oppose his bail plea before the special NIA court,” the family alleged. The plea was rejected on June 26, after which Rao has approached the high court for relief. The family claimed that Rao was hallucinating, primarily because of imbalance of electrolytes in his body.The family claimed they received a call from Rao from jail on Saturday evening, wherein Rao spoke about his father’s funeral. In the conference family clarified that Rao’s father had passed away when he was three. They claimed this indicated Rao was hallucinating. The family alleged that since his discharge from hospital, they have spoken to him four times and he has since been in a state of confusion. Rao’s daughters claimed the telephonic conversation in June was better, but this month’s two calls have been worrisome.The family claimed he needs immediate medical attention. “He did not answer direct questions on his health and went into a kind of delirious and hallucinated talk about the funeral of his father and mother, the events that happened seven decades and four decades ago, respectively. Then his co-accused companion took the phone from him and informed us that he is not able to walk, go to toilet and brush his teeth on his own. We were also told that he is always hallucinating that we, family members, were waiting at the jail gate to receive him as he was getting released,” the family claimed.The family said they will approach the Bombay high court for urgent relief to shift him to a multispecialty hospital. “His life is the topmost concern for us right now. Our present demand is to save his life...” they said.Following the plea, five prominent intellectuals – Romila Thapar, Prabhat Patnaik, Devaki Jain, Maja Daruwala and Satish Deshpande – have appealed to Government of Maharashtra and NIA to transfer Rao to JJ Hospital. Previously, in 2018, the same group had also approached the Supreme Court against the arrest of all activists in connection with the Elgar Parishad case. The statement read: “Rao poses no flight risk and has voluntarily submitted to all investigations for the past 22 months. There is no reason in law or conscience to hold him in circumstances that increase risk to his fragile health....To knowingly risk the life of a person in state custody by refusing proper medical treatment would amount to a form of encounter, an extra-legal punishment which the State institutions are duty-bound to forego.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/elgar-parishad-p-varavara-rao-hallucinating-we-are-waiting-for-him-outside-jail-claims-family-of-telugu-poet/story-os07kXNTzk2L4oTerTFfKM.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||Students struggle to fund education: Survey||A large number of students in colleges and universities are finding it difficult to fund their education owing to the lockdown imposed to curb the Covid-19 pandemic, found a survey conducted by a professor from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B).Almost 82% of the 38,108 students surveyed said they were anticipating difficulty in funding their education while 27% respondents said their chances of continuing education in the academic year 2020-21 were either low or very low. BN Jagtap, a professor from the department of Physics, IIT-B, and Anand Mapuskar, an educationist who has earlier served in the department of higher and technical education of Maharashtra, conducted the survey of 38,108 students from colleges and universities across Maharashtra to understand their perception of the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on higher education. Of the respondents, 73% said they would have to support their families financially. “This is expressed by 75% of male students and 70% of female students. The urban-rural divide is evident in the responses,” said Mapuskar. A higher number of students from rural areas expressed the need to help their family financially. For instance, 79% students from rural areas said they had to support their families as compared to 71% from metro cities.Taking students’ hardship in account, the University Grants Commission (UGC) — the apex body that regulates all higher education institutes — had issued a circular on May 27 asking all institutes to be sympathetic towards students while asking them to pay tuition fees. Soon after, the University of Mumbai (MU) had, in June, asked all colleges not to hike fees for the new academic year and to allow students to pay fees in instalments.Vinod Patil, officiating registrar of MU, said the decision was taken in accordance to UGC guidelines keeping in mind that families of students may have lost income due to lockdown.Of the total 38,108 respondents, 19,495 were female, 18,602 were male and four were transgender students. The survey was aimed at understanding the perception of students on four issues — economic hardship on students, online education, reopening of colleges and new academic year, and students’ perception of their degree courses.The survey found that 91% students have smartphones, 32% have laptop/desktop and 6% students reported to have no device at all. The survey also found that a majority of the students interviewed were accessing their academic activities online. In Maharashtra, 66% students were studying at least one online course during the lockdown. However, the urban-rural divide was prominent in this case as well. In metro cities, district headquarters and taluka headquarters almost 67%-70% were taking online classes as opposed to only 62% in rural areas. However, very few feel that online classes are useful. Around only 33% felt that the online course was useful while 26% were of the opinion that online courses cannot replace face-to-face teaching. The surveyors, therefore, suggested a hybrid model involving a correct mix of online and face-to-face education so that educational institutes can function with social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-struggle-to-fund-education-survey/story-EfX3ZPWigJNyUWT7T3CAUI.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||55-year-old cop succumbs to Covid-19; Mumbai Police toll 47||A 55-year-old assistant sub inspector (ASI) attached with DN Nagar traffic division succumbed to Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at Oscar Hospital, Kandivli. The deceased, a resident of Andheri, was admitted to the hospital on June 19 due to fever, following which he was tested for Covid-19. The report came positive on June 21, according to police. An officer said, “He started showing signs of recovery and his health was also improving. However, last week his health condition deteriorated and he was put on oxygen support,”On Sunday, his condition worsened and he succumbed to the disease. The death toll in Mumbai Police has reached 47.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/55-year-old-cop-succumbs-to-covid-19-mumbai-police-toll-47/story-Ke9v7Px50RWNU7SQYpljmI.html
13-07-2020||City||After 2 different reports, woman tests negative in third test||The 44-year-old woman from Wagle Estate in Thane, who got contradictory Covid-19 reports from a civic-run laboratory and private laboratory, tested negative in her third test, validating the report of the private lab. The family has moved the woman home from the quarantine centre. The family claimed they had to go through a lot after the report from the civic laboratory showed her to be positive for Covid-19 when, in fact, she was not infected.The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), however, claimed it is common to get different results on different days depending on the viral load.Earlier this week, Rekha Pawar was tested at Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital, popularly known as Kalwa hospital. The following day, she got another Covid-19 test done at a private laboratory. Her son Nilesh, 25, on Sunday said, “This morning we were told that my mother’s report is negative. She was in a quarantine centre for two days. We went through a lot since her report from the civic laboratory came positive. We are happy that she is not infected. However, there should be some inquiry into this as no one else should face the same thing.”Ganesh Deshmukh, additional municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “It is normal to get different results when the test is done on two different days. The result changes the next day as per the viral load.”He added that every person with Covid-like symptom is treated as a Covid case irrespective of results. “Even though the woman tested negative later on, she had symptoms and so was treated as a Covid case. It is a protocol we follow at present.”A month after the civic-run Kalwa hospital mixed up the report of a 34-year-old woman who was nine-month pregnant, she was reunited with her one-month-old baby. The woman, who was not infected at the time, was admitted to a Covid ward after the civic hospital mixed up her report with someone else. She, however, tested positive later and gave birth to a baby girl. The baby had tested negative and could not be kept with her mother.A family member of the woman said, “Samiksha Markande, a Thane resident, took up the responsibility of the baby who is now healthy. Her mother has now tested negative and is allowed to take the baby home after a month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-2-different-reports-woman-tests-negative-in-third-test/story-MtwTgeGpN5nqmZH5IZc3fO.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||Cops in 31-40 age group worst-hit: Report||An internal assessment report prepared by the Mumbai Police to understand the spread of Covid-19 among its personnel till July 1 has found that personnel ages between 31 and 40 years were affected the most. Of the total cases, 930 personnel fall under this age group, says the report, a copy of which is with HT.“Policemen above 50 years of age and those with comorbidities have been advised to stay home. Hence, the young lot of policemen are performing lockdown duties in containment zones and are comparatively more exposed to the disease. This has led to this age group reporting the maximum number of cases,” said Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (administration).Since March till July 1, 2,821 Mumbai Police personnel tested positive and 42 of them died. Fatality rate, however, was the highest at 82% among those aged above 50 years.Mumbai Police, which mapped the 42 deaths, found that in 21 cases office locations of the deceased were near containment zones while in 19 cases the residences of the personnel were in containment zones. According to the report, 37% of the infected personnel did not have any prior medical history. Among the ones with medical history, high blood pressure and diabetes were the most common ailments. However, the actual number of people with prior medical records could be higher since the police do not medical history of many of the patients.A senior IPS officer said, “The department took all possible measures to protect the lives of its personnel, but was helpless in cases of infected policemen aged above 55 years or those with serious medical history. Reports of them losing the battle are coming quite regularly now.” Mumbai Police, in its assessment, also found that local arms division was the most-affected unit with 785 men testing positive, while the west, south and central regions of the force accounted for 372, 341 and 323 personnel, respectively. Of the total positive cases, 28% is in local arms division followed by 13% in west region, 12% in south and 11% in central region. Local arms division is the reserve police force of the city police. An IPS officer said that local police stations were manning containment areas during initial months and got exhausted due to continuous duty; hence in mid-May and June they were replaced by personnel from the Local Arms division.“Most personnel of local arms division contracted the virus in their own locality or while commuting in and out of the city. Most of them stay in slum pockets and travel from Badlapur, Kalyan, Dombivli and Navi Mumbai to Mumbai,” Bajaj said.LT Marg police station recorded the highest number of cases at 57, among all 94 police stations in the city.Fatality rate in the Mumbai Police force is 1.34% while that of the city is 5.83%, said Bajaj, who is also designated as a nodal officer for Covid management for Mumbai Police by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cops-in-31-40-age-group-worst-hit-report/story-UxULLuuCGZ1La4VK7d3ivL.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||Amitabh Bachchan, Abhishek doing well: Nanavati Hospital||A day after actor Amitabh Bachchan, 77, and his actor-son Abhishek, 44, got admitted to Nanavati Hospital, after testing positive for Covid-19, two more members of the family – his daughter-in-law Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, 46, and eight-year-old granddaughter Aaradhya – tested positive on Sunday. Four bungalows of the Bachchan family in Juhu-Vile Parle area have been sealed and declared containment zones.After Bachchan and Abhishek showed mild symptoms, all members of the Bachchan family were tested using rapid antigen kits on Saturday. Bachchan’s wife Jaya, 72, daughter Shweta Nanda, 46, Aishwarya and Aaradhya tested negative. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, too, confirmed it. However, according to the protocol, they were then tested using the RT-PCR method, in which Aishwarya and Aaradhya tested positive, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said. Jaya Bachchan will be tested again later to overrule any negative reporting.Later in the evening, Abhishek tweeted: “Aishwarya and Aaradhya have also tested Covid-19 positive. They will be self-quarantining at home. BMC has been updated of their situation and are doing the needful. The rest of the family including my mother have tested negative. Thank you all for your wishes and prayers.” He also wrote: “My father and I remain in hospital till the doctors decide otherwise. Everyone please remain cautious and safe. Please follow all rules!”Vishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner, K-West ward of BMC, said, “The four bungalows – Jalsa, Janak, Pratiksha and Vatsa – have been sanitised and declared containment zones. We are conducting contact-tracing of all staff members.”BMC in a statement issued on Sunday afternoon said, “Thirty staff members working for the Bachchan family have been tested for Covid-19. In Jalsa bungalow, there is space for isolation and the staff members will be kept there. If any assistance/facility of the BMC is required, we will take necessary steps for the same.”Dr Abdul Samad Ansari, director of the critical care unit of Nanavati Hospital and treating doctor of Bachchan and Abhishek, said, “Both of them are doing well. We have given them symptomatic medicines.”Dr Pratit Samdani, internal medicine expert from Breach Candy Hospital, said considering Bachchan’s age, doctors have to be more cautious while treating him. “Data all across the globe have shown that patients above the age of 65 with co-morbidities develop complications after 10 days of getting exposed to the virus. They develop a cytokine storm when inflammation begins in organs, especially in lungs. This puts Mr Amitabh Bachchan at a higher risk than his son who is younger,” said Samdani.Bachchan was also diagnosed with tuberculosis in 2000, which weakens the lungs. Dr Samdani said, “It won’t be a problem as it happened two decades ago. His age will be an issue. Almost 15% of people above the age of 65 develop complications and need ventilator support,” he said.Meanwhile, BMC also sealed the Governor’s office and staff quarters at Raj Bhavan, after 16 staff members were found to be Covid-19 positive. The tests of 100 staff employed at Raj Bhavan were done on Saturday at the state-run Sir JJ Hospital. “Sixteen staff members of Governor House have tested positive until now. Of the 16, two had tested positive around eight days ago. After this, tests of around 100 staff members was undertaken by the Governor’s office on Saturday. Of the 100, 14 have tested positive, while reports of some samples are pending,’’ he said. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, in a statement, said: “I am perfectly alright, and not in self-isolation. I underwent relevant tests, the result of which came in the negative. There are no symptoms of Covid-19 either. However, considering the Covid-19 situation elsewhere, I am discharging all my official duties strictly adhering to protocols like social distancing, sanitising, wearing of masks, etc.”Meanwhile, actor Anupam Kher tweeted saying: “This is to inform all that my mother Dulari is found Covid + (mildly). We have admitted her to Kokilaben Hospital. My brother, bhabhi & niece inspite of being careful have also tested mildly positive. I got myself tested as well & I have tested negative. BMC is informed.”Like reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), rapid antigen test detects the presence of molecular pathogens of coronavirus in people. But unlike RT-PCR which takes eight hours for results, the latter gives reports within 30 minutes. The antigen-based test uses nasal swab samples for testing. According to protocol, every positive report from the rapid antigen testing is treated as ‘true positive’, while negative samples are mandatorily re-tested by RT-PCR process, in case of symptoms. So, when the test reports of Aishwarya and Aaradhya came negative in rapid antigen tests at the hospital on Saturday, their samples were taken for RT-PCR test. On Sunday, their RT-PCR results came positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amitabh-bachchan-abhishek-doing-well-nanavati-hospital/story-Q0EOk9Q2TllaNLvvYD5qSM.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha records 7,827 new Covid cases, 173 deaths; tally 254,427||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 7,827 fresh Covid-19 cases, its third highest single-day spike, taking its tally to 254,427. Active cases in the state now stand at 103,615, while the recovery rate touched 55.15%, after 3,340 more patients recovered in the past 24 hours, pushing the tally of recovered patients to 140,325.The state also recorded 173 new fatalities, pushing the toll to 10,289. Mumbai recorded 1,243 new cases and 44 fatalities, which took its tally to 92,988 and toll to 5,288. Active cases in Mumbai stand at 22,540. After crossing the 1-lakh case mark on June 12, the state reported 153,286 cases at a daily average of 5,110 cases. In 30 days, state saw 6,572 fatalities at a daily average of 219 cases. Though the case fatality rate (CFR) has reduced during the period, the daily death rate has increased. There has been addition of 53,900 active cases in the past 30 days. Pune city continued to record the second-highest number of cases after Mumbai and reported 990 infections in the past 24 hours, taking its tally to 29,048. Pune district, including also the urban part of Pimpri-Chinchwad, recorded 1,749 cases in 24 hours, taking the tally to 39,145. Kalyan-Dombivli retained its second position in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), in terms of new infections and reported 779 cases as its tally rose to 14, 611. The MMR, which comprises nine civic bodies and semi-urban parts of Thane, Raigad and Palghar, reported 4,475 cases on Sunday (57.18 % of the state’s daily infections), taking the tally to 173,060. Thane city recorded 465 new cases, followed by 321 new cases in Navi Mumbai. Of the 173 fatalities , 44 were in Mumbai, 22 each in Pune city and Thane city, 10 each in Pimpri Chinchwad and Navi Mumbai. State’s CFR stands at 4.04%, much below 4.8% reported on June 16, after the state government added 1,328 deaths on a single day as part of the reconciliation of data. State’s CFR was 3.25% on May 25 and 3.37% on May 31. The national CFR is 2.67%.Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Nashik and Solapur continue to report high number of cases with addition of 222, 209, 182 and 277 cases. The rising number of cases in MMR has forced civic bodies to extend the stricter lockdown by a few more days. Bhiwandi-Nizampur civic body extended its ongoing lockdown by a week till July 19, after a similar order was issued in neighbouring Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli and Mira-Bhayander.The districts with a high number of cases, too, have extended their lockdown with stricter norms. The state government has asked civic bodies and district administrations to concentrate on reducing the number of cases and the CFR.“As seen across the globe, the peak of cases shifts from metropolis to smaller cities and then to towns and rural parts. After Mumbai’s infection stabilised, neighbouring cities and even Pune and Pimpri-Chichwad are witnessing the peak. We expect the spread to stabilise in next few weeks,” said an official from the state government. The government has set the target of bringing the infectivity (positivity) rate below 10% from current rate of 19.3% and the CFR below 1%, by going for aggressive tracking, tracing and treatment of suspected cases.“The rise in smaller cities and a few districts is constant because they do not have the required infrastructure and manpower has been exhausted. Civic bodies like Mira-Bhayander, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi or the districts in which the number is high have no health infrastructure in back-up. The spread of the virus is from big cities to smaller ones, because of the migration of the people after the lifting of lockdown. But it remains to be seen if these cities could contain it like Mumbai did,” said Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health consultant. State has 886,150 under home quarantine, while 47,801 are under institutional quarantine.Meanwhile, the state government has constituted a four-member committee to recommend the utilisation of rapid antibody test kits. “The committee headed by Dr Sudhakar Shinde, CEO, state health assurance society, will recommend the choice of test regimes and the kits suggested by the ICMR. It will also recommend whether to conduct the test on frontline workers from health services, police personnel, sanitisation workers or a particular class of people. The committee, which is expected to submit its report in ten days, will also draft the expression of interest for the test protocol and the kits,” the notification has stated.Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that there will be laboratories in every district for RT-PCR tests in near future. After inaugurating a lab in Jalna, home district of state health minister Rajesh Tope, Thackeray said the temporary facilities being set up at the district level to treat the virus will be converted into permanent infrastructure. “With the help of the facilities, we will have to put in comprehensive and collective efforts to keep the mortality rate in check,” he said. Tope said that laboratories at district level help early detection of the viral infection, and in turn, it facilitates effective tracing and testing of the close contacts of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-records-7-827-new-covid-cases-173-deaths-tally-254-427/story-oY8UiAiaZVBWuWatTcNuGJ.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||IATA urges Mumbai ATC to implement new surveillance broadcast system for better communication with aircraft||The International Air Transport Association (IATA), which represents 290 airlines globally, has written to the Mumbai air traffic control (ATC) to implement the Space-based Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast (SADS-B) system sooner for effective communication with flights over the country’s oceanic regions. This comes after the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has successfully run trials of the system for the last six months. SADS-B is a technology that not only allows an aircraft to automatically send its location updates via satellites to traffic controllers but also assesses and allows requests from pilots to deviate from their original flight route in case of bad weather (cyclone like conditions) over the Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean.HT had earlier reported about the safety advantages of the system that has also received positive feedback from both the Mumbai and Chennai ATC. When fully implemented, India will be the only South Asian country to adopt it.IATA, in its letter, accessed by HT, has stated that SADS-B can be utilised to identify flights that deviate from their path, which will result in establishing effective communication with the aircraft.IATA has also welcomed efforts by Mumbai ATC in assigning dedicated frequencies (line of communication) for enroute weather-related deviations and associated communication difficulties in the oceanic region.On its part, AAI is yet to finalise a date for running SADS-B technology in a full-fledged manner. “Initially, it was decided to run the technology on trial for a year. But since we have been getting extraordinary results, it’s been decided to commence the use of the technology soon. We are, however, yet to decide on a date,” said a Delhi-based AAI official.SADS-B is manufactured by Aireon, which is certified as an air navigation service provider for an automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast system by the European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). EASA is responsible for civil aviation safety. Aireon has been providing its service to NAV Canada (the country’s civil air navigation), Seychelles, and the United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iata-urges-mumbai-atc-to-implement-new-surveillance-broadcast-system-for-better-communication-with-aircraft/story-2f21GlfhcGOZUzBhcaPtYL.html
13-07-2020||City||Warehouses must adhere to guidelines in Bhiwandi: Thane collector||With 1,600 people testing positive and 49 deaths in Bhiwandi, mostly in areas where godowns are located, the Thane district collector on Saturday said all warehouse owners would face stringent action if they fail to adhere to safety precautions. District collector Rajesh Narvekar has permitted only warehouses which are providing essential services to remain operational.Narvekar held a meeting with Bhiwandi godown owners on Saturday. In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Bhiwandi, the collector said, “We have asked godowns to remain open only for essential services. The owners have to ensure that social distancing is maintained.”“Temperature and blood-oxygen level of all employees need to be tested through the day. Sanitisers should be kept in the godown and wearing masks must be made mandatory at work,” he said.“Around five lakh labourers working in these godowns travel from different areas of Bhiwandi, Kalyan, Shahapur, Thane and Mumbai; some come from rural areas as well. Hence, the chances of them contracting the virus are higher,” said Hiralal Chedda, a godown owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/warehouses-must-adhere-to-guidelines-in-bhiwandi-thane-collector/story-EjRNSzp0ZweB1wi4S7fvnL.html
13-07-2020||City||Vasai doctor who worked through pandemic succumbs to Covid-19||Dr Hemant Patil, 58, who continued to work through the Covid-19 pandemic, succumbed to the infection at a hospital in Vasai on Sunday morning. His wife, too, has tested positive.He was associated with the Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA) and was a councillor with the then Vasai Municipal Council. Patil became a corporator when the Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) was formed in 2009 and headed the civic health committee till 2014.“During the pandemic, Dr Patil led a doctors’ army and convinced the medical fraternity of Vasai to work on a war footing,” said his friend and Vasai MLA Hitendra Thakur. The 58-year-old was the first patient from Palghar to be administered plasma donated by a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) employee from Dewale village in Vasai. Patil’s 27-year-old son had made arrangements for the second round of plasma donation.“We believe he may have been infected on the field,” said Pravin Shetty, mayor, VVMC. “His funeral was held in Vasai on Sunday morning, while maintaining social distancing rules.”Palghar district has 9,349 positive cases, with 7,613 in Vasai-Virar alone. The district has reported a total of 178 deaths, of which 155 were in Vasai-Virar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vasai-doctor-who-worked-through-pandemic-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-UWUAr29AAVH9URv9rSCudP.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Activists oppose Mattewara industrial park, minister sees no ecological harm||Environmental and political activists have opposed the move to set up an industrial park on 1,000-acre land near Mattewara in Ludhiana, terming it as a threat to the forest area and the Sutlej river.Also, an online campaign titled “Save Mattewara forest and Save Punjab” has been started on Facebook and Twitter.Padma Shri awardee environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal said the Punjab government needs to review its decision to set up the industrial park which would be a direct threat to humans as well as wildlife.Parwinder Singh Kitna, an RTI activist, said the government the on the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak last year announced to plant 550 saplings in the every Punjab village, but failed to do the needful.“I will approach the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to oppose the move and protest against the government to save the forest at any cost,” he added.Hakam Singh, a lawyer, said he will file a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the move.Besides, Bhai Ganahiya Cancer Roko Society led by Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja and AAP MLA from Kotkapura, Kultar Singh Sandhwan, have written an open letter to chief minister Amarinder Singh to reconsider the decision.On the other hand, state industries minister Sunder Sham Arora assured that the park won’t harm the ecological balance in the area. “We are planning to bring only green industries to the park. We are developing four such parks across the state to attract the industries for employment generation for the Punjab youth,” he said.In 2014, the then Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party government had mooted to develop the Mattewara forest as a nature reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/activists-oppose-mattewara-industrial-park-minister-sees-no-ecological-harm/story-oc8tN1ZG0YwbtUdU2Vf8NI.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank scam accused Rakesh Wadhawan tests positive for Covid-19||Rakesh Wadhawan, an accused in the ₹6,670 crore Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) bank scam and director of Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL), lodged in the Arthur Road central prison, has tested positive for Covid-19.Wadhawan was admitted to JJ Hospital last week after he complained of breathlessness. He tested positive on Friday and was shifted to GT Hospital, which is a dedicated Covid facility. Hospital sources said that his condition is stable now.Deepak Pandey, inspector-general of police (south range) confirmed the development and said that the jail authority would now ask six inmates who were in close contact with Wadhawan in the Arthur Road jail, to undergo Covid-19 test. This includes Wadhawan’s son Sarang Wadhawan as well.Wadhawan and his son Sarang were arrested on October 3, 2019, by the economic offence wing (EOW) in Mumbai after they were named in the FIR registered by Reserve Bank of India on September 30.EOW in their charge sheet claimed that Rakesh Wadhawan is the key accused of the fraud as the ‘patriarch’ of the HDIL’s business. He gradually plotted the fraud and obtained loans from the bank with the help of other accused, the agency alleged. The police investigation has revealed that HDIL accounted for 73% of the bank’s total loan book.On September 23, 2019, the RBI had placed restrictions on PMC Bank and barred it from proceeding fresh loans or accepting deposits.The EOW has arrested a total of 15 people in the case. All accused have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-scam-accused-rakesh-wadhawan-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-GeUU6WmasfX8jQ1kuQK9jN.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab water regulatory body to oversee installation of new tubewells||To check further depletion of groundwater in the state, the newly constituted Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority (PWRDA) has been mandated to oversee the installation of new tubewells. The body has the powers to restrict and impose conditions on digging of new tubewells besides making their registration mandatory. The Punjab Water Resources (Management and Regulation) Act, 2020, enacted by the state assembly in February this year, also empowers the PWRDA to shut down tubewells used for industrial purposes. Section 15 of the Punjab Water Resources Act says, “The authority may issue directions regarding development, management, or use of groundwater which may include construction and installation of any new structure for its extraction through energised means.” Also, the Act provides the authority the powers to frame rules for allowing new structures to extract groundwater. Nearly 14.5 lakh agricultural tubewells are continuously pumping out subsoil water across the state, even as the rate of extraction is much higher than the recharge rate. The extent of use of the subsoil water could be judged from the fact that thee-fourth of Punjab’s area under agriculture is dependent on it while the central groundwater board says the rate of extraction in the state is 166%.Due to steep fall in subsoil water levels, a large number of tubewells that go dry every year have to be dug again to continue pumping out water for irrigation. “It is good that the state government has decided to check the tubewells dug for extraction of water for agricultural and industrial purposes. Ultimately, we have to do it. There is a tubewell for every three hectares (7.5 acres) in the state,” said Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice chancellor BS Dhillon.Punjab is one of the few states in the country to have constituted a water regulation authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-water-regulatory-body-to-oversee-installation-of-new-tubewells/story-0yeWlmX5eLOyuDlALpR3GL.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||2 killed in separate accidents, one arrested||A 24-year-old biker died, while his pillion rider sustained serious injuries after their bike skidded on the Eastern Express Highway (EEH) flyover, on Saturday evening. Police said the incident occurred when both were headed to Thane after donating blood in Kurla.The deceased Suresh Thakur, 24, was a resident of Wagle Estate in Thane, while Akshay Waikar, 23, who sustained severe injuries, lives near Teen Hath Naka in Thane. The incident occurred around 5pm when Thakur and Waikar were on their way home from Kurla. An officer from Tilak Nagar police station, said, “It appears that Thakur was riding his bike at a very high speed, due to which he could not control the vehicle, and it skidded on the EEH flyover. Both were dragged for around 25 meters on the highway. Thakur sustained severe injury on his head. Both were rushed to Rajawadi Hospital by passers-by. Thakur succumbed to his injuries, while Waikar is out of danger and recuperating in the hospital.”Meanwhile, a 24-year-old doctor was arrested by Powai police after his car dashed into a motorcyclist near the IIT-Powai signal on Sunday morning. The doctor has been identified as Siddharth Satyendra Chaudhary.The victim, Sachin Bhosle succumbed to his injuries. He was a resident of Gavanpada Mulund.According to Powai police the accident occurred at around 5am on Sunday, near the IIT Powai signal on the Jogeshwari Vikhroli Link Road (JVLR). An officer said, “Bhosle was a driver by profession and was on his way to Vile Parle to see his aunt who was in very serious condition. Chaudhary’s car dashed him, while he was on his way to Vile Parle.”Vijay Dalvi, inspector, Powai police station said, “The doctor had just finished his night shift and was on his way to his home. While coming on JVLR he came from the wrong direction, which probably caused the accident. Bhosle was rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead.”The police arrested the doctor and booked him under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code. He was later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-killed-in-separate-accidents-one-arrested/story-Up6ecDMyHdqxL9ipuEwvOI.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder for more stringent curbs to check spread of virus||In view of the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the Punjab government is set to impose more stringent curbs, including restrictions on social, public and family gatherings, as well as mandatory wearing of masks.Announcing this during his #AskCaptain session on Facebook, chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh said strictness was necessary to check the spread of the virus as he did not want Punjab to go the way of Mumbai, Delhi or Tamil Nadu. Asked why the state government was not going for weekend lockdowns, he said Sunday lockdowns were already in place and the government was keeping a close watch on the situation and will do whatever necessary.He exhorted people to adhere to all curbs, and even appealed to political parties to avoid gatherings to save the lives of Punjabis. “It is our joint responsibility to save Punjab. Politics can wait,” he said.Expressing concern over the rising infections, with several frontline workers and even government officials testing positive, the CM said with vaccine still not in sight, it was left to the people to fight the virus. ON INCREASE IN INFECTIONSIn response to a question, Amarinder attributed the increase in Covid cases in Punjab to increased testing and the large number of people coming from outside. “From 700 tests a day initially, testing had gone up to more than 10,000 a day,” he said, adding that in just four days, as many as 63,000 people had entered from other states, including Delhi.To a question on why Punjab was not making Covid negative certificates compulsory for those coming from hotspots like Delhi, as had been done by Himachal Pradesh, the CM said he could not comment on the decision of the neighbouring state but his government was taking its own steps to prevent influx of potential Covid suspects.The CM called upon the people to get themselves checked at the slightest symptom or doubt and not take any chances, as early detection of Covid was essential to preventing deaths. Amarinder assured a Sangrur resident that he would ensure that the faulty CT scan machine in the district government hospital is checked and the problem is rectified.The CM told a UK-based Punjabi wanting to come home to see his mother that the rule on seven-day institutional quarantine, followed by seven days of home quarantine, was mandatory.ON CONTRACTUAL EMPLOYEES Asked about regularisation of contractual employees, Amarinder said the cabinet sub-committee set up to look into the matter would submit its report and a decision would be taken by his government soon.ON GHEE IMPORT FROM PUNE To a concern expressed by a Amritsar resident on the need for Shri Darbar Sahib to buy desi ghee from a private Pune-based company instead of Milkfed, the CM said he was not in favour of this as dairy was the second most important produce in Punjab and had to be supported. He hoped that the SGPC would reconsider its decision.ON HARYANA’S JOB QUOTA Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday ruled out quota for the state’s youth in jobs, on the lines of Haryana, and said he did not think the neighbouring state’s decision would stand judicial scrutiny. Responding to a question during the #AskCaptain session on Facebook, he said the constitution and the law barred any such discrimination in the matter of jobs. He pointed out that Punjabis were employed all over the country, with no restrictions by any state. ON A LIGHTER NOTE Responding to NDA instructor Naib Sub Harbans Singh’s grandson’s submission that the former remembers him fondly and wants to meet him, the Amarinder said “If he can travel please bring him here. One can’t forget old friends and brothers in uniform.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amarinder-for-more-stringent-curbs-to-check-spread-of-virus/story-LY7Riv2SIq6JnjD0h6IXZP.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||CR adds 2 local services on trans-harbour line||Central Railway (CR) will introduce two new local train services for essential service workers in the city starting Monday. The trains will be introduced on the trans-harbour line between Thane and Vashi railway stations.The first train will leave from Thane at 7.30am and arrive at Vashi at 8am. The second will leave from Vashi at 4.30pm and arrive at Thane at 5pm.The trains will halt at Rabale, Koparkhairane, Turbhe and Sanpada railway stations.“These services are not for the general public. Only essential staff as identified by the state government will be permitted to travel by these selected suburban services,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway.The zonal railway is currently operating 352 local train services on its main, harbour and trans-harbour lines. Western Railway (WR) is operating 202 local services for essential workers in the city.(With inputs from Ankita G Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cr-adds-2-local-services-on-trans-harbour-line/story-u1bVS2RFyCn9TDAatx1DxK.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||Seven held for stealing valuables worth ₹89.88 lakh from custom department warehouse||Sewri police on Saturday arrested seven persons for stealing valuables worth ₹89.88 lakh from the custom department’s warehouse, at Hajibandar, Sewri.The accused stole valuables such as handbags, jewellery, mobile accessories, etc that were seized by customs.Kiran Mandhare, sub-inspector, Sewri police station said, “On June 26, we received a complaint from the customs warehouse superintendent about the theft of valuables worth ₹89.88 lakh. After which we scanned the CCTV camera and alerted our informers. On Saturday, we conducted raids at Reay Road, Byculla and Sewri, and traced seven accused involved in the crime. “We have recovered valuables worth ₹25lakh from them and are investigating further,”The arrested accused identified as Sajid Mohammad Arif Shaikh alias Mulla, 19, Karam Husain Shaikh, 52, Mamtya alias Satyvel Harijan, 48, Mohammad Yusuf Mulla, 27, Irshad Pathan, 62, Ganesh Kavdare, 35, Shahrukh Khan, 26.An officer said, “The theft was being carried out for two months. The accused took advantage of lockdown and went inside the warehouse through the window. They stole goods in small quantities. During the day, they hid the stolen items at the nearby isolated corner, and in the night time, the goods were shifted to their hideouts at Sewri, Byculla and Reay Road,”Sources revealed that the accused are habitual offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seven-held-for-stealing-valuables-worth-89-88-lakh-from-custom-department-warehouse/story-83dPzBlRNu8gK9tB2CM0QO.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records 49,496 cases in 40 days of relaxations||Forty days of relaxation of curbs, which began on June 3, gave Mumbai 49,496 new cases and 3,871 deaths – 53.2% of the total cases in the city.The Maharashtra health department data shows that on June 3, Mumbai had 43,492 cases and 1,417 deaths, which went up to 92,988 cases and 5,288 deaths, on July 12. In the same period, the fatality rate increased to 5.68% from 3.25%. One of the reasons is the addition of 1,500 deaths by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) after reconciliation of figures. In this period, the recovery rate of the city, too, went up to 69%, from 40%.On Sunday, Mumbai recorded 1,243 fresh cases and 44 deaths. The number of discharged patients stood at 64,872 and active cases at 22,540. The city’s doubling rate is 50 days.Cabinet minister and Worli MLA from Shiv Sena Aaditya Thackeray on Sunday tweeted: “Mumbai at a doubling day rate of 50. That’s going to remain there only with the efforts of citizens, precautions we take for ourselves and others.”In Mumbai, 3.91 lakh tests have been conducted until Sunday, according to BMC data.Experts and officials indicated the authorities will continue to impose restrictions and give relaxations gradually in the coming days.Mumbai mayor and Shiv Sena corporator Kishori Pednekar said, “The numbers are increasing and we are getting new cases also from high-rises. It may be because of the relaxations, but we cannot afford to have Mumbai under lockdown forever. We have to relax lockdown norms and also be cautious at the same time. Also, citizens need to understand that they should not venture out if they have no valid reason.”Dr Shashank Joshi, expert member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said the scenario would depend on how the relaxations are implemented. “The absolute numbers have flattened in Mumbai, growth rate has gone down and doubling rate has gone up to 50 days. In Mumbai, the situation looks pretty good, but to be cautious, we should keep in place lockdown measures such as asking citizens not to travel long distance unnecessarily. Another two weeks, and the situation in the city will be much better.”Joshi said, “Our concern right now is towns in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) where cases are rising. We have to aggressively conduct testing and tracing in MMR…We will again start unlocking in future, but we have to be mindful, slow and gradual. We also have to maintain high hygiene. We have to keep locking and unlocking.”BMC has opted for aggressive testing in Mumbai and from July 7 allowed anyone to get tested without a prescription. BMC had also asked ward officers in the western suburbs to use antigen kits and conduct at least 250 tests using it daily. Owing to this, BMC had anticipated a little spike in the number of cases, however, the picture will be clear by month-end, said experts.Meanwhile, Dharavi,one hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement recorded only five cases on Sunday, bringing the area’s total case count to 2,375 of which 2,016 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-49-496-cases-in-40-days-of-relaxations/story-wo41laFhtLcKsQTHq2qBII.html
13-07-2020||Mumbai||Dubey aide Arvind Trivedi remanded in judicial custody, will be taken to UP for interrogation||Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on Sunday produced Arvind Ramvilas Trivedi, an associate of slain gangster Vikas Dubey and Trivedi’s driver Sushilkumar Suresh Tiwari in Thane court. Both were sent to judicial custody till July 21.ATS officers said the Uttar Pradesh police are on the way to Mumbai to take them to Kanpur to investigate their involvement in the killing of eight policemen by Dubey and his associates.ATS official said Trivedi and his driver fled from UP soon after the killing of eight policemen at Bikru village near Kanpur, in the intervening night of July 2 and 3, by Dubey and his associates. “Both came to Madhya Pradesh and from there they came to Pune hiding in a truck. After that they changed the vehicle and took another truck to Kolshet in Thane” said ATS official.“The Juhu unit of the ATS received a tip-off regarding Trivedi alias Guddan. The Juhu unit under the guidance of superiors laid a trap at Kolshet road, Thane and nabbed the wanted accused Arvind Ramvilas Trivedi and his driver,” ATS officers said in their statement.Dubey, who was a history-sheeter and has approximately 60 criminal cases against him, absconded and was ultimately arrested in Ujjain on July 9. He was killed in an encounter on July 10, while being brought back to Kanpur by UP Police.Trivedi is suspected of being involved in the murder of UP state minister Santosh Shukla, who was killed inside Shivli police station in Kanpur, in 2001. Dubey was the main accused in the case, which saw 25 policemen, brought in as eyewitnesses to the murder, turn hostile in court. UP state government had announced a reward of ₹50,000 in exchange for information on Trivedi’s whereabouts.Following Trivedi’s arrest, UP Police issued a press statement confirming that Trivedi was an associate of Dubey. “Following the arrest made by Maharashtra ATS, it has come to light that Arvind Trivedi is an old member of Vikas Dubey’s gang. Investigations are being conducted to ascertain if he was involved in the incident at Bikru village. Arvind has not been named in the FIR,” said UP Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dubey-aide-arvind-trivedi-remanded-in-judicial-custody-will-be-taken-to-up-for-interrogation/story-OaQYsSc4rlfg0rzMxRb7HJ.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Covid doubling rate improves to 21 days||At 21 days, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Haryana continued to improve even as the state reported 658 fresh cases and four fatalities on Sunday. Doubling rate means the number of days in which corona cases double. Last Thursday, India’s Covid-19 doubling rate was 21.8 days.As per the data of the state health department, the infection doubling rate of the state had on June 10 reached seven days, but saw improvement as it reached 20 days by July 10. On Sunday, Haryana’s corona count mounted to 21,240 with 4,956 active cases.As per the health bulletin, two patients succumbed to the respiratory disease in Sonepat and one each died in Nuh and Gurugram, taking the total number of fatalities to 301. National capital region (NCR) district of Faridabad registered 222 cases and continued with the trend of reporting the largest number of infections. Gurugram saw 112 cases, while 101 infections were detected in Sonepat.As per the bulletin, 26 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Rohtak, 35 in Palwal, 25 in Karnal, 24 in Hisar, 22 in Jhajjar, 19 in Panipat, 16 in Nuh, 12 each in Bhiwani and Ambala, eight each in Kaithal and Kurukshetra, six in Sirsa, four in Fatehabad, and three each in Panchkula and Yamunanagar. Gurugram has 1,026 active cases, followed by 932 in Faridabad and 700 in Sonepat.The bulletin stated that there were 71 critically ill patients admitted to different hospitals. While 60 of them required oxygen support, 11 were on ventilators.Haryana on Sunday said it was conducting 14,699 tests per million and the covid positivity rate was 5.79% in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-covid-doubling-rate-improves-to-21-days/story-AXueK5SO8Jsnmsx6y5shyN.html
13-07-2020||City||31 more test positive in Himachal, tally rises to 1,213||Himachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded 31 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,213, officials said.Ten cases were reported in Solan district, six cases in Kangra, four each in Shimla and Sirmaur, three in Una, two in Chamba and one each in Mandi and Bilaspur.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Praajapti said a 59-year-old man and his 26-year-old daughter, residents of Chhatri village of Shahpur, were among the new patients. They have no travel history and health authorities were tracing the source of infection.A 13-year-old girl from Jawali area, whose father is already under treatment has tested positive.Besides, a 6-year-old boy of Ghar Harsar has contracted the disease. His father too is a Covid-19 patient. A 55-year-old woman of Jasinghpur, who had returned from Delhi, has tested positive and kept in institutional quarantine. The sixth patient is a 53-year-old man who returned from Uttar Pradesh.In Chamba, two men have tested positive. One of them returned from Dubai and the other from Kerala. A 22-year-old woman, who returned from Gurugram, tested positive in Mandi. In Bilaspur a Kuwait-returned youth is positive.Ten cases were reported in Baddi industrial area of Solan district. Most of them are migrant workers who work in industrial units.Four cases each reported in Shimla and Sirmaur and three in Una.273 ACTIVE CASES, 916 CUREDHimachal breached the 1200-mark in 115 days of reporting its first case on March 20. As many as 916 have been cured while active cases stand at 273. Nine people have succumbed to the virus while 13 patients had migrated out. Till date, 100,315 samples have been tested in the state.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 309 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 272 cases. Solan has 187 cases, Una 141, Chamba 61, Shimla 59, Bilaspur 52, Sirmaur 46, Mandi 39, Kinnaur 35, Kullu 8 and Lahaul-Spiti district 4.MORE THAN 86% CURED IN HAMIRPURThe recovery rate in Hamirpur, the second worst hit district in Himachal has crossed over 86%.Of the total 272 cases reported in the district till date, 134 have recovered. The district has also recorded three causalities, the highest number in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/31-more-test-positive-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-1-213/story-rmwUI4wwuFox13Z9us6u5K.html
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four deaths, 234 fresh Covid cases in state||Punjab on Sunday reported four deaths and 234 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state tally to 7,821 and death toll to 199.The state has 2,230 active cases while 5,392 patients have been cured and discharged from various hospitals in the state, according to the media bulletin released by the state government.Two Amritsar residents died of Covid-19 at government medical college and hospital (GMCH) on Sunday, health officials said. “The dead include a 42-year-old man of Sant Avenue, and a 50-year-old resident of Gate Hakima.The district also reported 22 fresh cases on Friday, of which 16 are fresh community transmission cases and 6 are close contacts of the Covid-19 patients. A 90-year-old Malerkotla woman and a 60-year-old female from Ludhiana died of COVID- 19 in separate health facilities of in the city. Besides, 31 persons, including three Punjab police ASIs, three international travellers and two healthcare workers were tested positive of Covid-19 in the district. Eleven people tested positive in Sangrur district. These include four from Moonak, two each from Malerkotla, Sunam and Longowal and one from Sangrur.Twenty-two persons, including Patiala’s senior deputy mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi tested for coronavirus. Of the total cases, 10 are from Patiala city, nine from Samana and one each from Ghanaur, Rajpura and Patran. Former minister Mohinder Singh Kaypee ad 27 others contracted the infection in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, 26 fresh cases were reported from Mohali and 10 from Bathinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-deaths-234-fresh-covid-cases-in-state/story-YSL7A57NfnuClUuSBDRpBJ.html
13-07-2020||Lifestyle||Oops, we did it! Say denizens as #WFH life comes with a pinch of laughter||Who knew that the #WorkFromHome (WFH) life will come packed with its own dose of laughter from time to time. While balancing work from home and work for home, hilarious incidents (read accidents) have been reported by denizens on social media. In one of the funniest #WFH accidents, Gurugram-based Sunita Upreti accidentally created a master chef delicacy that she named Charcoal Paratha. Upreti recalls, “One morning while I was making paneer paratha for my daughter, she called me to fix some laptop problem as she was unable to attend her online class. I got so engrossed in it that while juggling to help her out and answering an official phone call, I forgot about the paratha I had put on the burner. I returned to the kitchen to see a perfectly and evenly burnt Charcoal Paneer Paratha! Managing affairs of the home, a kid and work has never been easy, however, these small and sweet #WFH incidents bring fun, laughter and memories to cherish.” Imagine being 10 minutes into a video meeting call, only to be called out by your boss for wearing a half pressed half crinkled shirt! This is exactly what happened with Gurugram resident Niranjan Sankar, who had to attend an emergency video conferencing call and didn’t get the time to iron his shirt as he was busy washing utensils. “Our RWAs have allowed house helps to come in, however, my house help had left for his village, so the entire load of doing the dishes and mopping the floor is on us. As I live alone in the city, I cannot seek help from anybody in these socially distant times so have to manage work calls along with the household chores,” laughs Sankar. Recounting his first-hand experience at WFH mishap, Sankar adds, “I was half way into the video call and my boss suddenly said that ‘One sleeve and part collar of your shirt is extremely crinkled and shrunken while the other is flawlessly ironed’. The entire team pinned my video screen on to their desktop and started giggling. I quickly apologised and tried to stammer my way out of this by trying my best to divert the topic!”A common problem most of us have faced in our #WFH life is of being inducted in numerous work related WhatsApp groups. Ruchi Shrivastav, a Noida resident, faced a precarious situation when recently she ended up sending a message to an incorrect WhatsApp group. “Before the pandemic, I used to head to the vegetable shop in my society to buy vegetables. Our RWA has now prohibited that we move about unnecessarily in public places as a Covid-19 positive case has come up in our society. Residents have now been instructed to WhatsApp their list of essentials to the vegetable vendor at the condominium. I usually engage in a friendly bargaining with the vendor whenever I place a WhatsApp order. Since I have been working from home, I’m part of innumerable office WhatsApp groups. Accidentally, I sent a text on my office group saying ‘Bhaiya dhaniya kitne bhav di? Aajkal aap zyaada mehenga dene lage ho. Is gareeb pe bhi daya karlo. Office walo ne toh zindagi kharab kari huyi hai.” Shrivastav adds, “Someone replied ‘Hum office wale itne bhi bure nahi hai yaar’. And that’s when I realised the mistake I had made... I sent dhaniya, aaloo list on my office group! I then quickly deleted the message and tried to pretent that it was a funny forward. But, I know that my cover was blown.”Work from home life is replete with phone calls and meetings to discuss updates on various projects. However, what denizens are unable to plug out is the background noise of their family members amid phone calls. Rishab Kumar, a Delhiite, sharing one such recent incident, says, “I have to be on work related phone calls and somehow that is the time my wife finds fit to excessively physically gesture and ask what will I have to eat at lunch. Even when I wave her away, she starts trying to clean the room. When I look at her with a blank expression because of all the noise in the background, she usually responds with a loud ‘Kya hua? Maine kya kiya!’ Life is all about taking things easy. Working from home can be tough and things will always go out of control. However, we must learn to roll with things. After I get over with my official phone calls, I spend the day with my family, playing games and laughing loudly while watching movies. #WFH isn’t all that bad.” Interact with the author @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/oops-we-did-it-say-denizens-as-wfh-life-comes-with-a-pinch-of-laughter/story-Te45z1W3LO9WMXt2lwOHfO.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi to use digital maps to spot areas with isolated Covid-19 cases||The Delhi government has engaged geospatial mapping tools to locate areas that recorded isolated Covid-19 cases, a senior government official said on Sunday.Geospatial mapping involves creating maps of an area and plotting required data- in this case isolated cases. This will provide information to the administration to understand spatial patterns and relationships.The Delhi government has engaged its company Geospatial Delhi Limited (GSDL) for the purpose. Similar mapping exercises had earlier helped the district officials in identifying Covid clusters and zonal allocation of home isolation cases, said the senior Delhi government official.“Effective steps are being taken to identify localities which recorded isolated Covid cases, in adherence to guidelines issued by the government. Use of technology will ensure more accuracy in this regard,” said Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev.Once the locations concerning isolated Covid-19 cases are identified, the district officials – under a government order issued last week – will create a databases of high-risk individuals and special surveillance groups in those areas. “These are areas in which cluster cases were never recorded and was not sealed as containment zones. Now, since the Covid-19 situation is slightly under control, the surveillance strategy can be expanded to cover such areas that record isolated cases,” said a senior official in the Delhi health department.While high-risk individuals include residents aged over 60 years, pregnant women, people with influenza-like symptoms and those with comorbidities. Special surveillance groups would cover domestic workers, self employed individuals such as plumbers, electricians, mechanics, etc, those engaged in sale and supply of essential commodities and taxi, rickshaw and autorickshaw drivers operating in the area, said the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the government in this regard.“Once the locations are ascertained, we shall be taking help of resident welfare groups, autorickshaw and taxi driver unions, etc to reach out to individuals who may come under special surveillance group in each such identified locality,” said a district magistrate who did not wish to be identified.Both high-risk individuals and those under the special surveillance groups would be screened and enlisted for rapid antigen tests in the nearest centre, the official added.Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on the developmentJugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, said: “It is important to locate areas that recorded isolated covid cases for better surveillance and the use of technology in this regard is a welcome move. The focus of the government should now be to trace maximum cases and engage focussed surveillance methods.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/geospatial-mapping-to-locate-analyse-isolated-cases/story-vuPm4za6v2BLC8OxXGcY0K.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||Most patients at home, AIIMS docs to generate e-prescriptions||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi has developed a real-time telemedicine dashboard for the out patient departments (OPDs). With this, patients can access the teleconsultation facility and doctors can access test reports, conduct online classes and exams and generate e-prescription for patients.OPD services resumed in the hospital last week after a break of almost three months due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“We have an in-house team of computer programmers that worked tirelessly to develop this dashboard to suit the needs of tele-consultaion services that AIIMS is providing to its patients. The online registration system at the hospital is also integrated with this dashboard so all doctors can see their complete list of appointments for the day,” said Dr A Shariff, professor anatomy, chairman, telemedicine facility, AIIMS.Through the new online registration system, a patient gets a username and password and a link to the video consult on the dashboard. For those patients who do not have an advanced phone, the audio consultation facility is also available on this dashboard. There will be no online walk-in consultations unless the doctors specifically asks for it, and only those patients with a prior appointment will be added to the list.“The patients can use the username and password to log in. The doctor then becomes the host for the tele-consultation. Doctors can use either a mobile phone or a desk to access the dashboard,” he added.Prescriptions generated on the dashbboard will be converted into a text message and sent to the patient’s phone. The team tested the dashboard initially with OPDs of three departments— geriatrics, orthopaedics, and paediatric surgery, before expanding it to eight more departments on last Monday.OPDs of about 11 departments are currently using the dashboard, and in next 10 days all the 45 departments will be moved to this tele-consultation module. AIIMS has nearly 45 departments, and runs scores of multi-speciality clinics on a daily basis.The dashboard is currently being evaluated for user feedback. From each department there is a doctor who will be a nodal member to put forward suggestions for improvement.“It is currently being tested for any glitches; every feedback received is being carefully studies and efforts are being made to rectify the problem and modify the dashboard to make it easy to operate by all, including patients and staff,” said Vivek Gupta, associate professor, ophthalmology, and assisting faculty for managing the computer and telemedicine facilities.The faculty has also been using the software to conduct online undergraduate and post-graduate classes, and also conducting exams.“I have used the software and it is a very smooth platform. I have conducted exams also on this and there were absolutely no glitches. This can be easily expanded and our expert team is working to further improve it,” said professor Nikhil Tandon, endocrinology department, AIIMS. The team plans to eventually move all departments and operations related to AIIMS on this platform. “It will be an integrated system that will house every function related to AIIMS,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/most-patients-at-home-aiims-docs-to-generate-e-prescriptions/story-lLseD0FRC7GId8JC6C5uMK.html
13-07-2020||City||With Covid rules, Delhi ready to begin sports training for school students||School students in Delhi will be able to resume training in the stadiums and sports complexes run by Directorate of Education (DoE), following the Delhi government coming up with standard operating procedures for resumption of sports.The DoE’s sports branch operates three stadiums --- Chhatrasal, Thyagaraj and Bawana-- and 32 sports complexes, including the ones in East Vinod Nagar, Ludlow Castle, Najafgarh, Mundhela Kalan, among others. These sports facilities were shut since March in view of the nationwide lockdown to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease. Dharmender Singh, Deputy Director of Education (Sports), said the Bawana stadium will not be used for sports training immediately. “The Bawana stadium is currently under the District Magistrate concerned so we will not be able to resume sports activities there. But we are ready to start sports training at the other two stadiums and sports complexes. We have already issued the SoPs, we have also procured masks and equipment to sanitise the premises. Formally, the stadiums and sports complexes are open now, he said.These sports facilities are mostly used by school students and private academies, clubs and coaches. DoE officials said more than 5,000 sportspersons, majority of them students from both government and private schools, were enrolled for training in these stadiums and complexes till March. According to the SoPs, the sports activities will resume in three phases, with only 5-10 people being allowed initially. It will be followed by larger groups and then full training by teams and sports competitions. “The SOPs have been made to ensure that sportspersons can utilise the facilities without compromising the health of the users as well as the community at large,” the SoPs stated.Depending on the extent of physical contact during the training, sports have been divided into three categories. For instance, in sports where there is minimal contact such as archery, shooting, cycling and athletics, there should be a social distance of 1.5 to 2 metres between the players and the staff, as per the rules.For football, volleyball, hockey and basketball there can a limited physical contact, sharing of equipment and a maximum of three can train together. The pitch will also be divided in three to four parts for different groups. “The players will stick to their groups in order to avoid spread of infection, in case anyone is tested positive for Covid-19,” the SoPs state. For maximum contact sports such as boxing, judo, wrestling and karate, the SoPs advise use of punching bags, sacks and choke dummies instead. Sharing of personal equipment has also been prohibited. However, the equipment which are bound to be shared will be sanitised after every use.The facilities are now open between 6.30am to 9.30am and 4.30pm to 7.30pm for all students above 10 years and private academies and coaches. “All those visiting the centres will be screened. There shall be a proper sanitising equipment at the main entrance. A written confirmation shall be submitted before entering the premises by every sportsperson declaring their Covid-19 symptom-free condition,” the SoPs stated.On being asked about the rules on wearing face masks during training, Singh said, “It will not be possible for the sportsperson to wear masks while training. It will affect their training.However, it’s mandatory to wear face masks at all times when a person is not playing/training. That’s why we have issued strict norms on maintaining physical distance.”Several teachers said that the resumption of sports activities was required since students and sportspersons have lost precious training time due to lockdown. Ajay Veer Singh, a physical education and sports teacher at a government school in Jhandewalan, said, “It’s been over three months that our students have not had any sports training. We are really excited to welcome them back on the field. However, it will be challenging to adhere to all the rules and regulations amid the pandemic. We will also prepare diet charts to boost their immunity in view of the prevalent situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-covid-rules-delhi-ready-to-begin-sports-training-for-school-students/story-xVUTYwu6zK592n7nrK6cTI.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||Three months later, five areas in Delhi still under containment||GTB Enclave’s Block E was among the first 23 containment zones announced by the Delhi government in April to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city. But more than three months later, the northeast Delhi locality continues to be sealed off, and subject to stringent checks.Like GTB Enclave, there are four other areas — blocks K and G in Jahangirpuri, Majlis Park in Adarsh Nagar and Hauz Rani, which have remained containment zones for more than three months.While Savitri Enclave in Malviya Nagar figures in the Delhi government’s containment zone list, the south district administration said it has been de-sealed. Nearly 58 localities were declared containment zones in May. As on Sunday, Delhi had 652 containment zones. With new cases continuing to spring up in some of these areas, residents are beset by uncertainty, frustration and a longing for a return to a semblance of normalcy.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage District officials said there were still some major reasons because of which these zones have remained sealed for months. According to a district official, these include the presence of several medical professionals living in some zones, the 28-day rule for de-sealing a containment zone, and continuous movement of people within the zone despite strict curbs. District administration officials said they have raised the matter with the Delhi government. As per the Centre’s orders, a containment zone can be de-sealed 28 days after the last Covid-19 case has recovered or tested negative. Senior Delhi government officials said they are considering writing to the Centre, asking for this policy to be re-examined.A Delhi government spokesperson said, “We are adhering to the Central government’s guidelines for containment zones. We can’t modify it.”Divisional commissioner with the Delhi government Sanjeev Khirwar said, “We are thinking about writing to the Government of India to relook at the policy for de-sealing a containment zone with regard to length of the containment period. Our main aim is to control the spread of the infection. The decision to de-seal an area has to be taken as per the protocol set by the Union health ministry. Meanwhile, we have redrawn the boundaries of several containment zones to break them into smaller areas for better surveillance.”Also read: Scant space for social distance in Delhi’s congested walled cityIn a containment zone for 77 days, Naveen Jain (55), a stock market investor who lives in lane 3 in Majlis Park said he and other residents have approached district authorities to limit containment to houses where positive cases are kept in home quarantine.“One person was recently placed in home quarantine, because of which the entire lane continues to be a containment zone. The person has recovered 10 days back. We have been in containment for 77 days and district authorities say we will have to wait for another 18-20 days. What if another case is reported during this period? How long will we have to stay the containment zone? The government must revise its guidelines,” Jain said.These areas continue to be containment zones, though some are much smaller now, even after the Delhi government in June redrew the boundaries of containment zones, breaking them into smaller clusters for better surveillance and control of the outbreak. The number of containment zones in the city jumped from 280 to 421 on June 28 after the boundaries were reworked. In June, the Centre and the Delhi government had agreed to deploy a revamped strategy to fight Covid-19 and decided to remap the containment zones for improved scrutiny. A district magistrate who asked to stay anonymous said, “One of the main reasons we still see Covid-19 cases in these areas is because several medical professionals and health care workers live in these areas. But the 28-day rule should be re-examined, especially when we are reporting a large numbers of cases in these areas. By the time we are about to complete 28 days, a new case is reported in the containment zone, and we are not able to de-seal many of the old containment zones.”Several residents of GTB Enclave, which has over 1,000 flats, are medical professionals who work in nearby government-run facilities like Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital GTB, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, Delhi State cancer Institute and Swami Dayanand Hospital. Similarly, south Delhi’s Hauz Rani, which was declared a containment zone on April 16, houses several nurses who work in nearby private hospitals and nursing homes, a senior south district official said.Another district magistrate, who asked not to be named, said, “They are part of essential services and most of them work in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. Their movement can’t be restricted. But due to this, there are cases being reported in these localities.”With the Delhi government starting rapid antigen tests, with a focus on containment zones, from June 18, more people have tested positive for the infectious disease, said a Shahdara district official.MM Tripathi, general secretary of E pocket GTB Enclave said, “For doctors and other medical staff, we have fixed timings for the gates to be opened. Of the five gates in the pocket, three are permanently closed.”While the area is a containment zone, Tripathi said there are barely any restrictions on movement. “After mid-May, even residents not working in essential services, have been going to offices. But street vendors are not allowed to open their stalls in the colony and shops, apart from those selling essential items, are closed.”Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said the containment zones are not serving any purpose now when Delhi has registered over 100,000 Covid-19 cases and most economic activities have resumed, under the Centre’s Unlock 2.0 plans. “The idea of containment zones was to contain the spread of the disease, especially in the initial stage when we were trying to ramp up our medical infrastructure. Now, when we have adequate hospital beds and alternative strategies such as home isolation in place, there is no need to have containment zones, especially when people’s movement within such an area is allowed,” he said.While these continue to containment zones, district administrations have redrawn the boundaries so that at least some parts of these areas can be de-sealed.For instance, the Hauz Rani containment zone is much smaller now than what it was on April 16, when it was first declared a containment zone, a senior district official said. “There were three containment zones initially, which were further divided into five last month. Now we have just one containment zone, which we are trying to de-seal,” a south district official said.Similarly, in Majlis Park, there were three lanes declared as one containment zone on April 26. While two lanes have been de-sealed, one remains shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-months-later-five-areas-in-delhi-still-under-containment/story-rOcCbjx5kYb60CPaRtv8HL.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi airport to get automatic tray retrieval system; security checks to get faster||Security checks at the Indira Gandhi International Airport will be quicker September onwards, with the airport operator installing 10 Automatic Tray Retrieval Systems (ATRS), a roller-based set-up that will return luggage trays to the starting point after passengers collect their belongings from it. In effect, senior officers said, the system would reduce the need for human intervention to return the trays to the starting point, thus freeing up Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel to frisk almost double the passengers it does at present.The Delhi airport operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) and CISF are together working on installing the systems.“At present, CISF personnel who conduct security checks manually collect the trays so they can be reused. ATRS will completely do away with the manual intervention, which will increase our efficiency by at least 60-75%. At present we clear around 180-200 passengers every hour at Delhi airport. After installation of the ATRS, we expect the number to go up by at least 330-350 passengers every hour,” said MA Ganapathy, special director general, CISF.The officer added that the ATRS will also end passengers’ hassle of looking around for trays and waiting for others to finish using them, as the system will continuously circulate the available trays.The trays will have radio-frequency identification tags and will be under constant surveillance of CCTV cameras, he said.All 10 ATRS are currently being installed at the Terminal 3 domestic area, DIAL said.“We will commission all 10 ATRS by the end of September this year,” the airport operator said in a statement.“It will also help keep the queues shorter, as four passengers can offload their belongings on the trays at the same time,” the spokesperson said.DIAL said it plans to install the ATRS in other terminals progressively. “After installing 10 lanes in the domestic side of Terminal 3, we have plans to install another 12 lanes on the international side of T3, and 24 lanes in Terminal 1 in a phased manner,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/expect-quick-security-checks-at-delhi-airport-with-automatic-tray-retrieval-system-this-september/story-fGJrkZaiIBuAwJ3QyACftJ.html
13-07-2020||Delhi||Scant space for social distance in Delhi’s congested walled city||Tell Khalil Ahmed that you want to come and visit him in the walled city and he will tell you to make sure you wear a PPE kit. “I am not saying it for myself; that is perhaps the only way for you to be safe here,” says Ahmed, who lives near Hauz Qazi, in old Delhi, which has always defied urban ideals of order.Social distancing, he adds, is an oxymoron in old Delhi , which has a population of about 12 lakh crammed in an area of 6 square kilometres. “Besides, the walled city has some of the country’s biggest wholesale bazars, attracting thousands of people from all parts of country. Call it a lack of choice or education, but most people here no longer care about corona.”World Health Organisation advises maintaining a distance of at least 1 metre (3 feet) from others to prevent contracting corona infection through droplets sprayed during speaking, coughing, sneezing, etc. Ahmed is not exaggerating. Like ever before, roads and lanes around Jama Masjid and many other parts of the walled city are jammed, with pedestrians, rickshaws, e- rickshaws, carts, jostling for space, leaving little room for social distancing.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Not that no one is trying. There are announcements everyday on loudspeakers in many markets and mosques, exhorting people to maintain social distancing. “This is aimed at making people understand the dangers of Covid- 19 and how it is the religious duty of everyone to keep themselves and others safe,” says Abu Sufiyan, a resident of the walled city who runs, Purani Dilli Walon Ki Baatein, a well-known walled-city blog.Sufiyan, who lives in Suiwalan, says while the walled city has opened, he tries to stay at home as much as possible, preferring to venture out only in the afternoons when the streets are comparatively less crowded. But finding those empty hours in the ever-bustling old Delhi is quite a challenge for those who are cautious of Covid-19.Forget the capital’s politics and pollution, the population, they will tell you is the biggest problem here, its density breaching all acceptable limits. “There are houses with as many as ten families. So, even if a fraction of the population ventures out, its congested roads and lanes become so crowded,” says Sufiyan.Also read: Most patients at home, AIIMS docs to generate e-prescriptionsAnother problem, many in Shahjahanabad , once a flourishing centre of art , culture, poetry, say, is that it has had its own socio-cultural mores, which have endured for over three centuries. “Everyone here has inherent sociability, and they are finding switching to social distancing pretty difficult,” says Mohammad Naeem, co-founder, Hazrat Shah Waliullah Library , who lives in Pahari Imli, near Choori Walan. “Used to abysmal lack of access to healthcare, people here have failed to appreciate the dangers posed by coronavirus. I believe that the government should set up a testing centre here.”The story is no different in other parts of the walled city. Many people are changing their workdays and hours. Take , for example, Ankit Agarwal who lives in west Delhi and has office in Chawri Bazar. Unlike in the past, when Sunday was a holiday, he now chooses to go to his office on Sunday—the only day, when, he says, he has some chance of maintaining social distance in the walled city. “Social distancing is an idea, which faces a test everyday in the walled city. The problem is that a lot of people here are out on the roads without any purpose,” says Agarwal , who was born and bought up in the walled-city. “Surprisingly, even now people here do not want to miss their daily dose of samosa and Kachori. Just go and witness the scene around Chawri Bazar Metro Station.”Also read: With Covid rules, Delhi ready to begin sports training for school studentsWell, Agarwal, is referring to the old Delhi tradition of breakfast congregations at confectionery shops, where one can catch whiff of steaming samosas and kachoris , with dozens of people crowding around food stalls. While the Metro station remains closed, the area around it retains its chaotic din, with labourers shopkeepers and shoppers going about their business.And not all wear masks as they walk in close proximity in crowded streets. “Sometimes it is hard to breathe in the mask while pulling the cart. I feel suffocated,” says Rakesh Kumar, a daily- wage labourer. Ask him about ‘social distancing’, and he looks at you bewildered.Dinesh Kumar Goyal, who runs one of the most famous camera shops in the Camera market in Chandni Chowk , says the walled city is a great leveller, and your socio-economic status does not make social distancing any easier. “ Here, everyone has to walk through the same crowded streets with all the attendant risks. Most people who live here do not have the choice of driving from home to office, because there are no parking spaces near their houses and cars have to be parked at Parade Ground at Red Ford, which could be a couple of kilometers away depending on where one lives in the walled city ,” says Goyal, adding that his business has taken a severe beating.“Sales are down by 85 per cent as most of my customers are from outside the walled city, who do not want to come here because they believe it will be crowded and dangerous here , though Chandni Chowk is relatively less crowded these days than other markets in old Delhi.”It is 8 pm, and Mohammad Naeem calls to say that he is returning to his home after performing namaz at Jama Masjid. He wants to show us what the scene is like in the evening around Jama Masjid, focusing his phone camera on the crowded road. He is walking in a zigzag motion, trying to maintain social distancing. “Even the most nimble of walkers cannot achieve this feat in this swarm of humans,” he says, ending the call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-room-for-social-distancing-in-walled-city/story-dvA86o1jh1a5ZIdSscYlkI.html
13-07-2020||Gurugram||Qutub Plaza, one of the oldest market complexes in Gurugram, manages to obtain fire safety NOC||For the first time since its establishment in 1988, Qutub Plaza in DLF Phase-1 — one of the first market complexes in the city — has obtained a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the fire department.The Qutub Plaza was one of the first markets to come up in the newer parts of Gurugram, when the city started witnessing a surge in urbanisation.The plaza was facing the prospect of a closure in September 2019, after the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) got permission from the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) to serve a final notice to the market’s association for sealing the complex for failing to obtain a fire safety NOC.As per an inspection conducted by the fire department last year, barring a few fire extinguishers, the complex did not have any other fire-fighting equipment. Fire fighting tools, such as such as water hydrants, hose pipes, sprinkler systems, smoke detectors and sand buckets, were found to be missing, while the corridors of the market were also found to be heavily encroached by vendors.“Upon reinspection of the complex in March 2020, all the necessary fire safety norms, such as the width of the entry and exit passages, the presence of various types of extinguishing equipment, clear staircase and corridors were found at the site. Based on our report, the director-general of Haryana fire service, earlier this month, gave an NOC for a period of five years,” said Satyawan Samriwal, assistant divisional fire officer.Samriwal said that the complex was built almost 20 years before fire safety norms were properly introduced in the state through the Haryana Fire Service Act, 2009 which mandated all buildings above 15 metres need to obtain a fire NOC from the local fire department.“When the building was constructed, the present fire safety norms were not in existence. Hence, no heed was paid on placing any fire-fighting equipment. However, after the Fire Service Act was introduced all such buildings needed to upgrade and ensure the safety norms were being followed. We are working towards ensuring other such complexes, which were built in the city prior to 2009, also follow the necessary norms. Otherwise, we would seal them,” said Samriwal.While Block A of Qutub Plaza, which is one-storey in height, measures 9.25 metres, Block B, which is a four-storey building, measures 20.2 metres. Therefore, the entire complex needed a fire safety NOC, said fire department officials.“We were on the brink of getting sealed from the MCG in September last year. We then approached the district administration and requested them to give us time for installing the necessary fire equipment. Earlier, this year, we completed all the necessary installation and applied for the NOC in March. The NOC was approved earlier this month. We will continue to ensure that all shops in the complex continue to follow the requisite fire safety norms,” said Dr Satish Chillar, general secretary, Qutub Plaza Condominium Association, which manages the complex.There are around 480 different types of commercial spaces in various complexes across the city that include restaurants, banks, retail shops, offices, among others. On average more than 3,000 people visit the Qutub Plaza on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/qutub-plaza-one-of-the-oldest-market-complexes-in-gurugram-manages-to-obtain-fire-safety-noc/story-QAyiCyTj45wdshhKGRSN3J.html
13-07-2020||Gurugram||As humidity rises, frontline workers to get 2,000 ‘breathable’ PPE kits||The Gurugram district administration has placed an order for 2,000 ‘breathable’ personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, which are expected to arrive within the next two to three days.The new PPE kits, officials said, will spell relief for lab technicians and field staff , who at present drape deeply uncomfortable normal coveralls while they are on the field. Officials also insisted that an alternative solution to protect frontline workers was needed soon.The physical challenges of using conventional PPE kits — which do not have any ventilation — in this sweltering heat has forced field staff to rely on more skeletal means of protection, namely gloves, face shields and three-ply masks. “It is quite hard to work when you are wearing a full PPE suit. These days the weather has also become so humid. It slows you down so much, but we have no other choice,” said a lab technician at an antigen camp near Dundahera on Sunday. As per IMD data, average relative humidity in Gurugram rose from about 50% in May to between about 70% throughout the month of June. At present, maximum humidity (recorded at 8:30am) is in the range of 80-85% while minimum humidity (recorded at 5:30pm) is in the region of 60-65%. As the monsoon progresses, these numbers are expected to rise, creating difficult conditions for workers until the summer heat tapers off. On July 12, the maximum humidity was 84% while minimum stood at 62%. Maximum temperature was 35 degrees Celsius, and is expected to touch 37 Celsius toward the end of the week, according to IMD’s forecast for Gurugram.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Another lab technician who has been employed with the district health department since 2011, said, “Masks and gloves are adequate for personal use. But for frontline workers, where there is a much higher risk of exposure, it is not enough. On the other hand, wearing the PPE kit is impossible because it causes dehydration and leaves you extremely drained. There have been multiple instances since April when our own technicians have tested positive for Covid-19.” According to state health department data, frontline workers accounted for at least 12 percent of reported infections in Haryana, till June 28.Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram, said, “The health department, through the deputy commissioner’s office, has requisitioned 2,000 units of ‘breathable’ PPE kits that will be made mandatory for all field staff. These kits will be both hydrophobic (water-repellent) as well as ventilated. The issue is that with Covid-19, transmission happens through water droplets, so PPE kits need to completely impermeable. But this makes them much more hotter to work in.”However, health department officials said that as PPE manufacturing in India has gone up in the last three months, vendors have also begun to offer various design related solutions, to improve conditions for frontline workers. “We have sourced a PPE kit which provides a high degree of breath-ability as well as resistance to fluids. While these suits may not be used in a hospital setting, they should be adequate for field use,” district surveillance officer Sharma added. “It is an important step that we are taking for our staff. If one of them contracts the illness, it slows down our work . The kits will arrive early next week and will be distributed among lab technicians and surveillance staff,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/as-humidity-rises-frontline-workers-to-get-2-000-breathable-ppe-kits/story-Ckq9kruVQ8yiwQXLITQYIO.html
13-07-2020||Noida||Family of missing sales executive alleges police inaction||More than a week after a 25-year-old man went missing from near his home in Greater Noida West, his family has alleged that the local police have not done enough to trace him.Sushil Kumar, a resident of Panchsheel Hynish, who works as a sales executive for a private firm in Sector 88 had went missing on July 4. According to family, a colleague had dropped him off near the society after work. “However, he never entered the society that night and there has been no trace of him since then. The family tried calling him, but his phone was not reachable initially and was later switched off. His older brother filed a missing person’s complaint with the Bisrakh police the next day (July 5),” said Alok Dwivedi, a family friend.Dwivedi said the family had checked will all their relatives and Kumar’s friends and colleagues, but no one had heard from him in the past week. There hasn’t been a ransom call either, but the family is worried that Kumar might have come in some harm’s way like another Greater Noida West resident Gaurav Chandel. Earlier this year on January 6, Chandel, who worked as a manager with a private firm in Gurugram, was killed during a robbery bid on January 6 a few meters away from his house in Gaur City. Kumar’s family has alleged that police officers simply checked his call data records one time. His last location was traced to Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh, Dwivedi said, but the police allegedly have not done anything else to trace himThe police, however, said that a probe in the matter is underway.“We identified Kumar’s last location in UP. There have been two transactions of small amounts from his debit cards: one in Ghaziabad and another in Nagpur. We are waiting for CCTV camera footage from the two cities to verify who was behind the withdrawals. An investigation is on and we will have some answers soon. There has been no ransom call yet, and all angles are being probed,” said Munish Kumar Chauhan, station house officer, Bisrakh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/family-of-missing-sales-executive-alleges-police-inaction/story-c7H9addh7VywKO8TegjiAO.html
13-07-2020||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad traders welcome plan for markets||Ghaziabad/Noida The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday announced a fresh set of guidelines to curb the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. As per the latest order, all markets in the state will be allowed to open from Monday to Friday and they will remain shut for two days on weekends for cleanliness and sanitization drive in order to break the chain of infection.However, traders in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday expressed their apprehensions over the implementation of the new order in the two NCR districts of UP. Markets in both the districts are presently operating on alternate days. Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), said that economic activity will not be hampered during the weekend restrictions, but markets will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays while they will open from 9am to 9pm on weekdays.Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti, Indirapuram, said, “Although the government has given directions for opening markets on five days, we still have apprehension that local authorities may continue with the alternate day opening of markets. In case this continues, a set of markets which were scheduled to open on Saturdays will face major issues. Already, the traders are incurring losses due to restricted three-day opening.” “If the district authorities fully implement the government directions, it will bring relief to traders and shop owners. Five-day opening and 9am to 9pm timing will help traders run their businesses properly. So, we are waiting for directions from local authorities,” Gupta said.Traders in GB Nagar feel that five-day opening of shops will surely help their businesses, but they too are confused with no clear guidelines issued by the district administration.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “In the current system, we are open for three days a week. But five-day a week will definitely be an improvement. The timings of opening markets will be a critical factor in helping standalone businesses,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president, Sector 18 market association in Noida.“The footfall has already been very less. Now, the weekend buyers will have to balance out their own work timings during a weekday. However, there is no clarity on the implementation of the new order in Noida,” he added.Suhas LY, GB Nagar district magistrate, said that he will wait for the orders from the state government and then take a call accordingly.Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate, said, “The Ghaziabad administration is waiting for the government order about opening of markets. Once we receive it, we will be implementing the directions.” Apart from alternate opening days, the markets in Ghaziabad remained shut on Sundays while traders had to deal with different opening and closing timings announced from time to time.On May 22, the Ghaziabad administration issued orders for opening of 34 major markets in different areas from 10am to 5pm. There were subsequent orders that all shops will be allowed to open from 9am to 9pm from June 8.On July 2, the administration further revised timings for shops (from 9am to 7.30pm) after the UP chief secretary on June 30 directed for imposition of night curfew from 8pm to 6am in six districts of Meerut division, which includes Ghaziabad and GB Nagar districts. However, the extended night curfew restriction (8pm to 6am) in Meerut division were applicable till July 10.The state government had directed for two-day weekend restrictions for the first time on Thursday.“The response of the two-day restrictions has been good. Now, the chief minister has directed that markets will open 9am to 9pm from Monday to Friday. The economic activity will continue with functioning of industrial units. Banks will open on Saturdays. However, there will be restriction on social activities,” Awasthi said.“There will be a weekend drive for taking up sanitization and cleanliness. Solid waste lifting and disposal will be ensured. This drive will also include anti-larvae treatment and fogging activities. The industries will also set up Covid help desks and follow protocols,” the additional chief secretary said.The weekend restrictions will remain in place till further orders from the state government, the officials said.The two NCR districts of UP have been witnessing a sudden spurt in number of Covid-19 cases since June. According to the state control room statistics, GB Nagar and Ghaziabad are the only two districts in UP where total Covid-19 count has surged past 3,000 cases. On July 11, the total number of positive cases in GB Nagar and Ghaziabad stood at 3,347 and 3,016, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-ghaziabad-traders-say-concerned-over-order-to-shut-shops-on-weekend/story-axoG6VyoX8JkPxF83GgnGN.html
13-07-2020||Noida||Noida residents demand immediate cleaning of Irrigation drain||Irked with the solid waste and silt accumulated in the Irrigation drain, several residents in the city have asked the Noida authority to de-silt the entire drain immediately. They claimed the authority had not cleaned the Irrigation drain—which carries most of Noida’s sewage and wastewater— on time leaving many residential areas prone to the risk of being waterlogged amid monsoon. The Irrigation drain begins in Ashok Nagar in Delhi and merges with the Yamuna river near Sector 168 after passing through multiple residential sectors in Noida taking along sewage that many smaller drains empty into it.“The drain is full of plastic waste and silt because the Noida authority did not carry out de-silting work on time. The waste accumulated in the drain can lead to waterlogging in many residential areas that include Sector 11, 34, 35, and 51 among others. On Saturday, we filed a complaint with the Noida authority demanding the de-silting of this drain and the authority should de-silt it on a priority basis,” said NP Singh, president, Gautam Budh Nagar district residents’ welfare association (DDRWA), an umbrella body of city’s RWAs.Residents said the drain, which was initially set up a few decades ago to provide water for irrigation in the region—should have been cleaned much ahead of monsoon when the risk of water-borne diseases is higher.“Many vendors, private establishments among other dump waste into the drain and the foul smell that emanates from it subsequently troubles the residents who live in sectors located along the drain. The stench is so strong that we have to keep the windows in our homes shut at all times. In the rainy season, when the risk of water-borne disease is high, the authority should have kept this drain clean. The authority should also install barriers, which can trap the waste material including plastic, over the drain to keep the water channel clean,” said Sanjiv Kumar, general secretary, Sector 51 residents’ welfare association (RWA).The Noida authority officials said that the de-silting of city drains had got delayed due to the coronavirus disease pandemic, but has started now. The authority had started de-silting of drains— 75 main drains and 44 small drains —on June 9 and had set a June-end deadline to finish the job.“We could not de-silt all small and big drains by the June-end deadline due to the pandemic. The de-silting of the Irrigation drain was also delayed as the tendering process was pushed back. But now all the process is over and the cleaning work has started. We have set a target of finishing the de-silting work within the next two days. No drains should be waterlogged as we are de-silting all drains properly,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer, Noida authority and head of the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-residents-demand-immediate-cleaning-of-irrigation-drain/story-831D94FiBDZnEl3pnLiv9K.html
13-07-2020||Pune||10K prisoners released as Covid tally in Maharashtra jails reaches 599||As various prisons in Maharashtra have reported 599 Covid positive cases, the jail administration has been able to free up space inside the prisons by realising over 10,000 prisoners in the past two months.The number of prisoners in 47 jails across Maharashtra is now 26,046 excluding the ones in temporary jails established in various districts, according to statistics provided by the prison department.While the decongestion process has led to a decreased population, it remains to be seen whether it has helped the overcrowding.Maharashtra has a total of 64 jails. The 64 jails include nine central jails, 28 district jails, four sub-jails, one women’s jail, one borstal school, 19 open jails, one special jail and one uncategorised jail.At the end of 2018, Maharashtra jail capacity was 24,095 - 22,830 male and 1,265 female - while the occupancy was 35,884 - 34,264 male and 1,620 female. Overall, the jails were 148.9% occupied. Therefore, the jails in Maharashtra were housing 11,789 more people than they are equipped to.Over crowding at Central JailsThe maximum overcrowding among all jails in Maharashtra was in central jails at 170.70% with 25,333 inmates residing in space meant for 14,841. Therefore, Central jails were housing 10,492 inmates more than its capacity. Which also means that major portion of the overall overcrowding was concentrated in central jails of the state.The nine central jails include Yerawada central jail, Aurangabad central jail, Arthur road Mumbai central jail, Taloja Navi Mumbai central jail, Nagpur central jail, Amravati central jail, Nashik central jail, Thane central jail, and Kolhapur central jail.To function at its capacity, the central jail population needed to decrease by 10,492. However, the nine central jails collectively managed to shed overcrowding by only around 6,500.“We are fairly relieved by the number of prisoners released. It has freed quite a bit of space. It will be heartening if more prisoners are released. After all, until a vaccine or a cure is found, everyone is vulnerable,” said Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police, Maharashtra Prisons.Rejection of bail applicationsAccording to Dr Vijay Raghavan, professor, Centre for Criminology and Justice, School of Social Work, Tata Institute of Social Science (TISS) and project director of Prayas the problem of continued overcrowding is related to the rejection of bail applications by the judiciary, despite High Powered Committee (HPC) guidelines to consider releasing undertrials from certain categories. “If these bail applications had been passed, more than 17,000 prisoners would have been released. The prison department had forwarded the bail applications to the courts, but the discretion to release on bail lies with the courts,” he said.“The courts are responding to these applications as if these are normal times, but we need to realise that these are extraordinary times. There is a lack of sync between the directions given by the high court to maintain hygiene and social distancing in prisons, HPC guidelines to release prisoners and the lower courts passing bail orders,” he said.“Some of the reasons for rejection include issues like the assistant public prosecutor’s say not being on record, case papers not being available, as only 30 per cent court staff is available and so on,” said Dr Raghavan.“These releases are based on HOC recommendations which have two dimensions - temporary bail and government release for convicts. The rules are in black and white. The final discretion is of the courts. HPC can only suggest conditions and recommendations do not have the force of the law,” said Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police, Maharashtra Prisons.District jailsThe overcrowding in central jails is followed by district jails which were housing 8,680 inmates in the space meant for 6,938 inmates - 125.11% capacity.In women’s jail, the capacity was overflowing at 159.16% with 417 women living in space meant for 262.The decongestion process helped in three phases - one for under-trials, one for convicts in cases under seven years jail term, and one for convicts in non-serious cases with more than 7 years jail term.The first process of releasing under-trials started after a state-level High Powered Committee (HPC) had laid down rules for choosing who should be released. The HPC was formed in each state based on the Supreme Court direction.The second decision was issued on May 8 and the third on May 11 by the same HPC.The topic of decongestion of jails has been in discussion for the past several years. A three-member committee led by Dr Sundaram Radhakrishnan, a retired High Court Judge, for prison reforms had suggested decongestion as an effort in its report in 2017-18.Two NGOs have also been working with the prison department to grant financial and legal help to prisoners who could be released from prisons.Three Covid-19 positive cases reported at temporary jail at Yerawada-Among the 599 Covid positive patients across the state, Yerawada jail reported three positive cases, all at the temporary jail established at BARTI hostel. -One of them earlier succumbed to the Sars-Cov-2 infection while two were found positive on Saturday.-“We are taking several measures such as regular health check-ups of inmates, following norms like social distancing and sanitisation in Maharashtra’s most crowded jail,” said UT Pawar, superintendent, Yerawada prison.-Yerawada jail is one of the five jails in the state which is under complete lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10k-prisoners-released-as-covid-tally-in-maharashtra-jails-reaches-599/story-iwYTnfhg9FdMu4bLVBaOwM.html
13-07-2020||Pune||Grocery, gardens, salons closed... PMC chief signs lockdown order||The Pune municipal corporation’s (PMC) new commissioner, Vikram Kumar, has signed his first order after taking charge on Sunday, issuing Pune’s fresh lockdown orders.Many of the earlier relaxations have been retracted and further new restrictions will be imposed in the city starting from midnight July 13. The lockdown will remain in place till July 23.The order states that grocery stores, retail and wholesale stores will remain shut for the first five days, in phase one of the lockdown, from July 14 to July 18.In phase two, only shops and wholesalers selling essential items will be allowed to remain open from July 19-23 between 8 am and 12 noon.Online food delivery portals will not be allowed to function till July 23.Wholesale and retail grocery, vegetable and fruit markets and loading areas will remain completely shut from July 14-18; and from July 19-23 will remain functional between 8 am and 12 noon.Shops selling eggs and meats, including mutton, chicken and fish will remain closed till July 18 and then from July 19-23 will be allowed from 8 am to 12 noon.E-commerce delivery will only be allowed from July 19 onwards. Shut till July 23Public and private playgrounds, and gardens, will remain completely shut and morning walks and evening walks will also not be allowed.Lodges (except those used for the Vande Bharat mission), hotels, restaurants and bars, resorts, malls, and markets, will not be allowed to operate.All beauty parlours, salons and spas will remain shut for this period.Schools, colleges, educational institutes and tuitions will remain shut.Usage of private two-wheelers, three-wheelers and four-wheelers will not be allowed without prior permission, except for essential services, travel to railway stations or airports, or for medical emergencies.Public transport and private bus services, trucks, tractors and all goods vehicles will not be allowed, except those providing essential services, including the PMC, police and medical services. Construction work will only be allowed for those with in-situ labour.All theatres, gyms, swimming pools, entertainment facilities and marriage halls will remain shut.Those wedding halls which have been booked prior to the order can be allowed to function with only 20 persons in attendance. All private offices will remain shut.No political, religious, entertainment or sports activities will be allowed. Religious places will remain shut. In the greenGovernment offices will have to function with 10% staff. Petrol pumps will be operational from 9am to 2 pm everyday only for essential services. Newspaper printing and delivery has been allowed from 6 am to 9 am. Intercity and interdistrict supply chain for industries will remain unaffected. MIDC employees will have to obtain passes for travelling. IT companies have been allowed to operate with 15% staff. Nurses and helpers for senior citizens and the needy will be allowed to operate. Banks will function with minimum manpower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/grocery-gardens-salons-closed-pmc-chief-signs-lockdown-order/story-IDe40TIsUssEFbOYC2dVPL.html
13-07-2020||Pune||10 plasma donors in Pune city as of July 12||The repeated appeal by the district administration for plasma donation has been met with a lukewarm response, at best, in Pune. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar states that only 10 cured Covid-19 patients in the city have donated plasma, as of July 12.People who have fully recovered from Covid-19 have immunisers in their plasma that can combat the virus. This patient plasma is being evaluated as a treatment for patients with severe Covid-19 infection, or those found by a healthcare provider to be at high risk of improvement to critical diseases.Mhaisekar said, “Ten people have donated plasma and I am really thankful to them. Although this figure can change as we received more queries after my appeal to the citizens of Pune. The state government has a policy where the plasma will be used to treat critical as well as mild patients who are on the verge of recovery. I do not think that there is any need of having a fear of weakness within recovered individuals of Covid-19. If they come forward, they can save a life and they should not hesitate for plasma donation as it is just like blood donation. We have created a database in Sassoon hospital where we have categorised every blood type like a plasma bank for more organised records of these donations.”Plasma is the liquid remnant of blood that remains after red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, and other cellular elements are removed. Donation can be made at Sassoon Hospital as well as Poona Hospital. A person who is fully recovered from Covid-19 is eligible to donate plasma after at least two weeks of recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-plasma-donors-in-city-as-of-july-12/story-kPz3s0zxzl4mlGtX0LR45J.html
13-07-2020||Pune||166 of 979 deaths reported within 72 hours of hospital admission||The Pune district reported 979 deaths in total as of July 9, among these 166 fatalities or 17 per cent of the total deaths were reported in just 72 hours of the patient being admitted in a hospital as opposed to 20 per cent reported in the first 72 hours as of June 12.While there has been a drop in the number of deaths reported in a shorter duration of time, a lack of awareness among patients to reach the hospital on time is resulting in the deaths in just a few days of admission. With less time for treatment, the hospitals are left with very fewer options to treat the patient resulting in an escalation of symptoms and eventually death. The Sassoon General hospital which reported the most deaths, 306 of the 800 reported from Pune city, received over 10 Covid-19 positive patients who were brought dead to the hospital. Sassoon hospital dean Dr Murlidhar Tambe was not available for a response despite repeated attempts.Dr Ashok Nanadapurkar, nodal officer, Pune district said, “One of the probable reasons could be lack of awareness among citizens regarding the symptoms. The earlier the symptoms are reported the treatment scope is wider. While earlier there was a social stigma associated with the infection but now it has subsided. People need to reach out to the hospital even if they feel the slightest symptoms, especially if they are moving around for work or other purpose or if they are living in containment zones. While there are newer symptoms being reported by the WHO, the latest additions being diarrhoea or lack of sense of smell and taste, cold, cough and fever are the most common ones. It is also seen that people often seek over the counter medicines to treat flu which suppresses the fever but then the infection continues to spread which leads to further complications by the time they reach out to a hospital.”In the 979 deaths in the district, 70 occurred in just 0-24 hours post-hospital admission, 54 deaths took place in 24-48 hours post-hospital admission while 42 deaths took place in 48-72 hours post-hospital admission. In the 979 total deaths, 834 or 85 per cent of the deaths had associated risk factors or were comorbid while the remaining 145 or 15 per cent had no comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/166-of-979-deaths-reported-within-72-hours-of-hospital-admission/story-MLp6vFymkSwiUk76wGmzSN.html
13-07-2020||Pune||PMC’s three-pronged strategy during lockdown - 100 per cent contact tracing, testing and increasing bed capacity||As the Covid-19 cases are surging ahead in Pune unrelentingly, forcing the state administration to announce stricter lockdown, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has devised a plan to tackle the situation in next ten days.As part of PMC’s three-pronged strategy during the lockdown, PMC has decided to go all out and carry out 100 per cent contact tracing given that there will be a complete restriction on any activity and movement of people. “Our main aim during the lockdown is to break the chain by identifying 100 per cent contacts and then testing them,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner, PMC. The PMC data till the first week of July suggested that the source of infection among 21.35% cases was unknown.The second part involves testing 100 per cent of those first contact traced by the civic body using a rapid antigen test. The PMC had recently procured one lakh antigen kits from a private firm and has begun testing. The results, according to PMC officials, have been good so far.According to state health department officials, rapid antigen detection tests are faster as they offer results within a maximum of 30 minutes as compared to minimum 24-hours for RT-PCR test and are non-confirmatory. Therefore, those tested negative will have to be tested again the RT-PCR test for re-confirmation while positive patients are considered “positive” and do not require a further test. Currently, the PMC is carrying out average 2,000-2,500 antigen tests daily. The third part involves adding 3,000 beds in existing and proposed Covid Care Centre across the city with 500 oxygen beds anticipating further spike by August. This will also include the jumbo facility being planned by PMC at gliding centre in Hadapsar and Sanas ground. The facility will have 1,500 additional beds beside the current 1,000 beds at Balewadi, which the civic body further plans to increase. The PMC has already issued tender and invited bids for developing jumbo facility and 600 oxygen beds. During the meeting with private hospitals on Sunday, it was decided that 150 more ICU beds will be acquired by PMC. To ensure higher success during the lockdown, PMC has identified two areas – Malwadi in Hadapsar and Upper Indiranagar in Bibwewadi – where 100 per cent contacts were traced and then tested.According to her, the PMC is currently testing between 4,000 to 5,000 swabs.“During the lockdown, we plan to take swab testing to 6,000 and then to 10,000 a day. This will, of course, increase the number of positives. But eventually, the number of Covid cases will fall as we will be able to isolate those tested,” said Agarwal, who is heading PMC’s health department.Phone calls made to newly appointed PMC chief Vikram Kumar did not receive any response.The outgoing PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “The plan for the civic body is to utilise the lockdown period at its optimum level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-s-three-pronged-strategy-during-lockdown-100-per-cent-contact-tracing-testing-and-increasing-bed-capacity/story-muaZ1F55GKAw7J7vGoAoAM.html
13-07-2020||Pune||Multiple challenges before newly appointed PMC chief Vikram Kumar as he takes charge||A day after Vikram Kumar was appointed as PMC municipal commissioner replacing Shekhar Gaikwad, he took charge amid numerous challeges that civic body is facing.Kumar takes over from Shekhar Gaikwad, who has now been transferred as sugar commissioner after serving as PMC commissioner for six months. Kumar’s transfer comes at a time when Pune’s health infrastructure is facing serious challenges in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic; and the civic body also faces a revenue crunch.The biggest challenge that Kumar faces is to contain Covid-19 in the city. Sporadic cases of bed shortages and ambulances not reaching on time are now being reported. Despite adequate beds, the PMC has not been able to efficiently manage availability and to convince people to stay at the Covid Care Centres, instead of occupying critical care beds which are required on an emergency basis. Vikram Kumar said, “I have just taken charge and it is too early for me to comment on the same. I will have to see the current mechanism in place and then work accordingly. With regards to revenue, I will have to check on and then only I would be able to comment.” Former Pune civic chief Shekhar Gaikwad said, “There are mainly two challenges with regards to Covid-19 which is high contact tracing and heavy testing. Also building up capacity is required and encouraging home isolation while maintaining a mechanism for proper counselling is required. More focus could be given on critical care so that the case fatality ratio is controlled. With regards to the monsoon, the good thing is that most of the nullah de-silting work for big rivers and nullahs has been completed. With regards to revenue, the PMC awaits government funds and also boost recovery of property tax as much as possible.” On one hand, while Covid-19 has been draining the civic body exchequer, the income for the civic body has been heavily disrupted. The civic body has cancelled many ongoing projects mainly related to beautification, garden works and also road widening. In addition, the previous civic chief ordered all his departments that no new projects will be announced in the current budget. This has halted the city’s infrastructure progress mainly with regards to roads and de-silting works which are also equally important.Another crucial challenge for Kumar would be monsoon which has now arrived. The 2019 Pune flash floods which killed 22 people are still afresh in people’s memories. Maximum damage was caused to Ambilodha region where the wall collapse killed 21 people. What is closed? (July 14 - July 18) Grocery, and all other shopsOnline food deliveryHotels, restaurantsSalons, parloursChicken, mutton vendorsAll private traffic movement (except in emergency cases and for airport and railway station)Public transportAll kinds of construction (except in labour camps)What is open?Milk distributionMedical services hospitals, clinicsMedical shopsGovernment officesCourtsPetrol pumps (9am to 2 pm for emergency services vehicles only)LPG servicesNewspaper deliveryMedia officesBanks**Grocery stores, retail or wholesale will remain closed completely from July 14 to July 18. **Thereafter these services will remain open from July 19 to July 23 from 8am -12 noon. **Online food delivery portals will not be allowed to deliver from July 14 to July 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multiple-challenges-before-newly-appointed-pmc-chief-vikram-kumar-as-he-takes-charge/story-GlHWsuGug4xyWGroYPASON.html
