15-07-2020||City||Delhi police constable found dead in Palam Vihar||New Delhi: A 23-year-old Delhi Police constable was found dead at her rented house in southwest Delhi’s Palam on Wednesday. Police suspect that someone known to the woman could be behind her murder.According to the police, the woman, currently posted at Tihar jail as a daily diary entry operator, was found dead in the afternoon, when the wife of her landlord saw the door latched from outside and opened it to check on the woman.“The woman, a 2018 batch constable, was posted with the 3rd battalion of Delhi Armed Police and was deployed at Tihar jail from 1 pm to 7 pm shift. When her landlady saw the door of her house latched from outside she tried to open it to check on the constable. When she opened the door, she found her lying in the bed unconscious. She alerted her husband and they called the police. She was taken to a hospital where the doctors pronounced her dead,” said a police officer who wished not to be named. Her body was sent for an autopsy. “During the initial probe, it was found that the woman belongs to Rewari, Haryana. She had rented the house in Palam a week ago. The landlord told police that she was accompanied by a man. During the investigation, we checked CCTV footage and spotted a man leaving her house early morning on Wednesday. He could be prime suspect and efforts to identify him are underway,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya said preliminary medical examination suggests the woman was strangled to death. “There were no external fatal injuries. She was also properly clothed. Autopsy results are awaited and a case of murder has been registered,” Arya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-constable-found-dead-in-palam-vihar/story-HkaHI1obrXXjt3y2yCvxrM.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Eight deaths, 288 fresh Covid-19 cases in Punjab||Punjab on Wednesday reported 288 fresh Covid-19 infections and eight deaths. With this, the number of positive cases in the state has reached 8,799 and death toll 221, according to the media bulletin released by the state government. Six patients, four from Ludhiana, two from Nawanshahr (SBS Nagar) and one Sangrur died, while 73 persons, including 61 from Ludhiana tested positive of Covid-19. According to the health department, the positive patients include a DSP, four cops form Mullapur police station and a computer operator from at Moti Nagar police station. Besides, five health care workers, including one from Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) contracted the infection. Two Amritsar Covid-19 patients died during treatment. Besides, 11 fresh cases were reported in the district, of which eight are fresh community transmission cases and three are close contacts of the Covid-19 patients. Six fresh cases were reported in Pathankot district.A 55-year-old woman died of coronavirus, while 36 tested positive in Patiala district. Of the total cases, 12 are from Patiala city, eight from Rajpura, five from Samana, three from Nabha and seven from different villages across the district.Phillaur deputy superintendent of police, eight employees of Regional Transport Authority, five ITBP personnel among 96 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Jalandhar district. Six persons, including three doctors of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, tested positive for the virus. Besides, 19 people, including six constables of Border Security Force (BSF), contracted infection in Ferozepur, five in Bathinda and three in Fazilka.Mohali reported 12 fresh cases, of which 4 are nurses of a charitable hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-deaths-288-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-state/story-s3kXhzQTD4UYQupdSjasYL.html
15-07-2020||Dehradun||In eastern and western Himalayas, conflict between leopards, humans to increase as habitats overlap: Research||With man-leopard conflict on the rise, a recent study by Dehradun based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) in eastern and the western Himalayas shows that leopard conflict will only increase in the future as leopard and human habitats are increasingly overlapping.The research paper titled “Landscape predictors of human–leopard conflicts within multi-use areas of the Himalayan region” was published by scientists from WII. In the paper, the researchers tried to identify the landscape features which increased the probability of man-leopard conflict in the context of the attack on cattle (livestock depredation) by leopards near human habitations. The results from the study were used to map potential human–leopard conflict hotspots across parts of the Indian Himalayan region.The study states, that with rapid loss of forest cover and anthropogenic (due to humans) impacts on their habitats, large carnivores are forced to occupy multiuse landscapes outside protected areas.As part of the project, the researchers studied 857 attacks on livestock in eastern Himalaya (parts of North Bengal) and 375 attacks in western Himalaya (Pauri Garhwal district in Uttarakhand) by leopards between 2015 and 2018.The experts found that the risk of a leopard killing livestock increased within a heterogeneous landscape matrix comprising of both closed and open habitats (very dense forests, moderate dense forests, open forests, scrubland and non-forests).S Sathyakumar, senior scientist at WII said that landscape is very important when trying to understand the human-leopard conflict in the Himalayas.“If you have a good forest, but several small patches of degraded forests, along with villages, then the matrix of the neighbouring forests do not have wild prey which a leopard can hunt and kill. Our studies have shown that forests outside protected areas whether big or small, do not support large densities of wild prey which can support leopards in turn inside the forests. Hence, leopards are surviving outside protected areas and in human habitations as there are many supervised cattle, then dogs, or small animals like chicken, rodent, deer which the animal can eat,” said Sathyakumar.He added that unlike tigers, which need very good forest cover without any human disturbance, “leopards are not like that and can survive anywhere even with small patches of degraded forest cover, as long as there is enough cover to hide.”“In the western Himalayas, be it Uttarakhand or Himachal Pradesh, farmlands which have been abandoned due to migration have become secondary scrubs or secondary forests, and act as a refuge for leopards. We piloted fox lights as part of the study, where we demonstrated that these kinds of new technologies can be used to reduce problem due to leopard in the areas of North Bengal and Pauri Garhwal, which are hotspots of human-leopard conflict in the Indian Himalayan region,” added Sathyakumar.He said that these two areas were chosen as they have reported the maximum number of conflict cases, be it injury, attack, death as well as livestock killing in the past decade.Speaking on findings of the research, Dipanjan Naha, the primary researcher in this project and first author of the paper, said that the common perception is that leopards attack livestock during night hours, but there is a pattern in the attacks.“Bigger carnivores like lions or tigers mostly attack livestock near protected sites, but for leopards, it has been learnt that it can attack in any place where there is sufficient cover for the animal to hide, be it in tea gardens of North Bengal or abandoned land in Pauri Garhwal due to migration. The animal is not coming out of its habitat, but rather the habitat of humans and leopards are overlapping. Leopards have successfully adapted to human habitations also which can lead to more attacks in the future,” said Naha.The research paper mentions that results suggest that awareness about high-risk areas, supervised grazing and removing vegetation cover around human settlements should be initiated to reduce predation by leopards.What has led to the fragmentation of forests?According to WII experts, the increasing human population, declines in wild prey and changes in land-use patterns have resulted in fragmented, heterogeneous resource-limited landscapes for carnivores. Such anthropogenic impacts on ecosystems have forced carnivores to frequent areas near human settlements, kill livestock. This, in turn, provokes local communities to retaliate through poisoning, shooting, snaring and electrocution. Livestock depredation has been identified as the stimuli for human-carnivore conflicts. Retaliation also affects the overall functioning of the ecosystem by removal of non-target species like avian predators, scavengers and larger predators within the shared landscapes, who feed on the poisoned carcasses.Importance of conservation within shared landscapesThe research stressed that conservation within shared landscapes is challenging considering the socio-cultural, political problems where it is crucial to ensure the safety of human lives, property, livelihoods and well-being. In India, human-leopard interactions are especially intense within such shared landscapes where the size of protected areas is small, fragmented and comprise only 5% of the geographic extent of the country. Livestock and free-ranging domestic dogs comprise the primary prey for leopards outside of protected areas where crop fields, tea plantations provide cover.Livestock are a direct representation for the agriculture-based society of rural India and loss to large carnivores represents a substantial threat to human welfare and livelihoods. Hence it is crucial to identify areas where leopards are more likely to attack livestock to plan management interventions and implement mitigation measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/in-eastern-and-western-himalayas-conflict-between-leopards-humans-to-increase-as-habitats-overlap-research/story-VFfrSYp5vNld3CBfrXHZmM.html
15-07-2020||City||Man murdered by wife, son, son-in-law over property transfer||New Delhi: Denying property transfer to his son’s name cost a 56-year-old man his life as he was punched, kicked, and bludgeoned to death with sticks allegedly by his wife, son and son-in-law at their home in outer Delhi’s Samaipur Badli last week.After killing the man named Anand Kumar, his three family members allegedly stuffed his body in a jute bag, transported it on a motorcycle and threw it in the Munak canal, almost two kilometres away from their home, the police said on Wednesday.The crime took place a week ago but came to notice only when Kumar’s brother, Shankar Das, approached the Samaipur Badli police three days after the crime, filed a missing complaint and suspected that his brother may have been killed by his family members. Till that time, the police had not been informed about Kumar’s disappearance either by his family members or neighbours, many of who had allegedly witnessed the assault on July 8, senior police officers associated with the case said.On Tuesday, the police arrested Kumar’s wife Vimla Devi, son Yogesh Kumar, and son-in-law Lalit for allegedly killing him and destroying the evidence of the crime by throwing the body in the canal. The body, however, has yet not been recovered from the canal.“Our teams have been searching the body in the canal with the help of divers. Kumar’s wife, son and son-in-law have been arrested and booked for murder, destruction of evidence and common intention under Sections 302, 201 and 34 of Indian Penal Code. They have confessed to their crime,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Gaurav Sharma.DCP Sharma said that Kumar’s brother, Shankar Das, in his complaint on July 11, had alleged that his brother’s family members used to ill-treat him and did not give him food because he had been refusing transfer of the house’s ownership to his son Yogesh. Kumar used to work as a barber at a local salon, owned by one Ranvir.“...I used to talk to my brother on Ranvir’s phone and he used to tell me about the torture he faced from his family members. He often feared his family members would kill him someday...,” Das said in his complaint, which was converted into the first information report (FIR).In the complaint, Das said Kumar’s neighbour informed his son (Das’) Prashant that his uncle was assaulted outside the house by his family members until he became unconscious on July 8 afternoon. They dragged him inside in unconscious state and thereafter he was not seen by anyone. Das tried to speak with Yogesh and Lalit but they did not answer his calls. He then filed the missing complaint.Senior police officers said that they checked the CCTV footage of Kumar’s neighbourhood and found that his family members were dragging a jutebag outside the house on the night of July 8. In another camera, two persons were seen carrying the sack on a motorcycle while a third person on another bike was following them, they said.“We interrogated the three suspects and confronted with the video footage. They broke down and confessed to the crime,” DCP Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-murdered-by-wife-son-son-in-law-over-property-transfer/story-bYjF25xZhcFAus2YES5iZO.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||Weddings amid Covid-19 pandemic a risky affair?||Almost every other day there’s some wedding happening, and quite often there are news reports of guests having turned corona positive after being part of a marriage party. Recent news reports include the one where a boy, who was the groom, died after his wedding that left around 100 guests Covid-19 positive in Bihar. In Rajasthan’s Bhilwara, 250 guests attended a wedding and the groom’s grandfather died due to the virus. The reasons to have a wedding in corona times are aplenty, but the question that such incidents raise is: Is it safe to get married during the pandemic? The issue is pertinent and debatable, and photographers and guests who have attended weddings amid the ongoing pandemic reveal that though there’s a cap of 50 guests on weddings, by the government, not all are following the guidelines. Anand Kumar, a Bengaluru-based wedding photographer says, “I’ve been getting a lot of queries about how much will I charge for a wedding, how many team members will attend the wedding and many others. But the thing that disappoints me is the casualness about the gathering that’s invited to attend a wedding. There are a few who have had intimate weddings, but otherwise most have at least 100-150 guests, even after all the government guidelines. Some of these weddings that I covered as a photographer, no one was wearing a mask or following social distancing! People become casual once they get into party mode, and there’s no one to keep a check on them. In fact, I said no to a lot of my clients because they had huge guest lists... I even tried my best to explain them about the repercussions of their actions, but you know how touchy the subject of wedding is in our country.”Some photographers say they are given a non accurate count of guests at the time of booking, so that they can’t back out later or complaint against flouting of rules, which are set to battle the pandemic. “I was told that around 50 people would be at this wedding that was to happen in Delhi. But, it turned out that more than 120 guests were there and some had specially travelled from Mumbai to attend,” says a photographer on condition of anonymity. He adds that he had no idea about what was in store until he reached the wedding venue. The lensman adds, “When I got to know the actual situation, I felt so scared... No one was wearing a mask and everyone seemed to have forgotten about social distancing; it was all about enjoying food and dance. I feel there should be a body constituted to keep a check on the number of guests at weddings happening now.” “It’s important at times to attend the wedding... achcha nahi lagta agar card aane ke baad na jao, sab baatein banate hain phir,” says Mamta Goel, a Gurugram resident who recently attended her close friend’s wedding among a hundred odd guests from different parts of the country. Goel adds, “In these times if you get invited, it feels special. So I went happily, and followed all precautions. Even the wedding venue was well sanitised. But jab ready hoke gaye aur wapas aye, to padosiyon ko mithai dene to jana hi pada... the moment my neighbours got to know that we have attended a wedding, they stopped talking to us. And they informed everyone in my residential society about it, and then no one came to my house, not even the milkman. I had no option left but to isolate myself for a few days so that I could prove that I didn’t get corona from the wedding!” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/weddings-amid-covid-19-pandemic-a-risky-affair/story-5hshSCD3m2iwdpZJPjkUHK.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||DSGMC starts free ambulance service for Covid-19 patients||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has started a free ambulance service for Covid-19 patients on eighth Sikh master Guru Harkrishan’s parkash purb.DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa told the media that 12 ambulances will be stationed in various parts of the national capital. “We will provide more ambulance in coming days. The 12 ambulances available now are equipped with all facilities. It will remain available till we win the battle against Covid-19,” he said.“People in need can contact gurdwaras nearby. We have provided information on our social media handles. Drivers and ward boys will wear PPEs. Ambulances will be available 24*7 and it is free of cost,” he added. ANI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dsgmc-starts-free-ambulance-service-for-covid-19-patients/story-4Fs7Qy2at9OJqvfzITqL5J.html
15-07-2020||City||ED attaches two tunnel boring machines in money laundering cases against infra firm||New Delhi: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) said on Wednesday it has attached two tunnel boring machines worth Rs 33 crore belonging to a private company – Era Infra Engineering Limited (EIEL), which is under investigation in a money laundering case.“The attached assets include two tunnel machines kept at the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (campus) at Mundka in Delhi valued at Rs 18.31 crore and Rs 15.40 crore respectively. They are owned by Era Infra Engineering Limited,” the agency said in a statement.ED had initiated a probe under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the company and its Chairman and Managing Director Hem Singh Bharana, unknown bank officials, some private persons and others on the basis of a CBI case of April, 2018.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) case against Era Infra pertains to criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery and use of forged documents and criminal misconduct by Bharana and other accused persons in sanction, disbursement and utilisation of two term loans amounting to Rs 650 crores.“Investigations conducted by ED have revealed that the funds were disbursed and utilised in a manner defying the sanctioned purpose. Out of Rs 450 crore disbursed by UCO Bank, amount of Rs 211 crores and Rs 25 crore (respectively) were utilised for purposes beyond the purview of the sanctioned terms,” ED said in its statement.“Amount diverted by EIEL comes to Rs 236 crore out of the term loan of Rs 450 crore. Further an amount of Rs 14.70 crore was diverted from the other sanctioned amount of Rs 200 crore and thus the total amount diverted by EIEL in this manner comes to Rs 250.70 crore which qualifies as ‘Proceeds of Crime’ under PMLA,” ED added.The agency added that out of total proceeds of crime of Rs 250.70 crore, assets valued at Rs 5.72 crore were provisionally attached earlier.After Wednesday’s attachment of Rs 33.71 crore of two machines, total attachment of assets is worth Rs 39.43 crores, it said.“Further investigations to trace and identify the proceeds of crime and assets are under progress” ED said.Calls made to Era Infra office remained unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ed-attaches-two-tunnel-boring-machines-in-money-laundering-cases-against-infra-firm/story-nQcLddowOsVOlYV5X9lJwK.html
15-07-2020||City||Delhi airport a nerve centre for handling Covid-19 medical essential supplies||New Delhi: Between April and June this year, Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport has handled the supply of more than 20 million essential medical equipment and kits. These items included 10.3 million face masks, 6.2 million gloves, 4.9 million protective goggles, 1.9 million bodysuits, 1.4 million shoe covers and at least 250 ventilators. These items were supplied from Delhi airport to states and cities across India, including Nagaland, Manipur, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Assam, Cochin and Hyderabad, the airport operator said.Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) said soon after the lockdown was imposed, the Ministry of Civil Aviation had designated the Delhi Airport as a hub for import and distribution of essential medical supplies for the fight against Covid-19.“During April to June 2020, the first quarter of the financial year 2021, more than 20 million pieces of essential medical supplies, the largest volume of essential medical supplies handled by any airport in India, has been handled by Delhi Airport,” the airport operator said in a statement. It said while the country was under lockdown, the Delhi airport was working round the clock as a nerve centre for handling Covid-19 medical essential supplies through imports and channelling the distribution across the country. “These imported medical kits were distributed all across the country, including far-flung destinations of Northeast -- Nagaland, Manipur, Meghalaya, Assam, Sikkim – and major cities such as Mumbai, Bengaluru, Cochin, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, etc,” it said.Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL said, “We ensured essential medical kits reached not only in the big cities, but in far-flung destinations of the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-airport-a-nerve-centre-for-handling-covid-19-medical-essential-supplies/story-H8MCyqFN4zbtB6D6pzIL3L.html
15-07-2020||City||Ludhiana Smart City Limited’s board of directors meets, mayor asks authorities to expedite static compactors project||A meeting of the board of directors of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) was held in Chandigarh on Wednesday wherein different development projects were discussed.The meeting was chaired by additional chief secretary of the local bodies department, Sanjay Kumar.The projects discussed include establishment of a carcass plant, installation of static compactors for solid waste management, installation of LED lights at missing points, among others.Mayor Balkar Sandhu raised concerns over delay in installation of static compactors in city. He asked the authorities to expedite the project of establishing carcass plant project as the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) is tightening its noose on illegal operations at the carcass disposal plant in Laddowal.Sandhu said, “The LSCL authorities are working on static compactors project since the past two year but authorities are still entangled in legal aspects of the project. I have asked them to expedite the project as it will provide relief to residents from the open dumping of garbage at secondary dumping points in city The authorities have also been asked to get the LED streetlights installed at missing points.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and chief executive officer (CEO) of (LSCL) Sanyam Aggarwal also participated in the meeting. Despite multiple attempts, Aggarwal was not available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-smart-city-limited-s-board-of-directors-meets-mayor-asks-authorities-to-expedite-static-compactors-project/story-8lx01NyC953bzACBe7e43H.html
15-07-2020||City||Not all pregnant women going to hospitals need to undergo COVID-19 test, AAP govt tells HC||New Delhi Not all pregnant women need to undergo Covid-19 tests when they go to a hospital for obstetrical care (child birth), the AAP government told the Delhi high court on Wednesday.The submission was made before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan by the Delhi government on an affidavit that stated that only suspected cases of Covid-19 be tested for the viral infection.However, obstetrical care cannot be delayed for want of testing, the Delhi government said, adding that not all symptomatic pregnant women will be tested.Only those coming from hot spots or those who have had contact with someone who has tested positive for Covid-19 are tested for the viral infection, the government has said.Taking note of the affidavit, the court said it was not going to further monitor the case as a clear set of guidelines have been put in place by the government.“Enough and adequate have been taken to expedite testing and in certain cases testing is also not required,” the bench said.It also asked the Delhi government to ensure that the time taken from when a health care provider decides to test a a pregnant woman for Covid-19, the collection of the sample and the declaration of results, all together ought not to take more than 24 hours.It also asked the government to disseminate the latest guidelines on testing of pregnant women to all of its and private hospitals in the national capital.With these directions, the court disposed of a PIL seeking expeditious testing and speedy declaration of results of pregnant women going to hospitals for child birth.The detailed order is yet to be made available.On July 9, the court had pulled up the Delhi government for not clarifying whether every pregnant woman who goes to a hospital for delivery or urgent treatment is required to undergo COVID-19 test, symptomatic or not, saying a genuine problem has been turned into a “bureaucratic nightmare”.The high court had also said if the test is required then sample collection and declaration of results should be done in a minimum period of time.Delhi government had earlier filed an affidavit stating that prior COVID-19 test was not mandatory for admitting pregnant women in hospitals for in-patient interventions, including surgery and deliveries, and in emergent situations, treatment would not be denied for want of test results.The test can be conducted simultaneously with the treatment and if the result comes out to be positive, the pregnant woman would ideally be transferred to a dedicated COVID-19 hospital for further management, the Delhi government had told the high court.It had also said that it has “expanded” the use of Rapid Antigen Testing at hospitals to ensure availability of test results in quick time and this will further take care of difficulties being faced by people/patients, including pregnant women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/not-all-pregnant-women-going-to-hospitals-need-to-undergo-covid-19-test-aap-govt-tells-hc/story-dBzT48NT8AovmfFh1ODPQK.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Residents join hands to protect green cover near Mattewara forest||The campaign to protect surroundings of the Mattewara forest is gaining momentum. City-based industrialist and social activist Ranjodh Singh has demanded intervention of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to stop setting up of industrial park at Mattewara.Singh, who is also chairing the Ramgarhia Educational Council, said Mattewara forest reserves are near the banks of Sutlej and are home to a variety of flora and fauna.“Being close to river, it is a natural habitat for these animals, and the green cover provides plenty of oxygen to the otherwise polluted side of Ludhiana, which has many hosiery and dyeing units,” said Ranjogh.“Now, the Punjab government has decided to set up an industrial park nearby, which will ruin the ecological balance of the area. And pollution levels will increase in Sutlej. Many trees will be uprooted and land grabbers will destroy the nature,” he added.He has requested the NGT to depute a team to reverse the government decision and take steps to preserve nature.Besides, an environmentalist Ravneet Singh, one of the founders of an NGO Eco-Sikh, which is working to protest the green cover, visited the area.While sharing a video of the forest and the land that is supposed to be taken over for setting up an industrial park, Ravneet said that it will destroy the flora and fauna of the area.Juzar Singh, president of student organisation Sath, said the decision to convert Mattewara forest into an industrial park is misleading. “The land on which government is going to build the industrial park is an agricultural land adjacent to the Mattewara forest which is instrumental in maintaining natural environment of the forest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-residents-join-hands-to-protect-green-cover-near-mattewara-forest/story-s3q0WLMQWK35fjkqAQVJNN.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||Beaten projections but can’t be complacent: Delhi CM on Covid-19 situation||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said Delhi now is in a “much better” Covid-19 situation than what was projected in June, but cautioned that there is no room for complacency.“Based on the formula given by the Central government, in early June we had projected that by July 15, which is today, the total Covid-19 cases in Delhi would touch 225,000. But, today we actually have only half of the projected cases. There are 115,000 cases. It was expected that there would be 134,000 active cases by July 15, but till date, there are only 18,600 active cases in the city. Accordingly, it was projected that 34,000 beds would be needed by now, but currently, only around 4,000 beds are occupied,” Kejriwal said addressing a digital press conference.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Kejriwal said the “Delhi model”, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked other states to follow, has helped reduce both cases and deaths. The chief minister added that the favourable results in Covid-19 management in the Capital would not have been possible without the help of the Centre, the hotels, NGOs, religious institutions and other stakeholders.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 1,647 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally in the city to 116,993, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,487.Kejriwal reiterated that Delhi now has sufficient beds. There are more than 15,000 beds in Covid-19 care facilities. “On June 1, we had only 300 ICU beds, but today, we have 2,100 ICU beds out of which 1,000 have so far been occupied. We are in a better situation today, as compared to June, but it does not mean we have won the war (against Covid-19). We have yet to go a long way. There may be a spike again in Covid-19 cases. We don’t have to be complacent. We will not sit idle. We will have to be fully prepared,” he said.The chief minister said the Delhi government worked on three principles after realising that the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic cannot be won alone.Explaining the Delhi model, he said the biggest strength in the city’s efforts against Covdi-19 has been “collectivity” or “teamwork”.“If the Delhi government had thought it would win the fight against coronavirus alone, we would have failed. Our first principle was that this fight cannot be won alone.“Our second principle was that we did not criticise our critics for their views about our work. We improved things after somebody flagged it. The third principle was that we did not accept defeat. Had we accepted defeat, there would have been a surge in the numbers of deaths,” he said.Also read: 99 doctors have died fighting Covid 19, IMA sounds ‘Red Alert’According to Kejriwal, the government scaled up testing for Covid-19 aggressively and daily 20,000 to 23,000 tests are being conducted in Delhi. “The Covid-19 situation is under control, but we will continue our preparations against the virus,” he said.Lauding his government’s home-isolation policy, he said people are coming forward in large numbers to undergo tests because they are no longer scared that they will have to go a Covid centre.“Ambulances were also increased. Now no call for an ambulance is being declined. Earlier a patient had to wait for 2-3 hours in the ambulance to finish the formalities in the hospital. To solve this, we created a holding area in every hospital where the patient can be given oxygen, while the formalities of hospital admission are completed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/situation-in-delhi-better-but-war-on-covid-far-from-over-kejriwal/story-PAYACkzZjenXlYWKaxqcIL.html
15-07-2020||City||CBSE Class 10 result: 5 students score above 98% in Ambala district||Five students in the district have scored more than 98% marks in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 10 results announced on Wednesday. These include four girls and one boy. Muskan of Tulsi Public Senior Secondary School, Ambala City, scored 98.8% (best of five including IT); Kripi Singla of Police DAV Public School, Ambala City, got 98.6%; while three students — Sanchit of PKR Vatika Public School, Ambala City; Rakhee Kumari of Army Public School, Ambala Cantonment, and Anushka of S D Vidya Public School, Ambala Cantonment — secured 98.2%.However, there was some confusion about the district topper as the student added a vocational/skill-based subject (IT), instead of main subject (Science) in best of five.With an aim to become a doctor, Muskan (16) has opted for the medical stream in secondary education. “I studied for five to six hours and made to sure to take time out to play badminton and listening to music. I never let my self-study consistency break. I didn’t take coaching,” she said while discussing her preparation strategy.Her school principle Kirti said Muskan is a state-level of badminton player and explained why the school added IT as a main subject. “She has been an all-rounder in studies and extracurricular activities. She was in the non-vocational stream under which the skill-based subject (IT) was added in her best of five,” she said.Kripi Singla from Police DAV Public School, whose parents live in Noida and she stays with her grandparents in Ambala, aspires to become an engineer. “I love to read books and facts about the human mind. My grandmother, who is also a retired schoolteacher, helped me a lot in achieving this endeavour,” she said.Her principle Dr Vikas Kohli said Kripi has performed outstandingly and teachers have done a great job.About the vocational subject confusion, a senior education officer requesting anonymity said, “I believe vocational IT cannot be added as a main subject, but this is up to the CBSE to decide. Some private schools do so just to make tall claims and fetch more admissions.”Last year, Divjot Kaur Jaggi (16) of Convent of Jesus and Marry school in Ambala Cantonment emerged as the All India National topper securing 499 marks out of 500 in May last year. A total of 13 students had scored 499 marks in the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-class-10-result-5-students-score-above-98-in-ambala-district/story-LW6pZOeoKmALjDtvAXPbWP.html
15-07-2020||City||Gurugram: Sarpanch’s husband shot at while accompanying minor daughter to hospital||Gurugram: A 37-year-old man, the husband of the sarpanch of Alipur village, was shot at outside a private hospital in Sohna, across the road from Sohna City police station, on Wednesday. According to the police, the victim suffered a gunshot wound in the neck. He is recuperating at a private hospital in Gurugram. His condition is said to be critical.The incident took place around 4pm when Manoj Dagar had gone to a private hospital with his 9-year-old daughter, who was suffering from a mild fever. He had parked his SUV outside the hospital, which is over 100 metres from City Sohna police station across the road.Police said after the check up, he and his daughter got back into the car when a suspect arrived and shot at him through the car’s window pane from the driver’s side. Dagar, who was seated behind the wheel, was shot in the neck while his daughter was unharmed.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said: “The suspect ran for a few metres before getting onto a motorcycle and fleeing. After getting shot, the victim walked back into the hospital and collapsed. He was referred to a private hospital in Sector 38 in Gurugram and underwent surgery.”Sandeep Malik, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sohna, said, “The suspect is yet to be identified. The victim is unconscious and the family is yet to record their statement. Prima facie, personal enmity is suspected to be the motive. We have got certain clues regarding the case and those will be revealed after investigation and in due course of time.”Police said an FIR will be registered after the statement of either the victim or his kin is recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-sarpanch-s-husband-shot-at-while-accompanying-minor-daughter-to-hospital/story-BjdORqS9mJLVnuy5NWxxaL.html
15-07-2020||City||Gurugram: Nine new large Covid-19 outbreak areas identified, put under 13-day lockdown||Gurugram: With the coronavirus (Covid-19) case tally in Gurugram breaching the 7,000 mark, the district administration has identified nine Large Outbreak Regions (LORs) of the city which will be put under a 13-day lockdown, starting Wednesday, till July 28. Intensive contact tracing and rapid antigen testing camps will be conducted in these LORs to curb SARS-CoV-2 virus from spreading.Officials said all entry and exit points in these areas will be completely barricaded, along with police deployment, to prevent violations. They said movement of residents will be allowed only in emergency situations.As per the order issued by the district administration on Wednesday, the new identified LORs are Rajiv Nagar, Om Nagar (Shivaji Nagar, Shanti Nagar), Nathupur (Ravinder Nath slum, Shamshan Ghat slum), Laxman Vihar (Dayanand Colony), H block Palam Vihar, Feroz Gandhi Colony (Madanpuri, Baldev Nagar), and Patel Nagar (Nai Basti and Arjun Nagar).The list also includes Manesar (Harijan Basti and Lal Building Chowk), as well as Sohna (Thakurwada, Gujjar Ghati, Shiv Kund, Lohiyawada, Mangal Colony, Kayasthwada, Pathanwada, Tilpat Colony, Kohliwada, New Anaj Mandi and Baniyawada). These areas will be notified as LORs till July 28.An LOR, as defined in the order, has a localised increase in Covid-19 cases within a defined geographical area in a village, a town or a city. The cases may or may not be epidemiologically linked. For operational purposes, an LOR is deemed to be present when there are 15 or more cases, while a containment zone is an area where at least five Covid-19 cases are reported.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “More than 14 testing camps will be organised in LOR areas where samples will be collected for antigen tests and Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests. Also, a serological survey that detects coronavirus antibodies and a door-to-door survey to trace people with Influenza-Like-Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) will be taken up.”He said initially, the focus will be on Sohna where they will be conducting 500 tests each day. Covid-19 cases have gradually emerged in the area. By Wednesday, there were a total of 7,208 Covid-19 cases in the city, of which 1,021 were active cases, with 110 deaths so far. In the past 24 hours, there were 82 fresh Covid cases and one death in the district, as per the government’s bulletin.The police, meanwhile, said it will further boost personnel deployment and ensure strict enforcement of measures in LORs.“The new strategy can help prevent transmission of the coronavirus disease to other parts of the city,” said police commissioner KK Rao. Around 400 home guards and special police officers (SPOs) have been deployed in these areas along with 35 police personnel at each area, the police said.The police have barricaded the entry and exit in these areas, ensuring restrictions on the movement of vehicles and allowing only emergency vehicles, ambulances and those carrying essential goods. “As per norms, we are only allowing people to pass through if they have a medical emergency or need to purchase essential supplies. Essentials, too, are available in the area itself, and no one is required to move out of the area to buy essentials. There are exceptions for health workers and waste collection staff. We have also strictly prohibited trespassing,” said Rao.“Our prime focus is on the movement of people without inconveniencing them and promoting voluntary enforcement by locals rather than penal action. The police teams have been directed to create awareness among the public about wearing masks and ensuring social distancing. People have to act as responsible citizens and ensure safety of self and others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-nine-new-large-covid-19-outbreak-areas-identified-put-under-13-day-lockdown/story-BzlGLBaRrQSNQxGbRFcg3N.html
15-07-2020||Gurugram||94% Haryana students clear Class 10 boards, girls outshine boys again||The overall pass percentage for students of Haryana stood at 94.01% in the Central Board of School Education examinations for Class 10, the results of which were declared on Wednesday. While no city-wise topper was declared by the board owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, students in multiple Gurugram schools scored above 90%, with many obtaining a perfect score in multiple subjects.In Haryana, a total of 1,31,741 students appeared for the examination — 78,927 boys and 52,814 girls. Out of these, 1,23,850 students cleared the examination. The number included 72,877 boys and 50,973 girls. The pass percentage for the state stood at 94.01%, with girls outperforming boys. While the pass percentage for girls was 96.51%, for boys the percentage dropped to 92.33%. The pass percentage for students enrolled in independent schools was 93.89%, while students in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas and Kendriya Vidyalaya stood at 98.17% and 99.56% respectively.Earlier in March, the CBSE had cancelled board examinations owing to the nationwide lockdown that had been imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. The pending examinations were scheduled to take place from July 1, but were eventually called off after protests from parents and state governments. The board later announced an alternative assessment formula, on the basis of which students were graded based on their performance in the subjects for which tests had already been held.At Blue Bells Model School in Sector 4, Shruti Chotani topped the school with an aggregate of 99.4%. Shruti scored 497 out of 500 marks in the examinations and managed a perfect score in two subjects. An ecstatic Shruti said that she was delighted with her scores. “I had worked quite hard and I’m glad the results reflected that. I couldn’t access the results for a long time but when I finally saw the scores, I was quite relieved. My parents are very happy with the results too,” said Chotani, who has opted for the science stream in Class 11 and Class 12 and plans to become a doctor.Arijit Chowdhury emerged as the topper of Ryan International School, Sohna Road, with 99.2%. Peeya Sharma, Arijit’s principal, said that the school was happy that the hard work and effort of students had paid off. Out of the 177 students that appeared in the exam, 160 had secured the first division.At Delhi Public School, Sector 45, Maanas Somani was the school topper with 98.8%. The school average stood at 88.1%, with around 56% of the students scoring 90% and above. At Amity International School, Sector-46, Kshitij Bagga was the school topper with 99% aggregate. Three students, Bhavya Jayna, Jeiya Khurana and Shiksha Sagar, scored the highest at Shiv Nadar school with 97.6% each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/94-haryana-students-clear-class-10-boards-girls-outshine-boys-again/story-naFlVpfU0v9QwIfg1dCGpM.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC restricts entry of visitors to offices||Amid surging cases of Covid-19 in the district, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has restricted entry of visitors to its offices. The civic body has shared email ids of officials including additional commissioners, zonal commissioner and secretaries where residents can address complaints, memorandums and applications. They can also submit applications at suvidha kendras where staff has been deputed to maintain social distancing. A complaint box has been kept outside MC’s zonal offices and entry is allowed only in case of emergency after thermal screening.The civic body has also shared landline numbers (0161-4085013 and 0161-4085038) in case residents can’t file online complaint. The complaints can also be submitted through the MC’s official website, mcludhiana.gov.in, and CRAMAT application. Officials said some residents remained adamant to enter the Zone D office, following which police was deputed at the spot. One of the visitors, Gurkaran Singh, said, “I had to meet officials for rectification of documents regarding change of ownership. But, we are not being allowing to enter the building.” MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Staff has also been deputed at entry points with hand sanitisers and thermal scanners. Residents will not be allowed to enter the office unless it is urgent. Applications can be submitted online. Also, no gathering will be allowed inside the MC office and memorandums will not be accepted by hand.”Earlier, joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh and two MC sweepers deputed in Zones A and C had tested positive for Covid-19. The regular sweeper deputed in Zone C died last week before his report came back positive.Earlier, the administration had barred entry of visitors to the deputy commissioner complex in the mini secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-restricts-entry-of-visitors-to-offices/story-TYvSIe0RrNqAkZU1FbQodJ.html
15-07-2020||City||By streamlining systems, Ghaziabad brings down fatality rate||From an all time high of about 3.4% last month, Ghaziabad has managed to pull down the fatality rate in the district to 1.79% by July 14. Experts said that although the decline is commendable, at least a month’s data is needed before any conclusion could be drawn. According to the latest state health bulletin released on July 15, Ghaziabad had 3,600 cases and 62 deaths. The bulletin adds that there were 1407 active cases in the district.District officials said that entry of private hospitals roped in for paid Covid-19 treatment and streamlining of systems have helped bringing down the fatality rate.Till May 31, the district had only four deaths from the disease and 305 cases (a fatality rate of 1.31%). By the end of the next month, however, this was up to 3.4% with 55 deaths and 1,615 cases.In July, cases increased sharply, averaging at a rate of about 131 cases per day, but saw fewer deaths -- 11.“There have been several procedural changes which have reduced the fatality rate even though our fresh cases per day are on all time high. We have now about eight private hospitals which have overall 544 beds available for paid treatment in the district. Now, with these hospitals having better specialists and infrastructure have aided recovery process of patients requiring L-2 and L-3 category care,” said Dr. NK Gupta, district chief medical officer.Under the UP government’s three-tier Covid treatment facilities, L-1 category hospitals are meant for asymptomatic positive patients, L-2 are meant for patients having moderate complications and L-3 are for critical care.The district has acquired 13 intensive care unit (ICU) beds in private hospitals and reserved them for patients lodged in government facilities.“These beds were reserved for immediate referral of serious patients who were lodged in government hospitals. We have sent eight patients from our hospitals to these ICU beds for better treatment in last 10 days and all of them have recovered. Overall, 304 patients are presently admitted to various private hospitals while 711 are admitted to government or government acquired hospitals. Other patients from Ghaziabad are taking up treatment in outside districts,” Dr. Gupta added.He said that the police helped them identify about 30 patients who were at home isolation without informing the authorities. Unlike in Delhi, home isolation of asymptomatic positive patients is not allowed in Uttar Pradesh. They have been admitted to hospitals, said Dr. Gupta.But, 28 others had gone to other districts.“Their information has been sent to the districts where they are staying,” Dr Gupta added.The health team that referred patients to their respective hospitals too have been given an updated checklist to help them determine which type of hospital suited best for the patient. Earlier, this team, which was mandated to contact positive patients and refer them to the hospital, would at times send patients off to hospitals that probably was not suited for them -- such as referring a critical care patient to a hospital that served moderate cases. That process generally took anything between 24-48 precious hours.“With the earlier system, gauging requirement of appropriate hospital was a bit tricky. With the checklist in place, identification and referral to an appropriate hospital has become lot easier. We now also immediately convey the information to ambulance system and the local police who physically visit patient’s address. So, this helps in early picking up of patient and also confirms his physical location. In case the patient goes missing or address found incorrect, help of police surveillance system is taken to trace the patient,” Dr Gupta added.The district has now formulated three pronged strategy for tracing contacts of the patient.The district now has local police (from the respective police station) who goes physically for contact tracing, a control room headed by additional district magistrate and another team from health department’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) laboratory who takes up contact tracing over the phone.“Since we attended different meetings taken up by UP government nodal officers, there has been improvement in systems with focus on early detection and faster referral to appropriate hospitals. But for ascertaining that fatality rate is on decline, we need at least one month assessment before we can say that it has stabilized or reduced,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/by-streamlining-systems-ghaziabad-brings-down-fatality-rate/story-w7tTHYclZ9uKzJOIv1cu4H.html
15-07-2020||Lucknow||Monsoon session of UP legislature: Presenting supplementary budget may be a challenge||Any state government move to present the first supplementary budget for 2020-2021 in the forthcoming session of the state legislature may pose a major challenge to authorities, amid paucity of funds following decline in tax revenue in the fight against Covid-19.Under any other circumstances, the state government might have considered presenting a large supplementary budget, making large and token allocations to fund development projects and some populist announcements, as the state is likely to go for assembly elections early in 2022.“We will be able to come out with a supplementary budget only if the state government is in a position to do so. The state government is yet to take a call on the issue. A decision to present supplementary budget, if needed, will be taken only once a notification about convening the monsoon session is issued,” said a senior state government officer on condition of anonymity.A formal notification for convening the session is yet to be issued but the state cabinet appears to have decided to convene the monsoon session from August 20. Though a need to present the first supplementary demands of grant for 2020-2021 may be felt, the paucity of funds may not allow the state government the luxury of presenting the first supplementary budget as it has been doing over the years.“So far we have no indications about presenting first supplementary demands of grant for 2020-2021. If necessary, the size of supplementary budget will be much lower than the previous years,” said another senior officer.Minister for finance Suresh Khanna was not available for comments. Others in the state government agreed the presentation of first supplementary budget, if necessary, may pose a big challenge to the state government that is already facing fund crunch following decline in collections due to fight against Covid-19. The state government may have to make necessary allocations to fund the chief minister’s announcements and important administrative decisions, like his move to set up a judicial commission to probe issues about killing of eight policemen in Kanpur by Vikas Dubey and subsequent killing of the dreaded criminal by the police in an encounter later.It may be mentioned that the state government’s major revenue earning departments have failed to meet tax collection targets in the first quarter of 2020-2021. A close scrutiny of the state government’s tax receipts in the first three months indicates that the major departments collected only 37.77 per cent of targeted tax revenue from April 1 to June 30. The state government’s total tax revenue collection in first quarter (April 1 to June 30, 2020) was Rs 15716.48 against targeted tax revenue of Rs 41,602.68 crore. On non-tax revenue front too, the collections were only 37.49 per cent of targets. The state government hopes of improvement in the situation as the collections showed an improvement in June 2020 and earning were about 61 per cent of targets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/monsoon-session-of-up-legislature-presenting-supplementary-budget-may-be-a-challenge/story-XQSUDiRTPI1jnWFoTVbKEI.html
15-07-2020||City||Gurugram: Despite slowdown, HSVP manages to sell properties at a premium||Gurugram: Despite the economic slowdown caused by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) managed to net a total of ₹14 crore by selling commercial properties in the first auction of the year. HSVP officials said they managed to sell five commercial properties located in sectors 39 and 46 over and above the base price fixed by the authority as the auctions elicited a strong response from bidders.The authority had put on sale 13 commercial properties that included five four-story shops in Sector 46 and eight booths in Sector 39. The maximum response received from the bidders was for the large double-story shops and HSVP received six bids for booths and 45 bids for large shops, said officials.Vivek Kalia, estate officer II, HSVP, Gurugram said the authority managed to auction three double-story shops and two booth sites for an amount of ₹14 crore. “The response of the buyers was very positive and this gives us hope that in future too our properties will continue to command a premium among buyers,” said Kalia, adding that the properties that were sold are in prime locations and the markets have very good business prospects.Officials said that it was due to this reason that shops in Sector 46 were sold at double the minimum price listed by the authority, at ₹2.04 crore. The booths in Sector 39 were also sold at a premium of around ₹8 lakh, they added.Officials added that the commercial units, which went under the hammer in Sector 46, were sold almost after 15 years, which also was the reason for the enthusiasm shown by buyers. They further said that the premium location of the properties was the reason that slowdown did not impact price or demand.The last auction conducted by the HSVP of commercial properties was in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-despite-slowdown-hsvp-manages-to-sell-properties-at-a-premium/story-DeW03Z2XbH07iD48fMfnjP.html
15-07-2020||City||Gurugram: Suspects order pizza, snatch delivery man’s motorcycle; one arrested||Gurugram: A delivery man was robbed when five men, who ordered a pizza from the restaurant the victim works at, snatched his motorcycle in Gurugram’s Sector 57 on Tuesday. One of the suspects was arrested later.According to the police, the incident took place around 8pm when Chandan Kumar, who works as a delivery person with a restaurant in DLF Phase 4, had gone to deliver food in H block, Sector 57.In the police complaint, Kumar alleged, “When I reached the location, five men started hurling abuses at me and told me that I was late. They took the pizza and then started manhandling me. One of them pushed me and took hold of my motorcycle. Four of the suspects then drove away and threatened to kill me.”Police said Kumar got hold of one of the suspects and informed the police control room, following which a team rushed to the spot, and arrested the suspect, who was identified by online one name, Prince, from Charkhi, Dadri. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The other suspects are yet to be identified and police teams are conducting raids to nab them. We are checking footage from CCTVs in the area for possible leads.”A case has been registered against the suspects under sections 379 A (punishment for snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code at the Sector 56 police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-suspects-order-pizza-snatch-delivery-man-s-motorcycle-one-arrested/story-TYBrYOqZ1kqQ9VeS2C0bMN.html
15-07-2020||City||IB introduces new process to review results||Gurugram: The International Baccalaureate (IB) has introduced a new process to review extraordinary cases of students seeking revaluation of their final scores. It has identified three priority areas— candidate-level discrepancy, subject-level discrepancy and whole cohort discrepancy — for the review.The decision comes in the wake of students and parents across the world expressing displeasure at the IB final diploma results declared on July 6. A diploma examination is the international equivalent to an Indian Class 12 board examination, although the scores of IB are widely accepted across all major universities in the world.IB had called off the diploma examinations scheduled between April 30 and May 22 in view of the coronavirus pandemic. In the absence of exams, the final grades were based on the student’s coursework throughout the two-year programmes, teacher-delivered predicted grades provided by schools, and historic school assessment data, the IB said. Many students had said there was a significant gap between their predicted and final scores. With a drop in scores, the admission prospects of students who do not have an unconditional offer from universities abroad will be likely impacted.In a statement shared with HT on Wednesday, IB has said that it will prioritise cases that are linked to progression to university admissions and asked students to work directly with their school coordinators to address their concerns on the decided parameters.“The IB has introduced a new process to review extraordinary cases. We will prioritise cases that are linked to progression to support with university admissions and dates of admissions. The IB is committed to a rigorous review of all these cases but cannot guarantee higher grades as a result of the review; results that are deemed reasonable will not go down as a result of this process,” the statement mentioned.Sudha Goyal, principal of Scottish High International School, said the school was opting for the Enquiry Upon Results (EUR) service. “EUR is essentially a review of the results. Since the option is available, we are going for it. The IB sets a uniform fee for EUR service and students can opt for the option convenient for them,” Goyal said. She said while EUR is available every year, the process was modified this year since many students wanted to opt for it.Mihir Sardana, an IB student from the city who plans to study abroad, said while he was thinking about opting for a revaluation, the process was expensive. Sardana said it would cost roughly Rs11,000 if he opted for a review.“We are discussing the review process with the school but it is very expensive. We already paid for the examination and going for the review would mean an additional payment all over again,” Sardana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ib-introduces-new-process-to-review-results/story-1JjgOYctAXq9nnGI4FGiOM.html
15-07-2020||City||Gurugram Police to lend help if water floods city roads||Gurugram: Around 1,500 Gurugram police personnel deployed along 25 teams will manage traffic during the monsoon, the city police department said on Wednesday.The received 30 recovery vehicles and cranes from the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to help tow broken down vehicles. The department also and purchased 100 ropes, 5000 rain boots and 5,000 raincoats for their personnel.Senior police officials said that they have identified 37 spots where they will depute officials whenever the sky is overcast to ensure there is minimal effect of waterlogging on vehicular movement.Police commissioner KK Rao said they have prepared a strategy to deal with the monsoon situation and they will ensure there is no repeat of the incident on July 28, 2016, when the city had come to a standstill as water flooded the main roads and traffic was stuck for almost a day. “We have roped in all agencies and have coordinated with all stakeholders of the district to ensure better coordination and implantation of the strategy to avoid the waterlogging,” he said. “We demanded 60 recovery vehicles from the MCG, we got 30. The police have been directed to assist motorists whenever required.”Police said they have identified spots from all important intersections along the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway, including the Iffco Chowk and IMT Chowk in Manesar, which are on the Jaipur-Delhi Highway.“Pumps have been made operational and tested and we are keeping a close watch on the situation and all the police stations have been informed how to respond to distress calls. The PCR riders have also been directed to respond and rush to the spot within five minutes. The deployment of PCRs and riders have been planned and the rosters have been prepared for all the duties,” said Rao.Rao said the police will use 30 PCR vehicles, 30 individual riders, 30 towing vehicles and 10 earth-moving machines during the monsoon. “We have looked at the each of the spots individually to determine exactly what is needed to deal with the traffic situation. In some areas, higher number of personnel are needed to be deployed due to the presence of a high volume of traffic. We will monitor the situation and based on the severity of waterlogging force will be deployed,” he said.Police said this year the volume of traffic will be less as compared to other years as the offices are yet not open and those who are operational are not working with full strength but with 50%.The police have prepared a monsoon deployment chart with the names of all police personnel deputed at each area, their timings, and the distribution of machinery. It also added that a social media team will regularly update traffic and waterlogging situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-police-to-lend-help-if-water-floods-city-roads/story-LAzl0Xbbm2vRyHaes3sMhJ.html
15-07-2020||City||NCC personnel killed, two others injured in accident on Yamuna Expressway||A 35-year-old personnel with the naval unit of National Cadet Corps (NCC) was killed and two of his colleagues severely injured in an accident on the Yamuna Expressway early Wednesday.The deceased was identified as Sateesh Chand Gangwar and his injured colleagues as Kuldeep and Dhananjay Singh. All three were posted in Prayagraj.According to police, they were on their way to the Delhi headquarters in a Maruti Vitara Brezza when the accident happened 28 kilometres before the Greater Noida zero point of the Yamuna Expressway, under the jurisdiction of the Rabupura police station.“The accident took place around 3.25am. The car they were travelling in was allegedly hit by an unidentified vehicle on the driver’s side after which their vehicle overturned and crashed into the dividers. All three were rushed to a private hospital nearby where Sateesh was declared brought dead,” Vineet Kumar, station house officer, Rabupura police station, said.The condition of the two injured is serious, police said. The car was being driven by the Gangwar.Police said that one of the patrolling vehicles on the expressway had first spotted the wreckage after which officials were informed and the three were pulled out of the vehicle.“It was one of the two patrolling vehicles on duty between the 18 and 30 kilometre points that first reported the accident,” the SHO said.Police said that the families of the victims have been informed and a complaint has been filed. Based on that complaint, a case has been registered at the Rabupura police station against the unidentified vehicle under sections 279 (rash driving), 333 (voluntarily causes grievous hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.The SHO said they are working on identifying the vehicle that crashed into the car and efforts are on to nab the errant driver. Footage from the cameras in the area is also being checked, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncc-personnel-killed-two-others-injured-in-accident-on-yamuna-expressway/story-EragvkNeBa3PL1CCHcamUO.html
15-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad students among high scorers in CBSE’s class 10 examinations||Two students from Delhi Public School Ghaziabad (DPSG), Vasundhara and one from Delhi Public School, Indirapuram stood among some of the high scorers in Ghaziabad in central board of secondary education’s (CBSE’s) class 10 results declared on Wednesday. According to the CBSE, the Noida region -- comprising Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad and Bulandshahr districts-- had a passing percentage of 87.51.Jiya Chakraborty and Aadya Mahraur from DPSG and Yash Goel from DPS, Indirapuram scored 99.4% marks each in their examination. All three aspire to pursue engineering once their leave school in two years’ time.“I did not take any coaching or tuitions and spent time in pursuing my hobbies of reading novels and learning Kathak for the last three to four years, apart from regular studies,” Jiya said.She scored 97 in science and 100 each in mathematics, English, Sanskrit and social studies.“My teachers were the first to break the news to me and later my school principal also called up to congratulate me,” she added.Aadya Mahraur from the school also secured 99.4% with 99 marks in mathematics, 98 in science and 100 each in social science, English and French. A resident of Greater Noida (west), she says that the Covid-19 lockdown, in a way, helped her.“I save a lot of travelling time. I did not devote fixed hours to studies but focussed more on quality time. I expected 95% marks, the results are a pleasant surprise,” she said. “I have been getting a lot of calls from friends but will spend time with the family at home in evening. Everyone is happy for me.”Trilok Singh Bist, DPSG principal, lauded the students.“They made the city proud and are among the high scorers in state as well,” he said.Yash Goel from DPS, Indirapuram said he although he expected a high score, he did not expect to top the city.“I was shocked for once seeing the marks. I devoted about five to six hours to studies each day and spent rest of the time in reading books and to sports like cricket. I am preparing for the IITs’ joint entrance examination. I love computers and computer languages and often research during my spare spare time,” he said. “Everyone in family is feeling great about my result but there will be no outing due to pandemic situation.” His principal Sangeeta Hajela said that all students of the school passed the examination and that 465 out of 468 of her students scored first division, while there were 212 students overall who scored above 90%.“We are proud of Yash and equally proud and happy for every student for their efforts which they have put in. The school’s overall result is 100%,” she added.Other schools in the city too scored high marks.GD Goenka School, Raj Nagar Extension had 100% results in the class 10 CBSE examinations. Ishita Singh (98.4%), Anusha Gupta (97.8%) and Abhimanyu Sardana (97.2%) were the top three students in the school with results declared on Wednesday.“Every student of our school has worked hard and put in a lot of efforts and it is because of this that our result is 100%. Overall, 60 students appeared for the examinations and all of them scored 75% or above. So, this is an achievement with efforts of students and the teachers,” said Neha Sharma, the school principal.The spokesperson for Amity International School, sector-6, Vasundhara said that all the 142 students cleared the exams with 138 first division marks and 122 distinctions.Aditya Saxena (98%), Pulak Srivastava (97.6%) and Srishti Chopra (97.4%) were the top three students of the school.Silver Line Prestige School – Bulandshahr Road Industrial Area, also achieved 100% result with Vanya Garg being the school topper with 99% marks. About 92% students of the school passed exams with first division marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-students-among-high-scorers-in-cbse-s-class-10-examinations/story-BjBqKsiVGKK7eKyEjYC39J.html
15-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Sewer line shifted to construct Sector 71 underpass||The Noida authority on Wednesday said it is about to finish the job to shift a deep sewer line to make way for the construction of the Sector 71 underpass. The work to start the sewer line was started in February but it got delayed due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and the subsequent lockdown to curb its spread. Officials said the pandemic situation also affected work on the underpass structure.“The work of shifting the sewer line is in its last leg. We will finish this job in a week’s time to expedite work on the underpass project. We aim to finish the underpass by March 2021,” said Mukesh Vaish, project engineer of the Noida authority. After the sewer line is laid, in a week’s time, traffic disruption will ease to some extent in the area, he said.The underpass is being built on the Master Plan-III road stretch. The authority has shifted this major sewer line a little towards Sector 51 (Hoshiyarpur) and Sector 52. Officials said work has been expedited so as to keep it ready to handle the traffic problems caused by rains.Once the underpass is ready, commuters travelling from Noida’s City Centre to Greater Noida west can enjoy a seamless ride by taking the underpass. Commuters travelling from Sector 62 towards Dadri Road will pass a signal-free stretch above the underpass.The 750 meter-long, six-lane underpass will benefit the newly built group housing societies in sectors 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79 as well as Greater Noida West, popularly known as Noida Extension.The project’s earlier deadline was December, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-sewer-line-shifted-to-construct-sector-71-underpass/story-fStoE5jnFVBKTV7lOg7wIM.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||SDMC to form committee to inspect if drains have been cleaned||To ensure that there is no waterlogging during the monsoon and to check if drains are properly cleaned, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) will form a committee to conduct site inspections and hold officials accountable for delayed works and irregularities.SDMC officials said the committee members will visit areas where engineers claim 100% desilting of drains has been done and check the veracity of the claim. The officials said these inspections are likely to start from Thursday or Friday. Anamika Mithilesh, mayor, SDMC, said a meeting in connection with the setting up of the committee to inspect drains and also to coordinate with other agencies was held on Wednesday. She said the committee will have at least 12 members from various departments. “The committee will also have representatives from other road owning agencies such as the public works department (PWD) and the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), irrigation and flood control and also from the other two municipalities to ensure better interdepartmental coordination. It will help in effectively tackling waterlogging this monsoon. The committee members will also conduct inspections to check if drains are desilted properly and to see if silt removed from drains is left on the roadside. Officials who have been lax in their duties will be held accountable,” Mithilesh said.The SDMC has claimed that it has completed over 95% of the desilting work by the end of June. However, some large drains such as the Kushak drain and Andrews Ganj drain in south Delhi are yet to be desilted completely. Another senior SDMC official, on condition of anonymity, said there were instances wherein officials concerned had claimed that drains in their area were 100% cleaned even when they weren’t. “Other than the committee, the mayor and the commissioner will also conduct surprise inspections. These moves will bring about transparency,” the official said.The civic body has also identified 45 sensitive areas that are prone to waterlogging. Mithilesh said some of these sensitive locations are ITO crossing and the surrounding area, area beneath Chirag Dilli flyover, Okhla underpass, RTR Marg, Aurbindo Marg, and Mehrauli-Badarpur road. “Waterlogging prone areas belong to different agencies such as PWD, SDMC, DDA, New Delhi Municipal Council and others. We will install boards near these points with the name of the agency concerned and the contact details of officials for quick redressal of waterlogging related issues,” Mithilesh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sdmc-to-form-committee-to-inspect-if-drains-have-been-cleaned/story-BTdyxWS6Hota45gNhMRfSI.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||Tattoo artist, 3 others held for shooting brother-in-law to frighten ex-wife into giving up child||A 32-year-old tattoo artist and his three associates have been arrested for hatching a conspiracy and attempting to kill his brother-in-law with intent to intimidate his former wife and retain the custody of their child, the police said on Wednesday.The tattoo artist, Vishal Sharma, allegedly hired the other three arrested persons – Ramdev,25, Akshay Chauhan,25, and Guddu Kumar,23 – to kill his former wife Saloni, as she wanted the custody of their daughter who had been with him since their divorce in September 2019. But when Sharma failed to ascertain his wife’s whereabouts and was not getting the opportunity to kill her, he allegedly asked the hitmen to shoot and injure his brother-in-law, so as to terrify his wife, said deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia.DCP Bhatia said Sharma came in Ramdev’s contact through a jailed criminal, Chhenu, and convinced him to kill his wife. Ramdev included Akshay and Guddu in the conspiracy. “Sharma used to contact the hired killers on WhatsApp using an international SIM card, which we have recovered from his possession. He had paid them money to buy a KTM bike to be used in the crime and arrange the arms and ammunition needed,” Bhatia said.On July 10, Saloni’s brother, Lakshya Nagpal,40, was on his way home to East Patel Nagar when two men on a KTM bike came from behind and shot him in his right thigh. A case of attempt to murder was registered and the injured man suspected the involvement of his sister’s former husband, who had recently threatened to kill him.“Our prime suspect, Sharma, was on the run and was using his mother’s ATM card, which showed frequent transactions in Delhi and Haryana before and after the shooting. It was also learnt that Sharma was with Ramdev and Akshay at a guest house in Paharganj on July 2,” the DCP said.The guest house’s CCTV footage was checked and the shoes Ramdev was wearing matched with those worn by the pillion rider who had shot and injured Nagpal. The police traced Akshay’s whereabouts to Uttam Nagar and caught him along with Guddu. Their interrogation led to the arrest of Sharma, his girlfriend and Ramdev from a hotel in Dwarka. Two countrymade pistols, 18 cartridges and three spare magazines were seized along with the KTM Bike and a Dzire car, in which the suspects had gone on a shrine to Punjab’s Jalandhar after the shooting, DCP Bhatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tattoo-artist-3-others-held-for-shooting-brother-in-law-to-frighten-ex-wife-into-giving-up-child/story-v0spI34txZuuxHYUjVEaYI.html
15-07-2020||City||Court dismisses bail plea of Narwal, Kalita||New DelhiA Delhi court has dismissed the bail application of Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, members of Pinjra Tod, who arrested for their alleged role in the north-east Delhi riots, after considering the nature of the offences and the investigation conducted so far.Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat declined to give bail to Narwal and Kalita, who have been charged with the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for allegedly hatching a conspiracy and playing an active role to orchestrate riots. The police had said they were a part of unlawful assembly that had caused riots.The judge said the bail is being denied on the investigation conducted so far. He rejected an argument by the Public Prosecutor that Narwal lives in a rented accommodation and hence she cannot be released on bail.Appearing for the police, the public prosecutor told the court that the statement of one of the witnesses show the alleged role of the accused in the northeast Delhi riots. He said that the name of the witness is not disclosed because he has to be protected.The judge, after reading the statement, said, “The court has seen the statement of the witness and it does point to the active role and conspiracy of the accused in causing the riots.”The court said that even though nothing has been mentioned about both the accused in the charge sheet filed by the police in the case so far, the investigating agency has mentioned that investigation is pending. Advocate Adit S Pujari, counsel for the accused, argued that investigation was complete.Kalita and Narwal, lodged in Tihar jail under judicial custody, were arrested by Delhi Police in connection with a protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in northeast Delhi’s Jafrabad area in February. They have been separately arrested in other cases related to the riots.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and more than 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-narwal-kalita/story-rc38CS8bNWzPXVFR7lfgnN.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 1,647 new coronavirus cases in last 24 hours: All you need to know||Delhi on Wednesday recorded 1,647 new coronavirus cases, taking city’s cumulative tally to over 1.16 lakh, while deaths rose to 3,487 after 41 people succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours. Here are 7 important things you need to know• There are 17,807 active cases is Delhi, with over 9,900 people in home isolation. At least 95,699 people infected by the virus have recovered, discharged or migrated from the time Delhi recorded it’s first case in March. • While not only the gradual decline in cases indicates national capital’s effectiveness in flattening the curve, it is also the recovery rate – currently at 81.7 per cent – which has signalled Delhi’s grasp over tackling the disease outbreak. • Delhi had last reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 on June 23. The cases have witnessed gradual decline since then. • A total of 7,36,436 people have been tested by the authorities in the state so far, out of which 22,528 tests were conducted on Wednesday. According to the state bulletin, authorities in Delhi have conducted 38,759 tests per million. • As of July 15, total containment zones in Delhi have risen to 659, two more than a day before. • Delhi, which was supposed to see over a lakh cases by June end and had sought help from Centre to amp up measures to treat those infected by the virus, has close to 19,000 beds vacant as on Wednesday. These beds are available in hospitals, dedicated COVID care centre and dedicated COVID health centre. • Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting to review hospital-wise data on deaths and analysis of Covid-related fatalities in the national capital. Authorities at state-run Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital said it is soon going to launch a plasma bank, which will be the third such facility in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-1-647-new-coronavirus-cases-in-last-24-hours-all-you-need-to-know/story-rKclPKZrUj5nPzZVPvgAUI.html
15-07-2020||Noida||Noida: 13 arrested, over 2,000 vehicles challaned for flouting Covid curbs||Owners of over two thousand vehicles were penalised across Noida and Greater Noida on Wednesday and 13 persons arrested for allegedly violating anti-Covid-19 curbs, said police.Also, 10 vehicles were impounded for similar violations in the last 24 hours in Gautam Buddh Nagar, which has reported 35 Covid-19 deaths so far, official figures reveal.Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code which bars assembly of more than four persons is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar whose urban areas fall in the ‘Red Zone’ for Covid-19. “Five FIRs were registered and 13 people arrested for violating the curbs. A total of 5,008 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 2,009 of them, while another 10 were impounded,” the police said in a statement. Altogether, a sum of Rs 2,69,000 was collected in fines during the action, the police said.The Noida-Delhi border continues to remain sealed for movement except for people providing essential services and having passes issued by the district administration, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-13-arrested-over-2-000-vehicles-challaned-for-flouting-covid-curbs/story-nYqE5u0SZG8zuBc99oZNdO.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||32 fresh virus cases in Himachal, tally now 1,341||Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday recorded 32 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally to 1,341, officials said.Eleven cases were reported in Bilaspur, nine in Solan, six in Kullu, three in Chamba, two in Una and one Sirmaur.In Bilaspur, nine migrant labourers from Bihar have been infected. They were engaged in building work at Hydro-Engineering College campus at Bandla. One of the labourer had tested positive three days ago after which others were quarantined at the college campus.Three labourers tested positive early in the morning while seven more cases were detected in the afternoon. Besides, a woman, who had returned from Delhi, has also tested positive in the district.In Chamba, a 29-year-old woman and 5-year-old girl from Salooni sub-division have tested positive. A 23-year-old pregnant woman from Mohalla Govindgarh of Nahan town in Sirmaur district has also contracted the disease. The woman was undergoing treatment at a hospital where her Covid-19 test came out positive. She has been shifted to a Covid-care centre and her primary contacts are being traced.In Kullu district, six people tested positive, including a 31-year-old man, who had returned from to Delhi from Sudan on July 4 and from there he arrived in Kullu and was under home quarantine.Nine cases were reported in Solan and two in Una late evening. Their details are awaited.ACTIVE CASES RISE TO 351Special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said active cases in the state have reached 351 as 966 people have been cured till date. The recovery rate in the state is 72.03% %.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 314 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 276 cases. Solan has 268 cases, Una 146, Chamba 71, Shimla 62, Bilaspur 63, Sirmaur 47, Mandi 40, Kinnaur 36, Kullu 14 and Lahaul-Spiti district four.CM directs district authorities to keep strict vigil on migrant labourersChief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday directed all district authorities to keep a strict vigil on arrival of migrant labourers particularly in industrial units.He was addressing a meeting of deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and chief medical officers through video conferencing.The CM said the state government has decided that industrialists or their contractors will be allowed to bring labourers after due approval of the administration and will be kept in quarantine as per guidelines issued by the health department.He said big industrial units will have to create adequate quarantine facilities, whereas small units can pool for creating the quarantine facility. He also directed the industries and labour and employment departments to keep a strict vigil on industrial units to follow the SoPs issued from time to time.The government has decided not to open the temples and other religious places in the state to avoid overcrowding, the CM said.He directed the officers to strictly enforce the decision of not allowing more than 50 people in marriages and other family functions.The chief medical officers have been asked to increase testing capacity of Covid-19 in their respective districts. He said all persons with symptoms should be invariably tested for the virus besides ensuring proper testing of all the primary and secondary contacts of patients.Thakur said about 1,560 residents have arrived from 78 cities of 61 countries and all of them were examined medically. He said out of these 1,117 persons arrived at New Delhi Airport, 192 at Amritsar Airport and 248 persons at Chandigarh International Airport. He said 613 flights were attended by the officers of the state government at New Delhi, Amritsar and Chandigarh airports.The CM also directed the deputy commissioners to be more vigilant keeping in view the rainy season. He said this may increase the cases of viral and related ailments causing extra burden on health institutions. He also directed the superintendents of police to keep strict vigil on persons furnishing false information about their origin of arrival as well as Covid-19 status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/32-fresh-virus-cases-in-himachal-tally-now-1-341/story-fACZ1NnTLB8qFGjdENgzrK.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||78-year-old man from Sector 19 is Chandigarh’s 11th Covid fatality||Another senior citizen lost battle with Covid-19, taking the toll in Chandigarh to 11 on Wednesday. As many six people who was died of the virus in the city were aged 60 or above. Five of the fatalities have occurred in the past one week.Meanwhile, 19 more cases were reported even as 23 patients were discharged, taking the total tally to 619, of which 149 remain active. The number of those cured has touched 459. The latest victim has been identified as a 78-year-old resident of Sector 19, who tested positive at the Panchkula civil hospital on July 14 and breathed his last there.“He was a patient of chronic heart disease with coronary stenting. He was admitted at Panchkula for the last three days and was administered oxygen too,” stated an official release of the UT administration.With the surge in infections and the rate of testing remaining almost constant, positivity rate has increased to 6.1% while recovery rate has decreased to 74% after remaining at 88% in the June.Among fresh cases, two each have been reported from Sectors 29, 46 and 48 besides Bapu Dham Colony and Burail. They include eight males and two females.One case each has surfaced in Sectors 25, 26, 38 and 63 besides Khuda Alisher, Raipur Khurd and Dhanas. These include six males and two females.Those found infected are in the age group of 24 to 60. As many as 23 family contacts of these patients have been quarantined and will be tested.Dr G Dewan, director, health services, said second round of door-to-door screening is continuing with focus on Manimajra, where 8,516 houses with 32,106 people have been screened. Samples of 10 suspect cases have been sent for testing, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/78-year-old-man-from-sector-19-is-chandigarh-s-11th-covid-fatality/story-llTlNyucU4A2ifoa5D0SdK.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Jaggery, raw sugar may improve fiscal health of Haryana’s cooperative sugar mills||With demand for jaggery and raw sugar increasing, the Haryana government plans to start jaggery production in two cooperative sugarmills during the crushing season, which begins from the first week of November.State agriculture department officials said two cooperative sugar mills in Kaithal and Palwal had been identified for the pilot project.Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal, said, “We have decided to produce jaggery in two cooperative sugarmills as there is huge market for jaggery and jaggery powder (raw sugar).”Officials of the Haryana Sugarfed also visited the Budhewal co-op sugar mill of Punjab, which is famous for its ‘Fateh’ brand of jaggery and sugar. “Good quality jaggery is being sold for around Rs 70-80 per kg. We can produce good quality items for the people of our state”, he said adding, the production may be increased by involving more sugarmills if it gets good response.Officials associated with the project said the decision was being taken following a dip in the demand for sugar, following which the prices of sugar had dropped to Rs 35 per kg.JAGGERY PRICES HAVE INCREASEDOn the other hand, jaggery prices have increased to around Rs 50 to Rs 70, depending on quality.Moreover, officials said the production cost of jaggery is less than that of sugar.“There are around 300 jaggery units in Yamunanagar and Ambala districts but still Haryana depends upon Uttar Pradesh for good quality produce,” said a senior officer of Haryana Sugarfed. Officials of the Kaithal Cooperative Sugarmill conducted a survey and told the government that there was a demand for 5,000 quintals of jaggery in mill area.Kaithal Cooperative Sugarmill managing sugar director Jagdeep Singh said, “We have prepared a blue print for starting jaggery production and submitted it to the government for consideration. As per the survey there is a huge demand for gur, shakkar, khandsari and raab (a byproduct of jaggery) in southern and western parts of the state.”Singh said, “There is no need to make big changes in the sugarmill for jaggery production as most of the initial processes are the same.”As per the state government’s figures, sugarcane is grown over 1.10 lakh hectares in Hrayana. The 11 government-run sugar mills in the state crush around 455 lakh quintals of sugarcane per year and produce 50 lakh quintals of sugar. The three private sugarmills also crush around 270 lakh quintals of sugarcane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jaggery-raw-sugar-may-improve-fiscal-health-of-haryana-s-cooperative-sugar-mills/story-qWWwNztXn00ItkuamEg7WK.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Stop broadcast of film on Prophet Muhammad: Anil Deshmukh to Centre||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has written to the Centre demanding a ban on the broadcast of the film Muhammad: The Messenger of God on digital platforms following a complaint by a city-based organisation in this regard.Deshmukh has sought the ban on the film under the Information Technology Act to ensure the law and order situation is not affected in the state, said an official statement issued on Wednesday.The organisation, Raza Academy, had submitted the complaint to the states cyber cell, seeking a ban on the films broadcast on digital platforms, it said.The statement does not specify details of the Academy’s complaint.Following this, Deshmukh wrote a letter to the central government seeking a ban on the films broadcast under the provisions of the IT Act to ensure the law and order situation is not affected in the state, the statement said.The film is to be broadcast on July 21, it said.The home minister has demanded that instructions be issued to prevent broadcast of the film on digital platforms like YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and WhatsApp among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/stop-broadcast-of-film-on-prophet-muhammad-anil-deshmukh-to-centre/story-5h6UXJc3DlfH8sZJtgm4hN.html
15-07-2020||City||Hinjewadi IT Park firms provide accommodation to employees during lockdown||Pune: Many IT companies in Hinjewadi have proved campus accommodation to staff during the 10-day lockdown.The firms working with 33 per cent staff were given permission to resume work during the lockdown period announced by Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar.“We are backend staff so need to be present in person at the workplace. The firm provided housing at the campus from day one of lockdown, including cafeteria facility,” said Pallav Sindh, an employee of Infosys.Around 300-400 employees are staying at Infosys company campus.“During the first two months of lockdown, we had made housing arrangements for our employee at the company and it turned out to be a beneficial move for the company. Hence, we decided to continue it during the 10-day lockdown period,” said a spokesperson of Infosys.Many companies have allowed employee the work from home facility.“I am working from home and will not go to work for the next eight days. After the 10-day lockdown ends, I will resume going to office,” said Asif Ali from Infosys.IT staff allowed petrol facility“Most of the petrol companies are giving fuel to IT employees after checking their employee card. Companies have provided application on letter heads as well to the employees,” said a member of Hinjewadi Industries Association (HIA), on request of anonymity.HIA has received no complaints from employees in the first two days of lockdown.“Administration is supporting IT people and they are not facing any trouble from the traffic police as well. IT companies are only calling staff who cannot work from home while others have been told to work from their respective residences,” said a member of HIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hinjewadi-it-park-firms-provide-accommodation-to-employees-during-lockdown/story-SSU9VRYPqFLqDAg6h76vTI.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Shiv Sena candidates elected unopposed to Thane Zilla Parishad||Shiv Sena candidates were elected unopposed as the president and vice-president of the Thane Zilla Parishad on Wednesday, an official said.While Sushma Lone became president of the Zilla Parishad, Subash Pawar was elected the vice-president for the second time, the official said.The duo were the only ones to file their nomination and hence, they were declared elected unopposed by the presiding officer and sub-divisional officer Avinash Shinde, he said.In a house of 52 members, Shiv Sena has 34 seats, the BJP has 16 and NCP has two, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-shiv-sena-candidates-elected-unopposed-to-thane-zilla-parishad/story-Z3pQYuaniZ9OhqWsMAElbN.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||1,647 fresh Covid-19 cases take Delhi’s tally to 1,16,993; death toll rises to 3,487||Delhi recorded 1,647 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.16 lakh, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 3,487, authorities said.Forty-one fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Delhi health department bulletin.This is the fifth consecutive day when fresh cases have been reported in the range of 1,000-2,000.The number of active cases on Wednesday stood at 17,807, down from 18,664 the previous day.  On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases, till date.The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 3,446 on Tuesday.The bulletin on Wednesday said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 3,487 and the total number of cases has mounted to 1,16,993.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/1-647-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-delhi-s-tally-to-1-16-993-death-toll-rises-to-3-487/story-j2AdwgYsHPVaEQcc6kGTBK.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||HC restrains Panjab University from holding final exams||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday restrained Panjab University, Chandigarh, from holding final examinations in July.The order was passed by HC bench of justice Ritu Bahri on the plea of six students. The varsity has been told to file its response by July 23.Student’s counsel Harlove Singh Rajput said they had challenged the varsity’s direction given to final-year students to appear for their end-semester exams.The court was told that as per the June 19 notification, PU will conduct the exams in July 2020. The guidelines issued by University Grants Commission and the Centre are unanimous that there is no compulsion to hold exams. This has been stated in the case of Delhi University, the court was told.The court was told that students from across the country study at PU and due to the Covid-19 pandemic, most of them have had to travel back to their home towns, which has further made it impossible to return without risking their health. PU has nearly 200 colleges affiliated to it in Chandigarh and Punjab with a huge base of students from Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab, besides some students from far-off places such as Northeastern states. “The travel will not just force students to face uncertainty and risk but they will also have to self-quarantine for multiple days according to the state guidelines. Thus, practically making it impossible for students to come and give the examinations and head back to their home after every exam,” the court was told.It was also told that many of the students are from Jammu and Kashmir where due to 2G network, the students were not able to attend online classes. Many other universities have already passed the final-year students and promoted the intermediate classes to the next year, the court was told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-restrains-panjab-university-from-holding-final-exams/story-hnb0vKDLWsnESdA03EPpgI.html
15-07-2020||City||Rao instructs pvt hospitals to regularly update bed availability dashboard||PUNE: Following complaints from residents of bed shortage, sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao, who is posted as Officer on Special Duty, conducted a meeting with heads of various hospitals on Wednesday and instructed them to regularly update dashboard on real-time bed availability.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham and senior officers were present.Rao said, “Private hospitals should regularly update details on dashboard for administration and residents to know bed availability in the city. Private hospitals should take steps to make available more beds for Covid-19 patients.”The commissioner said that hospitals should dedicate separate spaces for Covid-19 cases and other patients.Rao reviewed the strength of doctors and their duty timings. He appointed five deputy collectors to monitor bed situation in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. He instructed the administration of hospitals to encourage residents for home isolation if they show mild symptoms.Collector Naval Kishore Ram said that the district administration is monitoring the fees charges by private hospitals and instructed them to provide benefit of various schemes to patients. He warned of action if hospitals were found to fleece residents.Representatives of all major hospitals were present at the meeting. Hospitals also put forward issued faced by them and promised to cooperate with the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rao-instructs-pvt-hospitals-to-regularly-update-bed-availability-dashboard/story-uqH8hpWZQO2JRsOx4wY2WI.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Snatcher held in 20 minutes of robbing woman’s phone in Dhanas||In only about 20 minutes after he snatched a mobile phone from a woman in Dhanas, a 20-year-old snatcher was nabbed with the help of CCTV footage on Wednesday, police said.The accused has been is identified as Abhishek alias Badri (20) of Dhanas. A habitual drinker, Abhishek was caught from the same market in which he had snatched mobile phone, police said.Around 5pm on Wednesday, police received information that a youth had fled after snatching the mobile phone of Aarti (27) of Dhanas. The accused was caught on the CCTV camera of a nearby shop and was identified by the police team. After a search in the market, the snatcher was caught in the same locality.A case of snatching has been registered at the Sarangpur police station. Abhishek will be produced in court on Thursday. Police have recovered the mobile phone from his possession.He is already accused in a gold chain snatching case registered in 2017 at Sector 36 police station and another phone snatching case from 2018 at the Sarangpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snatcher-held-in-20-minutes-of-robbing-woman-s-phone-in-dhanas/story-jUNEW7tsGjK1SWbjxvdHLI.html
15-07-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt to set up cell for better coordination for facilitating employment for returnees||Fifty-eight per cent of over 2.15 lakh people who returned to their homes in Uttarakhand during the Covid-19 epidemic are skilled and will be encouraged to seek employment under the state government’s Mukhyamantri Swarojgar Yojana (MSY), said chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. The announcement was made after a report, prepared by the Uttarakhand migration commission, was released in Dehradun earlier in the day, regarding the people who returned to the Himalayan state during the Covid crisis. Rawat is the chairman of the commission.In May this year, as a strategy to retain the migrants who returned to the state during the lockdown, CM Rawat had inaugurated MSY, aimed at providing self-employment opportunities to youth and ensuring reverse migration, especially in the case of those who have returned to Uttarakhand in recent months. The fresh report listed the details about people who returned to the 13 districts of the Uttarakhand till June 21. The report also has details regarding the employment status and skill-sets of these people.According to SS Negi, vice chairman Uttarakhand rural development and migration commission, of 2.15 lakh people, the maximum number of people have returned to Pauri and Almora districts.“Those who have returned comprise 80.66 % from other states, 0.29 % from other countries and 18.11 % from different districts within the state to their home districts”, he said.“We also conducted skill mapping of these people and found that over 58 per cent of them are employed in private jobs, hospitality and allied sectors”, he said.Speaking after releasing the report, CM Rawat said more and more people should be encouraged to seek employment within the state under Mukhyamantri Swarojgar Yojana. He said many ongoing schemes and projects have been linked with MSY.“For better coordination between various departments and projects, a state-level cell will be established by the state government in this regard”, he said.Over 15000 people who have returned from other states have already registered themselves with the Uttarakhand government’s online portal hope.uk.gov.in (Helping Out People Everywhere) for seeking employment within the state.Over the last few weeks, the state government has been linking all various schemes under different departments under the umbrella of Mukhymantri Swarojgar Yojna to retain people, returned to the state, by facilitating their employment in the state and thus check hill migration. For effective implementation of MSY, the state government in May launched an online portal hope.uk.gov.in (Helping Out People Everywhere) through which skilled people of Uttarakhand can upload details regarding their expertise based on which authorities and employers here can take a decision on where and how they can be employed in the state.Migration of people from Uttarakhand to other areas of the country is one of the major issues faced by the Himalayan state, with roots in economic disparities, declining agriculture, low rural incomes and a stressed rural economy.Over 700 villages in the state have been deserted and over 3.83 lakh people have left their villages in the 10 years prior to 2018 with half of them going out in search of livelihood, revealed the report of the migration commission released in May last year. Of nearly 16,500 villages in the state, 734 villages, mostly in the hilly areas, have been depopulated.Migration, especially from rural areas in Uttarakhand, is a serious problem with a comparison between 2001 and 2011 census data showing a very slow decadal growth of population in most of the mountain districts of the state, according to the Commission. The data analyzed by the Commission points towards a positive rate of decadal increase in the population of districts like Dehradun, US Nagar, Nainital and Haridwar while negative in Pauri, Almora, Tehri, Bageshwar, Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Pithoragarh districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-to-set-up-cell-for-better-coordination-for-facilitating-employment-for-returnees/story-JbPUo97RH6leA9wAELQ1QI.html
15-07-2020||City||CBSE Class 10 result: Shivalik Public’s Siddhant Rawat tops in Mohali with 98.4%||Siddhant Rawat, a student of Shivalik Public School, Phase 6, Mohali, emerged the topper of the district with 98.4% marks as the CBSE Class 10 results were announced on Wednesday. He was followed by Barsa Chatterjee from Dikshant Global School, Zirakpur, with 98% and Rithika Walia of Manav Mangal Smart World, Zirakpur, who secured 97.6%.Siddhant was 0.4% shy of last year’s district topper Aashima Batla, who had scored 98.8%. However, he did better than 2018’s topper Gayatri of Lawrence Public School, Sector 53, who had got 98%.With 492 out of 500 marks, Siddhant said he wants to take his interest in astronomy and hobby for stargazing and turn it into a career as an aerospace engineer, which he wants to pursue at one of the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). “I own a telescope which I use for stargazing so it would be great to pursue this interest of mine. My parents were my backbone and helped motivate me to work harder,” he said.Barsha who scored 490 out of 500 marks attributed her success to her parents and teachers. “I used to study very systematically and only for a few hours. I prepared for exams strictly from the NCERT books and didn’t even go through any reference books. I depended on my teachers for guidance and they helped explain the difficult topics to me,” said the 16-year-old.Daughter of Debrath Chatterjee, a logistics consultant and Alka Chatterjee, a yoga instructor, Barsha said she will opt for a commerce stream in order to achieve her goal of becoming a chartered accountant.Standing third, Rithika Walia, who studies in Manav Mangal Smart World, Zirakpur, secured 97.6%. She aims to become a cardiologist and credits her performance to regular studies and revisions. “My mother greatly supported me with my studies,” she added.TOPPER PROFILESName: Siddhant RawatAge: 15Marks: 98.4%School: Shivalik Public School, Phase 6, MohaliParents: Mother Manju Rawat is a teacher with the Uttarakhand Board of Education while father Vijay Singh Rawat works with Sun Pharmaceutical Industries.Career aim: Aerospace engineerSuccess Mantra: “What worked for me was hard work with a pinch of motivation. My parents were a great support system and I also used my telescope for stargazing when I wasn’t studying.”Name: Barsha ChatterjeeAge: 16Marks: 98%School: Dikshant Global School, ZirakpurParents: Mother Alka Chatterjee is a yoga instructor, father Debrath Chatterjee is a logistics consultantCareer aim: Chartered AccountantSuccess mantra: “Don’t take any short cuts. I studied only from the NCERT books and didn’t even consult any reference books. Teachers were of great help.”Name: Rithika WaliaAge: 16Marks: 97.6%School: Manav Mangal Smart World, ZirakpurParents: Mother Neeru Walia is an educationistCareer aim: CardiologistSuccess Mantra: “My mother and my teachers were my backbone. I regularly studied dring the year and revised the syllabus thoroughly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-class-10-result-zirakpur-girls-clinch-outstanding-scores-in-mohali-district/story-fSjLi2jPoKRmWV8Y2xRp4M.html
15-07-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal touches 1,000-mark||The death toll in West Bengal touched the 1,000-mark on Wednesday with 20 more people dying after being tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee urged housing societies in the city to keep pluse oximeters in their offices so that home quarantined Covid-19 patients could be checked for their oxygen levels in the blood.Current guidelines say that Covid-19 patients have to be admitted to hospitals if their oxygen saturation drops to 90% or below (normal is 95 to 100%).“Housing societies should keep at least two to three oximeters in their offices. Not everyone needs to be hospitalized. Only those who oxygen level in the blood has depleted below a certain level should be hospitalized,” Banerjee said.The state has registered 34,427 Covid-19 cases till date with 1589 cases being reported since Tuesday. Out of this 12,747 are active cases.At least 415 frontline Covid-9 workers, including policemen, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Bengal till date. and twelve have died.The chief announced that the government will provide jobs to one family member to each of the frontline workers who have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-death-toll-in-west-bengal-touches-1-000-mark/story-jcZWlzneffRyjGl0Du5twO.html
15-07-2020||Lifestyle||Unfunny task of female comedians: Yet to crack up||The recent controversy over an old video of Mumbai-based stand-up comedienne Agrima Joshua has exposed the ‘unfunny’ reality of female comic artists, who are still unable to break the glass ceiling and continue to get targeted. Joshua’s year-old joke — on the proposed statue of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Maharashtra — resurfaced on the internet and caused a massive uproar on social media, accusing her of hurting religious sentiments. The comic took down the video and issued an apology, but the row didn’t stop there and prompted rape threats, including one that had an abusive video message from a 26-year-old Vadodara resident named Shubham Mishra, who was later arrested by the Police for his demeaning act.  मेरी क्षमायाचना स्वीकार करे,Please accept my humble apology,@cmoMaharashtra @authackrey@anildeshmukhncp@nitinraut@RajThackrey pic.twitter.com/uHBZMBPOfBMany celebs have spoken in support of Joshua, and against Mishra’s video. These include comedians Kunal Kamra, Mallika Dua and Bollywood actor Swara Bhasker. But, the question that now arises is whether the stand-up scene is still not a conducive space for females, as any jovial statement gone wrong can invite harassment, both on stage and online. Comedienne Neeti Palta agrees that the trolling faced by Joshua is the reality of most comedians in the country. “As of now, we are all being trolled. But, if you are a comedian and an outspoken woman, you will eventually hit the sexist brickwall,” opines Palta, who is aghast at the way trolls behaved after Joshua’s old video resurfaced. She adds, “You are well within your rights to take offence, but violence is not the answer! People are now taking out our old tweets and misconstruing them... they are also making the case for their actions by arguing that comedians are always targeting religion. Well, these arguments are baseless.” “It’s tougher for a woman to make her mark because as soon as a woman enters the stage, she is judged; people often don’t hear her out but simply look at her. They go as far as to judge her family,” says stand-up comedian Amit Tandon. Conceding to the thought that comediennes are made scapegoats, and acknowledging the fact that insults for women are of a more personal nature, comedienne Anuradha Menon says that many a times female artists in the stand-up realm have to reconsider their jokes due to intolerant attitudes. “Most people come in with a bias that women lack a funny bone. The trolling starts with comments on our physicality; we often hear things like ‘You are ugly, fat and are not funny’. We are the easiest targets because anything we say has the potential to offend someone at some point. Within the world of comedy, there is so much space to disagree. What I may find funny, you may not and vice versa. But why is there no space for disagreement in the society? As comics, we are asked to punch up, but how do we do that when there is so much pushback from society,” says Menon. “Many female comedians have left the profession because of this constant badgering,” says popular stand-up comedian Vasu Primlani, without mincing her words. She feels that comedy still is a serious business when it comes to her male counterparts, but things remain to be harder for women in most aspects. “For example, one OTT platform did not have women in their specials segment. There is a general bias in many firms... But in India [it’s a given that] people won’t notice all our jibes; like the ones on civic issues. People, we don’t just make jokes on religion!”Once a comic , male or female, takes a dig at something, and it goes viral, it becomes difficult to then explain one’s stance and render an apology. Tandon says when a joke goes wrong “You can’t give clarification on social media because 95% people have already made their minds. You can’t expect a sane conversation wherein you can explain to people that they misconstrued your statements. ‘Sorry’ isn’t seen or heard on Twitter or any social media platform. And if anyone takes a legal action, then you issue clarifications because solutions lie in the real world; you cannot win a battle on social media where people can edit out parts of your statement and mislead others.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallika Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/unfunny-task-of-female-comedians-yet-to-crack-up/story-fYynvnvyaY2cMTohWvFtgO.html
15-07-2020||City||Notices to Gidderbaha SDM, DSP for not enforcing covid-19 norms||Bathinda Taking suo motu notice of news reports, Muktsar deputy commissioner MK Aravind Kumar on Wednesday served show-cause notices to sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Om Prakash and the deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gurtej Singh of Gidderbaha for not taking action against violation of covid-19 guidelines during the oath-taking ceremony of chairperson and vice-chairperson of the Gidderbaha marketing committee.Congress legislator from Gidderbaha assembly segment Amrinder Singh Raja Warring attended the event without wearing a mask on July 13.Market committee incumbents Sansar Singh Mallan and Deepak Garg are Congress activists and close aides of Warring.On Monday, Warring had posted photos of the oath-taking ceremony on his verified Facebook page where the Congress MLA and few others were seen not wearing masks, and also found to be forming a huddle with others.The DC office also issued a press release on Wednesday, which said that the first information report (FIR) was lodged under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Gidderbaha against unknown persons on the complaint of special duty magistrate, Jagmohan Singh.The communiqué said some people failed to maintain social distancing and several did not wear masks on the occasion. The DC said the administration had zero-tolerance policy towards strict adherence to social distancing and maintaining the protocol to cover norms and covering faces at any public place. Muktsar SSP Raj Bachan Sandhu said the department was verifying the presence of certain individuals at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/notices-to-gidderbaha-sdm-dsp-for-not-enforcing-covid-19-norms/story-jyCvsw32eSqPEgQSXus4vI.html
15-07-2020||City||Two paragliders survive crash in Dharamshala||Two youth survived a crash after their paraglider got stuck amid pine trees below Indrunag hill near Dharamshala town on Wednesday. The duo were flying a tandem flight. The paraglider crashed soon after takeoff from Indrunag hill, said SHO Rajesh Kumar. They were rescued by a fire-brigade and locals after a four-hour-long operation.Eyewitnesses said they did not get the thermals (warm wind that lifts the paraglider upwards) due to cloudy weather. The paraglider took a plunge soon after the takeoff and were stuck on top of the pine trees.The tandem paragliding is popular in Dharamshala town and many youth are into the adventure sports activity. Though the flights for tourists are banned due to Covid-19, the youth were practising and had successfully landed twice. However, the third flight went wrong and the glider crashed. They did not suffer any serious injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-paragliders-survive-crash-in-dharamshala/story-p9gqV9Ef2ZOk4mWGbREQDP.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 7,975 new Covid 1-9 cases; 233 more die||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally rose to 2,75,640 on Wednesday with the addition of 7,975 new cases, while the death toll inched towards the 11,000-mark, the health department said.With 233 new deaths in a day, the state’s fatality count increased to 10,928, the department said.A total of 3,606 patients were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday, taking the number of recovered persons to 1,52,613 the department said in a statement.There are 1,11,801 active cases in the state at present, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-7-975-new-covid-1-9-cases-233-more-die/story-PkUpaRWPxJq77ifq7qqAKP.html
15-07-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: Bed allocation display board mandatory for private hospitals in Karnataka||Amid difficulties being faced by Covid-19 patients in getting beds, the Karnataka government on Wednesday made bed allocation display board mandatory in all hospitals registered under Karnataka Private Medical Establishment (KPME).“It is made mandatory that all hospitals registered under KPME in Karnataka State should display at the reception counter, a bed allocation display board,” a notification issued by the state government read.“It should display the name of the hospital, the total number of beds (as per of KPME registration) and the total number of beds allocated for Covid-19 patients referred by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP),” it said.The notification further stressed that the data must corroborate with the data of the central bed allocation system of BBMP. The display board should be arranged by July 16.Non-compliance to the order issued by the state government will attract punishment under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Indian Penal Code, the order read.The state government on June 23 issued a notification making it mandatory to reserve 50 per cent of the beds in private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients referred by public health authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-bed-allocation-display-board-mandatory-for-private-hospitals-in-karnataka/story-QLJRthkd45fD9w6cfpLdiO.html
15-07-2020||City||Hisar-based firm starts sterilisation of stray dogs in Ambala||The municipal corporation (MC) here has finally started the sterilisation of stray dogs under the Animal Birth Control programme in the city this week after a three to four-year delay.Initiating the project, Ambala city MLA Aseem Goyal said as per the provisions of Animal Birth Control Rules 2001, a committee of six members has been constituted under the chairmanship of MC commissioner Parth Gupta.“In view of the increasing number of stray dogs in the city, the MC had invited tenders for this work which had been allotted to M/S Jayant Vat House. Under the programme, stray dogs will be caught from different areas of the city and vaccination and sterilisation will be done as per rules. A complaint centre has also been set up in the old building of the animal husbandry department, behind the election office, telephone numbers for which are 0171-2443747 and 86199-18416,” Goyal said.Giving details of the project, the MC commissioner said as per last estimate, there are about 6,000 stray dogs in the city. “The Hisar-based company will charge ₹700 per dog for sterilisation and other related works. To get an idea of the exact number of dogs now, a fresh survey will be conducted,” he said.“This is a two-three day procedure in which two vans with three staff members each will catch dogs from different areas, taking them to one of the seven kennels that are ready in the city. Then, the surgery will take place and depending upon this, any post-operative process will be undertaken or else they’ll be released back to the same place from where they were picked up,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hisar-based-firm-starts-sterilisation-of-stray-dogs-in-ambala/story-jgdJypBYjet3GccALeOjWK.html
15-07-2020||City||9 health workers test positive for Covid-19 at Sohana charitable hospital in Mohali||Three medical officers and six staff nurses of Sri Guru Harkrishan Sahib Sohana Eye and Superspecialty Charitable Hospital in Mohali tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, prompting closure of its OPD services and surgeries.As many as 13 health workers of the Sohana hospital have been found infected in the past 10 days. “The hospital has been sanitised,” said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh.Among the fresh cases, those of four female staff nurses — two aged 23 and others 24 and 27 — will be included in Mohali district’s tally while the remaining five are from other districts.Meanwhile, eight more people from the district tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total count to 456.The patients include a 29-year-old woman from Sector 71, 30-year-old man from Phase 1, 27-year-old man and 31-year-old woman from Phase 9, 32-year-old man from Phase 10, 40-year-old woman from Paradise Apartment, Mohali, 52-year-old man from Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar in Kharar and 52-year-old woman, also from Kharar.Dr Singh said all patients have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Meanwhile, eight people were discharged on Wednesday, taking the number of those cured to 287 and active cases to 160. The district has recorded nine deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-health-workers-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-sohana-charitable-hospital-in-mohali/story-ZvvXR6mn5rLW3xdcquN09H.html
15-07-2020||City||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, common flu adds to worries of health authorities in Ludhiana||Common flu has added to the woes of residents and health authorities who are already fighting the coronavirus pandemic.To top it all, residents suffering from flu are reluctant to visit the hospitals due to the fear that if found positive for covid they will be kept under quarantine for three weeks, which will result in financial loss.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga urged people to not be afraid of the government protocols and get the tests done. “Government is offering free test facility and people should not be reluctant to undergo the test,” said Dr Bagga.Dr Sandeep Puri, principal of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, said that currently they are considering all flu under the Covid-19 category.“Both seasonal flu and covid are viral fever and have similar symptoms. Covid-19 has some added symptoms. In certain cases, patient suffers from loose motion, and no sense of taste and smell. Patients should get the tests done if suffering from shortness of breath, cough and fever. It is important to isolate yourself from other members of the family, especial the elderly and children, in case one feels these symptoms,” said Dr Puri.“Even otherwise, people should take care in the rainy season. Covid-19 is much more harmful as compared to any common flu. So patients should not be complacent about it, avoid gatherings and maintain social distancing,” Dr Puri added.Dr Amarjeet Kaur, senior medical officer (SMO) civil hospital Ludhiana, said, “Cases of common flu and Covid-19 are on the rise and thus, we are recommending patients with symptoms to get tested.”Dr Rampal Jain, a local physician, said that many patient are coming in with flu-like symptoms these days. “It could either be common flu or covid, depending on the severity. People should take precautions and not venture out in public as it is difficult to differentiate between common flu and covid because both have similar symptoms,” Dr Jain said.HOUSE PARTIES ANOTHER PROBLEMDr Bagga urged residents to not hold social gatherings at their houses and outside. “One cannot escape the virus by hosting a party at home. FIR will be registered against anyone found to be violating the norms,” said Dr Bagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-covid-19-pandemic-common-flu-adds-to-worries-of-health-authorities/story-2K9qGnp1LTvsFSsUP6KGHN.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||CBSE Class-10 boards: Chandigarh’s Institute For The Blind announces 100% results||All Class-10 students of the Institute for the Blind, Sector 26, cleared the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) board exams, the results of which were declared on Wednesday. All 13 students who appeared for the exam passed.Kishore Kumar, who scored 89.8%, is the school topper. In 2019, Jashanpreet Kaur, had topped with 88.8% marks.Akhil Thukral, who attained 87.40%, stood second while Padma Angmo and Emanjeet Singh Atwal scored 85.2% and tied for the third position.Principal JS Jayara said, “This year’s batch was focused. I always tell students to treat education as a means of empowerment. I hope all of them go on to pursue graduate and postgraduate degrees. All students will be continuing their education at this institute.” Ask him about how the students prepared, the principal said, “Apart from going through study material in Braille, students also heard audiotapes of NCERT textbooks.”TOPPER CREDITS TECHNOLOGY FOR SCOREKumar, whose parents run a tea stall in Kurali, credits technology for helping him and his classmates attain stellar scores.“Rather than only being dependent on the study material in Braille, we also used the internet. We would listen to audio books and browse through YouTube videos to understand difficult topics.” Kumar says he would like to either prepare for UPSC examinations or become a businessman.He also credits his friends for his success. “I stayed at the institute’s hostel and rarely studied any topic alone. My classmates and I would revise with each other.”Thukral, a resident of Ferozepur in Punjab, dreams of becoming an IAS officer. “It is important to remain focused and debate and discuss topics to attain a good result,” he said.Thukral , who hails from a business family, is fond of playing cricket and swears it is the best stress buster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbse-class-10-boards-chandigarh-s-institute-for-the-blind-announces-100-results/story-w3BSzVShdgPe2C5CeeTuaM.html
15-07-2020||Dehradun||How Uttarakhand govt is focusing on increasing green cover through traditional green festival Harela||With the aim of increasing green cover in urban spaces, the Uttarakhand government will be celebrating Harela festival this year. The Dehradun district administration is planning to plant 2.75 lakh plants in an hour’s time on July 16.Harela, which means ‘Day of Green’, is a green festival celebrated in Uttarakhand and some regions of Himachal Pradesh. The Shravan Harela is celebrated on the first day of Shravan month of Hindu calendar (late July). People in the Himalayan state consider it highly auspicious for starting the sowing cycle in their fields.Ashish Srivastava, district magistrate of Dehradun on Tuesday reviewed the preparations by the block development officer and deputy district magistrates for the comprehensive tree plantation campaign.“Plantation drive should be carried out as per the plan and in areas, it will be easy for people to participate in the plantation drive. The target of planting 2.75 lakhs in the district should be achieved, rather we should try to plant more trees,” said Srivastava.He further directed officials that the focus should not only be on fulfilling the target of the plantation drive but special care should be given to the safety and survival of the saplings after the plantation drive.As per the last two surveys conducted by the Forest Survey of India, over a period of four years from 2015 to 2019, Uttarakhand has not managed to report even an increase of 1% forest cover in the state.Uttarakhand reported an increase of a mere 8.04 sq km of forests as per the India State of Forest Report 2019, released by the Forest Survey of India in December last year. The India State of Forest Report 2017, released by the union ministry of environment and forests in February 2018, showed that only a marginal increase of 23 sq km forest cover was reported in Uttarakhand since 2015.The report of 2017 showed a meagre increase of 165 sq km in very dense forest and 636 sq km in other forest categories, while the moderate dense forest diminished with a difference of 778 sq km, leaving the total cover in state to 24,295 sq km.As per the 2019 report the districts of Haridwar, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar reported a negative result of -2.75sq km, -6.44 sq km and -4.21sq km decrease in forest areas with respect to the assessment done by Forest Survey of India in 2017.The district of Uttarkashi had reported the highest increase in forest cover in the state with an increase of 8 sq km of forest area. In Dehradun, forest cover increased by 3.69 sq km.Many factors including forest fires and development work have contributed to a loss of green cover in Uttarakhand. Since the formation of the state in 2000, over 44,554 hectares of the forest area has been damaged according to an RTI reply.Ajay Singh Rawat, a state-based environmentalist feels that the green cover has been reducing in the state due to massive construction activities including making of new roads which have resulted in massive tree felling. “Thousands of trees have been felled for the Chardham All Weather Road that is being built in the state. Apart from this rampant construction work is being undertaken in the state which is being done through elephant corridors, affecting not just forest cover but wildlife movement also,” said Rawat.Meanwhile, in June, Uttarakhand forest department issued on order directing forest officials to involve members of Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) in plantation drives across the state, especially on Van Mohatsav and Harela.RBS Rawat, RSS’ provincial head and convenor of environment and water conservation in Uttarakhand, said that the organisation has been carrying out green activities like protection of the environment and water resources across the state and will continue to do so.“This time we joined hands with the forest department so that we can do so effectively on a much larger scale across the state. We wrote to the state forest department that we have 2500 ‘paryavaran praharis’ (environment guardians) across the state who can contribute immensely in these drives. I am happy that the state forest department has readily agreed to this. This is a good initiative meant to increase the green cover in the state,” said Rawat, who after his retirement as PCCF Uttarakhand, joined RSS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/how-uttarakhand-govt-is-focusing-on-increasing-green-cover-through-traditional-green-festival-harela/story-BHbsL7NglcWSheZt8ONTDO.html
15-07-2020||Pune||Molten tar spills on the road after tanker overturns on Pune-Mumbai expressway||A tanker, carrying tar weighing at least 29 tonnes, met with an accident along the Pune-Mumbai Expressway on Wednesday morning. The incident occurred at the 96km spot on the expressway in the jurisdiction of the Dehu road police station.While the cleaner of the truck got minor injuries, the driver received no injuries, according to officials of the Dehu road police station. The truck was headed to Sangli from Mumbai in the morning hours when the incident occurred.The cleaner has been identified as Rahul Yadav, who was taken to Pavana Hospital where he was treated for minor injuries and released.“The tar was molten and hot, so we could not go near it. We put mud in its path and directed the flow outside the expressway carriageway. The amount which was spilled on the road has to now cool down and solidify before we call a JCB and scrape it off. It has covered one (out of three) lanes, but the traffic is less,” said Shantaram Garade, worker of Highway Control of IRB who is working on the site.“Of the four lanes, two are free for vehicular movement. The molten tar has formed a 6-7 inch layer on the road,” he added.The incident was recorded at Dehu road police station as an accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/molten-tar-spills-on-the-road-after-tanker-overturns-on-pune-mumbai-expressway/story-x3RD8dWYMUExkgt0cf6vFP.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||With Covid-beds exhausted in Kashmir, doctors ask people to return home||With Covid-19 beds exhausted in Kashmir, doctors on duty say they have no option but to ask people wait in their homes.Around 200 people have died due to Covid-19 in J&K and case count has mounted to 11,173. The last month witnessed a spike in cases and deaths in the UT, especially in Kashmir. A senior doctor posted at the Bone and Joint Hospital, requesting anonymity, said, “We were to operate on two patients. However, when their tests came out to be positive we could not find beds for them at Covid-19 hospitals.” “All beds were exhausted and we have had to move patients from one room to the next till a bed could be arranged. A bed was only arranged after two patients were discharged in the morning.’’ SITUATION IS GRIM, SAYS SENIOR DOCTOR“Now, the places where the patients were moved are being fumigated. The situation is grim and the beds are exhausted,’’ he said. A senior doctor at Government Medical College, who did not wish to be named, said Covid-19 cases have gone up and most people are admitted to the hospital with cases like bilateral pneumonia.“We can’t shift them to designated Covid-19 wards as testing gets delayed. We have no other option but to ask them to take medicines at home till their test results are out,’’ he said. ASYMPTOMATIC CONTACTS SENT HOME A nodal officer in Srinagar, on condition of anonymity, admitted that many Covid-19 patients were being treated in their homes. “Most asymptomatic contacts of positive patients are told to stay at home. Doctors have already asked the government to allow home quarantine for Covid-19 patients but the government is yet to take a final call,’’ the officer said. The two medical colleges in Baramulla and Anantnag have limited beds with high flow oxygen. “Covid-19 patients who are in a bad state are referred to designated hospitals in Srinagar as they require high-flow oxygen, which is not available in our hospital,’’ a doctor at Baramulla Medical College said, adding that many patients were ask to return as they haven’t been tested for Covid-19. “We don’t know what to do with such patients. The government should increase beds with high-flow oxygen in rural areas with the number of cases increasing,’’ the doctor said. Fresh restrictions and red zones were declared in different areas of the Valley after a surge in Covid-19 cases. Srinagar has reported the highest number cases (1,933) and 46 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-covid-beds-exhausted-in-kashmir-doctors-ask-people-to-return-home/story-mcaslcLcIA8n3OoynOqM2K.html
15-07-2020||City||Skill development must be encouraged among youth: Himachal guv||Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Wednesday said the Jan Shikshan Sansthan should be set up in every district of the state for skill improvement and qualitative training among the youth so that they can get better employment opportunities.He was speaking during a webinar organised by Himachal Pradesh Skill Development Corporation to mark the World Youth Skill Day. Dattatreya said skill and technology are important in the changing scenario and can help youth in employment and self-employment. “Skills should be improved by changing the basic ideas. The labour-based system should be changed to a skill-based system,” he said.He said demographic dividend will be fully realised only when India is able to provide universal quality education to its young population. The governor also stressed on promoting entrepreneurship among the youth by encouraging them to provide employment to others.Workers can also be provided employment opportunities through the Gareeb Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan, he added. The governor also advocated skill education at the school-level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/skill-development-must-be-encouraged-among-youth-himachal-guv/story-FD65PEKNaEmCbm71alVuzH.html
15-07-2020||Pune||Unaided institutes association in Pune rural demand cancellation of CET||The association of the management of unaided institutes in rural area has demanded to cancel the Common Entrance Test (CET) exam for various professional courses in the state.This demand is in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the association believes students in rural areas will face a tough time appearing for the competitive tests.“Since the pandemic started there was a complete lockdown in the state exams of primary, secondary and higher studies were cancelled by the state government. While class 12 students have already given their regular exams, appearing for the CET exam in the current Covid background would not be right. Around 60 per cent of students in all state universities come from rural areas and their parents are now fearing to send their children back to cities for any kind of exams. So our request is to cancel this year’s CET and on the basis of the class 12 marks admission for various professional courses should be given to the students,” said Ramdas Zol, president of the association.The ICSE and CBSE boards have declared their class 12 results, however, the Maharashtra state board results for class 12 are awaited. “Some states have taken the decision to give admission to students without taking CET exams. Earlier, the state government had given admission to students without holding the CET, and looking at the current situation of Covid-19 in the state the CET exams should be cancelled. This is our demand to the state government.” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/unaided-institutes-association-in-pune-rural-demand-cancellation-of-cet/story-FhpjUO39yIiP18yhSUQaeI.html
15-07-2020||Kolkata||Twelve frontline Covid-19 workers have died in Bengal: Mamata Banerjee||At least 415 frontline Covid-19 workers, including policemen, have tested positive for coronavirus in Bengal till date. Twelve have died, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday.The last frontline worker to die was a deputy magistrate. The officer in her mid-30’s who was overseeing the movement of migrant workers, died on Monday.The list of infected frontline workers includes 268 policemen, 30 healthcare workers, 43 nurses and 62 other government employees. The chief minister announced that the government will provide jobs to one family member of each of the frontline workers who have died.The government had earlier announced a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to any frontline worker who is tested positive and an insurance coverage of Rs 10 lakh in case of death.“Out of the 403 persons who have survived, 284 persons have already received a sum of Rs 1 lakh each and the rest is bin processed. All 12 persons who died have received Rs 10 lakh each. The government has spent Rs 5.23 crore,” Banerjee added.The government is also providing a badge and certificate to all frontline workers who tested Covid-19 positive and have survived. The facility would be extended to private frontline workers too.Till July 14, West Bengal reported 32,838 Covid-19 cases, out of which 980 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/twelve-frontline-covid-19-workers-have-died-in-bengal-mamata-banerjee/story-lB3UvUF2p5rDrcB9rwI01O.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||HPU extends last date to submit BTech entrance exam forms to July 31||Himachal Pradesh University’s (HPU’s) University Institute of Technology (UIT) on Wednesday extended the last date of submitting online entrance test applications for admission to bachelor of technology courses till July 31 amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Forms can be submitted online by visiting the university’s official website. Earlier, the date was extended till June 30, after which it was further extended till July 15. UIT offers BTech in information technology (IT), civil engineering (CE), electrical engineering (EE), computer science and engineering (CSE) and in electronics and communication engineering (ECE). Admissions are conducted through a 200-mark common entrance test where students are tested through multiple choice questions covering physics, chemistry and mathematics. A candidate must pass Class 12 with a minimum 50% marks to qualify for admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hpu-extends-last-date-to-submit-btech-entrance-exam-forms-to-july-31/story-gH9sIRJjKZCURTHTNhrmEL.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal CM provides smart phones to ASHA workers||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur provided smart phones to ASHA workers on Wednesday.Addressing ASHA workers through video conference, the chief minister said technology will help them improve their skills and functioning.“ASHA workers will be able to use different applications related to health campaigns such as Himarogya and the TB Mukt Himachal App on the mobile phones and information education and communication (IEC) activities can be carried out with the single push of a button.” The CM said the state government has given them an incentive of ₹1,000 per month for the months of March, April, May and June for their contribution to the fight against Covid-19.“For the months of July and August, the state government will provide an incentive of ₹ 2,000,” he said. 7,842 ASHA WORKERS IN STATE As many as 7,842 ASHA workers are providing their services in the state, of which 7,809 are working in rural areas and 33 in urban areas.The CM said the Covid-19 pandemic had taken the world by surprise and caught the medical fraternity unprepared.“Himachal Pradesh has effectively been fighting the virus and ASHA workers have played a pivotal role in controlling the virus.”“ASHA workers have not only helped detect people with influenza-like illnesses but has also helped motivating people,” he said, adding that the workers were the most important grass-root functionaries. Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said the CM had also given the nod for providing Rs 500 additional incentive to ASHA workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-cm-provides-smart-phones-to-asha-workers/story-GCxQEqZLWvevIB8TrY6hxM.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 situation better in Delhi than June, but war against virus not won yet, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the current Covid-19 situation in the national capital is better than what it was in June, but the war against the disease has not been won yet. He said had the Delhi government fought the virus alone, it would have “failed” and therefore his dispensation sought cooperation from the BJP-led Centre, NGOs, and other organisations. “Our first principle was that this fight cannot be won alone,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister said the AAP government will continue its preparations to deal with any spike in Covid-19 cases.Addressing an online media briefing, the chief minister said according to the Centre’s formula, Delhi was expected to have 2.25 lakh cases by July 15, but at present, there are only 1.15 lakh cases.As the Covid-19 cases had started rising in the first week of June, it was expected that there would be 1.34 lakh active cases by July 15,  but till date, there are only 18,600 active cases in the city.“We are in better situation today, as compared to June, but it does not mean we have won the war (against Covid-19). We have yet to go a long way.“There may be a spike again in Covid-19 cases. We don’t have to be complacent. We will not sit idle. We will have to be fully prepared,” Kejriwal said.The ‘Delhi Model’, which was recently praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is based on collective efforts by the AAP government, the Centre, other organisations and all political parties, he said and thanked the BJP the and Congress for their cooperation.The chief minister said the Delhi government worked on three principles after realising that the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic cannot be won alone.“If the Delhi government had thought it would win the fight against coronavirus alone, we would have failed. Our first principle was that this fight cannot be won alone.“Our second principle was that we did not criticise our critics for their views about our work. We improved things after somebody flagged it. The third principle was that we did not accept defeat. Had we accepted defeat, there would have been a surge in the numbers of deaths,” he also said.According to Kejriwal, the government scaled up testing for Covid-19 aggressively and daily 20,000 to 23,000 tests are being conducted in Delhi.“The Covid-19 situation is under control, but we will continue our preparations against the virus,” he said.Lauding his government’s home-isolation policy, he said due to it, people are coming forward in large numbers to undergo tests.“There are 15,500 beds in Covid-19 care facilities. On June 1, we had only 300 ICU beds, but today, we have 2,100 ICU beds out of which 1,000 have so far been occupied,” he said.On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 1,606 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally in the city to over 1.15 lakh, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,446.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-situation-better-in-delhi-than-june-but-war-against-virus-not-won-yet-says-kejriwal/story-DeoxRvhrSdxOreW0jIB8FP.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Amid raging pandemic, apple season begins on a subdued note in Himachal||Amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic, the apple season in Himachal Pradesh began on a subdued note with growers flagging transportation issues and acute labour shortage.Apple varieties that ripen early have already made their way to the markets in Rohru, Narkanda, Dhalli and Parala. The apple harvesting season in the primary apple-growing belts in Shimla, Rohru, Kullu, Kotgarh and Kotkhai begins mid-July and ends in August. Growers are still scouting for labourers as most of them are the dependent on the sturdy Nepalese migrants who arrive in the orchards in April. The 4500-crore apple economy largely depends on the labourers from neighbouring Nepal. The labourers help with digging pits, planting saplings, spraying chemicals, plucking, packing and transportation. The nationwide lockdown has impacted the migration of labourers. With the government expressing an inability to arrange labourers, fruit growers are making frantic efforts to arrange labourers.Labourers jack up wagesIn areas adjoining Uttarakhand, apple growers have arranged labour from the neighbouring state but they are demanding higher wages. The daily wages during the apple season vary between Rs 450 and Rs 600. But in wake of the labour shortage, villagers from Uttarakhand are demanding Rs 800 per day. An apple grower, Nikam Singh Thakur of Kotsari village in Chirgaon tehsil of Rohru said, “The labourers I managed to arrange from Uttarakhand are demanding Rs 900 per day. After negotiations they settled on Rs 800 per day.”Local fruit packer and fruit merchant Hardyal Tegta said he had arranged labourers from Uttar Pradesh. “I hired a bus to fetch labourers from Azamgarh as Nepalese labourers were not available,” says Tegta, who runs an apple-packaging unit. SOPs for quarantining labourers The government has set standard operating procedures that make it mandatory for orchard owners to quarantine labourers arriving from outside the state. The fruit growers must inform the local anganwari worker, ASHA worker, panchayat pradhan and patwari about labourers being quarantined.Apple growers also complained that at times there was delay in procuring permission for labourers’ travel. Kuldeep Tanta an orchardist from Jubbal said the biggest challenge was the shortage of labourers. “I had to spend Rs 22,000 to bring five Nepalese labourers who were in UP here by arranging two taxis for them. The state government maybe claiming that they are making arrangements to bring in labourers but nothing has been done,” he said. “However, the apple season has just started and we are getting good rates for early varieties. I sold the Tideman variety for Rs 2,000 but we are not sure what the future holds,” he added. Himachal Fruit, Vegetables And Flower Growers’ Association Harish Chauhan said there was an immense shortage of labour in Shimla district as around 1.5 lakh labourers are required for the apple season but right now only 40,000 to 50,000 laborers are available. “There is a shortage of at least 70% labourers. We request state government to arrange Nepalese labourers as soon as possible,” Chauhan said. MARKETING WOESAlthough the apple season is in its early stages orchardists are worried about marketing apples as they are struggling to send their produce to other states. Another challenge is the re-emergence of a fungal disease, scab, that is sure to cause losses to farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-raging-pandemic-apple-season-begins-on-a-subdued-note-in-himachal/story-4PfKWTAhWyF7ukIrlrj3RL.html
15-07-2020||Ranchi||Female inmates at quarantine centre allege ‘lack of private space’||Jamshedpur administration shifted female inmates from JCC quarantine centre to a centre at Kadma Professional Flats late on Monday evening even as a video went viral alleging not being given separate space and washrooms to them.NK Lal, ADM (law and order) confirmed shifting of the women and girls to quarantine Kadma centre.“We shifted all the women and girls to Kadma Professional Flats but they were not kept along with male inmates. There was a partition between them in the hall and they were also assigned separate toilets. Nonetheless, they have now been shifted to a separate quarantine centre in Kadma.”The development came after the female inmates shared a video of facing problems such as not having separate toilets and staying in common hall with men and boys on Monday.BJP state spokesperson Kunal Sarangi took up the matter with Jamshedpur deputy commisioner Ravishankar Shukla as the video went viral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/female-inmates-at-quarantine-centre-allege-lack-of-private-space/story-j4V7EFIVm18Ef9ND7tBBKP.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Gangster Sukha Gill Lamme claims responsibility for killing Moga trader in Facebook post||A day after a trader was shot dead by two bike-borne men in Moga city’s New Town area, gangster Sukhpreet Singh, who is better known as Sukha Gill Lamme, on Wednesday claimed responsibility for the murder through a Facebook post.The victim, Tejinder Kumar of Bag Gali, a leading businessman, ran a readymade garments shop. Kumar was shot at his shop with a revolver by two men whose faces were reportedly covered.The victim was rushed to the district hospital but succumbed to his wounds before he could be operated on.Sukha Gill of Ludhiana’s Lamma village in his post claimed that the Kumar was killed because he contacted the police instead of setting an ongoing dispute with him. The gangster said he had repeatedly warned Kumar to not go to the police over the last two days.“Sat Sri Akaal to everyone, what happened to the ‘Super Shine’ owner was done by me. A matter was going on with him for the last two days. I had informed him if he wanted to settle the matter do it or be ready to face the consequences. Instead of settling the matter, he approached the police, which was his biggest mistake and the result is in front of you,” the post read.He requested the police not to bother his family and friends as they were not aware of the matter.He admitted that the he and his friend Harwinder Singh Sandhu committed the murder. He also displayed the last five digits of two mobile numbers saying that the numbers belonged to his friends Prabh and Gurinder.“My messages will be conveyed through these numbers and a video will be sent as a proof. You have witnessed the result of contacting the police. We will meet Mann as soon as possible,” the post ends. It is not clear who Mann is.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Barjinder Singh Bhullar said five bullets had been fired by the unidentified assailants. “The trader sustained four bullet injuries and succumbed on the way to the hospital.“A special investigation team has been formed to probe the case. We are investigating all angles including the claims made by the gangster. Gill is involved in a number of unlawful activities and has cases registered against him in Ludhiana and Moga. The claims could also be an attempt to misguide the police. But as has not denied the claims on any other platform, he is the prime suspect,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gangster-sukha-gill-lamme-claims-responsibility-for-killing-moga-trader-in-facebook-post/story-IhI8aHugFgFJ1efw6wEruI.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal high court bars Lawrence School, Sanawar, from charging additional fee for online classes||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh high court has restrained the Lawrence School at Sanawar in Kasauli hills, which boasts of alumni like Bollywood actor Sanjay Dutt, from receiving additional fee for holding virtual classes owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.A division bench of justices Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Jyotsna Rewal Dua directed the state education secretary and the school headmaster to file a reply or instructions before the next date of hearing on July 20.In a one-page order on Tuesday, the court restrained the school from receiving the balance amount of fee of Rs 1,70,800.The court passed the order on the petition of Deepak Gupta, who moved the court on July 7. His son is in Class 8 of the boarding school located in Solan district.“Sending a child to boarding is a big decision, which is always taken by parents for the betterment of the child’s future so that he could become physically and mentally strong,” the petitioner said.He said the school demanded a total fee of Rs 6,36,200 in January as it was payable in two instalments. The first instalment was of Rs 4,01,700 and was paid before February 15.The second instalment of Rs 2,34,500 was to be paid on or before July 15.He said the school opened on February 15 and the child was taken home on March 17 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The petitioner said that on May 27, the state higher education department directed private schools not to charge any fee, except tuition fee, and the tuition fee could not be collected on a quarterly basis.Nearly 140 parents sent a digitally signed representation requesting the school for waiving the school fee.Ignoring the parents’ request, the school on July 3 demanded Rs 1,70,800, instead of Rs 2,34,500 from the parents, reducing the fee merely by 11% (Rs 63,700).The school started online classes on April 6, comprising four sections of 120 students at one go compared to regular classes of 20 to 30 students.Moreover, the petition says, there are no extracurricular activities along with no board and lodging facilities extended to the students amid the lockdown.The residential Lawrence School also boasts of alumni lsuch as former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah and former Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-high-court-bars-lawrence-school-sanawar-from-charging-additional-fee-for-online-classes/story-RD1i2hcFVv0I8Deu5dv7vM.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh amends order, medical colleges will remain closed for final year MBBS students till further notice||Shimla: In view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Himachal Pradesh government on Wednesday reviewed its earlier order and decided that medical colleges in the state will remain closed for final year MBBS students till further notice.The state executive committee, under the Disaster Management Act, amended its July 2 order that had said that the colleges will open for final year MBBS students from July 15.Wednesday’s orders said that medical training institutions across the state will also remain closed.NO INTER-STATE BUSES FOR NOWA state government spokesperson said that inter-state movement of public transport or buses will remain prohibited. However, taxis can ply after registering on the Covid-19 e-pass software. Taxi drivers coming into the state for dropping passengers may be exempted from quarantine if they return within 24 hours of entry.NO QUARANTINE IF RETURN WITHIN 72 HOURSStudents and parents accompanying them in and out of the state for competitive exams will not need to be quarantined if they exit or re-enter the state or vice-versa within 72 hours.The spokesperson said that any person having tested negative for Covid-19 through RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test by an Indian Council of Medical Research accredited laboratory not earlier than 72 hours at the time of entry may also be exempted from the requirement of quarantine.However, he/she will have to take adequate measures such as wear a mask and ensure social distancing to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-amends-order-medical-colleges-will-remain-closed-for-final-year-mbbs-students-till-further-notice/story-vWnqmfkia2vvP49DMOBGYJ.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rains in Mumbai and suburbs today, BMC issues high tide warning||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for heavy to very heavy rains for Mumbai and its suburbs on Wednesday, prompting the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to alert residents about following “all necessary precautions”.A yellow alert of heavy rain at isolated places has been issued for Thursday while no alert for Friday has been issued yet.“#IMDOrangeAlert @IndiaMetDept has issued warnings of heavy rains in the city and suburbs today,” the civic body tweeted.“Citizens are requested to follow all necessary precautions, stay away from the shore and not venture into water logged areas. A 3.28 mtr #HighTide at 19.02 hrs,” it added.Mumbai, with 86.6mm rain in a span of 12 hours on Tuesday, has received almost its entire July rainfall in just two weeks while surpassing half its seasonal rainfall target in one-and-a-half months.The city recorded 822mm rain (97.7%) against the monthly target of 840.7mm between July 1 and 8.30pm on July 14. South Mumbai recorded 595.5 mm rain during the same period against the monthly average of 711.6 mm or achieved 84% of its target so far.During the same time, Mumbai suburbs and south Mumbai have recorded 28% and 26% excess rainfall than the normal for this period.“Dense cloud cover witnessed on Tuesday is expected on Wednesday as well will lead to a few intense spells of rain for the Konkan coast, including Mumbai, and parts of central Maharashtra,” KS Hosalikar, IMD’s deputy director-general, western region, said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rains-in-mumbai-and-suburbs-today-bmc-issues-high-tide-warning/story-1tVweQGyWyyn73HTgG2e5N.html
15-07-2020||Lucknow||State of quarantine facility gives a jolt to elderly couple||An elderly couple who tested positive for corona virus felt reassured when the health department Covid-19 call centre told them, “You are elderly and we have to ensure you stay in a medical facility for good care.”But they got a rude shock when they reached the facility.“A big hall with multiple beds, common toilets and just one fan made it look that we would really fall sicker,” said the 67-year-old woman who had reached the facility made at the Integral University with her 76-year-old husband.Prof SW Akhtar, the vice chancellor of the Integral University, said arrangements for Covid -19 patients had been made as per the guidelines of the health department.“We had to wait outside as there was confusion about bed availability and then inside the compound too, before we could climb up to the third floor. All this might have been forgotten had we got at least a comfortable quarantine place. But the atmosphere forced us to look for an option,” the elderly woman said.Since there was no one to ask about an option on the same campus, the elderly couple then made efforts to come out of there. “We stayed some three hours and in that time we could just imagine how life would have been had we stayed there for long. There were people sitting and playing cards in groups without any medical monitoring and just a fan at a distance from our bed. All this was horrible for us,” said the elderly woman.“There was no medical staff inside to guide us to the bed. In fact, they just showed us the door on the third floor and we had to enter that to reach the hall,” said the woman.They reached this place at 6.20 pm on Sunday and their agony abated a little at around 10 pm when an ambulance came to shift them. “They have now put us in a semi-finished hospital where we have two separate beds in a room with attached bathroom and an air conditioner running,” she said.“In fact it was better for us to remain in home quarantine instead of moving out as we could have recovered faster at our own house, following all the rules and protocol,” she said. “I had asked the health officials to allow us to stay at home since we had no other health problem but they insisted we go with them. We expected some facilities as senior citizens and former central government employees but we got nothing,” said the woman.Prof SW Akhtar said, “The entire facility has been developed under guidance of the health department. It may be possible that people look for facilities they have at home. But we have made everything as per the protocol by the health department and all facilities directed by the health department are available.”He said that at present, there were 100 Covid -19 patients and they were being taken care of. “We have medical teams deployed at the facility and they keep monitoring the patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/state-of-quarantine-facility-gives-a-jolt-to-elderly-couple/story-akNqFkoSMP0WVS1fLOAk8L.html
15-07-2020||Jaipur||Fighting for self-respect, not posts, say Pilot supporters||Before the Congress removed Sachin Pilot as the Rajasthan deputy chief minister and president of the state party unit on Tuesday, three senior Congress leaders, who are with Pilot in Delhi, have said they are fighting to protect their dignity.In a message circulated by the Pilot camp on WhatsApp, they said, “We have for years worked with dedication, devotion and service towards the party. And we are taking a stand to protect our dignity and self-respect at a time when our leader is threatened with notices from the SOG under the charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy.”The statement was issued through Pilot’s official WhatsApp group and signed by Congress leaders Vishvender Singh, Ramesh Meena and Deepender Shekhawat.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot removed Pilot, Singh and Meena from the cabinet, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala announced after the second meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP).Singh and Meena were cabinet ministers and Shekhawat is a former speaker. Singh was the tourism minister and Meena held the food and civil supplies portfolio.Pilot skipped the second CLP meeting again. A resolution was passed in the CLP meeting to take action against Pilot and other rebel legislators who did not attend the meeting.“This is unprecedented in Indian democracy and the Congress party, for which we have toiled with sweat and blood. Under the leadership of Sachin Pilot we have made every effort in the past 6 years to strengthen the party and bring it to power in Rajasthan at a time when it had been reduced to an insignificant number in the state assembly,” Pilot’s supports said.“Public humiliation of our leader Pilot is something that is totally unacceptable to us, and those responsible for meeting out this treatment need to be made accountable,” the statement said. “We are seeking to restore our self-respect and are not clamouring for any posts and positions contrary to false reports in the media. We have been senior members of the party for many years and have held many positions within the party and government and are not lured by inducements.”The face-off between Pilot and Gehlot came to the fore after Rajasthan Police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) sent notices to the former and other leaders in connection with alleged attempts to topple Congress government in the state. The notices stated that the SOG had urged the leaders to provide a suitable date and time for recording their respective statements.Pilot then left the state along with his 16 MLAs. He has claimed that the Gehlot government is in minority as 30 lawmakers are with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/fighting-for-self-respect-not-posts-say-pilot-supporters/story-8JzkZp4EaBH31wmSXLz9eJ.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at Churchgate’s Maker Bhavan||A fire broke out in Maker Bhavan in Mumbai’s Churchgate area on Wednesday.Five fire tenders rushed to the spot after the incident was reported. No injuries have been reported so far.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-churchgate-s-maker-bhavan/story-VjCHzmIbxmFnMNauM7lL6L.html
15-07-2020||Gurugram||27 officials of Gurugram Police transferred||The Gurugram Police on Monday night transferred 27 officials, including station house officers (SHOs), and officers from crime units, intelligence wing, security, and court surveillance branches. This is the first set of transfers to have taken place after KK Rao took charge as the police commissioner on July 1. The police commissioner held meetings with senior officials over the last week to discuss the law and order situation in the city. An order was issued by the police commissioner on Monday night that read, “The following police officials are hereby transferred with immediate effect and they should join at their new place of posting immediately.”The SHOs of five police stations, namely Udyog Vihar, Sector 50, DLF Phase-1, Sadar, and City, were transferred to traffic staff. Five inspectors from police lines were transferred as SHOs to police stations and other branches. Inspector Yashwant, who was earlier posted as the in-charge of the Covid cell, was transferred to the interception cell. Suresh Kumar, who was the in-charge of the interception cell, has been posted to the Covid cell. Four crime branch units also saw an interchange of personnel. Inspector Bijender, who was heading CIA Palam Vihar, has been transferred to CIA Manesar. Ajay Malik, his predecessor at Manesar, will take over as the in-charge of crime unit, Palam Vihar. Inspector Kuldeep has been posted as the in-charge of Sohna crime unit, while sub-inspector Raj Kumar from Manesar branch will join as in-charge of crime unit Sector 39. Inspector Satbir from traffic staff has been posted as SHO Udyog Vihar, and inspector Deepak, who was SHO traffic police station-2, will take charge as SHO Badshahpur. Inspector Ved Prakash has been transferred to DLF Phase 1 from Sector 5 police station, while inspector Dinesh Kumar, who was SHO of Sector 65, will take charge as SHO Sadar. Inspector Rajinder Kumar has been appointed as SHO Sector 5 while inspector Sumit Kumar, who was in the intelligence branch, has been transferred as SHO City. From the security branch, inspector Vikas has been transferred to SHO Palam Vihar. KK Rao, police commissioner, said, “The transfers are a part of a routine reshuffle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/27-officials-of-gurugram-police-transferred/story-57dBI1YxjmO89KtizeXEyL.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Debarred for low attendance, Mithibai college students to move Apex court for clarity on their graduation||Even as the state stands firm on its decision to not hold final-year exams, around 550 students of Vile Parle’s Mithibai College who were debarred for lack of attendance plan to move the Supreme Court (SC) for clarity on their fate. The students are currently working out the modalities with their lawyer.The Maharashtra Universities Act mandates that students must have 75% or above attendance in each subject during every semester, failing which the institute can disallow them from appearing for exams. On the basis of the rule, Mithibai College debarred around 550 students from arts, science, commerce and other self-finance courses.In March, around 100 students who were debarred filed a petition in the Bombay high court seeking relief. The court, however, upheld the college’s decision. On May 31, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that all students, including pursuing final-year courses, will be promoted based on their performance in the previous semester. While the debarred students pointed out the state government’s decision, they are yet to hear from the college management.“The situation is different at present as the state government highlighted that all students should be promoted despite their academic status or attendance. If students from other colleges benefit from the decision, then why are we being punished,” said a student, who did not wish to be named.Despite attempts, college principal Rajpal Hande and management’s chief executive officer Asoke Basak did not answer HT’s calls or messages.“Most of us are worried about our futures given the Covid-19 situation. To make matters worse, the college has left us in the lurch by not clarifying our status. We have no option but to go back to the judiciary and seek help,” said another student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/debarred-for-low-attendance-mithibai-college-students-to-move-apex-court-for-clarity-on-their-graduation/story-b0N7EeFjePBffGVTvDnqnM.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to interfere in PILs on inflated power bills||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday refused to interfere in two public interest litigations (PILs) seeking relief against the inflated electricity bills for June, which consumers across the city received. The court held that as the petitioners have an alternate remedy in the form of the grievance redressal forum of the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC), it was not inclined to pass orders. The court further directed the forum to act and decide on the complaints expeditiously and disposed of the PILs.A division bench of justice PB Varale and justice Milind Jadhav, while hearing the PILs filed by citizens Ravindra Desai and Mahibub Shaikh through advocates Vishal Saxena and Ranjit Shinde, was informed by the state that the petitions were not maintainable as an alternate remedy was available to the them.Additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan, while arguing against the PIL by Desai, said that as he already lodged a complaint with MERC’s grievance redressal forum, he should await its response.She further submitted that if he was not satisfied with the forum’s response, he could appeal against it and only if he was not satisfied with the appellate authority’s response, could he approach the HC.Responding to Shaikh’s PIL, government pleader Priyabhushan Kakade, along with advocate Nisha Mehra, said that the PIL was premature, as the petitioner claimed to be representing the common man but as different power companies have their respective redressal mechanism in place, without knowing if the petitioner has availed of the same, it would not be appropriate for the court to interfere.Shaikh also prayed that the court should issue directions to electricity companies asking them not to resort to coercive steps to recover their dues from consumers. Responding to this plea, advocate Deepa Chavan on behalf of MERC submitted that a proper code in this regard was mentioned in the Electricity Act and hence if the petitioner was aggrieved, he could take the legal recourse as per the procedure laid down in the Act.After hearing all the sides, the bench observed that as the petitioners did not fully exhaust the alternate remedies available to them, it was not inclined to interfere. The court also directed MERC to decide on the complaint already filed by Desai in eight weeks and asked MERC to ensure that Shaikh’s grievance, if he made one, was addressed in the manner prescribed in the Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-interfere-in-pils-on-inflated-power-bills/story-720Ss8GyG5ai7iKK3mFX3O.html
15-07-2020||City||Ex-Congress MP Priya Dutt expresses disappointment over Pilot’s exit||Mumbai Hours after former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot was sacked from the post of Rajasthan deputy CM and party unit chief, former Mumbai North Central parliamentarian Priya Dutt expressed her solidarity with her former Congress colleague and termed his exit from “disappointing”. The two-term MP tweeted, “Another friend leaves the party, both Sachin [Pilot] and Jyotiraditya [Scindia] were colleagues and good friends, unfortunately, our party has lost two stalwart young leaders with great potential.”Dutt also hinted that she stood by Pilot’s move. “I don’t believe being ambitious is wrong. They [Pilot and Scindia] have worked hard through the most difficult times,” her tweet further stated.Former South Mumbai parliamentarian Milind Deora reportedly refused the party’s request to convince Pilot to remain in Congress, while former Union minister Jitin Prasada, too, praised Pilot and expressed hopes that he can be brought back to the Congress. Scindia quit Congress and joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in March over differences with the then Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath. The young leaders who played a role at the national level believably share a cordial bond with each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-congress-mp-priya-dutt-expresses-disappointment-over-pilot-s-exit/story-dl3aTqRgBD7huxSEyPMKcM.html
15-07-2020||City||Shiv Sena targets BJP over Rajasthan political crisis||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government for destabilising governments of Opposition parties. In an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena alleged that BJP engineered the collapse of the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh and is now working to ensure that the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan also loses power.“When the country is facing a Covid-19 crisis, the BJP is creating a different mess. During this period, the BJP demolished the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh, and is now looking to demolish the Ashok Gehlot’s government in Rajasthan. However, it is not possible,” the editorial said.Gehlot’s government is witnessing turbulent times after former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot launched an open rebellion against the CM. Pilot claimed that 30 legislators are supporting him and thus the Rajasthan government is in a minority now. The editorial said that pro-Pilot legislators were present in the meeting with Gehlot on Monday, and that actual strength of the claims made by the rebel leader will only be known after a head count on the floor of the House. It said that the BJP will not make a move openly until the numbers are counted, though it continues to work from behind the curtains. Launching an attack on its former ally, the Sena said such acts will turn the “parliamentary democracy into a desert”. It questioned what the BJP will achieve by conducting “the misadventure in the desert state. “The BJP is ruling the entire country. It should leave some houses [states] for their opponents [to rule]. That will be the pride of democracy,” the editorial read.The Sena also criticised the two Congress leaders.“Pilot’s arrogance and malice are destabilising a state like Rajasthan, but this is not possible without the support of central power, which is working on a formula to destabilise the Opposition government. Pilot has an aspiration to become the Rajasthan CM. He is young and has a chance in the future, but due to Gehlot’s malice, he wants to win the CM’s post now. This step, however, may not prove beneficial to him. It is true that Pilot has worked hard for the party’s victory in the state. But when the party is in trouble, he should not run away like a mouse from a boat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-targets-bjp-over-rajasthan-political-crisis/story-R7d6BwPvbGLXX51pu1K2YO.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||ISC results: Cut-off for the top 20 percentile up to 90.2% from last year’s 89.4%||The number of top scorers in the Indian School Certificate (ISC) remained high this year, with 20% of the students who took the exam scoring 90.2% or above.As per the data shared by the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCSE) the cut-off for the top 20 percentile rose from 89.4% in 2019 to 90.2% this year. The board announced the percentile cut offs on Tuesday morning for students who qualified for the joint entrance exam (JEE) advanced exams scheduled to be held in September. Students who wish to appear for JEE need to score 75% in their board exams or fall in the top 20% percentile of their respective boards to qualify for a seat at the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs).While the cut-off for students from the general category is set at 90.2% for the entrance exam, it is 88% for students from the Other Backward Class (OBC) category. Students from the Scheduled Caste (SC) and the Scheduled Tribe (ST) categories will qualify for the exam if they have secured 86.4% and 79%, respectively.Around 86,000 students appeared for the ISC exams this year of which nearly 17,000 students scored above 90%.“This year, the results have been really good, especially owing to the fact that students were marked on the basis of their internal marks for the papers that were cancelled due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The number of top scorers was bound to go up,” said the principal of a suburban school.Meanwhile, the board decided to reduce the syllabus for Class 6-8 by 20% for English and Hindi, and by 40% for Sciences, Mathematics, Computer Science and Social Studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/isc-results-cut-off-for-the-top-20-percentile-up-to-90-2-from-last-year-s-89-4/story-xtWw47hCMAq54UzP6MgzXO.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad: Family fears authorities might claim Varavara Rao’s health to be normal before Bombay HC hearing||A day after Telugu poet and activist P Varavara Rao, arrested in the Elghar Parishad case, was moved out of Taloja jail to Sir JJ Hospital for a medical evaluation, his family fears that authorities might show a report claiming his health to be normal just before his bail plea is scheduled for hearing before the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday.The family on Tuesday morning released a statement pleading for 81-year-old Rao to be kept in hospital till he completely recovers and not to discharge him in a hurry. The family in their statement said, “Rao was shifted to JJ Hospital from Taloja jail on Monday afternoon. Till midnight he was undergoing various tests in different medical departments. Even at that time, hospital officials reportedly said he was brought in for evaluation only and did not confirm whether he was going to be admitted. Since the results of the reports might take a couple of days, he may be retained in hospital, according to the available information after midnight.”The family has alleged that authorities have not provided any information officially to them on Rao’s health and even when he was taken to hospital. “Though it was mandatory to inform family about these developments, either government or jail, police, hospital authorities did not provide any official information to the family,” read their statement.On May 28, Rao was taken to hospital after he fell unconscious and was discharged on June 1. The family alleged that Rao’s discharge was not proper, so as to obstruct his bail plea. “He was not normal at the time of discharge. While the sodium normal range is 134-145, he attained only 133 and when the potassium normal range is 3.5 to 5.0, he attained only 3.55, according to the hospital’s own discharge summary. But, later on June 2, it was proved that all this — admission in hospital, getting a normal report, getting him discharged — was part of a conspiracy by the police. June 2 was the date of hearing of his bail application on health grounds in the [National Investigation Agency] NIA special sessions court and police argued against his bail, showing this hospital’s “normal” report. The judge accepted that and refused bail on June 26,” read the family’s statement, expressing fear that the authorities might repeat the same this time.Rao, on Monday, had moved the HC against the order of the special NIA court, which had rejected his interim bail application on June 26. Rao had sought interim bail on the grounds of his failing health condition due to his advanced age and susceptibility to contracting Covid-19. Rao’s family members raised an alarm about his health condition after speaking with him over the phone on Saturday. They found him to be incoherent and suffering from hallucinations.Rao, who has been behind bars for almost two years, and nine other activists have been arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, which was initially probed by the Pune Police and later transferred to the NIA in January this year. The case is related to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Bhima-Koregaon war memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-family-fears-authorities-might-claim-varavara-rao-s-health-to-be-normal-before-bombay-hc-hearing/story-MlVqYsm2QUac4BpxPvQRiN.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Yoga to help aviation staff tide over anxiety amid the pandemic||A group of six aviation professionals have started online sessions designed to help colleagues deal with anxiety through yoga and meditation. The first four-day course began on July 11 and has received a good response. More sessions are being planned for the future. Two pilots who are currently flying with Indian Airlines, two cabin crew and two back-end officials (some of whom are retired) organised a four-day online course Art of living’s Aviation Special Online Meditation and Breath workshop. Starting July 11, sessions were conducted thrice a day to ensure participants could attend despite various work shifts.Monali Shriyan, a former Air India cabin crew and a facilitator, said, “Looking at the tense situation due to Covid-19 that is not only forcing employees to go on mandatory leave without pay but also leading to job loss, we decided to conduct these sessions for all aviation employees so that they can deal with stress in better way.”The response has been positive. An air traffic controller, requesting anonymity, said the techniques learnt in the workshop were helpful. “I have already started experiencing the benefits and it has energised me for working better,” they said. Another attendee, also requesting anonymity, said, “Being unemployed, this pandemic gave me a lot of trouble and stress. The breathing practices have not only reduced my ever-wandering thoughts but have also shown a way to accept daily life challenges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yoga-to-help-aviation-staff-tide-over-anxiety-amid-the-pandemic/story-fguP53iCkOOaOSds8wgqaJ.html
15-07-2020||City||Navi Mumbai gets new civic commissioner||Former Nagpur civic chief Abhijit Bangar took charge as the commissioner of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Tuesday. Bangar, a 2008-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer replaced Annasaheb Misal, who was transferred almost a month after the state government issued a stay on his transfer order. Bangar, who was the municipal commissioner of Nagpur for 14 months, also held the charge of additional commissioner of Nagpur division before being transferred to Navi Mumbai.“The priority is of course to bring the Covid-19 outbreak in Navi Mumbai under control and we will take the necessary measures to achieve it. I am sure that with everybody’s cooperation, we will accomplish the goal in the interest of the people of the city.”Within three week after Misal’s transfer order was stayed by the state, Navi Mumbai’s Covid-19 situation got worse, and the city added around 5,000 new cases during the period, with the total cases now approaching the 10,000-mark.Misal had taken charge of NMMC a year ago, replacing Ramaswamy N. On June 23, Misal was transferred, along with several other municipal commissioners of neighbouring cities. However, the order was later cancelled. Sources privy to the development claimed that the transfer order was stayed owing to political pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-gets-new-civic-commissioner/story-fi7tnkWIy3et55GLhr02aL.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government orders inquiry into Covid stamp on degree certificates||The state agriculture department has announced that it will remove the stamp ‘Promoted Covid-19’ from the mark sheets issued to the third-year degree students who have been promoted based on their aggregate marks. Amid widespread criticism from students and organisations, the department also announced strict action against the officials responsible for this marking.The Covid stamp was used on mark sheets issued by Shri Shivaji Agriculture College in Amravati, governed by Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Agriculture University. Several students and student organisations expressed their discontent over the issue and also announced plans to challenge it in court. Former education minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashish Shelar also criticised the state government, calling the move unjust.Taking cognizance, state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray spoke to agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse and asked him to rectify the mistake. Bhuse later directed the agriculture university to withdraw the mark sheets and issue fresh ones.“I have asked the university to rectify the mistake and issue mark sheets and certificates without any such marking. The action was taken immediately after we learnt about the mark sheets issued with the stamp. The university has also been directed to conduct an inquiry and take action against the official responsible,” Bhuse said. The minister has written a letter to the director-general of Maharashtra Council of Agriculture Education and Research, and vice-chancellors of the agriculture universities.The state government had already announced that it would not conduct final-year exams in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Students are being promoted on aggregate marks with 50% valuation of marks from the first two years, and a 50% average of the internal assessment of the third year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-orders-inquiry-into-covid-stamp-on-degree-certificates/story-L8hN8fVXz5tqFMoPjmz9FJ.html
15-07-2020||City||Mumbai crosses 4 lakh Covid-19 tests: Civic body data||Even as the city inches towards the 1-lakh-cases mark, the number of tests in the city crossed 4 lakh on Tuesday, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Until July 13, 401,741 samples have been tested, of which 93,894 samples (23.37%) have tested positive. The average testing figure has gone up to over 5,200 tests daily in the first 13 days of July.On Tuesday, Mumbai recorded 954 fresh cases and 70 deaths, taking the city’s case count to 95,100 and toll to 5,405. The number of discharged patients is 66,633, with a recovery rate of 70%. The number of active cases is 22,773 as of Tuesday; the fatality rate was 5.68% as of Sunday. The city’s doubling rate is 52 days.In May, the average of daily tests was 3,800, which went up to 4,300 in June, and 5,000 till a week ago. The daily average now stands at 5,200 tests. The figure includes both, testing using RT-PCR and rapid antigen kits. BMC said it was also using one lakh rapid antigen kits that give results in 30 minutes to increase the testing. BMC also claimed its liberalised testing policy has made it easy for anyone to get tested.BMC in a circular issued on July 7 had said any person who thinks he was in close contact with a patient who tested positive and is a high-risk contact can get tested without a prescription, irrespective of the age. The civic body had also asked ward officers in the western suburbs to use antigen kits to conduct at least 250 tests daily. BMC had anticipated a spike owing to this, but expected a clear picture by the end of the month.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had on Monday said, “Our doubling rate is 50 days now, highest in India. Our recovery rate is 70%. After our open testing policy (without prescriptions, the only city in India to do so), our testing has gone up and our total daily positives have come down.”However, Mumbai’s testing figure is lower than Delhi which has conducted over 7.89 lakh tests. As of July 12, Tamil Nadu has conducted 16.09 lakh tests, Maharashtra 13.45 lakh, Rajasthan 10.54 lakh, Kerala 3.47 lakh and Bengaluru 1.75 lakh.A senior doctor from Maharashtra’s Covid-19 taskforce not wishing to be named said, “There was a narrative that we are not having cases because we are not allowing testing. However, for one week now, we have allowed anyone to get tested without a prescription. With this, the number of tests will definitely go up, but we will have to wait till month-end to know its effect in terms of figures.”Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based private health consultant, said, “As the testing is open to all now, we can’t blame the authorities for insufficient testing. The daily testing number will take time to rise as many may not be in the frame of mind to get a test done. BMC should also publicise the liberalised testing policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-crosses-4-lakh-covid-19-tests-civic-body-data/story-tz2eaewwVEsXpEpvFEfk9H.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The song of the road, now silenced||His life was not much different from that of Ulysses, in Homer’s Odysseus. As you know well, Homer’s classic is about the hero’s long and epic journey to home. Regarding Sunil Kumar Singh — he was making that journey everyday. Two hours in the morning, two hours in the evening. But now this commute appears like the dewy memory of another era. Stuff that fairy tales are made of.Mr Singh is a Gurugramwale by day, and a Delhiwale by night. For 13 years, he has been shuttling daily between his home in north-east Delhi’s Karawal Nagar and his office in Gurugram’s DLF Phase V. “It was tiring but I had gotten used to it,” says Mr Singh, a manager in the audit wing of a multinational company. Chatting on WhatsApp video, he is sitting by the desk in his bedroom. Like many of us these days, he is working from home. In his self-imposed isolation triggered by the coronavirus pandemic, Mr Singh, 35, misses his days in the Millennium City—the daily banters with the colleagues, the office gossip “that can never be duplicated on zoom,” and he feels the loss of commuting.“I would leave home at eight in the morning, and reach work by 10.”Just the one-way trip alone would entail a series of boardings and deboardings. First, Mr Singh would get an auto from home to Kashmere Gate Metro station. Then he would hurry onwards to squeeze into the crowded coaches of the Yellow Line Metro and get off 21 stations later, in Sikandarpur, where he would rush to the other side of the station to board the far sleeker Rapid Metro, which would drop him at Gurugram’s Sector 53-54 Metro stop. “From there I would walk to the office... about five minutes.”He would almost never get to sit in the long journey. And yet, Mr Singh insists he misses the commute. It is not that he is developing an affection for it in retrospect. None of us yearn to be stranded among the shoving-pushing masses, and treated to dhakka- mukki from sweaty shoulders and fists. No. Mr Singh was fond of the commute in spite of all this. And, because it was the texture of his daily life, he had taken it for granted. Thinking it would last. Until his retirement from professional life.“The long trip gave me time to be with myself.” This was also the only opportunity during the hectic day for him to watch movies and web-based shows on the mobile.Perhaps, the most relaxing aspect of the commute was the company of friends Dharmender and Jaggu. They weren’t colleagues but “we did the same route daily, so we planned our return trips jointly to be able to travel together in the evening... morning co-ordination was tough, however.”A cosy comradeship had formed among the three. “It’s not that we would be chattering throughout the journey,” recalls Mr Singh wistfully. “Sometimes we would be silent, glued to our mobiles, and then suddenly we would start talking of something, and then again we’d go silent. Ours was a spontaneous friendship, very comfortable and easy-going.”Since the lockdown began, Mr Singh hasn’t met those Gurugram-to-Delhi friends. They did chat briefly on phone twice “but it’s not the same thing as hanging out in person... that randomness of real life conversations is gone.”Certainly, in the past, it has often been suggested to Mr Singh to cut his super-long commute by moving residence to Gurugram. He has always resisted the idea “because I live in a joint family, and Rekha (wife) and I are very much settled in this house.” Indeed, right now his daughter, Yashwi, is lying sprawled on the sofa beside him. Mr Singh has two kids—son, Yug, was born early this fateful year “during the Delhi riots.”Speaking of his daily rush-hour routine, the day-jobber looks back at it with nostalgia. “To see so many people in the Metro, each with their own stresses and satisfactions... I would experience Delhi and Gurgaon to their full intensity.”And the best part of the day was always the return journey, of course, “when the work was done, when there was no tension anymore about office things... we three commuting friends would joke and gossip, and on reaching the last Metro station, we would sit beside some food stall, treat ourselves to golgappa or juice, chat a bit more and only then we would head to our respective houses.” But for now, the commute has ended. Who would have thought it was such a precious thing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/the-song-of-the-road-now-silenced/story-5HF6chWmiICjKjs062MrgL.html
15-07-2020||City||Maharashtra government launches videos for Covid-19 awareness||The state health department launched a special awareness campaign to encourage social distancing and other measures for curbing the spread of Covid-19. The department released four video clips on social media featuring health minister Rajesh Tope and Marathi actors Jui Gadkari and Siddharth Jadhav, in which they share messages over maintaining social distancing, the importance of using masks and sanitisers. In the video clips, they also paid their gratitude to the frontline workers for their efforts. The clips received a good response after they were released some days ago.“We are running short of the budget as the pandemic prolonged beyond our imagination. We received an allocation of Rs 3 crore after the outbreak in March, but it is now exhausted. The spots created by us featuring the health minister or the Marathi actors have been shot at the minister’s official bungalow and the Sahyadri guest house at a less budget,” said an official from the health department.After the lockdown restrictions were eased, the cases began to surge and the department feels that at such a time awareness over the protocol that needs to be followed in social life will play a vital role. “We are planning a special campaign drive over the use of masks, hand washing and maintaining social distancing in everyday life. Unicef [United Nations International Children’s Fund ] too issued us guidelines for the campaign. We are demanding an additional budget of about Rs 3 crore for the same,”another official said.“The video clips released recently are getting an overwhelming response and we have observed that their impact is huge,” said Kailash Baviskar, deputy director, information education communication bureau, health department.The state government has also released funds for every district to create awareness on the Covid-19 outbreak. The IEC bureau helps the district administrations in finalising the literature used for the awareness by ensuring that it is accurate and as per the protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-launches-video-clips-for-covid-19-awareness/story-7MNRKj1gBqdyKfh3dNIE8K.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Shahapur villagers find livelihood amid Covid-19 crisis: Tribal women’s poultry project keeps village afloat||Indutai Wagh, mother of three and a subsistence tribal farmer from Khanduchiwadi, a remote village in Shahapur taluka, 72km from Mumbai, crossed a personal milestone last month.Wagh earned her first income of ₹1,250 after she sold 250 home-grown organic eggs. The earnings, she says are enough to fend for her family of four, for over a month.Like Wagh, 17 other tribal women from the hamlet of Ma Thakur tribe, a marginalised community, are finding their feet amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing unemployment, thanks to a free range poultry project that was started here as a pilot by Population First, a non-government organisation that focusses on communication and advocacy for health and population issues from gender and social development perspective.The initiative is now not only ensuring steady earnings to these women in this village but also helping the government run its supplementary nutrition scheme for tribal children, despite broken supply chains during the Covid-19 outbreak. While all daily wage labourer jobs that the men in the village normally opt for having dried up, it’s the women’s poultry business that is keeping their families secure in Khanduchiwadi. Wagh and the other women who are a part of the project are selling the eggs produced in the backyards of their homes to the anganwadi workers at Khanduchiwadi and five other neighbouring hamlets to help them run the scheme under the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Amrut Ahar Yojana. The supplementary nutrition scheme of the government is aimed at combating malnutrition and improving the nutrition of tribal children as well as pregnant and lactating mothers. Under the scheme, the government has mandated eggs, among other food items, to be provided to tribal children (up to six years) for four days a week. “I need 200 eggs a week for the scheme, and from April onwards, buying eggs from outside became difficult owing to the lock down. Our local poultry project came in very handy and I now buy eggs from the women in our village for the scheme,’’ said Anita Wagh, an anganwadi sevika for the hamlet. Anita is compensated by the state government’s women and child development department that implements this scheme. The women, who are a part of the initiative, were trained in January in poultry farming, following which Population First provided them with 180 chicks of a breed known for maximum egg production.“We first tried training this group of women last year, but the project didn’t take off. We then renewed our efforts in January. Their training consists of various aspects, including taking care of chicks, their feed, vet visits, hatching etc and close follow ups over three months. It’s not easy to train the tribal women because of huge gaps in education and language [the tribe speaks Thakari Marathi dialect]. But they did have traditional poultry-rearing skills, which were useful,’’ said Fazal Pathan, project director, Shahapur, with Population First for its field initiative, Amchi (Action for Mobilisation Community Health Initiatives).Pathan said that the while some chicks did not survive, majority of them did and the eggs successfully hatched. The women were also successful with rearing their first batch of 35 new chicks.“It was heartening to see the women even rear the batch of chicks with traditional hatching techniques and without the assistance of hatcheries etc. The project will now be expanded to three more tribal villages, as it seems to be a feasible livelihood option for the community,’’ said Dr Sharada AL, director of Population First.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shahapur-villagers-find-livelihood-amid-covid-19-crisis-tribal-women-s-poultry-project-keeps-village-afloat/story-9NFXPzKB67EjMlmwOPamjI.html
15-07-2020||City||Getting death threats, alleges anti-terror front chief||A first information report (FIR) was lodged in Ambala against unknown persons after Viresh Shandilya, the national president of Anti-Terrorist Front of India, alleged that he was getting death threats.In a statement along with the audio recording issued on Tuesday, Shandilya said, “The person called me on Sunday night and said I will be killed soon for speaking about Sant Bhindranwale (militant preacher). After this threat, we immediately complained to the Ministry of Home Affairs, following which the police came into action. The PMO has also taken notice and forwarded the complaint to the home secretary of Haryana for action.”This is for the second time in a week Shandilya has lodged a complaint regarding threat calls.We have registered a case under IPC sections 504 and 506 ( criminal intimidation) at the Ambala city police station. Station in-charge Ram Kumar said, “The police have increased patrolling around Shandilya’s residence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/getting-death-threats-alleges-anti-terror-front-chief/story-eefVRQ9Ey5omhBuiAR9vEP.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Real situation is 22K active cases: BMC chief IS Chahal||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner IS Chahal elaborates on the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai. Excerpts from an interview:Is the Covid-19 outbreak under control in Mumbai? Today [Tuesday] morning, Mumbai recorded 950 new cases. The last time Mumbai had 900 cases, the number of tests for that day was 3,700. As of today morning, we have done 6,000 tests in the past 24 hours, but we still have 950 cases. I was expecting the number to increase as our testing increases. Although testing has gone up by 2,000 to 3,000 every day, cases are coming down. This is a good sign. Of the 950 cases too, less than 150 are symptomatic. On Monday, of the 1,158 cases, only 190 patients were symptomatic. The past week’s trend shows the actual bed requirement per day is not more than 200. Whereas every night, we have 7,000 beds vacant. The sign to watch out for to decide whether we are in control is not the cases becoming zero. Nobody can do that until we get a vaccine.If we ensure that every person who is infected has a bed and a doctor waiting for him, and if there is 0% waiting queue for a bed, the battle is won. Mumbai has 94,000 cases, but our discharge rate is 70%. We have 22,000 active Covid-19 patients. It is important to highlight that Mumbai has 22,000 active cases to remove the fear from the minds of the citizens. The real situation is not 94,000 cases. We have 22,000 positive cases, of which 7,500 people are on hospital beds and the remaining are in home quarantine. They are asymptomatic and leading a normal life.According to you, what will Covid numbers in Mumbai look like for the rest of July and August? On June 7, Mumbai had 48,000 cumulative cases and 30,000 active cases. Today, Mumbai has double the number of cases at 95,000, but active cases have come down to 22,000. By general progression, 30,000 active cases should have become 60,000 active cases. But 30,000 active cases have become 22,000 now. If this rate continues, I am very hopeful of even better results in July and August. In another 15 days, I am expecting the ICUs of KEM, Sion and Nair hospitals to be empty. I have already passed an order that 612 ICUs in our jumbo facilities will be outsourced to private doctors. When will local trains, malls and gymnasiums open?It depends on the situation in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). When the situation in MMR becomes similar to the situation in Mumbai today, I would immediately recommend opening of malls and gyms. How long will the lockdown last?Mumbai does not have a lockdown in the real sense anymore. Every two-wheeler and four-wheeler is virtually allowed to come on the road, because there is no way to distinguish who is allowed and who is not. Mumbai has allowed 100% shops to remain open in a 48-hour cycle [shops on alternate side of the road can remain open on alternate days]. Every shopkeeper can get his vehicle out. If you leave aside malls, every shop in Mumbai is opening. On an average, we have one crore people on the road every day, so it cannot be called a lockdown. BMC is saying until we have a no-pandemic situation, elderly, children and people who are co-morbid should not come out. These are preventive measures. It is more of an advisory. If a senior citizen is spotted walking on the road, no one can arrest him. This is for the benefit of people. They should co-operate. Mission Save Lives – to reduce fatalities – started 15 days ago, but the fatality rate in Mumbai is still around 5.6%-5.7%. How effective is the mission?The overall fatality rate is 5.7%, for over 100 days, but in the past one week, the average fatality has been around 4%. Take for example yesterday (Monday). Mumbai had 1,158 cases and 47 deaths. Mumbai has come to the 4% fatality range now, but as the base is higher, it will take time for the overall fatality rate to come down. We are the only city in the country, which has ventured out with permission from the chief minister, to discover unreported, home deaths. In March and April, Mumbai’s testing capacity was limited and thousands of people had come from abroad – almost 1.7 lakh people had arrived in flights and many were testing positive. At this time, many people passed away at their residences without treatment, without BMC’s knowledge, without approaching us. There were cases where swab sample results were taking 10 days, 12 days or 15 days. In one case on April 4, the results came on April 22, this is on record. In the meantime, the person passed away at home. BMC went ward-wise and discovered such deaths. The chief minister courageously said, “Let us be transparent.” On a single day, a press note announced 862 deaths were added to the city’s total deaths. That is how our fatality rate jumped from 2.9% to 6% in a day. I say either the rest of the country should say there have been no home deaths, or they should comply [with the rules]. Mumbai has exercised its choice by stepping up, in the process spoiling our record, but we have been transparent. Has BMC completed reconciling previous death figures? The backlog of reporting old deaths that have occurred in hospitals is clear. From July 3, all deaths that BMC announces at the end of the day in its press note have occurred in the past 48 hours only. I started imposing this discipline from June 8, and it has taken me 24-25 days to put it in check. But we are now examining the reason for deaths of patients outside the hospital, also these unreported home deaths. We are still trying to locate their papers. This will be a continuous process. It is very easy to decide the reason of death for a patient who passed away in a hospital, because all case papers are available. But what about patients who passed away in their homes? There is this one case that was brought to my notice. One expatriat woman came from Europe, and one day she was found dead in her house. Later, her maid and driver also died in their homes in slums. These deaths may not have been accounted for yet. Are there instances where a cured and discharged patient has died at home after recovery?Yes there are, but not more than five to seven people. There are only two such cases known to me. One was a policeman who was discharged on Day 14, and he passed away on Day 22. He was co-morbid. Maybe, he got a heart attack. The behaviour of the virus is not known to anyone in the world. In some cases, an asymptomatic unidentified Covid-19 positive case has infected others and those persons have died. There was a case in Nariman Point in a family of nine, including four doctors. They called a person home for massage on a Sunday. One member got the massage done from an asymptomatic positive. He transferred the virus to all nine people, and four died. The world is still not aware of the complexity of the virus. That is why these cases are happening. Mission Zero started in June. Has it been successful?Yesterday [Monday], there were 18 containment zones in northern wards, and 14 containment zones had zero cases in the past 14 days. So this is a good sign.You took charge over two months ago. What has been your priority? Has it changed?When I took charge, I was aware that the battle against Covid-19 can go on for one more year from today, if the vaccine doesn’t come. No one can claim that I can make cases zero, without a vaccine. The Covid war is going to be fought long term, over six or eight months, or a year. Unless systems are built and everything is on autopilot, it will not work. Everyday one cannot manually coordinate bed and ambulance availability. It has to happen naturally. It came to my mind on day one that there needs to be a standard operating procedure on autopilot as this is a long-term battle. There are four pillars to this fight – testing labs, ambulances, hospital beds and doctors. If these four things are tied up, the problem will be solved. We are concentrating on field weapons such as testing, tracing, tracking, quarantining and treatment. In case of testing labs in Mumbai, a report that used to take days to come now comes in 24 hours. In the past one month, not a single report has come after 24 hours. It came from Metropolis, and I suspended them for three weeks. Now they have fallen in line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/real-situation-is-22k-active-cases-bmc-chief-is-chahal/story-76MdSDy1Acw2YFvVA0ziqJ.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||2 art teachers booked for leaking papers||The Azad Maidan police have booked two art teachers of Chembur-based school who allegedly leaked intermediate papers on WhatsApp. The written complaint was filed by the controller of the arts department. The case has been registered against both for breach of trust and IT act. They have not been arrested yet,” said senior police inspector Vidyasagar Kalkundre. The booked teachers have been identified as Amit Pore and Gangadhar Sawant. According to the police, the intermediate drawing exams were planned to conduct from September 26 to September 29, 2019. The papers were leaked on social media (Whats App) on September 24, before the exam was conducted. The concerned department of Directorate of Art of Maharashtra government then cancelled the exams, said a police officer.The concerned department then informed all the centers to return the sealed bunch of question papers to the examination centre. “The committee was formed by the art department and during an inquiry they found that the seal of one of a bunch of question papers was tampered with and was sealed again, and a bunch was sent by a Chembur-based school,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity. Pore and Sawant were in in charge of the question papers.“The written complaint was filed by the controller last year soon after the incident. The police conducted an inquiry and found their roles. The case has been registered against both for breach of trust and IT act. They have not been arrested yet,” said senior police inspector Vidyasagar Kalkundre of the Azad Maidan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-art-teachers-booked-for-leaking-papers/story-XQmKVaKd73ztNXCQFDjU9I.html
15-07-2020||City||More space being freed up for critically ill Covid patients in Mohali||To keep tertiary care facilities vacant and ready for treatment of level 3 (L3) or critically ill Covid -19 patients, private hospitals with good medical infrastructure have been asked by the local administration to extend home care to asymptomatic patients, Mohali deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said on Tuesday. Dayalan said it had been observed that L3 facilities in most cases were occupied by patients who could afford treatment at the facilities instead of those who needed urgent medical care. To ensure optimum utilisation of infrastructure, tertiary care or L3 hospitals would extend medical services at home to Covid-19 patients requiring medical surveillance but not oxygen or ventilator.Patients who were not critically ill and sought admission to an L3 hospital to isolate from family members exposed to the virus could stay at hotels where rooms had been made available and avail of home care, he added.Similarly, reverse referrals had been worked out for recoveries not requiring L3 infrastructure, who could then be referred back to L2 (patients requiring oxygen) and L1 (those not in need of urgent medical attention) facilities or home isolation to reduce the burden on L3 units. As of now, Fortis and Max Hospital in the city are extending home care services. Hotels which have rooms available for self-isolation are JD Residency, Mohali; Wood Crest, Rockland, Black Diamond and Royal Park, all in Zirakpur and Arista in Kharar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-space-being-freed-up-for-critically-ill-covid-patients-in-mohali/story-0BdK19RkilANtO7OqnDxjI.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali man’s revolver missing from Phase 11 police station||A .32 revolver belonging to a resident of Phase 10 was found missing from the strong room of Mohali’s Phase 11 police station.A police official said that the licensed weapon belonged to Jagtar Singh who had deposited it before the Lok Sabha elections held last year. When Singh visited the police station on Tuesday to take his weapon, it went missing from the strong room. Station house officer Jagdeep Singh said, “The police had been searching for the weapon for a long time however, they were unable to find it. It is confirmed that it has been stolen from the police station. We have registered a case and started investigating the matter.”A case has been registered against unidentified persons under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code at Phase 11 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-man-s-revolver-missing-from-phase-11-police-station/story-Y7NuwBC8sIdbQMA2I44CcL.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||City gets over 97% of July rain in 14 days||With 86.6 mm rain in a span of 12-hours on Tuesday, Mumbai received almost its entire July rainfall in just two weeks while surpassing half its seasonal rainfall target in one and half months.Between July 1 and July 14 8.30 pm, Mumbai recorded 822 mm rain against the monthly target of 840.7mm or 97.7%. South Mumbai recorded 595.5 mm rain during the same period against the monthly average of 711.6 mm, or achieved 84% of its target so far.From June 1 to July 14 8.30 pm, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of Mumbai and the suburbs, received 1217 mm as rain tally against seasonal average of 2260.4 mm or 53.8% while the Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 1,120 mm (till July 14 8.30 pm) against the seasonal average of 2,071 mm or 54% of its monsoon target.Monsoon onset over Mumbai was declared on June 14 followed by three intense rain spells in a month. Meanwhile, the suburbs and south Mumbai both recorded heavy showers with a few intense spells from Tuesday afternoon onwards. Between 8.30am and 8.30 pm, Santacruz recorded 86.6 mm rain while 50.4 mm was recorded in Colaba. For the period June 1 to July 14, Mumbai suburbs and south Mumbai have recorded 28% and 26% excess rainfall than the normal for this period.An orange alert for ‘heavy to very heavy rain at a few places’ has been issued for Wednesday. A yellow alert (heavy rain at isolated places) has been issued for Thursday while no alert for Friday.“Widespread rain activity was witnessed on Tuesday and is likely to get further enhanced on Wednesday owing to active monsoon conditions under the influence of strong lower level westerly wind convergence coupled with an upper air cyclonic circulation in the Arabian Sea,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD). “Dense cloud cover witnessed on Tuesday is expected on Wednesday as well, will lead to a few intense spells of rain for the Konkan coast, including Mumbai, and parts of central Maharashtra.” Since the launch of the integrated flood warning system for Mumbai (iFLOWS-Mumbai) on June 12, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the first time on Tuesday made public its iFLOWS forecast predicting ‘very high’ (over 3-foot depth) flooding possibility across 29 of 656 locations across 24 wards including isolated areas in A ward (Colaba, Cuffe Parade), E ward (Byculla, Mahalaxmi), central Mumbai (Dadar, Parel, Hindmata), M-East (Chembur, Govandi), many areas in K-West ward (Andheri, Versova), S ward (Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli), R south (Kandivli, Borivli), and R north (Dahisar). A total of 61 of 656 spots could witness ‘high’ flooding probability (2-3 foot depth), another 139 spots may experience ‘moderate’ flooding (1-2 foot depth) while 383 areas could witness ‘low’ probability (less than 1 foot depth). According to IMD’s impact-based forecast for Wednesday’s orange alert indicated water-logging in many parts of low lying areas and river banks, localised and short term disruption to municipal services such as water, electricity etc., major disruption of traffic flow with roads and local trains affected, and possibility of collapse of tree fall incidents. The weather bureau suggested action in the form of proper regulation of traffic and restricted movement of citizens in affected areas, especially low-lying zones.Independent meteorologists said maximum rain could occur between Wednesday evening and Friday morning with highest rain accumulation expected over north Mumbai suburbs, Thane and Palghar districts. “Moderate to heavy rainfall is expected, which has a potential to cause water logging and disruptions. Necessary alerts need to be issued for Wednesday to Friday,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom.Waterlogging was reported in Parel, Matunga, King Circle, Sion, Andheri, Bandra, Chembur, Govandi, Wadala, Kurla and Dadar for a couple of hours on Tuesday. While some of the routes of Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses were diverted, suburban railways remained uninterrupted.BMC received eight complaints of tree or branch falling from various parts of the city, four complaints of short circuits and two wall collapse complaints. No one was injured in either of the incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-gets-over-98-of-july-rain-in-14-days/story-SM5jwUrfPnfeZv74ZTRv1I.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Lonavala, Khandala stations to run on solar energy||In order to promote renewable energy, the Central Railway has installed solar panels, solar trees and water-coolers at Lonavala and Khandala railway station. Solar panels have been installed on platform number two and three of Lonavala railway stations that produce 76 Kw power. Two solar trees have LED-integrated solar panels, the power is used to illuminate the garden area and the station premises of Lonavala railway station. A solar-powered water cooler has also been installed by the zonal railway.“Lonavala and Khandala are most popular tourist spots. Lonavala station and its adjoining railway premises will completely run on clean and green energy.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway. Similarly, at Khandala railway station, a level crossing gate has been equipped with solar panels. Work of installation of solar panels is also on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lonavala-khandala-stations-to-run-on-solar-energy/story-1PmKjQ6xpyOTNvira9v1oI.html
15-07-2020||City||With over 100 cases traced to cloth market, Ambala SDM orders closure on alternate days||With over 100 of the total 658 Covid-19 cases in Ambala City being traced to the cloth market, sub-divisional magistrate Gauri Midha on Tuesday ordered the closure of the market on alternate days. The market, which has nearly 1,000 shops spreading across the old cloth market, Maharaja Agrasen Chowk and Kalka Chowk, is said to be one of the biggest in Asia, having an annual turnover of around Rs 2,000 crore. It provides employment to over 11,000 people, many of who frequently travel to different states, including Delhi, for business. The first case from this market was detected on June 29, when a merchant tested positive. Subsequently, over 100 cases were traced to this chain. On Tuesday alone, at least 16 of the 46 fresh cases in Ambala City were those having a link to the cloth market.The administration started segregating patients connected to the cloth market on July 11 and found at least 76 cases from here.“The chain started with a 60-year-old merchant. We can’t tell the exact number of patients from this chain but we are sure that the number is more than 100,” said deputy civil surgeon Sanjiv Singla.Hinting at the merchants, civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “We have come to know that several people are hiding their travel or contact history. By doing so, they are only putting their lives and that of their families at risk.”On reports that many merchants refused to give their samples, Vishal Batra of the Ambala cloth market welfare association said, “Many were of the view that if they give samples that turn out to be positive, their shops will be sealed for 28 days. But the SDM clarified and told us that the particular shop will be closed for 2-3 days only for sanitisation purpose or till the test reports arrive. We’ve informed all the members and will now expect compliance to the guidelines of health department.”BREAKING THE CHAINAs per the order issued on Tuesday, Shukal Kund Road, General Merchant Market shall remain closed on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays while Pooja Wholesale Complex shall remain closed on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays until further notice. The shops can remain open from 9am to 7pm. Anyone found violating the orders will be booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant of the Indian Penal Code.The order also stated that use of central air-conditioning (AC) is prohibited in shops, malls, showrooms, and banquet halls etc until further orders. Split ACs can be used but within a range of 24-30°C and there should be an adequate facility for cross-ventilation of air, an order by the SDM read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-over-100-cases-traced-to-cloth-market-ambala-sdm-orders-closure-on-alternate-days/story-1dJaMIAMu4NfzPvKQeowuI.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Congress suspends Sanjay Jha for backing Pilot||Congress on Tuesday evening suspended its party leader Sanjay Jha for anti-party activities and breach of discipline, after he backed Sachin Pilot, who was suspended from the party in the afternoon. The decision was announced by Maharasthra Congress chief Balasahebeb Thorat in a press statement. The move came after Sanjay Jha put out a series of tweets in support of Pilot. “For five years, Sachin Pilot gave his blood, tears, toil and sweat for the Congress party between 2013-18. The Congress came back from a wretched 21 seats to 100. We just gave him a performance bonus. We are so meritocratic. We are so transparent.”“There is a simple solution to the Rajasthan conundrum: Sachin Pilot should be made CM, Mr Ashok Gehlot (already 3 time CM) must be given a senior organisational role to revive weak states. A new leader appointed as head of RPCC. Where there’s a will there is a way,” Jha tweeted.Jha was recently sacked as party spokesperson after he criticised the party leadership in an article.According to Congress leaders in Maharashtra, Jha was suspended by the state unit on directions from the disciplinary committee of the All India Congress Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-suspends-sanjay-jha-for-backing-pilot/story-rM7sbCn1J7w6se3fgYhGOO.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Tests increasing, cases dipping a good sign for Mumbai: BMC chief||The city on Tuesday recorded 954 Covid-19 cases, its second-lowest 24-hour count in 63 days, which Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal termed a “good sign”, as the number of samples tested daily have increased, but the rise in cases has plateaued.“I was expecting cases to increase as our testing increased. Testing has gone up by 2,000 to 3,000 samples every day, and cases are coming down…,” said Chahal, who was appointed civic chief in May, when the pandemic was peaking in Mumbai. On opening up local trains and malls for Mumbaiites, Chahal said the decision would be taken based on cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). “If the situation in MMR is akin to what the situation is in Mumbai today, I would immediately recommend opening up of malls and gyms,” said the BMC chief, adding that Mumbai “does not have a lockdown in the real sense anymore”.“Every two-wheeler and four-wheeler is allowed to come on the road… Mumbai has allowed 100% shops to remain open in a 48-hour cycle… On an average, we have a crore people on the roads every day, so it cannot be called a lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tests-increasing-cases-dipping-a-good-sign-for-mumbai-bmc-chief/story-D2qoV865jNmO95Yc7fa3DL.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||PMLA court denies bail to Wadhawans in PMC Bank fraud||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Tuesday rejected the bail applications of Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang Wadhawan, who are arrested in the multi-crore Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case.The Wadhawans had claimed they were ready to repay the bank’s loans and had provided enough collateral security in the form of immovable properties while taking the loan. However, the prosecution objected to their contentions, stating that the value of the properties, which were submitted as security, was far less than shown. The court rejected the bail plea after considering arguments from both sides.Meanwhile, lawyers of Rakesh Wadhawan, who recently tested positive for Covid-19, had pleaded to the court to consider his health before issuing an order. They had also moved an application to transfer him to a private hospital from GT Hospital, a government facility, where he is currently admitted.Police officials informed the court that Rakesh was first taken to JJ Hospital, but as it did not have a Covid-19 ward, he was transferred to GT Hospital.His lawyer, Subodh Desai, on Tuesday argued that Rakesh has been suffering from several serious ailments, including gastrointestinal bleeding. The lawyer requested the court for a report from GT Hospital, clarifying if they have all the facilities to treat his illnesses. The court asked for a report from GT Hospital and has scheduled the next hearing for Wednesday.Rakesh and Sarang were booked by the economic offence wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police after they defaulted on repayment of a loan taken from PMC Bank. The two allegedly conspired with senior bank officials to secure the loan without proper security. After the EOW case, the Enforcement Directorate (ED), too, initiated a probe into money laundering allegations against the duo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-fraud-pmla-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-rakesh-and-sarang-wadhawan/story-lx3qg0n3BBRSF5B9odtmaI.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank Fraud: PMLA court denies bail to DHFL promoters Kapil, Dheeraj Wadhawan||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Tuesday rejected the bail pleas of Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL), charged for their involvement in the Yes Bank fraud case.The Wadhawans had sought bail claiming the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had failed to file a prosecution complaint or charge sheet within the stipulated period of 60 days. However, the ED, which had arrested the duo on May 14, filed a prosecution complaint on Monday evening. The court then rejected the Wadhawans’ bail plea, but has scheduled a hearing on their plea for bail on merits on Thursday.ED had initiated proceedings against the Wadhawans based on a first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on March 7 in connection with alleged suspicious loans granted by Yes Bank and alleged quid pro quo between Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor and the Wadhawans. The agency had arrested Kapoor on March 8 for money laundering.ED in its second charge sheet filed on Monday named Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan, and the firms they had floated to allegedly engineer money laundering. The charge sheet also names Rana Kapoor, his wife Bindu Kapoor, daughters Roshni and Rekha, and their chartered accountant firm Dularesh K Jain & Associate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-pmla-court-denies-bail-to-dhfl-promoters-kapil-dheeraj-wadhawan/story-V38Tt09sfCtJaT7yhfSLyJ.html
15-07-2020||City||Waldhuni turns red again due to industrial effluents: Residents||The residents of Yogidham Complex in Kalyan (West), on Tuesday complained of Waldhuni river water turning red due to untreated industrial effluents. The residents of the society, near the banks of Waldhuni river took to social media and posted pictures of the polluted river water.Vinod Shirwadkar, 45, member of Waldhuni Swachhta Samiti, said, “Some industries in the area are discharging untreated effluents. The pollution control board should inspect take action. Earlier in March, we had decided to stage a protest against such industries, but due to lockdown, we called it off. If this continues to happen, we will be forced to protest in the coming days.”This is the second time the river water colour has changed during the lockdown period. Earlier on May 13, the river had turned red, followed by which Ulhasnagar Citizens Forum, a residents’ body complained to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).In May, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) had issued notice to the Badlapur Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) directing them to respond within 48 hours about the source of the pollution, and that the CETP had failed in curtailing effluents.Pushpa Ratnaparkhi, president of the Waldhuni Swachhta Samiti said, “We have been fighting against the pollution of Waldhuni river since the past seven years. Although the authorities took action after the complaint, there has not been any remarkable change. The pollution control board should figure out what is causing the red colour of the water.”The activists have claimed that the Waldhuni river meets the Ulhas river, which provides drinking water to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). However, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) have refuted the claims.“The Waldhuni river is a tributary of Ulhas river and it meets the river at Ambivli, Kalyan. The river has been a victim to pollution for almost 20 years. Industries across Kalyan, Ambernath and Badlapur have been discharging untreated effluents into the river, and the authority has failed to take major steps to control it,” said Shashikant Dayma, founder of Waldhuni Biradari, an NGO that has been fighting against the pollution in Waldhuni river, since the past four years.MPCB, regional officer, Shankar Waghmare, said, “We have received a complaint about the Waldhuni river water turning red. Our team will check on this and take necessary action. Earlier, we had warned a CETP and had sent a notice. We will find out the cause of the change in colour. However, the Waldhuni river does not meet the drinking water zone of Ulhas river at all, so there is no chance of pollution in the drinking water. It meets the Ulhas creek directly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/waldhuni-turns-red-again-due-to-industrial-effluents-residents/story-YJcCsbEnW4MkVALwo10GdJ.html
15-07-2020||City||Rapid antigen testing to begin in Thane from Monday||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) will provide rapid antigen testing kits to every ward in the city on Friday, and these wards can begin testing centres from Monday. Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske will address the corporators in every ward, to guide them on measures to be taken to tackle the pandemic. These measures are part of the corporation’s ‘Mission Zero’ for which the city has acquired over one lakh rapid antigen testing kits to increase the testing capacity.TMC recorded 344 positive cases and nine deaths on Tuesday, taking the city’s total count to 13,301 and 205 deaths.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “Rapid antigen kits will be provided to each ward, from Friday onwards. However, only those with symptoms will be tested through the antigen kits at these centres starting Monday.”Dr Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner, said, “The rapid antigen testing centres in each ward will be connected with the fever OPD. As per the report received after the antigen test, the health officer will determine where the patient needs to be admitted. All the necessary facilities will be provided by the ward officer once a person is detected positive.”Starting Wednesday till Friday, ward officials will have a webinar with the civic body officials and mayor from 1pm to 3pm. “The meeting will be attended by the mayor, deputy mayor, standing committee chairman, opposition leader, ward officer, corporator, health officer and all assistant commissioners. The webinar will focus on measures related to Covid and also help in discussing the situation in each ward,” said Malvi.More than 5 lakh surveyed within 12 days in TMCSince the most recent lockdown began on July 2, the civic body has surveyed 5.3 lakh people across Thane city. Moreover, these surveys were conducted with the help of a mobile application to get real-time data. “Special teams were formed in each ward; they were given training and asked to conduct the door-to-door survey. The details from the survey were updated online immediately. This helped the corporation in quick data surveillance. Within the last 12 days, 503,774 people have been surveyed,” Malvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rapid-antigen-testing-to-begin-in-thane-from-monday/story-LaqMjw0fvJuJWPxe3Oxq2I.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||32-year-old man arrested for raping minor||Sakinaka police on Monday arrested a 32-year-old man for allegedly kidnapping and raping a 17-year-old girl.According to police, the accused lured her and under the pretext of going for a picnic. He then took her to his native village in Uttar Pradesh, where he married her and then sexually assaulted her. The accused threatened the victim and her parents against approaching police.An officer said, “The accused assaulted the victim and on Sunday, he hit her. The victim’s father narrated his ordeal with a colleague who advised him to take help from the police.” The accused was married and has two children, the officer added.The accused has been booked under sections 363 (kidnapping), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused is also charged under sections 4 (penetrative sexual assault), 8 (sexual assault), 12 (sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Kishor Sawant senior police inspector at Sakinaka police station said, “We have arrested the accused and are investigating the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/32-year-old-man-arrested-for-raping-minor/story-OEU8ZYoLnXktmH69MzmQ1J.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||Scrap political reservations, says Prakash Ambedkar||Bahujan Samaj Aghadi (VBA) chief Prakash Ambedkar has demanded ending of political reservations for the members of Scheduled Classes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) in the Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha elections.His said, the said reservations have outlived their utility and those getting elected on these reserved seats have become slaves of political parties. He, however, said that reservations in jobs and education should continue as it is a fundamental right.The said reservation was introduced to ensure representation for the members of SC and ST in the parliament and state assemblies. Here some seats are kept reserved where only members of the SC and ST are allowed to contest.“The political reservation should be scrapped as it serves no purpose. Those getting elected on these reserved seats have become slaves of various political parties and instead of serving the people, they spend their time in serving their political masters,” said Prakash. “It is being seen that even other caste voters tend to vote for SC and ST candidates in the general seats and in such a scenario, scrapping is best,” he added. However, he said neither BJP nor the Congress will support this as it allows them to exploit the situation.He said in 1954 his own grandfather, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar who is referred as the architect of Indian constitution had himself called for scrapping this provision. However, other political parties have opposed this view. “If we scrap this reservation, members of SC and ST will never be able get elected to the parliament or assemblies. The other castes still don’t vote for us,” said Avinash Mhatekar, former state minister and Republican Party of India (A) leader. He said instead parties like VBA and RPI should become formidable force to get their members elected to these seats.Senior Dalit leader Jogendra Kawade, who heads the Peoples Republican Party, agrees that many of the representatives have become slaves but opposes scrapping. “At least now, these communities are getting some representation due to the reservation which will become negligible if it is done way away with,” said Kawade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/scrap-political-reservations-says-prakash-ambedkar/story-d7qyLFDwL3hoCbAYnBDTTN.html
15-07-2020||Gurugram||Private labs in city seek permission to start Covid-19 antigen, antibody tests||archana.mishra@hindustantimes.com After Delhi, where private labs have been allowed to conduct antigen tests in addition to RT-PCR tests, the Gurugram health department is considering to adopt a similar approach to further ramp up Covid-19 testing capacity in the city. Four private labs have sought permission to carry out serology testing for Covid-19, including both antibody and antigen tests. Each of these labs have also shared their proposed rates for conducting the tests, ranging from ₹600 to ₹1,450 for each sample.“A letter has been sent to the state health department regarding the proposed rates for Covid-19 antigen and antibody tests. It is important to put a price cap if private labs and hospitals are allowed to carry such tests. Like Delhi, hospitals in the city that are coordinating with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved laboratories too can start with testing once the state health department approves the proposed price packages,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO). According to officials of the district health department, the proposed rates for antibody tests range between ₹600 and ₹1,450 per sample. The same for antigen test range between ₹500 and ₹950 per sample. Only one of the four labs has proposed ₹4,500 for the tests — the highest so far. In their letter to the state health department, the district health officials has suggested a price cap of ₹1,000 for an IgG antibody Elisa test and ₹800 for an antigen test. Currently, both the tests are being conducted by the officials of the district health department. While antigen tests are being conducted in large outbreak areas of the city, antibodies tests are being conducted as a part of an ongoing serological survey. The first round of serological survey started in June 24. A plan for the second round is currently being worked out by the district health department. The city, on an average, is conducting around 2,000 tests per day. The antigen tests look for a specific protein associated with the SARS-CoV-2 virus — the pathogen that causes Covid-19. The tests are highly specific, which means that a positive test result would be considered as true positive, while a negative test would require an RT-PCR test. In the antibody test, on the other hand, blood samples are collected to check for antibodies which appear after a person has been infected with coronavirus and stays in the body for months. This test is typically conducted to find out unreported cases of Covid-19. A senior health department official, privy to the matter, confirmed that the department has received requests from four private labs in the city to carry out the tests.“But we first need to develop a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) to ensure that the ICMR guidelines are followed by private labs,” said the official, on condition of anonymity. Although the private labs refused to comment on the matter, saying that they are awaiting approval from the state government, a representative from one of the four labs said a few decisions have to be taken by the government before it can approve the labs to carry out the tests. The ICMR has advised states to use antigen kits for detection of the virus in hot spots and containment zones. As per the guidelines, symptomatic people with influenza-like illness, asymptomatic patients who are high-risk contacts of confirmed cases, people with co-morbidities, and high-risk patients who are either hospitalised or seeking hospitalisation are to be given importance for testing. The SOP to be prepared the health department will have to take into account the ICMR guidelines before an approval can be granted. In Delhi, hospitals are currently allowed to conduct antigen tests on the similar lines as the RT-PCR tests. A prescription from the registered doctor is mandatory along with an ICMR-form that needs to be filled in by the doctor. A government identity proof is mandatory for testing. In the national Capital, most hospitals are accepting walk-ins for tests, provided there is a valid prescription. In case if a person does not have a prescription, he or she can visit the flu clinic set up by the hospital. A doctor will carry out the necessary investigation before prescribing a test. Delhi government has fixed the antigen test cost around ₹1,000 per test, lower than the RT-PCR which costs around ₹2,400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/private-labs-in-city-seek-permission-to-start-covid-19-antigen-antibody-tests/story-tv822hTVJIuISbSplX0NSP.html
15-07-2020||Gurugram||578 students register on the first day of admission for Gurugram University||At least 578 students on Tuesday got themselves registered for various undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses being offered by Gurugram University on the first day of the admission process. The admission process, including the counselling session for various courses, will take place entirely online this year in view of the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.No technical glitches were reported in the admission process, with the maximum number of students registering for B.Tech (Computer Science) with specialisation in Artificial Intelligence (AI). Courses such as MBA and Bachelor of Physiotherapy (BPT) also saw a higher number of registrations in comparison to other courses, as per the data shared by the university. Out of 578 students, 75 registered for B.Tech, while 53 applications were received for the MBA course.This year, the university has introduced six new courses. These courses include M Pharma (Master in Pharmaceutical Chemistry), MPT (Master in Physiotherapy with specialisation in Cardio-Pulmonary), LLB, MSc (Physics), MSc (Chemistry), and MSc (Math). With the addition of these six courses, the total number of courses being offered by the university comes to 28.The last date for submitting applications for UG courses is July 31 till 4pm while applications for PG courses can be submitted up to August 20 till 4pm. The first merit list for UG courses will be released on August 4, while the list for PG courses will be declared on August 24. Sonia, public relations officer(PRO) of Gurugram University, said that admission process took off smoothly on the first day. “There was no delay or glitches in the admission process. More than 500 students registered themselves by 5pm on Tuesday and more are expected to register in the coming days. The online infrastructure of the university has been upgraded keeping in mind the demands of online registration. We have also created an online help desk for assistance regarding the registration process,” said Sonia. The university is currently operating from a temporary campus in Sector 51. The construction of the university’s own campus in Kankrola in Sector 87 is yet to be completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/578-students-register-on-the-first-day-of-admission-for-gurugram-university/story-hjfvN35dClvZJgKhQDcJVM.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||6,741 fresh cases up state tally to 267,665||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count on Tuesday reached 267,665 after 6,741 new infections were recorded on Tuesday —a slight increase after two days of fewer new cases. The state has 107,665 active cases, according to the state health department. The death toll of the state touched 10,695 after 213 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, health officials said.Health experts said that fluctuation in daily new cases is normal unless the drop stays for over 10 days. “In a pandemic, fluctuation in number of cases keeps happening. It is significant only if cases continue to drop for over 10 days. In that scenario, the change can be interpreted,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, public health expert, who is also heading the communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state.The number of fresh cases in Mumbai dropped below the 1,000 mark on Tuesday — second-lowest in 63 days — at 954. The city’s count now stands at 95,100. Of them, active cases are 22,773. Mumbai’s toll stands at 5,405 after 70 more deaths were reported.Meanwhile, state health minister Rajesh Tope said they are expecting a flattening of the curve soon. “We are working in mission mode to control the pandemic. Many cities have again imposed lockdown. Going by the pattern in New York and European countries, flattening of the curve in the state should start soon. However, no one can say by when cases will start declining,” Tope said.The number of recovered patients across the state also increased close to 1.5 lakh after 4,500 recovered and were discharged from various hospitals in the past 24 hours. Their tally is 149,007. The recovery rate of the state has improved to 55.67%, against the national recovery rate of 63.02%.The spike in the viral outbreak has forced several civic bodies to reimpose lockdown restrictions in a bid to flatten the curve. Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, and Navi Mumbai, which are a part of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), have extended re-imposed lockdown restrictions until July 19, while Ulhasnagar and Panvel have extended the lockdown till July 22 and July 24 respectively. Nine cities of MMR has got 1,64,320 cases, which contributes to 61.39% in the total cases. Apart from Mumbai, the other cities in MMR are Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayander, Ulhasnagar, Panvel, Vasai-Virar and Bhiwandi-Nizampur. Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur and Aurangabad municipal corporations have also reimposed lockdown restrictions. Latur city, too, has declared to impose 15-day strict lockdown that will come in force from July 15 midnight. In the urban areas of Nashik, night curfew has been imposed from 7 pm to 5am from July 2.On Tuesday, Pune found 1,139 new cases, more than Mumbai’s. It also has highest number of cases —30,751 — after Mumbai, while Pimpri Chinchwad, Solapur, Aurangabad and Latur city has reported 541, 103, 175 and 21 new cases respectively.Districts such as Raigad have also announced lockdown restrictions starting from Wednesday (July 15). Besides, Nanded, Osmanabad and Jalna are currently in lockdown. Nanded is in eight-day lockdown, starting from July 12, Osmanabad is in seven-day lockdown starting from July 13 and Jalna is in 10-day lockdown, which started from July 5 midnight. Satara district administration has also decided to impose a six-day lockdown ,starting July 17.Raigad, Nanded, Osmanabad and Jalna districts have 4,616, 411, 410 and 1,084 Covid-19 cases. Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Beed districts had also re-imposed lockdown restrictions for about eight to 10 days in early July. Currently, they have 916, 262 and 241 infections respectively. Along with spike in cases, the state is also facing a large number of deaths on a daily basis. In the past 14 days (since July 1), it has recorded 2,689 Covid casualties.With 10,482 deaths, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded at 4.02% on Monday. It is second-highest in the country after Gujarat, where CFR is 4.81% with 2,055 deaths (42,722 cases) till Monday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.Maharashtra still has highest number of deaths across states in the country. “To bring down Covid deaths, we have started conducting antigen tests in containment zones and that too in large numbers. Antigen tests provided reports in just half an hour. If tests come negative and the patients has Covid symptoms, then we also conduct RT-PCR tests to confirm whether the patients is negative or not. This is helping in providing early treatment to the patients,” the health minister said.He said that they have also increased number of laboratories to 110 and have directed all of them to utilise fullest capacity. On the shortage of health infrastructure to deal with rise in cases, he said that this needs to be augmented only in cities of MMR. “We have built field hospitals in Mumbai and building more in MMR cities. For rest of the state, we have no shortage of beds. We are concerned only about ICU beds as we may face their shortage in future if cases rise further. We are working to augment them, but as of now there is no such shortage,” the health minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-741-fresh-cases-up-state-tally-to-267-665/story-aM9wj9aiIFDgGUPL7YL7EN.html
15-07-2020||City||Haryana may impose curbs in districts bordering Delhi, says health minister||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said the state government was planning to impose curbs in the districts bordering Delhi. “Majority of the Haryana cases are concentrated in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar. So, we are discussing imposing restrictions to contain the spread of the virus. We will go ahead after considering all aspects,” he added.Talking to reporters in Ambala, Vij said Haryana’s recovery rate is over 75 per cent, which is quite good. He added that adequate arrangements — including isolation facilities, doctors, medicines had been made to deal with the infection, which was growing at a rapid rate.“Our priority is to treat these patients with the best of resources at our disposal. Still, the cases which are increasing, these are going up in districts adjoining Delhi. “Eighty per cent of our total cases come from these districts (Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat, Jhajjar). If need arises, in the interest of Haryana, if we have to impose stricter curbs to contain spread of infection we will not hesitate to do so,” said Vij.When asked if the state government could impose lockdown and other stricter measures in the worst-affected areas, Vij replied, “in Haryana’s interest, whatever is required to be done, I will do that.” Gurugram till Tuesday had reported 160 new cases of Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally of infections to 7,126. Of the total number of cases, 1,085 cases are currently active — slightly up from Monday’s tally of 1,051 cases. While 20 of them are currently hospitalised, 732 patients are recovering under home isolation. A total of 214 patients are under observation at various district Covid centres and dedicated Covid healthcare centres.As per the data, until Tuesday evening, more than 70% (15,923) of Haryana’s cumulative number of positive cases (22,628) were from Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Rohtak districts.Similarly, at least 57% (2,996) of the total active cases (5,226) are also in these four NCR districts. The district on Tuesday also recorded 124 new recoveries — down from 80 the previous day. This takes the district’s cumulative recovery rate to 83%. Gurugram also recorded two new deaths on Tuesday, taking the toll to 109.The mortality rate in the district is nearly 1.5%.Gurugram on Tuesday also collected 2,502 new samples for testing, up from 2,300 samples collected on Monday. Of these, 521 samples were taken by private labs for RT-PCR tests, while the rest of the samples were taken for the antigen tests being conducted by the health department. The district’s test-positivity rate (TPR) on Tuesday stood at 7%. The TPR has been hovering between 7% and 9% for the past two weeks now, said district health department officials.“However, at around 11%, we are seeing a much higher TPR in Sohna, more than the urban areas of Gurugram,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram(CMO). He added that antigen testing in Sohna would be scaled up in the next two days, with the intention of isolating as many positive cases as possible. “Things are coming under control in other parts of the district, but large outbreak regions (LORs) will need to be kept under close watch for another couple of weeks at least,” he said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-may-impose-curbs-in-districts-bordering-delhi-says-health-minister/story-11dALfSxzi9wNISauDAzWN.html
15-07-2020||Mumbai||48.89 lakh passengers us local train services||Nearly a month after local train services for essential workers resumed in the city, over 48.89 lakh passengers have travelled by the local trains.Over 22.80 lakh passengers travelled by local trains on the Central Railway (CR), and 26 lakh travelled on the Western Railway (WR).The railways have now decided to make it mandatory for essential workers to carry QR code-based e-passes from July 20.Local train services in the city resumed for essential care workers on June 15.Announcements on Western Railway stations asking essential workers to get QR code from their organisations, and carry them for identification to travel by local trains, are being made.“We have been in constant touch with the state government for the operation of local trains. QR code-based e-passes will make it easier to identify and streamline the passengers. However, after nearly a month, the e-passes are yet to be issued,” said a senior WR official.Essential workers have to display their identity cards before entering the railway station premises. Central and Western Railway are operating nearly 700 local trains daily for essential care workers.Nitin Kareer, additional chief secretary, Maharashtra government, said, “The departments of the employees concerned should issue the identity cards with the codes as was decided in our first meeting with the railway authorities. We also had a system set for the issuance of such identity cards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/48-89-lakh-passengers-us-local-train-services/story-bMNpkfgc11iLY2VqVEgLDM.html
15-07-2020||Gurugram||Foundation stone of ₹1,500 crore highway between Gurugram-Rewari laid||Union minister for road transport and highways, Nitin Gadkari, on Tuesday sanctioned road projects in Haryana worth ₹20,000 crore, and laid the foundation stones (via video conferencing) for 11 of these projects, including a 46-km four-lane highway from Gurugram to Rewari via Pataudi. The proposed highway is expected to be completed by December 2022 at a cost of ₹1,524 crore. The highway, on National Highway 352 (NH-352), will be part of a 132-km road that will connect Gurugram with the state border with Rajasthan beyond Narnaul.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which will construct the highway, is slated to spend close to ₹4500 crore on the entire project, of which ₹2300 crore is expected to be spent on acquisition of largely agricultural lands.“Farmers will get this amount of money. In this time of the coronavirus outbreak, availability of funds will boost economic activities in the regions around the area. The upcoming logistics hub coming up in Mahendragarh will also get the benefit of this highway, as access will become much easier,” said NHAI chairperson Sukhbir Singh Sandhu.The Union minister of state for statistics and programme implementation and Gurugram MP, Rao Inderjit Singh, put forth certain requests before Gadkari via video conferencing on Tuesday, namely the urgent requirement to construct flyovers on this stretch at Bilaspur, Kapadivas and Bawal, as well as at IMT Manesar, areas which form part of the arterial Delhi-Jaipur Highway. Gadkari responded saying that the matters, particularly that of building an elevated road at IMT Manesar, would be “taken up soon”.On Tuesday, Gadkari also inaugurated three road projects in Haryana, including a four-lane road from Rohana and Hasangarh to Jhajjar, a four lane road form the Haryana-Punjab border to Jind, and a two-lane road from Jind to Karnal. Apart from this, he also laid the foundation stone for seven other road projects including a six-lane access control road from Ismailabad to Narnaul, a four-lane road from Rewari to Atteli Mandi, a six-lane road from Atelli Mandi to Narnaul. a four-lane road from Jind to Gohana and another from Sonipat to Gohana, and yet another four-lane road from the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border to Rohana. The cost of all these projects is estimated at ₹2027 crores, as per a Tuesday press release issued by the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/foundation-stone-of-1-500-crore-highway-between-gurugram-rewari-laid/story-bOAac94vOewFip9ojNSVXP.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Doctor booked for sexually harassing nurse on Covid duty in P’kula hospital||A doctor believed to be under the influence of alcohol was booked by police for allegedly sexually harassing a nurse on Covid-19 duty at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula on Saturday. There was high drama at the hospital on Tuesday as the nurse’s colleagues roughed him up while an inquiry was being conducted against him.Dr Manoj Kumar, a psychiatrist, appeared to be under the influence of alcohol when he assaulted the 26-year-old nurse. He was sent on “deputation” for 60 days by authorities.However, as the hospital dragged its feet in acting against the doctor, the Haryana State Commission For Women said it was not satisfied with the hospital’s probe.Kamaljeet Kaur, president, Panchkula Nurses Association said Kumar came to the Covid-19 isolation ward on Saturday night, at around 12 midnight. She alleged he was drunk. As a staff nurse checked machines he sat there for 10 minutes and then called her to a nursing room asking for her help to see how the machines worked.“As she went inside the room, he tried to bolt it. When she resisted, he assaulted her, tried to remove her mask and forced himself on her. She pushed him away and ran to the intensive care unit, where she informed others and called the chief medical officer (CMO), principal medical officer (PMO) and nursing in-charge,” Kaur said.However, when the officials reached the spot they let Dr Kumar leave without testing him for alcohol consumption and did not inform the police, Kaur alleged. “We waited for two days for the authorities to take action. As most of the senior authorities of the hospital are women, we were hopeful that they would take immediate action, but were left disappointed.”The victim’s aunt too asked for action against Dr Kumar, saying, “On Monday we held a meeting with the CMO, PMO and others. They were very polite, but did not take any action. As we protested the doctor was doing his duty in the OPD.”Dr Manoj didn’t revert to calls or texts. No case registered at hospital’s police post When the victim went to the hospital’s police post to register a case on Monday afternoon, “personnel over there refused to do so and asked us to go to the women’s police station, where an FIR was registered at night,” her aunt said.She added that the victim had been sent by the hospital on three-day leave and had mentioned in the FIR that she feared a threat to her life. They then filed a complaint with the women’s commission. “An FIR was registered against the doctor (at the women’s police station) under section 354 A of the Indian Penal Code on Monday night. Today, the statement of the victim was recorded in front of the magistrate and we are investigating the case,” said assistant commissioner of police, Noopur Bishnoi.The doctor has not been taken into custody and his statement is yet to be recorded.Commenting on the matter, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, CMO, Panchkula, said: “A report of the internal committee (ICC) has been submitted to the director general, health services (DGHS) and the doctor has been sent out of the district on deputation. Police are also conducting a parallel inquiry.”She said the report had also been sent to the women’s commission, which had summoned the health authorities.When asked why the police was not informed on Saturday, the night of the assault, the CMO said, “Matters of harassment are first enquired into by the ICC.Second probe marked against nurses who attacked the doctorThe DGHS, Dr SB Kamboj, said in the meanwhile that even as the harassment case was being probed, a “second enquiry would be conducted against those who took law in their hands” and beat up the doctor.When asked to comment, Preeti Bhardwaj, vice chairman of the women’s commission said the panel was not satisfied with the report submitted by the hospital authorities on the case.“The incident happened on Saturday night and no action was taken for two days. There was a very casual approach by the CMO and PMO of the health department,” she said.“They submitted the report today, whose subject was ‘misbehaviour’ with staff nurse. In the report they ‘prima facie found the doctor guilty’ of the allegations. The report as such was a little vague and even I could not decipher it,” Bhardwaj said.“The situation is worrisome and I am not satisfied with the report. Clarifications will be required,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/doctor-booked-for-sexually-harassing-nurse-on-covid-duty-in-p-kula-hospital/story-aS4SkQC6pCYyp5qTx2IsVI.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab minister Tript Bajwa tests positive||Punjab cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Tuesday, the first minister in the state to contract the infection. He has been admitted to Mohali’s Fortis hospital.The 77-year-old rural development and panchayats minister had undergone a Covid-19 test last Friday after his department’s director tested positive for the disease.The samples of Bajwa, who is also the higher education minister, were collected for the second time after the first report had come negative on Saturday.“The minister’s samples were tested in TrueNAT machine and he was found positive,” Punjab’s nodal officer for COVID-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said . Officials said the samples of his family members and staff would also be taken for testing. His close contacts have been asked to isolate themselves immediately.Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh wished Bajwa a speedy recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-minister-tript-bajwa-tests-positive/story-IrtuHDjuhRa3GfbzrCdY3I.html
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||CBSE Class 12 results: Panchkula region has better pass percentage than Chandigarh||With a 92.52 pass percentage, Panchkula region comprising Haryana and Himachal Pardesh has fared better than Chandigarh region in the Class 12 Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), the results of which were announced on Monday.Chandigarh region, which includes Punjab, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir has a pass percentage of 92.04 %.Panchkula stood sixth at the national level while Chandigarh bagged the seventh spot. Both the regions have scored higher than the national average of 88.78%.Over 1.06 lakh (1,06,324) students appeared in Panchkula region, of which over 98,000 (98,374) passed (92.52 pass percentage). Girls performed better with 95.04% pass percentage as against 90.56% boys.A similar trend was seen in Chandigarh, with 94.39% girls passing against 90.09% boys. About 98,166 students sat the exams in this region, of which 90,356 passed, including 42,085 girls out of 44,856.The percentage of those getting compartment has come down to 5.58% in Panchkula from 7.28 % in 2019, whereas 6.14% (6,024) got a compartment in Chandigarh.Kendriya Vidyalayas do wellThe Kendriya Vidyalayas performed exceptionally well, with a 99.80 pass percentage in Panchkula and 98.63 pass percentage in Chandigarh.This was followed by Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas with pass percentage of 99.69 in Panchkula and 98.41% in Chandigarh. Girls do better than boys The pass percentage of the union territory of Chandigarh was 92.58 % , of which 94.60% were girls and 90.90% were boys. About 17,621 students appeared in the exam here, of which 16,314 passed.In Ladakh, 387 students wrote the exams, of which 232 were girls and 155 boys. Of them, 363 passed (pass percentage of 93.80%). Girls had a pass percentage of 95.26% and boys 91.61%.In Haryana, 97,161 students gave the exams, including 42,371 girls and 54,790 boys. Of these, 89,739 passed (pass percentage of 92.36%). With a pass percentage of 94.90%, girls did better than boys (90.40%).In Himachal Pradesh, 9,163 students wrote the exams, including 4,224 girls and 4,939 boys. Of these, 8,635 passed (pass percentage of 94.24%). Girls had a pass percentage of 96.47% and boys 92.33%.In Jammu and Kashmir, 6,771 students wrote the exams, including 2,929 girls and 3,842 boys. Of these, 6,511 passed (pass percentage of 96.16%). Here too girls did better with a pass percentage of 97.71% as against boys, with 94.98%.In Punjab, 73,387 students appeared, including 33,422 girls and 39,965 boys. Of these, 67,168 passed (pass percentage 91.53%). Girls with a pass percentage of 94.04% did better than boys (89.42%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbse-class-12-results-panchkula-region-with-92-52-has-better-pass-percentage-than-chandigarh-s-92-04/story-LC4PML6B3h5XJjGdBKLC9O.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||86% of India’s Covid-19 cases confined to 10 states, says govt assessment||The number of Covid-19 cases may be going up, but 86% of the total cases are confined to 10 states, officials on the Union health ministry said on Tuesday, citing government statistics. Of these, just two states -- Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu -- account for about 50% of the cases. Other high disease burden states include Karnataka, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, West Bengal and Gujarat.Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty, health ministry, also spoke on the need to increase Covid-19 testing, which he said was being done across the country. “Scaling up testing, along with focus on strict implementation of containment measures and improved clinical management of the disease, is the key to check the spread of Covid-19,” Bhushan said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayIndia has performed 10.2 million Covid-19 tests so far since January 22, with 1,206 laboratories approved for Covid-19 testing across the country.“The more you test, the more number of people you will be able to track and treat. It is the only way to check the spread of Covid-19. Ramping up testing is important and we have come a long way since the start of the outbreak,” Dr Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology, ICMR, said.The health ministry official also spoke on the pending results of Delhi’s sero surveillance -- a blood test done to check the presence of antibodies that determine a past infection due to Sars Cov-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Sero surveys are fairly complex exercises and, therefore, they by definition take time. In the case of Delhi, originally, it was decided that for the sero surveillance we would collect 20,000 samples between June 27 and July 5, but eventually, the sero surveillance ended up collecting 22,823 samples. These are blood samples which are then subjected to ELISA (is a plate-based assay technique) tests. Now that the testing has finished, we are doing the stratification -- gender wise, district wise and age wise, among others -- of the data and analysis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/86-of-india-s-cases-confined-to-10-states-says-govt-assessment/story-nwOqUhcbpJH737x9Sh8Z6L.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||Beds empty in private hospitals as Delhi builds Covid capacity||Nearly three of every four hospital beds earmarked for the treatment of patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are lying unused in the city, according to the government’s Delhi Corona app, which stakeholders say is adding to the financial burden of private hospitals.As on Tuesday, Delhi had 15,330 beds earmarked for Covid-19, including 125 operation beds at the field hospital set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, of which 11,236 are vacant, according to the app.“Almost all big hospitals in the city have dedicated Covid-19 beds. With the number of cases going down and the government strengthening its own facilities—such as setting up a new 1,000-bed hospital in Dhaula Kuan—maybe it is time to start rolling back these Covid-19 beds in smaller hospitals. These hospitals can then start focussing on non-Covid treatment. Once that happens, the bigger hospitals with more critical care Covid-19 beds will receive more patients, helping them financially as well,” Dr Harsh Mahajan, co-chair, FICCI health services committee and the founder of Mahajan Imaging, said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayAt the same time, Dr Mahajan cautioned, “We cannot roll back everything at once, there need to be buffer beds to ensure patients can receive treatment in case there is a surge in cases again. Most hospitals now have isolation facilities that can be quickly earmarked for Covid-19 again, in case the need arises.”Hospitals say a price cap by the Delhi government on 60% of beds in the third week of June is adding to the problem. The Delhi government had capped Covid-19 treatment rates at Rs8,000 (non-NABH-accredited hospitals) and Rs10,000 (NABH-accredited hospitals, including entry-level facilities) per day for an isolation bed, and Rs13,000-15,000 per day for a bed at an intensive care unit (ICU), and Rs15,000-18,000 per day for an ICU bed with a ventilator.“For private sector hospitals, patient load reduced to about 20% of their usual numbers during the lockdown, which ate away into their revenues. Treating Covid-19 patients was a fresh revenue channel for them. In fact, some hospitals managed to generate a positive EBITDA (Earnings Before Interests, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation is a measure of a company’s current profitability). Then, the government capped the prices. This will again impact the revenue that hospitals can generate. For patients in need of minimal monitoring, the rates are okay, but for ICU patients, the cap price should have been at least Rs25,000 because hospitals have to bear a cost of two or three times more than the number of usual staff (as quarantine norms have to be followed), not to mention the additional cost of PPE kits, etc.,” said Girdhar Gyani, director-general of Association of Healthcare Providers (India) or AHPI, which has at least 10,000 hospitals as its member across 33 states and Union Territories.Treating the insured“Insurance associations have also started arm-twisting smaller hospitals into accepting the same capped prices that the government negotiated for cash-paying patients. This should not be done as their rates are pre-negotiated. We have reached out to the government regarding the same because it defeats the whole purpose of cross-subsidy and will further strain the private hospitals,” Gyani said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The Delhi government spokesperson refused to comment despite repeated calls and messages.A doctor from the private sector, who did not want to be named, said, “The central government committee had suggested capping the prices for 60% of Covid-19 beds. However, the Delhi government order caps the prices for 60% of the total beds in a hospital. This means the lower prices apply to almost all patients—this includes those paying cash as well as those insured. Insurance companies have pre-negotiated rates with hospitals, and with the government capping in place, even the companies have declared they want to follow the same prices. The hospitals will have to then stop honouring the insurance and promise of cashless treatment.”“The insurance companies are anyway making profits, with very few people going to hospitals at the moment, but hospitals are actually cash-strapped. Treating a Covid-19 patient is costing hospitals more than they are making,” the doctor said.Also read: 86% of India’s Covid-19 cases confined to 10 states, says govt assessmentSubhash Khuntia, Chairperson, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority, countered, “When a government gives an order that a certain rate has to be followed across the state, it is applicable to all patients whether they are paying by cash or through insurance. However, we suggested that the insurance companies negotiate prices with the hospital for Covid-19 management as a group. Initially, doctors and hospitals were unaware about how to manage Covid-19 patients, leading to difficulties in fixing rates. Now, I think everyone is in a better position to do so. I think, the hospitals should agree to a fair price so that they remain sustainable and but do not overcharge either.”Bigger hospitals such as Sir Ganga Ram are better off. “The number of patients dipped significantly during the lockdown; now it is slowly increasing with people becoming less scared of the infection. With interstate travel resuming, I think the numbers will go up further. The hospital needs an occupancy of about 70% to break even; we are currently at 60% probably. But even with prices capped, Covid-19 patients are bringing in some revenue. And, it is our national duty to serve. Hopefully, the situation will get better in the next few months,” Dr DS Rana, chairman, board of management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said.Beds neededAnother committee set up by the Delhi government in early June had estimated that there would be about 100,000 cases by the end of June, of which about 60,000 would be active (people living with the infection). Assuming the rate of hospitalisation would be 25%, the committee had estimated Delhi would need 15,000 hospitals beds—most equipped with oxygen and ventilators—by the end of June.But the number of hospitalisations in Delhi has remained between 20% and 25% of the active cases in Delhi.“It is a very good thing that we did not need as many hospital beds as were anticipated by the committee based on the trends of early June. Delhi is currently in a comfortable position. However, unused beds are definitely a financial burden for private hospitals. At the time when these beds were being converted to isolation facilities, the government had anticipated that all of them would be used and the private sector would earn from them too. But the lack of patients is a problem for them,” Dr Arun Gupta, president of Delhi Medical Council and one of the members of the committee that had estimated the infrastructure need for managing Covid-19 patients at the beginning of June, said.“Having said that, we cannot start going back on the preparations that have been made immediately, as there is a possibility the cases might go up again,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/beds-empty-in-private-hospitals-as-delhi-builds-covid-capacity/story-NnIiSHkNPCUe8y0KtqABGI.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s second plasma bank inaugurated at Lok Nayak hospital||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday inaugurated the city’s second convalescent plasma bank at Delhi’s biggest treatment facility for patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19)—the 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital.The Delhi government had opened the country’s first plasma bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj on July 2. Another plasma bank which is yet to start operating is at the Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, the biggest hospital in the trans-Yamuna region. It has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“Today, Lok Nayak hospital started plasma collection. Till the time a vaccine is developed, plasma will help save lives. I am not saying that it can save 100% of the people, but it can save some lives. And, it had a role in reducing Delhi’s death rate as well. One of the benefits of having the bank in Lok Nayak hospital is that it is located at the centre of the city and it will be easier for people to come here and donate,” Kejriwal said while visiting the plasma bank on Tuesday morning.Convalescent plasma therapy uses the blood component plasma — rich in virus-fighting antibodies from patients who have recovered from the infection — to aid the immune system of Covid-19 patients. It is still an experimental therapy that has been approved by the health ministry for use in patients whose need for oxygen increases despite providing oxygen support and steroids.Also read: Beds empty in private hospitals as Delhi builds Covid capacityUnlike the centre at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, plasma received at Lok Nayak hospital will be used for its own patients to ensure that more people receive the therapy at the hospital.“The plasma will be used for treating patients at the hospital. We have many sick patients and we need to serve the poor. So far, we were providing the therapy only under a clinical trial. Now, with the apheresis machine and bank in place, we will be able to provide the therapy to more patients, even outside the trial. Having an in-house bank will also mean that we will not have to wait to get the plasma from ILBS and can administer it to patients as and when needed” Dr Suresh Kumar, the medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, said.Also read: 86% of India’s Covid-19 cases confined to 10 states, says govt assessmentThe hospital has so far provided the therapy only to 60 patients, including the 29 patients who were administered the therapy under the COPLA I trial whose results prompted the government to set up the bank. The initial trial had shown an improved respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, and organ failure score in patients who received the convalescent plasma. Their duration of stay in the intensive care unit, as well as the hospital, also went down.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The hospital has one apheresis machine—a device to separate the blood components—that can collect plasma from eight to ten donors in a day. “We are planning to run it round the clock later to ensure about 15 to 20 donations a day. Plus, one unit of plasma donated by a recovered patient can be used for two sick patients,” Dr Kumar said.The hospital has already discharged over 3,600 Covid-19 patients, many of whom are eligible to donate plasma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-second-plasma-bank-inaugurated-at-lok-nayak-hospital/story-Rb75TPj5CEgA2LEGAMJKeL.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||One health care worker for monitoring each critical Covid-19 patient, says govt’s clinical guidelines||New Delhi: One health care worker must be assigned for round-the-clock monitoring of each critical patient with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to “in-hospital” management guidelines issued by the Delhi health department on Tuesday. The advisory issued by principal health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt also says the guidelines have to be followed by both government and private hospitals.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe Delhi government has been trying to recruit more doctors and nurses – including final-year students – to staff hospitals that are grappling with staff shortage. Staff crunch was a major concern raised by medical directors of Delhi government-run Covid-19 hospitals while trying to increase ICU and ventilator beds.A technician and a dialysis machine must be available for critical care patients. “Continuous renal replacement therapy or sustained low-flow dialysis with technician to be available as most of critical Covid-19 patients with ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome) patients develop acute kidney injury,” the guidelines say.The guidelines also state that an internal death audit committee should be formed to look at reducing mortality. With the number of Covid-19 patients on the decline, the government is now working towards reducing deaths from the viral infection.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “The recovery rate of patients is increasing very fast. Earlier, in 100 tests, 35 used to test positive, whereas now only 7 or 8 people out of 100 are found to be positive. The number of fatalities due to Covid-19 has decreased. In mid-June, there were about 101 deaths per day but there are about 40 deaths now. All of us together have to reduce it further,” said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday at the inauguration of a plasma bank at Lok Nayak hospital.A clinical review committee should be set up to review and standardise care and clinical outcomes on a periodical basis, the advisory says.Real-time monitoring of oxygen saturation of all patients has to happen and steps need to be taken immediately if it drops, the guidelines say. Hospitals have been asked to standardise investigation protocol for all patients so that sampling does not remain incomplete as well as use tele-consultation services provided by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences for treating physicians.Also read: Beds empty in private hospitals as Delhi builds Covid capacityChecklists and charts should be maintained to ensure proper infection control.At the time of admission, patients’ oxygenation has to be monitored, they have to be triaged effectively with high priority being given to high-risk individuals such as the old, pregnant women, those who are immunosuppressed, cancer and transplant patients, and patients with comorbidities, the document says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-health-care-worker-for-monitoring-each-critical-covid-19-patient-says-govt-s-clinical-guidelines/story-FbUa0EmsGwloYmPHPo6EwL.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||Submit report on sero-study in Delhi by July 16, orders HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to file its report on the results and analysis of antibody testing, also called sero surveillance, carried out in the national capital. It also asked the Delhi government to state the number of persons who tested negative after undergoing the antigen test and then were made to take the RT/PCR test.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad directed NCDC to place the test results before it by July 16 and said the report will include analysis of the results. They also directed the director of NCDC to be present on the next date of hearing to assist the court.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe court’s direction came after the Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam submitted that they had collected 21,793 antibody samples from the city from June 27 to July 5 and had sent these to NCDC, which had not given the results to date. During the hearing, Satyakam told the court that he had called the director of NCDC on Sunday, July 12. However, the official alleged that the counsel should not have made the call and instead said that the concerned department should write to NCDC.On this, the bench told additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma and central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia, who is representing the ministry of health, that the court would not take such kind of “red-tapeism” and asked them to ensure the NCDC director is present on the next date, July 16.The central government counsels then said they would look into the matter and that the officer should not have spoken like that. Also read: 86% of India’s Covid-19 cases confined to 10 states, says govt assessmentThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) was asked to file an updated affidavit indicating the applications it received from private hospitals and labs in Delhi seeking authorisation to carry out the rapid antigen detection test.The court directed the Delhi government to file an affidavit indicating the number of persons who tested negative after undergoing the antigen test and then were made to take the RT/PCR test. This was after the counsel for the petitioner, advocate Rakesh Malhotra, told the court that the latest status report of Delhi government did not state how many tested negative in the antigen test and then underwent the RT/PCR test.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage In a status report filed on Tuesday, the Delhi government said that to augment testing to detect Covid-19 infections, and to make it more accessible to the general public, all the Delhi government and private hospitals have been asked to undertake point of care testing in the form of rapid antigen detection test (RADT) of eligible individuals.The report said the antigen test would be done at all the Delhi government-run dispensaries and polyclinics on all working days, from 9 am to 12 noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/submit-report-on-sero-study-in-delhi-by-july-16-orders-hc/story-Rp840lUhvSsxXJiOEhaPiO.html
15-07-2020||Noida||Crime graph dives as Noida police commissionerate completes 6 months||Noida police commissionerate — established on January 13 this year — completes six months in July with the department claiming to have brought about a significant reduction in crime, when compared to last year. The UP government had passed an order for the establishment of the commissionerate system in Gautam Budh Nagar and Lucknow in January this year. The Noida police had then divided the Gautam Budh Nagar district into three zones — Noida, Central Noida and Greater Noida — each headed by a deputy commissioner rank officer.“To handle crimes against women and children, a DCP (women’s safety) was appointed and to handle the traffic and crime situation, a DCP each, along with two joint commissioners, were appointed,” said Noida commissioner of police, Alok Singh.Police officials said that at the onset of the formation of the new system, there were 7,458 ongoing investigations. This number went up to 14,386 in the next six months. Of these, 9,405 cases (almost 65 %) have been concluded.The new system has also taken severe action against organised crime and known criminals in the district. Under section 14 of the gangster act, all movable and immovable assets of criminals obtained through fraudulent means can be attached. This power belonged to the district administration in the earlier system, but was transferred to the police commissioner after the formation of the new system.In the past two weeks, the police department has attached assets worth more than Rs 15 crore of known criminals, including properties and luxury vehicles. Notices have also been sent to 75 people under the Goonda act.According to data provided by the department, there has been a reduction of 172% in the number of cases of vehicle theft from 1,381 in 2019 to 507 this year, a reduction of 157% in rape cases from 54 (2019) to 21(this year), 109 % in loot cases from 94 (2019) to 45 (this year) and 100% reduction in dacoity and ransom based kidnappings.“There have been 59 encounters in the past six months, following which 115 criminals have been arrested, of whom 72 were injured. Four police personnel were also injured during these encounters,” said Singh.The department said it had also taken special steps for women safety. For this, mahila chaupals, in residential areas were organised earlier this year to address specific issues at local levels. A special call line was also set up under the ‘Dial 112’ programme, which is aimed at curbing domestic abuse cases. Police officials said that 804 such cases came to them of which 774 were sorted through first intervention, while 32 were provided additional help. A family dispute resolution centre was also established in Knowledge Park where counselling is also provided to victims. The special operations group (crime branch) and cyber cell division also boast of having cracked some major cases in the last six months.The new system also claims to have introduced upgrades in the Surajpur police lines, especially during the times of the Covid-19 pandemic. Six biometric dustbins have been installed at Surajpur, while official vehicles have been fitted with cameras and GPS systems to track movements to and from jails and courts. A special patrolling unit was formed for which 30 motorcycles were provided. Apart from this, the Bisrakh police station was also given 50 additional bikes to implement the beat policing system. A commando unit of 21 constables was also formed at the police lines to tackle emergency situations. The traffic department also underwent major improvements under the new system with the personnel getting 30 new motorbikes, fitted with loudspeakers, hooters, for traffic control. They also received six new cranes, two new SUVs, an ambulance and one hydraulic crane at the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. U-turns were also made at several points in the city to better regulate traffic such as at Hoshiyarpur T-junction, sector 50-51-72 crossing, DSC crossing, Hazipur underpass, labour chowk, DND toll etc. An additional inspector, three sub-inspectors and 100 traffic constables were added to the traffic force . The department has collected more than Rs 60 crore as fines for traffic related offences in the last six monthsCovid-19 outbreakThe new commissionerate has had its hands full in the last three months during the lockdown, especially owing to migrant movement. Teams from the commissionerate have helped people stuck in various parts of the district, sometimes even transporting medicines and other essentials to those in need.“We received nearly 1,500 calls per day in the starting phases of the lockdown from people looking for ration. With the help of 40 NGOs and civil society members, we managed to reach out to nearly 3 lakh people. Apart from this, the force also facilitated the return of more than two lakh migrants to their native places,” said Noida commissioner Alok Singh.The department later was roped in to help with contact tracing of patients and suspect cases. More than 1100 police personnel were deployed at various checkpoints constantly, with 30% of the force put on duty in containment zones. Even at the time of conception, senior officials had stressed on smart policing with the use new CCTV cameras, sensors, body cameras. Going with the concept, the force has started a virtual grievance redressal system for complainants to minimise human contact‘Beneficial system’Experts feel that with increasing population of Noida, the new commissionerate system will be extremely beneficial.“Noida is a growing city. All major cities around the world have the commissionerate system. There are specific officers to deal with specific problems of crime, traffic or intelligence. Whereas in the earlier system there was only one SSP. This is better because there is specialisation,” said Ajai Raj Sharma, former Delhi police commissioner.He also said that going forward more powers should be given to the commissioner so that they are better able to help the public.. “The commissionerate had been a demand of the residents for a while and it has been very benefecial to Noida. There is more police presence now. Six months is a very short time for them to be completely effective. But crime rate has already gone down and hopefully in the future also it keeps reducing,” said KK Jain, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/crime-graph-dives-as-noida-police-commissionerate-completes-six-months/story-RrnZIo0DwXK65wPZDPSPLL.html
15-07-2020||Delhi||Kushak drain yet to be desilted, could lead to waterlogging in south Delhi, say residents||Residents of south Delhi neighbourhoods such as South Extension and Defence Colony have alleged that the desilting of Kushak drain is yet to be completed even though the monsoon has already kicked in.They added that the drain is yet to be cleaned—they can see garbage floating in the nullah. They said that if the drain remains clogged, it will lead to a backflow of water into other drains that merge with it near Defence Colony, in case of heavy rainfall.Kushak drain is an approximately 6.5km-long stormwater drain near South Extension, which carries stormwater and sewage from several south Delhi localities, such as Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, Chirag Dilli, INA, Defence Colony and Pushp Vihar. It meets the Barapullah drain near Nizamuddin West and then flows into the Yamuna river.Manjeet Singh Chugh, a representative of the South Extension-1 Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA), said that the monsoon had arrived but the authorities had not yet desilted one of the major drains in south Delhi. “Garbage is floating in the drain and blocking the flow of water. Monsoon has arrived but the drain is yet to be cleaned. It is just a matter of time—with just one good spell of rain, there will be waterlogging in localities such as South Extension, Defence Colony, Pushp Vihar and others,” Chugh said. He added that till last year the drain was under the aegis of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), but earlier this year it was transferred to the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). “Initially both authorities kept passing the buck over the desilting of Kushak drain, but now it’s clear that the SDMC has to perform the task. But hardly anything has been done,” Chugh said.Ranjeet Singh, the president of the Defence Colony RWA, said that he had written to SDMC several times to clean this drain but to no avail.“This drain was properly cleaned two years ago with the help of big machines; this year, the drain is yet to be cleaned. Last week, a few super sucker machines were deployed only for one day but the process was stopped and the drain remains clogged. The entire colony gets flooded with just two spells of rain because the drain is not clean. Desilting of drains is the primary job of the civic bodies and they fail to even do that,” Singh said.Abhishek Dutt, the councillor of SDMC from Andrews Ganj, said that he has been raising the issue of selective desilting for a long time but to no avail. “Many small and big drains, such as the Andrews Ganj and GK-1 drains, meet the Kushak drain near Defence Colony. If Kushak drain is not desilted properly then it may lead to heavy waterlogging in many south Delhi areas such as GK-1, Chirag Dilli, Gautam Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, Andrews Ganj, etc. because the water will flow back to tributary drains after heavy rainfall and lead to flooding,” Dutt said.A senior official of SDMC, however, said that the civic body has begun the desilting process, which would be completed soon. He said that the delay occurred due to the handing over of the drain from DDA to SDMC and also because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The completion of formalities took time plus the DDA had handed over the drain to us without desilting it. Above this, the pandemic has only made things worse. A significant portion of the drain has been cleaned and we hope that the process will be completed soon,” the official, who wished not to be named, said.Anamika Mithilesh, the mayor of SDMC, said, “Discouraging waterlogging in localities is the primary focus of the civic body. We have issued instructions to officials to clean the drain at the earliest to avoid any problem of flooding during rain in south Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kushak-drain-yet-to-be-desilted-could-lead-to-water-logging-in-south-delhi-say-residents/story-rIXzXWVduryDfYBQbyj1fP.html
15-07-2020||Education||Students from riot-hit north-east Delhi shine in CBSE class 12 exams||When communal riots broke out in north-east Delhi on February 24, Roopshikha was appearing in her CBSE Class 12 exam at a school in Yamuna Vihar. On her way back home, she saw burnt buses, shops and houses. The image still haunts her. However, she didn’t allow violence to take her focus away from studies and scored 98.4% marks with a perfect 100 in Political Science. “It was so scary out there. Many shops and houses got burnt and destroyed in our lane as well. I saw a group of rioters setting a car on fire. I did not expect to even appear for exams at that time,” said the 17-year-old, recalling the incidents in February. Follow CBSE 10th Results 2020 LIVE UpdatesRoopshikha, like hundreds of others from north-east Delhi couldn’t write all the exams. The Humanities student from government girls senior secondary school in Yamuna Vihar-B block appeared in exams of three subjects--- Political Science, History and Physical Education. Three papers were cancelled due to riots. “I wrote my History and Political Science papers on March 3 and 6, respectively. But Geography, English and Hindi papers were cancelled,” she said.Roopshikha’s father is a businessman who runs a unit in Bawana Industrial area. She said she wants to pursue BA (Hons) in Geography from Delhi University. “I want to study Geography in a top Delhi University college, and then prepare for the Civil Services,” she said.Due to the communal violence in various northeast Delhi in February, the CBSE had to postpone the exams of four subjects. Some students could not appear when the board resumed examinations on March 3. A revised schedule for remaining exams was also announced later but the board was unable to conduct the exams due to the nationwide lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. This year, the students have been evaluated on the basis of the average of marks in exams they took before the lockdown came into effect on March 25.Read More: CBSE 10th Results to be declared todayDespite all odds, many students from the riot-hit district of the national capital have performed well in the exams. Moni (who goes by a single name), 17, another Delhi government school student and a resident of Chand Bagh -- which had witnessed rampant violence -- has scored 96.4% marks.Daughter of a vegetable vendor, Moni could write only three exams -- Economics, Political Science and Physical Education --- before the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen began spreading in the country and the CBSE cancelled exams. She was writing her exam when riots broke out in her neighbourhood. “I saw a petrol pump burning while returning home. It was scary. I could not concentrate on anything for so many days. But I wanted to perform well in exams,” said Moni, a Humanities student.Geeta, Moni’s mother, said she and her husband want their daughter to become an achiever. “I could not study beyond Class 5 and my husband also studied only till Class 10 due to financial problems. But we want our children -- 2 daughters and three sons-- to study well. Moni wants to become a teacher. I am so proud of her,” she said.Kaniz Sakina, 18, a resident of Noor-e-Ilahi, has scored 95% marks in Humanities. She had appeared in three exams- political science, history and physical education. “I was really shaken after the communal riots. There is a clinic right in front of our house. One day, I saw a man with a bullet wound there. His shirt was covered with blood. I can never forget that scene. It took me some time to resume studies after that. But I was determined. I appeared in two exams after the riots,” she said. She wants to pursue BA (Hons) in History from DU’s Hansraj College. Mujibur Rahman, 17, a student from Zeenat Mahal Senior Secondary School (evening) in Jafrabad, has scored 95.2% marks in Humanities. Son of a barber, Rahman wants to become a teacher. “I was really scared when the riots had happened. Our safety had become a priority. I had to push hard to study for the two exams held in March first week,” he said.Ganpath Raj, principal of Mujeeb’s school in Jafrabad,, said, “Our students were taking exams when the communal riots broke out just outside our school. We escorted them out from the back gate. We had to convince parents to send their children for exams when CBSE resumed exams. We are so proud of our students. They performed so well in all the exams.”Meanwhile, some schools said that communal riots affected the performance of their students. Om Prakash, manager at MRL senior secondary school in Karawal Nagar, said, “Last year the highest score in our school was 97%. It has dropped to 96% this year even though we were expecting better results. Communal violence has definitely affected the performance of students.” At least 53 persons died while around 400 were injured in the riots that broke out in parts of North East Delhi. Delhi Police has filed at least 111 charge sheets so far in connection with the riots, in which they have named 650 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-from-riot-hit-north-east-delhi-shine-in-cbse-class-12-exams/story-zegXt4D7tM8FIkg9POkF7N.html
15-07-2020||Pune||Pune divisional commissioner isolates self after driver tests positive||Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar will undergo 14-day home quarantine starting Tuesday after his driver tested positive for Covid-19.“With the driver showing symptoms of Covid, I have decided to be home quarantined. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines, I will be tested after five days. Till then, I will be working from home,” he said.Since the past three months, Mhaisekar has been holding meetings with officials of civic body, police and visiting areas in the city as part of the Covid-19 related responsibilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/divisional-commissioner-self-isolates-after-driver-tests-positive/story-lhPGKq9Zv4yjs1Jx6FOMpM.html
15-07-2020||Pune||A day before lockdown, liquor worth Rs 2.57 lakh stolen in Pune||A day before lockdown came into effect on July 14 midnight, alcohol worth Rs 2.57 lakh was stolen from a shop in Kharadi. The police are on a lookout for three suspects caught on the CCTV footage of the shop.On Monday morning, the shutters of a wine shop in Kharadi was found busted and the glass door behind the shutter was shattered, according to police. Alcohol worth Rs 2,57,000 and cash worth Rs 13,000 was stolen from the shop.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sameer Jaiswal (30), a resident of Tathawade.“They came wearing raincoats and masks. The footage from inside as well as outside the shop is blurry. Three people are visible,” said police sub-inspector PV Kulkarni of Chandan nagar police station who is investigating the case.The CCTV shows the men arrived in a small car that was either a Maruti Zen or a Maruti 800.Bottles of various brands and types of alcohol were stolen. The cash counter of the shop was unlocked and cash worth Rs 13,000 was also stolen.“They first picked up high-end, expensive brands. Then they opened the counter but the owner did not keep much cash in the shop. They deposited the bottles in the car and came back and picked up smaller, less expensive bottles as well,” said PSI Kulkarni.A case under Sections 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in order to commit an offence punishable with imprisonment), 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit an offence punishable with imprisonment) and 380 (theft in a dwelling house, etc.) of Indian Penal code was registered at Chandan nagar police station against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/a-day-before-lockdown-liquor-worth-rs-2-57-lakh-stolen/story-HUKp9K4CShZRbvz1ua9hPK.html
15-07-2020||Pune||Three booked for duping two of Rs 3 lakh each under KCB job pretext||Three men were booked for duping two men of Rs 3 lakh each under the fake pretext of getting them a job at the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB).A complaint was lodged by a KCB official. The two victims were promised a job as helpers in KCB offices.While one of the victims was identified as Tukaram Dhere, the other person was identified as Ganesh Akhade. Pending their arrest, the police did not reveal the names of the accused.The suspected forgery came to the notice of KCB after one of the victims arrived at the board office in December with an appointment letter with signature of Pramod Kumar Singh, chief executive officer, KCB, according to senior police inspector Rajendra Sahane of Khadki police station.“They both paid Rs 3 lakh each to two of the three men. The amount was deposited in their bank accounts,” said PI Sahane.A complaint application was made by KCB chief executive officer in February to the Pune police commissioner’s office for a suspected case of forgery of his signature, according to police.Officials of the crime branch are investigating the case.A case under Sections 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc.), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document as genuine), 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-men-swindled-of-rs-3-lakh-under-kcb-job-pretext/story-jW4hSzTdj2tJBK5WnZmmuK.html
15-07-2020||Pune||250 lockdown violations recorded in Pune; 230 vehicles seized||At least 253 cases of lockdown violations and 236 vehicle seizures were recorded in the city on the first day of the 10-day lockdown on Tuesday, according to information provided by the police. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and city police had issued orders prohibiting assembly as well as vehicle movement during the lockdown. The Pune police have established 103 nakabandi points during the day and 55 during the night for the coming days, according to Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Pune.Of the 253 cases, 149 were recorded from Zone 3 of Pune police. However, of 236 vehicle seizures, 190 were seized from Zone 1 of Pune police. “There is a lot of process involved this time because it is not a complete lockdown. It took up a lot of time to check the letters and permissions required. Each person at the nakabandi point has now been given list as to what is allowed and what needs to be checked. The violations were by people who came out of their houses even though they were aware that they were not supposed to. The reasons given by them were not justified in the order,” said Pornima Gaikwad, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-3 of Pune police.Swapna Gore, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1 remained unavailable for comment. However, senior police inspector Balasaheb Kopnar of Shivajinagar police station said that the cases were in the process of being registered at his police station at 6:30pm indicating at an increased number of cases and vehicle seizures from the area. Zone-3 consists of Kothrud, Warje, Alankar, Sinhgad road, Dattawadi areas of Pune while Zone 1 includes Faraskhana, Vishrambaug, Shivajinagar, Deccan, Khadak areas.“We tried not to file cases against people who were heading to work, but did not have a letter as it is the first day of the lockdown. We have also booked the owner of a grocery shop which was open,” said senior police inspector Deepak lagad of Deccan police station.Besides vehicle seizures, and lockdown violation, there were 73 warning notices issued to people for coming out of their houses without a reason and 31 cases registered for not wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/250-lockdown-violations-recorded-in-pune-230-vehicles-seized/story-H29Mqwoa1i6vJrkuQP5gFN.html
15-07-2020||Pune||Pune comes to a standstill, again, with a hope to stop Covid-19 spread||Despite opposition, first day of the 10-day lockdown on Tuesday witnessed residents staying indoors and adhering to the administration’s restrictions in place to stop the spread of Covid-19. Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar announced a complete lockdown for the city so as to curb the increasing number of cases. Police vans and policemen were on the streets appealing to citizens to stay at home.The bustling Satara road, Pune-Mumbai old highway, Solapur road, Karve road, Ahmednagar road, Laxmi road, Deccan, Swargate, Shivajinagar, Kothrud, Sahakarnagar, Hadapsar, Kalyaninagar, Koregaon Park, Aundh and Baner wore a deserted look on Tuesday. Between 9am and 10am, traffic was witnessed on some roads, like Sancheti chowk near Shivajingar, as employees were making their to their offices.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “Citizens cooperated with the administration on the first day of the lockdown in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. I appeal to citizens to come forward for testing, if having Covid-19 symptoms and to adhere to lockdown norms.”Police barricaded the entry points of the city to restrict outstation vehicles from entering the city. Only medical shops were open across the city. Santosh Konde, a resident of Khed Shivapur and Sagar Bhosale, a resident of Uruli, said, “It is very rare to see Pune come to a complete standstill again. On the Pune-Bengaluru and Solapur highway, only trucks were plying.”MIDC employees continue work in PCMCMaharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Bhosari, employee did not face any issues while commuting to their workplace on Tuesday.“Most of the industries have given their employees self-certified passes on their letterhead. Employees can travel in any area on a self-certified pass. Administration is supporting us completely,” said Sandeep Belsare, president of Pimpri-Chinchwad small-scale industries association.The traffic police were patrolling all roads and checking e-passes of all motorists.“In the morning, we caught some people who did not have a pass or letter from their office, so we penalised them. However, the number is very less as most of the people were carrying required documents,” said Satish Nandurkar, police Inspector at Bhosari.A few employees faced trouble while filling up fuel for their vehicles as fuel station owners were not accepting self-certified pass. “Some employees could not get their fuel tanks filled because of the self-certified pass, so we have spoken to the administration and it will be sorted out soon,” added Belsare.Most of the companies continued their work schedule, while a few were shut as they had not issued passes to their employees.“We started working on May 18 and although we are facing problems (five operative level personnel have gone to their hometowns), work has not stopped. The workers, who are available, will continue to come even during the lockdown,” said Pranav Belhekar, owner of PB Plastics, manufacturers and suppliers of plastic moulded components and assemblies.Belsare’s only concern was that the police had not been allowing movement of goods transport trucks and he has requested the administration for its permission.“We have requested movement of transport goods vehicles. We have also requested the administration to allow opening up of raw material supply shops in MIDC as it is very important for continuation of work,” added Balsare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-comes-to-a-standstill-again-with-a-hope-to-stop-covid-19-spread/story-91TctS7hreVUqAkYkquzRI.html
15-07-2020||Pune||39% of Pune’s total Covid-19 positives cases reported in last two weeks||According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data, the city has reported 11,262 Covid-19 positive cases in two weeks (between June 28 and July 11), which amounts to about 39% of the total 28,375 cases (till July 13) recorded since March 9 when the infection was first reported. The rise in numbers has led to the administration reimposing a strict lockdown in the city, starting Tuesday. The civic body has also started using rapid antigen detection kits since the beginning of the month which has led to increased testing capacity for the civic body. Additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal tweeted, “As the number of cases in the past two weeks are rising, the civic body will now be focusing on identification of suspected patients, increase contact tracing and testing and increasing dedicated Covid-19 beds.” As per PMC data, the highest surge in the number of cases has been recorded in Warje, Karvenagar, Kothurd and Bavdhan, followed by Hadapsar, Mundhwa, Dhankawadi, Sahakarnagar and Kondhwa. Agarwal said, “The positivity ratio has remained the same. As the number of tests rises, proportionately the number of cases will also rise, but eventually as we start to isolate more people, the chain will break and then, the number of cases will fall drastically. The lockdown period will help us only if we test more and we are doing that. We are also increasing the contact tracing of every positive from 10 to 15 people.”Sanjay Dabhade, member of Jan Aarogya Manch, said, “The civic body must explain the rationality behind imposing the lockdown. If the PMC is in fact going to increase testing, then, they must also parallelly take care of the increase in the requirement of beds. I get calls daily about patients who need critical care, but are being shifted to casualty ward with oxygen treatment.”Meanwhile, in a letter to the state government, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has called upon the government to make it mandatory for discharged and cured patients to donate blood for plasma. The letter states, “The Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra state suggests the government of Maharashtra to make it mandatory for all the patients who got cured from the deadly disease, to donate blood for the plasma therapy. To facilitate this procedure, a mandatory undertaking can be taken from all the patients to report on the 15th day after the discharge or recovery. Thereafter, they will be tested for fitness for blood donation. A separate plasma bank may be formed for the procedure at every place with the help of the blood banks in the public as well as the private sector.”The letter states, “The government may make this procedure of blood donation for the plasma collection compulsory as per the provisions of the ‘Epidemic Act 1897 or a new Ordinance. We at IMA, Maharashtra state, strongly feel that the increased availability of plasma will not only improve the recovery rate of the Covid-19 patients, but also reduce the mortality in the state of Maharashtra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/39-of-pune-s-total-covid-19-positives-cases-reported-in-last-two-weeks/story-Hk4WgfT5knnFLfRf49fekN.html
15-07-2020||Pune||Assault case filed against Shiv Sena leader Vinayak Nimhan, son Chandrashekhar||PUNE: A case of assault was registered against Shiv Sena leader Vinayak Nimhan and his son Chandrashekhar alias Sunny Nimhan at Chatuhshrungi police station.The complaint was lodged by a man named Sanjay Jagtap, a resident of Vitthalnagar in Pashan, who is booked in a case of trespassing and assault filed on a complaint lodged by Chandrashekhar.According to the complaint in the case against the father-son duo, they assaulted Jagtap and a construction site worker on July 6 at 6:30am.The incident took place on a piece of land covering plot numbers 62, 63 and 64 of survey number 39/5 of Baner in Pune.“It is a wrong complaint. Sanjay Jagtap is a criminal. He has been arrested for attacking me in the past as well. There is a Mumbai-based builder who has hired these people to take control of our land. The watchman told us about these people’s arrival and Sunny reached the spot. I was not present there. If it is their land, they should present documents and take ownership of it in a legal way,” said Vinayak.On the same day, Vinayak claims that Jagtap arrived at the spot with people holding flags of a political party and entered the private property without permission.Jagtap could not be reached for comment as his mobile phone was switched off.“We received a complaint on July 6. There are cases registered against the complainant (Jagtap) as well, including that of trespassing on the same day. We registered a case after conducting an inquiry,” said senior inspector Anil Shewale of Chatuhshrungi police station.A case under Sections 324, 504, 506 and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chatuhshrungi police station against Nimhan on Tuesday. A case under Sections 447, 427, 323, 504 and 506(2) of Indian Penal Code was registered against Jagtap on July 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/case-filed-against-shiv-sena-leader-vinayak-nimhan-son-chandrashekhar/story-bCGUsmbZaWFrnlepUoQsGI.html
15-07-2020||Pune||Awarding degrees without final exams is not acceptable academically: UGC V-C||University Grants Commission (UGC) vice-chairman Dr Bhushan Patwardhan is against varsities awarding degrees without holding final exams. With Maharashtra government firm on not conducting final-year exams, Patwardhan said that he is making efforts to reach an amicable solution.State higher education minister Uday Samant on July 13 tweeted: “despite UGC revised guidelines to take final- year exams, the state government is firm on not taking the exams”.Taking about the issue, Patwardhan, who was earlier a biomedical researcher and professor of Health Sciences at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), said, “I am aware of the situation in Maharashtra because of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. Health and safety of students is supreme for all of us. However, awarding degrees without final examinations is not acceptable academically. I am discussing different options with Maharashtra state chancellor, vice-chancellors and heads of various universities in the state. I will try my best in personal capacity to put forward the Maharashtra case before the Commission to reach a mutually acceptable sustainable solution. I hope the efforts will help to end the current impasse.’’The state government in June decided to cancel final-year and semester exams of all universities due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. UGC last week issued new guidelines instructing universities to hold final-year exams before September-end 2020.Samant tweeted on July 13: “Today state disaster management authority meeting was held and led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and it was again decided not to take the final-year exams despite getting guidelines from the UGC”.Arun Adsul, former vice-chancellor of SPPU, said, “The present virus pandemic has caused increased fear of security, worry about future, anxiety, panic and distress among college youth. The confusion over exam is worrying students as the results will decide their future course of action. Parents are worried about the future of their children. Postponing the exams to next academic year will have a big impact on their academic future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/awarding-degrees-without-final-exams-is-not-acceptable-academically-ugc-v-c/story-lvaKvaW7DLPomFuSCdANsJ.html
