16-07-2020||City||Respite from heat likely soon, says IMD as National Capital Region suffers rainfall deficit||Noida: As the National Capital Region, including Noida and Ghaziabad, experiences a rainfall deficit, accompanied by hot and humid weather, the met department has predicted respite as the region is likely to see rainy days and drop in temperatures for the next four days.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), moderate to light rains are expected over NCR till July 20, during which the maximum temperature too would drop by three to four degrees Celsius.“The current monsoon line of trough, or the low-pressure line, is currently passing over North Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh and is now moving back towards Delhi-NCR. This weather phenomenon will lead to rainfall over Delhi-NCR and western UP, including Noida and Ghaziabad. Some areas of Noida already saw light rains on Thursday. The region is expected to see light to moderate rains on Friday evening, followed by moderate rains towards Sunday and Monday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. He added that with the monsoon trough line -- that keeps oscillating around Delhi-NCR – now reverting, the wind directions changed from dry westerly to moist and cooler easterly. This is supposed to increase the humidity levels further, however, due to rains and drop in temperature, from the current range of 37 to 39 degrees to 35-46 degrees, is expected to bring much-needed respite from the heat.“The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to drop by three to four degrees over the next four days,” Srivastava added.According to the IMD’s records, Noida has seen about 94% and Ghaziabad has seen 72% deficit in rainfall since June 1. The records state that while Noida (in Gautam Budh Nagar district) should have seen 140.2 mm rainfall, it only received 9mm so far and while Ghaziabad should have received 140.2mm seasonal rains, it received 38.9mm, as of July 16. Meanwhile, Delhi, too, was deprived of rainfall this season so far, with only 80.1mm received so far against the expectation of 167.7mm, which is a 46% deficit. “The entire state of UP has however seen surplus rainfall of 263.6mm against expected 228.9mm, which is 15% surplus. It is western Uttar Pradesh which is suffering a low turnout,” said Srivastava.On Thursday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 37.8 degrees Celsius, same as a day earlier. The humidity has however increased, oscillating between 66 and 84% on Thursday against 55 and 84% on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/respite-from-heat-likely-soon-says-imd-as-national-capital-region-suffers-rainfall-deficit/story-hxETV11OSUPEOQrjr1ptsL.html
16-07-2020||City||Two held for selling illegal plots in Shahberi||The Bisrakh police on Thursday arrested two men wanted in connection with selling illegal plots to people in the Shahberi area where exactly two years ago, nine persons were killed when poorly constructed twin buildings collapsed.Ever since the tragedy, the Greater Noida authority and police department had cracked down on people selling farm land illegally and dealers who were selling illegal plots and houses. Several such cases had been registered in 2018 and 2019 and suspects were booked under the gangster act as well. The suspects arrested on Thursday were wanted in two such cases.“They had been absconding and had non-bailable warrants against them. They were finally arrested on Thursday from Ghaziabad,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.The suspects were identified as Hirendra Kant Sharma, a resident of Vijay Nagar, and Ashok Goswami, a resident of Muradnagar. Police officials said that they were tipped by informants on the wanted men’s whereabouts. The two, along with several associates, had sold many plots in the Shahberi area to unsuspecting people and then fled with the money before the victims realised they had been sold illegal land.Police said that hundreds of buyers had been duped and charge sheet has already been filed in the case.Sharma and Goswami were booked under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 288 (Negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings), 420 (cheating) , 467 (Forgery of valuable security, will, etc) , 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (Using as genuine a forged document etc) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the criminal law act. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-selling-illegal-plots-in-shahberi/story-lJj7Q3Hv8y1D5uVKlQRejM.html
16-07-2020||City||UP government relaxes norms for regularisation of extra construction||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday rolled out a scheme that will allow for residents and commercial property owners to regularise any additional construction on the payment of certain fee, a process known as “compounding”. The scheme allows for several relaxations vis-à-vis building bye-laws.The scheme, if taken up by residents will provide much-needed revenue for the cash-strapped Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) that has seen its expenses increase during the time of the pandemic. Officials expect that it would be a major relief even if they are able to receive about ₹100 crore under the scheme against the pending ₹500 crore on account of compounding.Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) officials said that they scheme -- ‘self assessment compounding scheme – 2020’ -- will be adopted by July 21, as per the state government orders, and applications will be invited for six months up to January 21, 2021. Applications will be disposed of by April 21, 2021.“The scheme was last floated in 2002 when the authority received about ₹15 crore. At present, we have about ₹500 crore pending on account of compounding charges. At present, for group housing (2,000 square metre [sq m] and above) constructing more than 10% of the sanctioned floor area ratio (FAR) is compoundable. Now, it has been relaxed and doubled to 20% under the scheme,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, authority’s chief architect and town planner.Setbacks -- the minimum open space required around the structure of a building to allow for emergency services -- have been relaxed too. “For plotted development equal to or less than 300 sqm area, the side and rear setbacks are now 100% compoundable from existing 25% for side and 50% for rear setback. For plots over 300 sq m but less than 2,000 sq m, the front setback was 10% compoundable but under the scheme it is now 25%. Likewise, rear setback was 50% compoundable, which is now 75%. The side setback remains unchanged at 25%,” Shivpuri said.Officials said that the rates of compounding have also been reduced by almost half under the new scheme.“For residential plots, the rate presently charged for compounding of setbacks was 100% of circle rates. Now it has been reduced to 50% for setbacks. For group housing, the rate is still 100% of circle rates, but they have been provided with additional relaxations in terms of FAR. For commercial plots, the rates were 200% of the land cost and it has now been reduced to 100%. Likewise, for offices, it was earlier 150% and now reduced to 75% under the new scheme,” he added.The rates of compounding for economically weaker section and lower income groups was earlier 50% and now stands reduced to 37.5% under the new scheme, said officials.If, however, the developers do not apply for the scheme and continue with the construction, the vice chairperson of the authority shall constitute teams and initiate sealing, legal action and even demolition under the provisions of the UP Urban Planning & Development Act,1973.The directions further states that after the receipt of the application under the scheme, any other extra constructions, if not removed by the owner under a specific time period, shall be demolished by the authority under the provisions of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-government-relaxes-norms-for-regularisation-of-extra-construction/story-8Mgcz3tW6d3QczvVOJUlpK.html
16-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad ramps up testing, targets 5,000 samples a day||The Ghaziabad health department is looking to focus its energies in carrying forward the momentum generated by the first round of special surveillance drive and has plans to double the testing rate in high incidence areas that have reported a majority of the Covid-19 cases of the district.According to the latest mapping summary of July 14, the district has 16 residential segments that have more than 100 cases. Together, these 16 segments account for 80.27% of all cases reported from the district so far.“We are aiming to double the testing with the help of antigen test kits and ultimately aim to test 5,000 people per day. We have considerably improved our different systems and also focussing on enhancing testing capabilities. With more teams added, we are sure that we will be able to achieve 5000 tests per day. I have directed the health department to gear up for enhancing testing. When small districts like Baghpat can achieve 1500 tests, we will surely achieve 5000 tests per day,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.Health department officials said that their focus is primarily on increasing rapid antigen testing as the city has received 24,000 more antigen test kits. They added that they have roped in 10 more lab technicians and formed four more teams for testing, which will take the total number of teams deployed now to 16.“Each of the 16 teams will be able to conduct 200 tests per day. But there are areas — like Indirapuram and Vaishali — where people are not coming out in large numbers and our teams sit idle. We conduct about 70 tests on an average daily in Indirapuram and around 20-30 tests per day in Vaishali. The turnout of residents here is low despite both the areas featuring in the lst of high incidence localities. At booths in IMS, Dasna and MMG Hospital, we conduct about 100 and 350 tests daily, respectively, on average,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of teh district.At other places — like Loni, Dasna, Muradnagar, Modinagar and Bhojpur — around 100 tests each are being conducted daily, said officials.Overall, the present average rate of sampling/testing is about 1,850-2,000 per day, which will soon be enhanced to about 3,200 per day. According to officials, the total sampling/testing (till July 15) has reached the mark of 55,538, which includes 22,785 antigen tests..“Apart from 16 teams, we have also received three new mobile vans which will be dispatched to containment zones for antigen testing. Our prime focus is on antigen testing as it provides quick results. With more resources available, we are aiming to double the testing to about 3500-3600 tests per day, a majority of which will be antigen tests. Our focus will be in high incidence residential segments and we will also enhance testing in rural areas as well,” Dr Gupta added.According to health department’s latest mapping figure of July 14 — when the district had 3,458 overall cases — ‘Karhera-2’ segment (comprising Indirapuram, Makanpur and Kanawani) had the highest number of 403 cases, followed by ‘Sahibabad-2’ (comprising Lajpat Nagar, Rajendra Nagar and Shalimar Garden ) with 261 cases and ‘Carte’ segment (comprising Kavi Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Nehru Nagar) with 238 cases.Out of the 16 high incident residential segments, 13 have reported more than 100 but below 200 cases. Two others have more than 200 but below 300 cases. Only one segment has reported over 400 cases.Ghaziabad has in total 25 residential segments that have 362 total containment zones.Residents said that low turnout of residents in areas like Indirapuram, Vishali etc is due to fear that they will have to get admitted to Covid facilities in case they test positive.“Unlike Delhi, the state of UP has not allowed home isolation for asymptomtic patients so far. In case it is done, more people will come out for getting tested. At present ,they fear that they will be confined in government facilities for at least 10 days or may foot huge bills in paid private Covid hospitals. We had written to the district officials as well as to the UP government [to allow home isolation] but no decision has been taken so far,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners.As per the new discharge guidelines issued by the state government on June 19, if a patient shows no symptoms, he/she can be discharged without undergoing any test on the tenth day from their date of admission. But, such patients will have to remain in home quarantine for seven days after discharge from hospital.On July 15, 179 new Covid-19 cases were added to Ghaziabad’s tally, which stood at 3765 overall cases. The district has so far seen 63 deaths, and has 1497 active cases. At least 2,205 patients have been discharged after treatment so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-ramps-up-testing-targets-5-000-samples-a-day/story-IaCx4AUO40ZbGDgo8JXprL.html
16-07-2020||Gurugram||Health department gets 10,000 antigen kits for new Large Outbreak Areas||The Gurugram administration has received 10,000 antigen detection kits that it will use to ramp up testing in the new Large Outbreak Areas(LoR)s, where Covid-19 clusters are gradually emerging.More than 27,000 antigen tests have been conducted in the city since June 24, out of which more than 750 have tested positive.Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, said, “At least 27,077 tests have been done in the city, out of which 761 have tested positive for Covid-19. The total positivity rate with antigen kits has been 2.81%. On Thursday, 1,444 antigen detection kits were used, out of which 47 cases tested positive. Around 10,000 additional kits have been received to conduct tests in the new LoRs where cases are increasing.”The district administration on Wednesday had identified nine Large Outbreak Regions (LORs) of the city, which will be put under a 13-day lockdown starting Wednesday till July 28. Intensive contact tracing and rapid antigen testing camps will be conducted in these LoRs to curb the SARS-CoV-2 virus from spreading.As per the government order, a LOR has a localized increase in Covid-19 cases within a defined geographical area in a village, a town or a city. The cases may or may not be epidemiologically linked. For operational purposes, a LOR is deemed to be present when there are 15 or more cases.The new identified LoRs are Rajiv Nagar, Om Nagar (Shivaji Nagar, Shanti Nagar), Nathupur (Ravinder Nath slum, Shamshan Ghat slum), Laxman Vihar (Dayanand Colony), H block Palam Vihar, Firoj Gandhi Colony (Madanpuri, Baldev Nagar), and Patel Nagar (Nai Basti and Arjun Nagar). It also includes Manesar (Harijan Basti and Lal Building Chowk), as well as Sohna (Thakurwada, Gujjar Ghati, Shiv Kund, Lohiyawada, Mangal Colony, Kayasthwada, Pathanwada, Tilpat Colony, Kohliwada, New Anaj Mandi and Baniyawada). Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, said that better management would lead to better coverage in testing. “On an average, 1500 antigen tests are being conducted every day. At least 40 camps will be organised in the affected areas in the coming days. Besides LoRs, a testing camp will be organised in Pataudi which is a containment zone. More kits will be ordered in case we need them.”Antigen tests look for specific protein associated with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, the pathogen that causes Covid-19. The state health department has already placed an order of 100,000 kits with a South Korean company that has a manufacturing plant in Manesar. The new test highly specific (99.3% to 100%) — meaning a positive result on the test is a “true positive” and does not need any confirmatory test. The sensitivity is between 50.6% to 84% depending on the viral load, meaning those who test negative might still have the infection and are advised to go for a test through the more reliable RT-PCR method if they show symptoms of the disease.Meanwhile, Gurugram on Thursday saw 142 new Covid-19 cases being reported taking the total count of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus to 7,350. Out of the 7,350, at least 1,043 are active cases and 6,197 have recovered. On Thursday, 120 people recovered from the infectious disease. The Covid-19 death toll as on Thursday stood at 110 .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-gets-10-000-antigen-kits-for-new-large-outbreak-areas/story-B3dEYcRhHbJ4nPBGNeq77J.html
16-07-2020||Gurugram||100 register for Covaxin clinical trails in PGIMS Rohtak; 3 to receive doses by end of week||In ten days since PGIMS Rohtak began enrolling subjects for clinical trials of Covaxin — the country’s foremost vaccine candidate for Covid-19 — close to 100 individuals from Haryana have registered to be a part of the study. Officials at PGIMS Rohtak — one of the 12 locations in the country selected to execute clinical trials of the indigenous vaccine — said that 22 of these volunteers have already been screened for their medical history, and that at least three of them will receive a dose of the experimental vaccine by the weekend or early next week.Covaxin is an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, which is being developed by Bharat Biotech and the ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune. It is one of the two Indian vaccine candidates that have received the Drug Controller General of India’s nod to proceed with the Phase 1 and Phase 2 human clinical trials. In Rohtak, the sample size for Phase 1 trials is expected to around 8 to 10 people, officials said. Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, who is a part of a three-member team leading the clinical trials at PGIMS, Rohtak, said, “The first batch of volunteers have been screened. Eight individuals have undergone rigorous medical scrutiny to check whether or not they have been previously infected with the virus, whether they suffer from any ailments of the liver, lungs, or kidneys, and to check if they have any history of other infectious diseases. Three of these volunteers, who were found eligible, will receive a dose of the vaccine, possibly by the weekend. Another 14 people were screened on Thursday and their biochemical reports are awaited.”Chaudhary explained that Phase 1 of human trials will involve a very small sample size, about 50 people from across four sites in the country, namely Delhi, Patna, Hyderabad and Rohtak. These sites have received the nod from the institutional ethics committees to carrying out the trials. “The subjects will be closely monitored for two hours after receiving the first vaccine, and will receive a second dose in two weeks if they do not show any adverse reactions, such as headaches, fever or vomiting,” he said.Dr Savita Verma, professor at the department of pharmacology at Rohtak PGIMS, and a principal investigator of the study, said, “We are taking all precautions as per the Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019. We will take two blood samples from the initial subjects, one at the end of 28 days and one at the end of 42 days. If we see a fourfold increase in antibodies after giving the vaccine, only then can we say that the vaccine has immunogenic properties. We will first establish safety of the current and future subjects before progressing to Phase 2 of the trials,” she added.In the first phase, subjects will be between the ages of 18 to 55, while in Phase 2, they will be between 12 and 60 years of age. For every four people that receives the vaccine, one subject will be given a placebo — in the form of a Japanese encephalitis vaccine. A total of 1,125 subjects are expected to participate in the trials nationally.Verma also explained that Covaxin is an “inactivated” vaccine, which relies on using samples of the SARS-Cov-2 virus that have been isolated at the National Institute of Virology, Pune. “The vaccines consist of virus particles which have been rendered inactive or are unable to replicate. However, the antigens will give a signal to the immune system to produce immunoglobulins or antibodies. This is different from the other Indian vaccine candidate, which does not contain any attenuated virus particles, and instead only relies on messenger RNA, or genetic code of the spike proteins of the virus, to signal our immune system.” Verma, Chaudhury, and a third co-investigator, who refused to be identified, declined to comment on whether these clinical trials will be completed by August 15. On July 2, ICMR chief Dr Balram Bhargava had instructed the 12 trial sites (including PGIMS Rohtak) to complete all clinical trials by August 15. “These things typically take time. We may be able to provide only some preliminary data by then, as some of the subjects should have produced antibodies by August 15,” Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/100-register-for-covaxin-clinical-trails-in-pgims-rohtak-3-to-receive-doses-by-end-of-week/story-x3HtHaaZww6TaYwLrqlazI.html
16-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram Police deploys 600 personnel in nine new LORs||The police have deployed 600 personnel in the nine new large outbreak regions (LORs) of the city, starting Thursday. Necessary precautions are being taken to ensure that police personnel do not get infected, while tents have been put up in these areas so that officers on duty can get adequate amount of rest during the afternoon, said officials on Thursday. With cases of coronavirus disease crossing the 7,000-mark, the district administration on Wednesday announced nine new LORs across the city and put them under lockdown till July 28. As per the order issued by the administration, the newly identified LORs include Rajiv Nagar, Om Nagar (Shivaji Nagar and Shanti Nagar), Nathupur (Ravinder Nath slum, Shamshan Ghat slum), Laxman Vihar ( Dayanand Colony), Block-H Palam Vihar, Feroz Gandhi Colony (Madanpuri, Baldev Nagar) and Patel Nagar (Nai Basti and Arjun Nagar).The list also includes Manesar (Harijan Basti and Lal Building Chowk) and Sohna (Thakurwada, Gujjar Ghati, Shiv Kund, Lohiyawada, Mangal Colony, Kayasthwada, Pathanwada, Tilpat Colony, Kohliwada, New Anaj Mandi and Baniyawada).Police officials said that 600 officials would posted across these nine new LORs, in addition to the 350 officers who are already posted in the existing ones. As per the district administration, a large outbreak region is defined as a geographical area which sees a localised surge in the number of infections, which may not be epidemiologically linked. For operational purposes while an LOR must have at least 15 cases of Covid-19, a containment zone should have at least five such cases. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that teams from the Covid cell of the city police are carrying out an intensive contact tracing exercise. Meanwhile, health department officials said rapid antigen detection tests will be carried out in these nine areas to stop the spread of the infection. “The police teams deployed in these areas have been instructed to check the movement of the residents and not to allow anyone to move without an emergency. They will maintain social distancing while dealing with public and will enforce the wearing of face masks among the residents,” Rao said.He added that for the purpose of surveillance, the police will breakdown the existing Covid-19 hot spots in the city into smaller clusters. Rao also said the police department is coordinating with the health department to fight against the spread of the virus. For this purpose, they have remapped the worst-affected areas in the city for improved scrutiny and a new strategy, which involves restricting people’s movement and intensification of health screening, has been prepared. “The affected areas will have strict monitoring and action will be taken against people who are found to be loitering and moving around without wearing masks. The situation in these large outbreak areas will be similar to one existing during the first phase of the lockdown. We are requesting public to support the teams deployed for their safety and security and directions have been issued to ensure that proper checking is carried before the entry and exit of vehicles and residents,” said Rao.Police officials also said contact tracing is being carried out in full swing and more than 150 contacts are being traced out on a daily basis. The police have also increased the number of officials at the Covid cell responsible for contact tracing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-deploys-600-personnel-in-nine-new-lors/story-psc0mvQdnBqtqHFtik4B4K.html
16-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Developers of affordable housings to share work updates, complete project in time||To ensure that developers of affordable housing projects in the city complete the work within stipulated time, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) held a meeting with over 45 license holders in which their respective project statuses were discussed. To streamline the process, the department has also issued directions that all developers should share construction updates after every 15 days, said officials. The review meeting comes after home buyers in several projects raised the issue of delay in construction of these housing projects.According to government rules, an affordable housing project has to be completed within four years after approval is granted.Currently, Gurugram has 80 affordable housing projects out of which eight have already obtained occupation certificates while the rest are in various stages of construction. Notices were issued to 72 license holders, who were asked to share details and also update accordingly, said Ravi Sihag, senior town planner. “The meeting was attended by 45 developers and we will issue notices to the rest of them within a day or two. We have asked all developers to focus on completion within the stipulated time. They have also been asked to share updates regarding construction and we have also asked them to explain the reasons for delays,” said Sihag.The developers who were in the meeting with DTCP officials agreed to abide by the timelines but informed the department that migration of construction workers at a large scale had brought work to a standstill. “We are trying to get the labour force back but the lockdown has led to delays in construction. Also, the work was affected in the winter months last year when construction was banned due to pollution,” said a developer, who spoke on condition of anonymity.Sihag said that the issue of labour migration did come up in the meeting but he has asked builders to take all measures for completing construction as most of the buyers in affordable projects were end users, who had bought the properties for personal use. In a related development, the enforcement wing of the DTCP carried out a demolition drive on the Golf Course extension road in which encroachment on green belts was removed extensively. On Wednesday, the team led by RS Bhath, the district town planner, cleared 15 acres of land which was being developed as unauthorised colonies. Bhath said unauthorised constructions were coming up in sector 34 and sector 72 and these were removed amid a lot of resistance by owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-developers-of-affordable-housings-to-share-work-updates-complete-project-in-time/story-h4mlA6RLjwNyj8S580kKvJ.html
16-07-2020||Delhi||Raghav Chadha criticises Cong’s power tussle, says party has ‘no future’||The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national spokesperson Raghav Chadha on Thursday criticised the Congress over the ongoing power tussle in Rajasthan and said that the party has “no future”.“The Congress has no future and is no longer capable of doing anything for the welfare of the country. The Congress is currently on a ventilator, unlikely to survive,” Chadha said in a press statement in reaction to the ongoing politics crisis in Rajasthan—a state ruled by the grand old party.Chadha, who is also a Delhi MLA, further said, “The AAP, on the other hand, is a party with fresh blood and invigorating force... It is unfortunate to see parties trying to trade MLAs in Rajasthan amid the pandemic.”Jitender Kochhar, the spokesperson of the Delhi unit of Congress, said, “The Congress has seen numerous ups and downs since Independence. The AAP is not a party which should try teaching politics and government to the Congress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/raghav-chadha-criticises-cong-s-power-tussle-says-party-has-no-future/story-XG3QinnzbOEUD26hnQsHMP.html
16-07-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal holds video meet with Delhi MPs, says Covid-19 fight headed for success||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting with five of the seven Members of Parliament from Delhi on Thursday to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the national capital.Kejriwal acknowledged the role of all parties in the fight against Covid-19 and said, “The Delhi model of fighting the coronavirus pandemic has been possible due to the collective efforts and support from all political parties, MPs and MLAs.” Kejriwal met with the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs through video conferencing.The CM further said the fight against Covid-19 in Delhi is headed for success because “all parties and their members rose above political affiliations and worked collectively to combat the virus”. “The Covid-19 is so huge a pandemic that no one can fight it alone. The foundation of the Delhi model is collectivity and teamwork,” he said.The video conference was attended by BJP MPs Ramesh Bidhuri, Meenakshi Lekhi, Manoj Tiwari, Gautam Gambhir and Hans Raj Hans and AAP’s Rajya Sabha MPs Sanjay Singh, ND Gupta and SK Gupta.BJP MPs raised the demand of waiving the fixed charges in electricity bills of commercial establishments and also sought at least ₹1 crore per parliamentary constituency for development work, especially for repair of roads after the monsoon, as the MP fund is being used by the Centre for managing Covid-19.South Delhi MP Bidhuri said, “We told the CM that there should be a proper check on the ration distribution as the Centre has decided that it should be given free of cost. The business community is facing a financial crisis. The government should waive the fixed electricity charges for commercial establishments. The municipal corporations don’t have funds. We have asked the government to give ₹1 crore per parliamentary constituency for repair work of roads after the monsoon.”East Delhi MP and former cricketer Gautam Gambhir tweeted, “Raised critical issues in VC with CM @ArvindKejriwal : 1) Inflated bills without taking meter readings 2) Waiver of electric charges for MSMEs 3) Any plan to bring back labour force 4) Encourage plasma donation by call & not ads 5) Approval for Kanti Nagar Isolation Centre.”The CM has been holding regular meetings with all elected representatives. “All the MPs unanimously said they are with the Delhi government and will take all possible steps to save the people of Delhi from this pandemic,” a statement issued by the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-holds-video-meet-with-delhi-mps-says-covid-19-fight-headed-for-success/story-9jwiK9uvoE3NV4Sf0Xc7QL.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Assault victim’s thumb reimplanted at Ludhiana’s Christian Medical College and Hospital||Doctors at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) were able to successfully reimplant a 29-year-old assault victim’s severed thumb through microvascular surgery.This is the second such surgery carried out by the hospital’s department of plastic surgery in 10 years.The victim, Sahil’s thumb had been completely chopped off in the attack that took place on July 8. Dr Pinki Pargal, professor and unit head of the department of plastic surgery, said the patient had left his thumb at the attack site when he visited the government hospital, from where he was referred to CMCH. After monitoring his condition, doctors advised his attendants to go back to the attack site and locate the thumb.“Four hours had already lapsed when he reached here. Fortunately, the thumb was located and brought for surgery within six hours, which is considered to be the golden period, in such cases,” said Dr Pinki. She said that awareness needs to be spread among the public that amputated limbs can be salvaged, provided the amputated parts are brought in proper condition and within six hours.Dr Pinki said the patient is stable now and is likely to be discharged within a few days. Those who assisted her in the surgery include Dr Jedidiah, Dr Ankur Sharma, Dr George, Bannu Ram. The anesthesia team was led by Dr Arti.The hospital offered concession on the treatment after the family expressed their helplessness at paying the expenses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/assault-victim-s-thumb-reimplanted-at-ludhiana-s-christian-medical-college-and-hospital/story-1ngAIaQOlx1cXo2G8gwBUK.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Class 9, 11 compartment students can join next class: UT education dept||The UT education department has decided that the students of classes 9 and 11, who have to reappear in compartment exams, will be given the option to either keep attending the same class as a failed candidate or attend online classes as a promoted candidate.The decision was taken after the compartment examinations were cancelled/postponed due to the lockdown. The education department in April had released term-end results for classes 9 and 11 digitally, after which students were supposed to appear in compartment examinations in May.The education department in its communication with the school heads said that reappear exams will be conducted as soon as the schools are allowed to open and if the students fail in the examination, they will not be entitled to further attend the higher class (Class 10 or Class 12).Out of 14,000 Class 11 students who appeared in the term-end exams, 560 students got compartments. Meanwhile 4,100 students of Class 9 have to reappear in the exams.Director school education, Chandigarh, Rubinderjeet Singh Brar, said, “We couldn’t conduct the reappear exams due to the lockdown. Now, conducting them will be our first priority when the schools reopen.”“It has been decided at the highest level that compartment students be given the option either to attend earlier classes or they can attend the next class till the time exams are not held,” said Brar.In the results declared in April this year, the students were also awarded 30 grace marks. In 2019, 55% students passed the Class 9 examinations, but this year the figure has jumped to 72.2%. For Class 11, 70.5% passed last year, while this year, 95.15% did.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/class-9-11-compartment-students-can-join-next-class-ut-education-dept/story-1JBejC6vU4PY9nNQT6chBP.html
16-07-2020||City||Minor Malaysian’s case transferred to another juvenile board||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Thursday transferred the case of a minor Malaysian, who was booked for attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation allegedly in violation of visa norms, from one Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) to another due to lack of quorum.Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani directed the case against the 17-year-old Malaysian national be “forthwith” transferred from JJB-1 in Kingsway Camp to JJB-4 in Vishwas Nagar here to be dealt with expeditiously in accordance with the law.Appearing for the juvenile, his counsel S Hari Haran told the court that like other 121 Malaysian nationals, the juvenile was willing to got for plea bargaining but due to vacancy and lack of a quorum in JJB-1, he could not proceed. Quorum means the number of judges required to be present to make it a sufficient bench.He said the High Commission of Malaysia had made arrangements for 121 Malaysians to return to their country on Friday and only the juvenile will be left behind in India.Appearing for the Delhi government, its standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain said there might be a delay in the disposal of the case as there is only one Principal Magistrate in JJB-1 and there are two vacancies.He said the state had no objection if the minor is treated in the same way the other Malaysians were treated and that his application be decided expeditiously since only one juvenile appears to be left behind while 121 compatriots are on their way back to Malaysia.The counsel for the juvenile said while all others were freed after they pleaded guilty, the trial court had directed the charge sheet pertaining to his client (minor) should be filed in the JJB after he was found to be 17 years old. The teenager is currently in a hotel housed by the Malaysian High Commission. After appearing before the JJB through video conferencing, the parties came to know no order could be passed due to lack of quorum as there were vacancies in the board and the matter was adjourned for July 30, he said.He prayed either proceedings be dropped against the minor by the high court or it should order transfer of case from JJB-1 to JJB-4, where there is quorum.The Malaysian nationals were booked for attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin here allegedly in violation of visa norms, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.The trial court had earlier granted bail to the Malaysians. It had also allowed them to walk free on payment of a fine of Rs 7,000 each, after they accepted mild charges, under the plea bargain process, related to various violations, including visa norms while attending the congregation.The police had filed charge sheets against 956 foreigners from 36 countries, including 122 Mayalsians, for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and regulations regarding Epidemic diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-malaysian-s-case-transferred-to-another-juvenile-board/story-vgARYadHHwcVOZRHM3ud5I.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Export cargo drivers should not be quarantined in West Bengal: Ludhiana’s Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings||With exporters facing trouble in sending goods to Bangladesh through West Bengal, the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) has demanded that the cargo drivers should not be quarantined for seven days in West Bengal.In a representation sent to the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT), Union ministry of commerce, West Bengal chief minister and Punjab chief secretary, the CICU members said that goods are being exported to Bangladesh via road and no loading and unloading takes place in West Bengal.But the cargo drivers are being quarantined for seven days when they enter Nadia district in West Bengal due to lockdown restrictions imposed by the district magistrate there.CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja and co-convener (exports promotion committee) Sarvjit Singh said, “The industry has to pay heavy charges as truck demurrage charges and the delay in goods movement will affect business. As industry is already reeling under recession due to Covid-19 pandemic and cannot bear additional costs. The administration should get this issue resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/export-cargo-drivers-should-not-be-quarantined-in-west-bengal-ludhiana-s-chamber-of-industrial-and-commercial-undertakings/story-fziwCKrJsp7GEiwIYGPcjL.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Jagraon BDPO unearths 162.5-acre cultivable land in Lakha gram panchayat||Jagraon block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) Amarinder Pal Singh Chauhan unearthed 162.5 acres (1,300 kanal or 13 marla) of cultivable land that rightfully belongs to the Lakha gram panchayat under the Jagraon sub-division of Ludhiana district on Thursday.Chauhan said it had emerged that the land had been illegally occupied by multiple parties for several years. Officials have initiated proceedings to get the land vacated.“Only 12 acre of cultivable land was being leased annually by the Lakha gram panchayat and thus as per official records the land owned by the panchayat was also recorded as 12 acre. However, while checking the revenue records, it came to the fore that a huge chunk of land measuring 162.5 acres had been recorded as shamlat land.The said land belongs to the gram panchayat as per provisions of the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act, 1961.The land is meant to be used for the common benefit of the villagers. However, it had been illegally possessed by private parties for several years. PROCEEDINGS INITIATED AGAINST ENCROACHERS In order to free the land, around 350 people and the sarpanch Jasvir Singh were directed to initiate proceedings to remove the encroachers. To protect the interests of the gram panchayat, the sarpanch filed petitions under sections of the Punjab Village Common Lands and Regulation Act on July 9 before the court of Peeyush Chander Sharma, district development and panchayat officer- cum-collector, Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jagraon-bdpo-unearths-162-5-acre-cultivable-land-in-lakha-gram-panchayat/story-nJx1Fxcilace4qGSOFEmnJ.html
16-07-2020||City||10 held for assaulting Janakpuri resident, chopping off his finger||Ten persons have been arrested for attacking a Janakpuri resident and chopping off his index finger over an old rivalry.The incident took place when the victim, Anil Kumar, was returning home on late Wednesday night. As per the victim, when he reached near Moti Nagar, the accused started trailing him and hit his scooter with their SUV, following which he fell down on the road. The accused then started attacking him with sharp-edged weapons and chopped off his finger. The accused have been identified as Johny, Danny, Vishal, Aman, Jonty – all residents of EWS Colony. Five of their accomplices are yet to be identified.Sub-Inspector Sunita Kaur, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) , 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-held-for-assaulting-janakpuri-resident-chopping-off-his-finger/story-Ts7O3kfRdx01zCSBbcKpiN.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Biker killed in collision with stray bovine||A 25-year-old man was killed after his motorcycle rammed into a stray buffalo in Sector 38 West on Wednesday night.Police said Lalit, a resident of Sector 41, was returning home from work, when the animal suddenly came in front of his two-wheeler near the CITCO petrol pump in Sector 38 West. This led to a collision and Lalit fell on the road, suffering serious head injuries. He was wearing a helmet, but police did not clarify if it came undone or got damaged in the mishap.Lalit was rushed to GMSH, Sector 16, by a passing car driver, who also informed the police. However, Lalit succumbed to his injuries during treatment. The autopsy will be conducted on Friday. Police have informed the family of the deceased and initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/biker-killed-in-collision-with-stray-bovine/story-VrmAFyxI6xxOLGIDDbWMbL.html
16-07-2020||City||Open dumping of garbage: Two years on, wrinkle-nosed Ludhiana’s residents await static compactors||Two years after the municipal corporation decided to install static compactors under the smart city mission, the project is yet to be commenced. Around 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage is generated in the city on a daily basis and is dumped in the open at 50 odd secondary dumping points across the city before being shifted to the main dumping site on Tajpur Road.Many of the secondary dump sites are situated near residential areas, including posh areas of Sarabha Nagar and Civil Lines. Residents say open dumping of garbage raises a stink and also encourages stray cattle and dogs to throng the areas. Satinder Singh, a shopkeeper at the scooter market in Model Town, says, “We have been flagging open dumping of garbage under the bus stand flyover for long time. The dump is situated near our market and it is difficult to work with foul stench emanating from the dump.”COMPACTORS AWAITED AT 22 SITESAn official, requesting anonymity, said the project was mooted in 2018 but the MC is yet to install compactors at 22 sites at different parts of the city in the first phase.“A financial bid has been initiated for finalising a contractor. But there are legal aspects to be kept in mind regarding finalising contractors for operating and maintaining the compactor sites. The MC is already in agreement with A2Z firm for lifting garbage,” the official said. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “I had also taken up the matter during the meeting of board of directors at Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) at Chandigarh on Wednesday as officials have been delaying the project. They have been told to expedite the project.”LIT AWAITS BS-VI VEHICLESEven after completing civil work at six of eight sites in west constituency, the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has failed to make static compactors operational in absence of BS-VI vehicles which are required to lift garbage out of compactors and shift the same to the main dump site.LIT had commenced the project in May last year. LIT executive engineer Buta Ram said, “Civil work has been completed at six out of eight sites and compactors have also been installed at a few sites. The BS-VI vehicles have to be purchased from the GeM Portal. The vehicles are not available yet. It is expected that they will arrive in a week or so, following which the compactor sites will be handed over to the MC in around a month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/open-dumping-of-garbage-two-years-on-wrinkle-nosed-ludhiana-s-residents-await-static-compactors/story-J0WRz8GSh3pmnIPRawd9zH.html
16-07-2020||City||200 beds at Ambedkar Nagar hospital for Covid patients||New DelhiThe Delhi government will open 200 beds at its under-construction hospital in Ambedkar Nagar, says an order issued by principal health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt. An official said the beds will be used for the management of patients with coronavirus disease.Earlier, 450 beds were added to the newly constructed hospital in Burari in a bid to scale-up Covid-19 infrastructure.The hospital has been asked to hire resident doctors on a contractual basis and medical officers and specialists from other hospitals. The hospital has been asked to hire nursing staff on already created posts and divert some from other hospitals.Diagnostic services will be available in private centres and laboratories under the Delhi Arogya Kosh scheme at Central Government Health Services (CGHS ) rates. All consumables can be purchased by the medical director from the open market, the order reads.Nursing orderlies, sanitation, security and kitchen staff will be outsourced by extending the existing contracts with other hospitals.Hospitalisation in the city has been dropping and dipped below the 4,000-mark on Thursday. On Thursday, there were a total of 15,464 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in both government and private hospitals. Of these, 11,728 were vacant. The private hospitals and associations had earlier said the vacant beds were adding to their financial burden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/200-beds-at-ambedkar-nagar-hospital-for-covid-patients/story-vMAmoAYiQSh7hau6Iqt5zI.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||UT holds review meeting with CBSE for PISA preparedness||A virtual review meeting for Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) preparedness was held with Manoj Ahuja, CBSE chairperson, Joseph Emmanuel, director (academics) and Biswajit Saha, director (training and skill education) on Thursday.In Chandigarh, the meeting was chaired by UT adviser Manoj Parida along with UT education secretary Arun Kumar Gupta, director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar and SCERT director SS Dahiya.Joseph Emmanuel made a brief presentation regarding the status of the PISA preparedness of UT Chandigarh. He shared the details of board results, assessment of CCT tests, and a sample survey of UT schools. He said that Teacher Energized Textbooks (TET) for teachers and PISA primer for parents would be shortly shared with the city. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, PISA examination has been pushed further and tentative dates for field and main trials of PISA were also discussed. Manoj Ahuja raised the issue of low participation of students of government schools in online assessment. He further expressed concern about the availability of smartphones and internet connection with students belonging to EWS families. He also requested the administration to plan regular online training for the teachers so that they could prepare the students for taking the PISA examination.Arun Kumar Gupta assured Ahuja that the department will make all efforts to ensure maximum participation of students of government schools in the online assessment of CCT. It was also decided that monthly meetings will be held to review the preparedness for PISA. Parida requested Ahuja to supply the printed booklets (PISA primer) for parents so that these can be delivered at their residences. He directed the SCERT director to explore all the ways to reach all the students during this pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-holds-review-meeting-with-cbse-for-pisa-preparedness/story-gWMUPrzUw2o1lOyWeRY74M.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||4 dead in two building collapse incidents in Mumbai as rains lash city||Four people died and several others were injured in two incidents of building collapse in Mumbai on Thursday as rains lashed the city, officials said.While two persons died after a portion of a `chawl’ (tenement) collapsed in suburban Malvani, two others were killed after part of an old building collapsed in south Mumbai’s Fort area, civic officials said.The Bhanushali Building on Mint Road in Fort had been already declared as dangerous, officials said. A part of a three-storey chawl in Malvani Gate Number 5 area in the western suburbs collapsed around 2.30 pm, a fire brigade official said. Four fire engines, a rescue van and ambulances were rushed to the spot and 15 people were rescued from the debris, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).While two persons died, 13 others were injured, said a BMC official, adding that the injured were sent to a private hospital in Malad East and discharged after treatment. Elsewhere, two persons were killed after a corner portion of six-storey Bhanushali building collapsed in Fort area around 4.45 pm, officials said. Eight fire engines, two rescue vans and ambulances were rushed.The building had been partly vacated for repairs by Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA), BMC sources said.Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told reporters late Thursday evening that four persons were rescued and two bodies were recovered from the debris, while 12 persons were rescued from the intact portion of the building -- which has developed cracks -- with the help of cranes.The injured persons were taken to the state-run J J Hospital.One person was still feared to be trapped and efforts were on to rescue him, the municipal commissioner said. In 2019, MHADA had applied for `Intimation of Development (IoD) which the BMC granted, and thereafter it was MHADA’s responsibility to get the building vacated and repair it, Chahal said.MHADA had informed that repair work had stopped due to the coronavirus outbreak and three out of 12 tenants had returned to the building after vacating initially, he said.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the spot in the evening. Before him, housing minister Jitendra Awhad, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, local MP Arvind Sawant and others also reached the spot.Pednekar told media persons that the building had been declared as `C1’ category, which means dangerous building, and BMC had served notices regarding it.It was a `cessed’ building, officials said. Cessed buildings are old private buildings which are maintained by MHADA by charging `cess’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-dead-in-two-building-collapse-incidents-in-mumbai-as-rains-lash-city/story-bXR2wFMKhLGkSqA6486iwM.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||PU may start online teaching for ongoing classes from August||The online teaching process of ongoing classes at the teaching departments of Panjab University, its affiliated colleges, regional centres and constituent colleges may start from the first week of August.This was discussed in a meeting held on Thursday of a committee constituted by the PU syndicate to decide on examinations, admission process and academic session.During the meeting, the panel headed by syndicate member Navdeep Goyal decided that online teaching should be commenced from the first week of August at the teaching departments of the university.Requesting anonymity, a committee member said, “The members agreed that online teaching for ongoing classes should be started from first week of August for both teaching departments of PU and its affiliated colleges without further delay.”A subcommittee has also been constituted to look into the technical part of the online teaching. However, no final decision was taken regarding the conduct of final semester examination in the university. The tentative date for the commencement of teaching for UG first year classes in affiliated colleges is September 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-may-start-online-teaching-for-ongoing-classes-from-august/story-UaTtRs01kYsgYRferyeqEN.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Councillors face-off over installation of water supply lines at Ludhiana’s Kakowal Road||Ward-4 councillor Sukhdev Bawa and Ward-5 councillor Neelam Sharma’s husband Rakesh Sharma rowed over the installation of water supply lines at Kakowal Road on Thursday. Following the dispute, the councillor’s husband Rakesh Sharma and the residents of the ward staged a protest due to which the movement of traffic was obstructed for 15 minutes.Sharma is opposing the installation of water lines as it would carry water from the tube well installed in their ward to areas falling under Ward 4. Sharma said, “The residents of our ward are already facing problems due to lack of proper water supply. If the MC attaches the water lines of Ward 4 with the tubewell installed in our ward, then the residents of our ward will also face shortage of water.” Bawa said,”There was a missing link and a new line of around 300m had to be installed so that residents of my ward can get proper water supply. Tubewells installed across the city are inter-connected and the lines are being installed legally. The MC officials are installing the pipes.”Police personnel from Jodhewal police station and MC officials also reached the spot and tried to pacify the protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/councillors-face-off-over-installation-of-water-supply-lines-at-kakowal-road/story-VFFhVSA82dO0nWsD6AmgwM.html
16-07-2020||City||Illegal mining continues unabated in Kharar’s Majri Block||Illegal mining activity continues with impunity in Kharar’s Majri Block. The mining department on Thursday conducted a raid at Gocher village and found that 5000 cubic feet gravel was extracted from private lands in the area.A stone crusher was seized during the raid. On July 6, Majri Police had booked former director general of police (DGP) Paramdeep Singh Gill along with other 44 farmers of Saini Majra for allowing illegal mining on their land. They were booked under Section 21 of the Mine and Minerals (Regulations and Development) Act. The mining department had imposed a fine of Rs 11 crore on them.District mining officer Gurpreet Pal Singh Sandhu said that they had received a complaint about illegal mining being carried out at Gocher village and when he visited that area, he found that mining was also being carried out in adjoining areas. “We have prepared a report which will be sent to the tehsildar to find details of the miners, following which notices will be sent to them,” he said. He added that fines will be imposed i.e. ₹60 per tonne for sand and gravel and ₹10 per tonne for ordinary earth.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that he has directed the officials to take strict action against illegal miners. Action will also be taken against those landowners whose land is being illegally mined, he said.In July last year, the mining department had imposed a penalty of Rs 52 crore on 193 land owners in three villages of Mohali—Mianpur Changar, Kubaheri and Abhipur— for allowing illegal mining on their land.INCREASING CASES Mohali has witnessed a sharp rise in illegal mining cases in the past four years. The district police had registered 24 cases of illegal mining in 2016, 67 in 2017 and 79 in 2018, 25 cases in 2019, and around 2 cases this year.The police department and administration claim that no illegal mining activity is being carried, but the illegal plundering of natural resources and the increasing number of cases along the rivulets is proving to be a major challenge for the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-mining-continues-unabated-in-kharar-s-majri-block/story-eVc85corJpjDUFdMRjjkYP.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Commuters stuck for half-an-hour at Ladhowal Toll Plaza jam||Even the introduction of FASTag could not provide respite to commuters, who were stuck in a massive traffic jam at the Ladhowal Toll Plaza on Thursday.SPM College, Mukerian, assistant professor Tarun Ghai who had been stuck at the toll plaza for nearly half-an-hour said, “Utter chaos prevailed at the toll plaza and FASTags were no help.”Many lanes were blocked, which added to the confusion.The Laddowal toll plaza on the Ludhiana-Jalandhar national highway (NH-44) has 11 lanes on either side. Ten on each side are dedicated for vehicles using FASTag and only one lane on each side facilitates commuters making cash payments. A commuter, Saurabh Gupta, observed that there was a huge traffic jam at a time when people were avoiding commuting amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“I was stuck for nearly half-an-hour, despite having a FASTag. So claims that FASTag will ease traffic were bogus,” said Gupta.Sanjit Kumar, who is a professor at DAV College, Hoshiarpur, said many FASTag lanes were closed, which resulted in traffic jam. “Such snags have become routine,” Kumar said. Despite repeated attempts, Chanchal Rathore, manager of Ladhowal Toll Plaza did not respond.Ladhowal station house officer Balwinder Singh said the police were aware of the technical snag at the toll plaza and effort are on to streamline traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/commuters-stuck-for-half-an-hour-at-ladhowal-toll-plaza-jam/story-rNsIYXtYhN70nmc4BCLicJ.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||CBSE Class-10 results: Defying odds, two disabled Ludhiana students shine in board exams||Defying all odds, two Ludhiana-based disabled students have excelled in the Class-10 CBSE board exams, the results of which were announced on Wednesday. Rajveer Singh Bhatia, a student of DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, attained 79.8% marks despite suffering from vision impairment due to cone-rod dystrophy while Bhavarth Aggarwal, a student of Ryan International School, secured 91% marks despite suffering from a rare skin disease that has caused the fingers of his right hand to become conjoined. Bhatia has been suffering from the cone-rod dystrophy, which affects his vision, since birth. However, he has not let the disability get the better of him. Rajveer credits his parents and teachers for his stellar score and says he wants to become a chartered accountant. He completed his examination in four hours. He is also interested in politics and is fond of reading the news. “I am fond of reading the news, especially articles related to politics, and use my video-magnifier to read them easily.”Ask him how he studied for the boards, he says, “My school teachers provided me with notes and I used to take printouts on A-3 sheet to easily read the notes. I would study for four to five hours daily and study at night too. The sample papers on the CBSE website helped me practice. “ Bhatia scored 95 marks in social studies, 88 marks in English, 85 marks in Punjabi, 66 marks in science and 58 marks in mathematics.He also makes it a point to exercise everyday. “Due to poor vision, I am unable to participate in any sports at school, but at home, I do aerobics daily to keep myself physically fit,” said the resident of Shakti Nagar on Pakhowal Road.His father Jaspal Singh in a businessman and mother Harveen Kaur is a housewife.‘BHAVARTH IS A FIGHTER’Bhavarth was born with a rare skin disease epidermolysis bullosa simplex that causes the skin to be fragile and blister easily. However, Bhavarth had remained undeterred in the face of multiple challenges. He wants to one day become the CEO of Google. His short-term goal is to get admission at IIT Mumbai. He has started preparing for the entrance examination. Technology greatly interests him and he likes to keep a tab on the latest technology.The 15-year-old says, “I faced many challenges due to this disease but due to my parents’ support I was able to achieve this score. They have always supported me.”Not being able to use his right hand, he used his left hand to write the exams and completed them in the allotted three-hours. His father Mukesh Gupta is senior vice-president at Vardhman Special Steel and mother Nidhi Gupta is a homemaker. His parents say that though Bhavarth faced many challenges he is a fighter and they have tried to instill in him the confidence to stand strong and face the world. His mother, Nidhi, said, “A lot can be attributed to the efforts to the teachers and staff of Ryan international School who made special provisions so that he could do his best.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbse-class-10-results-defying-odds-two-disabled-ludhiana-students-shine-in-board-exams/story-dsBd0G7tS2nXww42OThZdL.html
16-07-2020||City||BSF man held for constable’s murder||New Delhi: A day after a 23-year-old Delhi Police woman constable was found dead at her rented house in southwest Delhi’s Palam village, police on Thursday arrested a 27-year-old Border Security Force (BSF) constable for the murder. Police said the two were living together in Palam for past one week and the murder was fallout of a dispute. Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya said that on Wednesday around 12:12 pm, they received a call reporting that a woman constable had been found dead at her house in Palam Village. On reaching the crime scene, a police team found Preeti Beniwal, a native of Rewari in Haryana, unconscious on a bed. Her body also bore strangulation marks. During an inspection of the scene of crime, the mobile phone of the girl was found missing from the room. Arya said, “During preliminary inquiry, it came to light the deceased had been staying at her newly rented room with a man. Our teams checked CCTV footage and the same man was spotted leaving the woman’s house early Wednesday morning. Further enquiry revealed the identity of the man as one Naresh, from Alwar in Rajasthan. We learnt that he is a constable in the BSF,” Arya said.The DCP said teams were sent to conduct raids at all possible hideouts of the suspect. “With the help of technical surveillance, our teams managed to zero in on Naresh and he was arrested from Dwarka while he was on his way to meet his advocate,” the DCP said. The officer said, during interrogation, he said he was in a relationship with Beniwal and they lived together. “He said the man disclosed the for the past few days, he suspected Beniwal of having an affair with another person. He said they often used to fight and following one such argument on Wednesday night, he strangled her,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-man-held-for-constable-s-murder/story-zm2d7piiFfEsSNulCfilNK.html
16-07-2020||City||Alleged kingpin of match-fixing racket Dandiwal sent to judicial custody||A local court on Thursday sent Ravinder Dandiwal, the kingpin of an international tennis match-fixing racket, and another suspect Durgesh to judicial custody in Ludhiana jail. They were produced before a local court in Kharar.Dandiwal was in police custody since his arrest on July 6 while Durgesh was arrested by the police from his house at Aterna village in Sonepat, Haryana on July 10.Mohali Superintendent of Police (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said, “We have recovered high-resolution cameras from Durgesh’s acquaintances. The statements of 22 players will be recorded soon as they are identified.”“The representatives have given us email IDs that were used to communicate with match organisers. The email IDs have been sent for digital forensic science,” she said.The SP added that the statements of the stadium owners were recorded for a thorough investigation.Inspector Sukhveer Singh said, “The cameras were recovered from a resident of Faridkot. It was found that Durgesh had purchased the cameras from a Hisar-based company, CWD.”Mohali police had also called the legal representatives of few online streaming platforms including ‘FanCode’ and sought their written replies in connection with the verification process of streaming the match, held at Sawara village here.As per the information, the complainant in the case, Parvinder Singh, had taken the stadium from the owners on lease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alleged-kingpin-of-match-fixing-racket-dandiwal-sent-to-judicial-custody/story-MsoceqbFuv58HjmTyclX1I.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||4 girls go missing in Chandigarh, one upset by mother’s slap returns later||Four girls were reported missing in the city Wednesday even as a nine-year-old among them living in EWS Colony at Dhanas returned an hour later as she was “scared of the dark.”She was reportedly upset after her mother had slapped her.The other cases included a 15-year-old Class 9 student who was last seen at home after midnight on Tuesday; an 11-year-old who disappeared from Mauli Jagran and a 17-year-old from Sector 52 who has not been seen since July 10.The mother of the 11-year-old said her daughter, whose father is a labourer, had left home at night on Wednesday and feared she had been kidnapped. Police have started investigations.Another case was registered at the Sector 36 police station, where a Sector 52 resident alleged that his 17-year-old daughter had been kidnapped by a friend of hers named Akhil.On the delay in filing the complaint, the girl’s father said they had first searched for her on their own and checked with relatives before calling the police. A case under section 363 of IPC was registered at the Sector 36 police station. Though no arrests have been made the police are trying to trace Akhil.The aunt of the girl in Dhanas contacted the police after the 9-year-old left home on Wednesday night. A case under section 363 (kidnapping) of IPC at the Sarangpur police station after her family alleged that she could have been kidnapped.The aunt said the child was upset as she had been scolded and slapped by her mother. The family was overjoyed when the child returned home, telling them that she had been sitting in the dark and had decided to go back as she was “scared.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-girls-go-missing-in-chandigarh-one-upset-by-mother-s-slap-returns-later/story-jhKJeykITKVvkH5SY2LycJ.html
16-07-2020||Delhi||HC asks Delhi govt why it cannot continue its lockdown foodgrain distribution scheme||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought the response of the Delhi government on a plea seeking resumption of the scheme under which foodgrains was provided during Covid-19 lockdown to those not covered under the Public Distribution System (PDS).A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad issued notice to the city government seeking its stand on the plea, which also seeks resumption of the hunger relief centres for providing cooked meals to those in need. It also sought to know why it cannot extend the Mukhya Mantri Corona Sahayta Yojna (MMCSY) till the pandemic persists.In April 2020, the Delhi government under the Mukhya Mantri Corona Sahayta Yojna (MMCSY) set up the e-coupon system for giving rations to 10 lakh people, which was later extended to cover 30 lakh people not covered under the Public Distribution System (PDS covers 71.3 lakh people or 37% population of Delhi). On April 27, the Delhi high court had directed that ration must be given to all needy persons. Pursuant to these directions, the e-coupon scheme was extended for another month, till May 2020. Further based on orders of the high court, the government went beyond the quota of 30 lakhs for the MMCSY and kept the application system open. It then received 54 lakhs applications for e-coupons from people not covered under the PDS.”However, the government has not extended the scheme for a second time and therefore, people without ration cards are not being provided any foodgrains by the government,” the fresh plea says. Appearing for the Delhi government, additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain and additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal, told the court that the scheme was for the period when due to lockdown there was cessation of economic activity. They said that it was a “one-time” relief package and was discontinued after the lockdown was lifted.The court was hearing a plea filed by Delhi Rozi Roti Abhiyan Adhikaar seeking direction to the Delhi government to continue accepting e-coupon applications under the MMCSY scheme and to continue operating kiosks and help desks facilitating them.The application has contended that the government’s discontinuance of the scheme of distribution of foodgrain to non-ration card holders (non-PDS), despite the national disaster declaration still being in force and despite no measure of normalcy having returned in the country or the state, was a violation of the right to food and right to life of lakhs of people of Delhi.The NGO has also said in its application that the Centre has extended till November its Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY) under which existing ration card holders will be provided additional 5 kgs of grains per person and 1 kg of pulse per household free of cost on account of the continuing economic distress among people. The matter would be now heard on August 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-asks-delhi-govt-why-it-cannot-continue-its-lockdown-foodgrain-distribution-scheme/story-P4UXDW3IqSaSei0D5WtBKK.html
16-07-2020||City||Covid-19 cases up 85% over past month in Amritsar to 1,170||Amritsar There has been no let-up in covid-19 cases in Amritsar, already among the worst-hit districts in Punjab, due to the pandemic. From 630 cases on June 15, the number had risen 85% to 1,170 till July 16 (Thursday) or 540 cases in a month. State government says that the source of infection of nearly 15% of these cases is unclear. Since relaxation was announced in the nationwide lockdown on May 19, 840 covid-19 cases have been reported in Amritsar and most of them do not have any recent foreign travel history. “These community transmission patients were tested in flu corners after they showed symptoms of the disease. The source of infection of most of the cases could not be traced yet, but the health department and district administration are working hard to contain the further spread of the infection,” said assistant civil surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh. “People of the district are mainly responsible for the increase in community transmission cases as most are roaming in markets without precautionary measures and are not following social distancing norms,” he said, adding, “We are testing over 800 people from the district, daily, at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Amritsar. However, there is reluctance to be tested, as people fear hospitalisation.”State covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “As per the data analysed by the state government, the source of infection of nearly 15% of covid-19 cases in Amritsar, from June 23 to date, is still unclear. We cannot say that the community transmission stage has started in Punjab and we are working to trace their contacts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-cases-up-85-over-past-month-in-amritsar-to-1-170/story-tXSAC07k12ihbkWDCBMVBN.html
16-07-2020||Delhi||Ban on manufacture, storage and distribution of gutkha in Delhi banned for one more year||The Delhi government has extended the ban on manufacture, storage, sale and distribution of gutkha and pan masala for one more year.Food Safety Commissioner D N Singh issued a notification on the ban of these products on Wednesday.“Commissioner (Food Safety), National Capital Territory of Delhi, prohibits in the interest of public health for a period of one year in NCT the manufacture, storage, distribution, or sale of tobacco which is either flavoured, scented or mixed with any of the said additives, and whether going by the name or form of gutkha, pan masala, flavoured/scented tobacco, kharra...” the notification read.The city government’s Food Safety Department has been issuing notification on the ban of gutkha and pan masala for the last four years.However, there is no ban on cigarettes in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ban-on-manufacture-storage-and-distribution-of-gutkha-in-delhi-banned-for-one-more-year/story-coATG8Z2VQK8qandNBJdGP.html
16-07-2020||City||3 paramilitary personnel, 2 army jawan among 36 test positive in Himachal||Thirty-six people, including three paramilitary personnel and two army jawans, tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 1,377, officials said.Eighteen cases have been reported in Solan, five each in Kangra district and Una, three in Mandi, two in Hamirpur and one each in Shimla and Sirmaur.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said 51-year-old paramilitary personnel from Vaidi village near Kangra has tested positive for the virus. He had returned from Chennai on July 9. Another 20-year-old paramilitary personnel from Tiara village of Shahpur sub-division has contracted the contagion. He returned from Leh on July 7.A 35-year-old from Bassa Gudyala village of Nurpur is the third paramilitary jawan to have tested positive. He came from Arunachal Pradesh on July 5.Besides, a 39-year-old army jawan from Paniyal village of Dehra sub-division, having travel history to Nagaland has tested positive.The fifth patient in Kangra is a 45-year-old man from Raja-Ka-Bagh area. He is the primary contact of a Covid-19 patient.An 18-year-old youth from Takoli village in Mandi is among two cases in the district. He came back from Delhi on July 8 and was institutionally quarantined. A 37-year-old man, who returned from Jammu and Kashmir has also tested positive in the district. One more case was detected in the district late evening.In Shimla, a taxi driver from Delhi has tested positive. He ferried a delegation of four people who were to meet chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. The driver has been shifted to Covid-care centre and his contact history is being traced. People who travelled with him have been quarantined.FACTORY WORKERS INFECTED IN SOLAN, COP IN UNAEighteen fresh cases were reported in Solan late evening of which 14 are workers of a textiles unit. Three more factory workers have tested positive for the virus.In Una, two police personnel and a home guard are among five cases. An army jawan also tested positive in Sirmaur district. Two cases have been reported in Hamirpur district. Special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said active cases have gone upto 382 while 971 patients have been cured till date. The recovery rate in the state is 70.5%.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 319 cases, followed by Solan with 286 cases. Hamirpur has 278 cases, Una 151, Chamba 71, Shimla 63, Bilaspur 63, Sirmaur 48, Mandi 44, Kinnaur 36, Kullu 14 and Lahaul-Spiti district four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-paramilitary-personnel-2-army-jawan-among-36-cases-in-himachal/story-yzIxJDOFEykDc43z2bXrhJ.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||No 7-day quarantine now in special rooms for PGIMER staff on Covid-19 duty||Healthcare workers at high-risk Covid-19 treatment zones at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) can now go home after duty instead of mandatorily quarantining for seven days in specially allotted accommodation. They will have to report back for duty when required, hospital authorities have said.Duty hours were also changed with nurses expected to work for longer periods than perviously scheduled.Dr Jagat Ram, director PGIMER, said the decision was taken after consultations with other institutes following similar rules.Employees and some nurses are not too happy, saying home quarantining was not feasible as people were living in rented houses. Accommodation available on case basisDr Jagat Ram, however, clarified that the “service of private accommodation will be available to workers on demand and case per case basis as well. We are not denying accommodation for the employees who live in congested areas and have high-risk people back at home. Still, we have advised that those who will choose a home facility should follow all the safety norms,” Dr Ram clarified.The nursing association has shot off a letter to the institute’s administration, it has been learnt.“Home quarantine is not practicable in the current situation as most of the people are staying in rented houses with their families. The floor plan of most of the residential houses in and around Chandigarh is not in compliance with home quarantine policies. Also, there is a threat to the security of the staff because of social stigma and there is a chance to get isolated by the society and face stress to evacuate rented accommodations,” the letter reads.Change in Covid-19 dutiesIt was also learnt that PGIMER staffers on Covid-19 duty were expected to work longer hours and for more days. Nurses will work for 10 days at a stretch in Covid-19 zones with duties rotating between three shifts: Morning, evening and night. Earlier only seven days of Covid-19 duty was allowed.Those completing duty can take five days off, which will be deducted from their monthly quota of nine days off. After 15 days (including workdays and five-day leave) nurses will be posted in non Covid-19 areas for a period of 15 days, including four days of leave. So, all in all, they will be working for 21 days with nine days off, similar to their previous working schedule.Doctors will be given just two days of leave after seven days of Covid-19 duty, which means they have to report back at work on the 10th day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-7-day-quarantine-now-in-special-rooms-for-pgimer-staff-on-covid-19-duty/story-F2wXSleHGuxtooxF9dO36M.html
16-07-2020||Kolkata||Landmark movement of goods between Bengal to north-east India via Bangladesh flagged off||Marking a new landmark in maritime relations between India and Bangladesh, union shipping minister Mansukh Mandaviya virtually flagged off the first trial movement of container ships from Kolkata Port to Agartala in Tripura via Chittagong port in Bangladesh on Thursday.“Historical day in maritime relations of India and Bangladesh. North Eastern Region of India is now connected by sea-ports of Bangladesh! Digitally flagged off the first trial movement of container ship from Kolkata Port to Agartala & Assam via Chattogram Port of Bangladesh,” Mandaviya tweeted on Thursday.This will greatly benefit India’s north eastern states by cutting transportation time and cost through land routes to the north east. It takes over 1,200 km for goods to reach from Bengal to reach to reach the north east. Access to the Chittagong port will cut down the distance by almost half, Bipab Deb, chief minister of Tripura had earlier stated.The two neighbouring countries signed an MOU on June 6, 2015 and an agreement on October 25, 2018. The standard operating procedure (SOP) on use of Chittagong and Mongla ports of Bangladesh was finalized in 2019.“The vessel carrying four transit containers loaded with TMT steel bars will be offloaded at the Chittagong Port. They goods would then be loaded on trailers. From the Chittagong Port the containers will travel through road and cover 200 km to reach Agartala,” said a spokesman of the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port in Kolkata, formerly known as Kolkata Port.Sarbananda Sonowal, Chief Minister of Assam and Biplab Deb, Chief Minister of Tripura have welcomed this.“A historic moment for Assam & #NE. Shorter cargo route through B’desh’s Chattogram & Mongla ports will boost trade & growth,” tweeted Sonowal.“It’s really a big achievement for the entire NE including Tripura,” tweeted Deb.A statement issued by the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port said that in future rice, wheat, pulses, steel and project cargo is expected to be transported to north east region using this multimodal route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/landmark-movement-of-goods-between-bengal-and-to-north-east-india-via-bangladesh-flagged-off/story-Cz6IhOW1d8GOzY7WxMTS6L.html
16-07-2020||Lucknow||UP cricket: From the days of Vizzy to the Raina, Bhuvi years||In the 86 years since the foundation of the Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association in 1934, only about a dozen cricketers, including Pusapati Gajapathi Raju (Maharajkumar of Vizianagaram), from Uttar Pradesh have represented Team India. These cricketers include seven bowlers, three batsmen and three all-rounders.Maharajkumar of Vizianagaram played in the pre-Independence era in 1936. Thereafter, it took 49 years for another Uttar Pradesh cricketer to play for India in the post-Independence era. Gopal Sharma (5 Tests, 11 ODIs) was selected to play for India in 1985. Thereafter, Rudra Pratap Singh Sr (1986) played just two ODIs.In 1999, backed by his consistent showing in domestic cricket, Gyanendra Pandey got a chance to play in two ODIs against Pakistan. But the scenario changed in 2000 when Allahabad’s Mohd Kaif was chosen for Team India and played for six years. Kaif, who had a decent domestic career, played 13 Tests and 125 ODIs.Rudra Pratap Singh (2005) and Piyush Chawla (2006) were the next from Uttar Pradesh to knock on the doors of Team India. A left-arm medium pacer, Singh (14 Tests, 58 ODIs and 10 T20Is) played a key role in India’s title triumph in the inaugural edition of the ICC World Twenty20 in 2007, picking 12 wickets, including 4/11 against South Africa and 3/26 against Pakistan in the final.Leg-spinner Piyush Chawla (3 Tests, 25 ODIs and 7 T20Is) had a 10-year career with Team India, punctuated by periods of being in and out, after making his international debut at the age of just 17. In the 50-over format, he bagged 32 wickets in 25 matches with 4/25 being his best. Chawla was part of Team India when they won the World Cup in 2011.A tall and lively pacer from Ghaziabad, Sudeep Tyagi (4 ODIs, 1 T20I) came into the picture for a short period of three months from December 2009 to February 2010. He had a 10-wicket haul on debut in the Ranji Trophy against Odisha. His roaring success appeared to be a sign of things to come as he finished the Ranji Trophy season with 41 wickets, but he soon lost his accuracy.Suresh Raina, who will turn 34 in November, has been the most successful cricketer from Uttar Pradesh to play for Team India. He made his ODI debut in 2005 and scored a century in his first Test in 2010 in Sri Lanka. His last international match was in July 2018 when India lost to England by eight wickets at Leeds. Raina scored one run off four balls in that game.A left-handed batsman, Raina (18 Tests, 226 ODIs and 78 T20Is) emerged as a clean hitter of the ball during the 2004 Under-19 World Cup. Although he made his ODI debut against Sri Lanka in 2005, Raina could cement his place in Team India only in 2008 and then went on to establish himself as one of India’s best limited-overs batsmen.An inmate of the government-run cricket hostel in Lucknow, Raina was the first Indian to score a T20I century and also reach the 1000-run mark in the format. His Test career also got off to a spectacular start with him scoring a debut hundred but he never became a permanent fixture in the longest format. He was also part of India’s ODI World Cup-winning team in 2011, but has been off the selectors’ radar in limited-overs cricket, too, off late.After Raina, Uttar Pradesh could not produce a batsman for Team India. Medium-pace bowler Praveen Kumar was one of the top Indian cricketers to have emerged from Uttar Pradesh and had a five-year international career till March 2012 when he played his last ODI against Pakistan at Dhaka. He was known for his great ability to swing the ball.He represented India in 6 Tests, 68 ODIs and 10 T20Is. Meerut’s Kumar was India’s highest wicket-taker with 15 scalps in the 4-0 whitewash inflicted by the hosts England in a Test series in 2011. He took 77 wickets in one-day internationals and his best came at the CB Series in Australia in 2007-08 when he bowled a match-winning spell against the hosts Australia.The emergence of Bhuvneshwar Kumar (21 Tests, 114 ODIs and 43 T20Is so far) in 2013 confirmed that there is something special for the swing bowlers in the soil of Meerut. Now, 30 plus, Kumar has managed to perform quite decently in his brief career so far.Kumar, the first bowler to get Sachin Tendulkar out for a first ball duck in a Ranji Trophy game at Hyderabad, started his international career with a bang, bowling out Pakistan’s Nasir Jamshed with his first ODI delivery. A master of swing bowling, Kumar’s cricketing commonsense stand out.UP’s first-ever chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav (2017) has been the latest face from the state in Team India. Yadav (6 Tests, 60 ODIs and 21 T20Is so far) drew everyone’s attention with a successful outing, including a hat-trick in the Under-19 World Cup. He formed a potent spin attack with leggie Yuzvendra Chahal in limited overs cricket.“Winning is very important in the domestic circuit. That’s the only way to make it to Team India. Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association has provided top class infrastructure and facilities for our cricketers. It’s the responsibility of the cricketers to make full use of those facilities to come good at the top level,” said former UP captain Gyanendra Pandey, one of the most successful coaches in the history of the state.“Junior cricketers from the state have been doing well and getting good opportunities to play for India and winning trophies for the state. I feel our senior cricketers should take some inspiration from the juniors to win in the domestic circuit,” added Pandey, who guided Central Zone to the runners-up position in the Deodhar Trophy as coach in 2005.He, however, said that UP’s maiden Ranji Trophy win in 2005-06 season brought a drastic change in the perception among national selectors about the state’s cricketers. “This change was possible only because we won the trophy. Performance in the IPL has been a big factor and our younger generation should look for those with ability like Suresh Raina, one of the best T20 players in the world.”Pandey, who recently finished his stint as junior national selector, said the performances of Bhuvaneshwar Kumar and Kuldeep Yadav at the international level, as well as in the IPL, were great. “Our present lot of senior cricketers should take inspiration from them. Dil laga kar khelna padega aur jitna padega (We need to play with passion and win),” he said.He, however, said that UP had no dearth of talent, but the team need consistency. “We have talented young cricketers like Priyam Garg, Rinku Singh, Mohsin, Akshdeep, Yash Dayal and many more, and they have the opportunity to make it to Team India in near future, if they are really consistent with their performances,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cricket-from-the-days-of-vizzy-to-the-raina-bhuvi-years/story-hlIG4bzBg88I4eqZRoTjKP.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Seven arrested for night curfew violation in Chandigarh||As many as seven people were arrested for violating the night curfew and a resident of Dhanas was fined for violating social distancing norms during his brother’s wedding function.Gulzar Ahmed of Dhanas was issued a challan for Rs 500 after a beat patrolling police team found a large gathering at his brother’s wedding at the local community centre. Besides, Vishu, Anil, Vicky, Layak Ram and Sudesh Kumar were nabbed for driving around in a car without a pass during night curfew hours in Sector 28 on Wednesday. Police said they were also not wearing masks or ensuring social distancing in violation of orders of the district magistrate. Similary, Ajay Kumar Narwal of Daria village was arrested near the railway station light point, and Sourav of Sector 49, from Mauli Jagran. All seven were later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-arrested-for-night-curfew-violation-in-chandigarh/story-lZHJkrm6sECBujEtghw2cL.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Heavy rain likely over the weekend in Chandigarh||After no rain on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light rain on Friday, with possibility of heavy rain over the weekend. “Chances of light rain up to 20mm will continue on Friday, depending on the cloud distribution over the city. However, moderate rain up to 60mm is very likely on Saturday and Sunday, with chances of heavy rain as well,” said an IMD official.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature went up from 33.6°C on Wednesday to 35°C on Thursday. The minimum temperature also rose from 23.6°C to 28.2°C. In the next three days, the maximum and minimum temperatures will remain around 34°C and 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heavy-rain-likely-over-the-weekend-in-chandigarh/story-dB3G4p4E79YxrBU3xVXLLO.html
16-07-2020||Education||Student lives matter: DU students say no to exams amid Covid-19||The University Grants Commission (UGC) recently laid down new guidelines recommending universities to conduct the final year examinations for higher education, latest by this September. But since the commission has left the decision of the mode of conduct of examination – offline (pen and paper) or online (open book exam; OBE) or a blend of both – on the decision of the respective varsities, the students at Delhi University are agitated due to DU’s visible preference for OBE exams. Earlier, UGC had recommended all universities to call-off the exams, but soon after the revised guidelines came in, students have been taking to social media to express their angst. “DU has decided to postpone the exam yet again, and planning to conduct them in August now, but the recently conducted mock online exams was a flop show. The mock test was to give us a chance to get acquainted with the process of online, OBE exams. And it’s obvious that this is how DU plans to conduct exams later as well. But, the mock tests preceding the online exams were a failure. I joined the twitter trend against boycotting the final exams, #Studentslivesmatter and authorities must understand that,” says Shubham KR Jaiswal, a final year student of B Com (Prog) at Ramanujan College.DU’s decision to conduct online exams saw overnight vandalism on the campus with roadside signages, bus stops, etc getting spray painted with protest slogans. An anonymous rap video has is also being circulated on social media by student political parties. Utkarsh Singh, a final year student of Hindi (Hons) at Satyawati College, who is in Uttar Pradesh at present, says, “Though we are at home, we know about the vandalism on campus and feel it’s done with the right intention to ensure that our plea doesn’t fall on deaf ears. We didn’t get any online class throughout the lockdown, and were not even provided any study material! Many of us don’t have laptops, and now that monsoon has begun, many are facing power cuts as well... How do you expect us to give an online test then? I wasn’t able to even log in to the DU website to appear for the mock test. And if you talk about offline exams, then that’s more unbelievable! With Covid-19 cases increasing rapidly, how can I risk my health to travel from my village Amgaliyan and go back to Delhi to write an exam!” Students have complaint of experiencing anxiety and depression due to the constant changes in the status of examination mode and dates. Singh adds, “For students who choose to give offline exams in September, it’ll be so difficult to compete with students who would have given online OBE. Online exams are discriminatory in nature. In such circumstances, when the authorities aren’t helping us, what must we do to express our angst?” Calling the rap video that’s being widely circulated as relatable, students are registering their defiance to online exams and are questioning the validity of attempting delayed offline exams. “The rap video that’s circulating on social media is actually what we all our feeling at this point of time. Mock tests were a failure. Even if I choose to not to give online exams for now, I’ll have to give exams in pen and paper by September. What guarantee is there that things will become better by then? And that it will lead to delay in admissions to higher courses, since we won’t get our degree until then, is another issues. I can’t give online exams or wait till September to give offline exams, what do I do?” rues Aaditya Singh, a final year student of B Com (Prog) at School of Open Learning.Many students have started petitions on social media against online exams. “Twitter trends, petitions, rap videos, and long social media posts express our state of mind. Mock exams were a trailer of what a film the online exams are going to be — We were supposed to upload documents of 5 MB but the site wasn’t even accepting two pages of a few KB,” says Himanshi Pandey, a final year students of Hindi (Hons) at Miranda House, adding, “Many of my classmates got the access to the question paper too late to even get enough time to write. And sabse zyada problem thi documents scan karne me because saare documents ek saath upload krne ka option nahi tha. Toh humko individually saari photos click kar ke ek ek kar ke upload karni padi. How can these problems be resolved in a span of few days for final online exams? And offline exams are out of question as our parents won’t allow us to travel amid the pandemic. Our future is at stake!” Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/student-lives-matter-du-students-say-no-to-exams-amid-covid-19/story-YKeYzQrfuSYoaziFYxTrvM.html
16-07-2020||City||SKIMS under fire after dead Covid-19 patient’s family alleges ill treatment||The management of Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS-Soura) has come under sharp criticism over the way the body of a Covid-19 positive patient and her family were treated on Wednesday evening.A 65-year-old woman of Srinagar, who was admitted at SKIMS-Soura on July 8 after her Covid-19 test results came positive, succumbed to the disease on Wednesday evening.Her family alleged that they were made to wait for hours to take the body and were not provided any casket or help in the burial process. A video of the incident has gone viral on social media in which the family members are seen questioning the hospital authorities as to how they will be able to transport the body on an infirm and dirty stretcher.“After following SoPs and protocol and waiting for three hours, we were provided a half-broken dirty stretcher and no coffin. We were also told that no one will aid or guide the burial process and we should do it on our own,” said the deceased’s son Rameez Makhdoomi, a journalist.“Officials at the control room were insensitive, busy in their own chit chats and at this moment our patience broke all barriers and we lashed out at them,” he said.Finally, after the ordeal was witnessed by many on social media, the family was able to bury the body with help from relatives, friends and volunteers.The hospital administration said their mandate is to treat the patients and after any death the body is handed over to the district administration or health authorities so that the protocol is followed.Hospital officials said it was a delay on the part of the district administration and the health authorities. “When the patient in question expired, the same was conveyed to the district administration and health authorities by control room SKIMS, nodal officer as well as medical superintendent. Delay in receiving a team from concerned officials created anxiety among the patient’s attendants,” said medical superintendent of SKIMS Dr Farooq Jan in a statement.He said to tide over the crisis, SKIMS provided an ambulance in violation of established norms. “It was then when attendants started demanding a coffin and four personnel for carrying out the burial which is nowhere in the protocol for handling Covid-19 bodies as laid down by the ICMR. Instead the body has to be put in a designated bag and outer surface has to be decontaminated by sodium hypochlorite… Providing people for burial is not a mandate of SKIMS,” he said.Calls to Kashmir’s director health Sameer Mattoo yielded no response.People have castigated the way SKIMS handled the situation.“If two sons have to wait for hours with the body of their mother outside the hospital while officials are busy blaming each other on who gets the coffin, what can be more inhumane than that? Sheer mismanagement displayed at SKIMS at the cost of traumatised families,” said Shuja ul Haq, president of the Kashmir Press Club.“SKIMS is the leading health institute of Kashmir… If the administration takes proper care, such things will not happen. It is not the first such case…SKIMS is the backbone of Kashmir in the medical field but they need to look into its management,” said Basharat Hussaini, an engineering student of Srinagar.“SKIMS is in pathetic shape from top to bottom. I would have not been able to empathise to all fellow Kashmiris be it a patient or an attendant, if I would have not faced it myself. Just a few days in SKIMS made me realise how bad our health infrastructure is and we can do nothing about it other than just share our thoughts on social platforms,” said Seema Nazir, a local.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/skims-under-fire-after-dead-covid-19-patient-s-family-alleges-ill-treatment/story-0MYxAbruAv0pjA0phHh5MN.html
16-07-2020||City||In J&K, wear mask or shell out hefty penalties||Amid spike in Covid-19 deaths and cases across Jammu and Kashmir, the administration on Thursday geared up to “mask the unmasked”. The administration has not been providing mask to people and has now started slapping penalties ranging from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000 in case of violations.Udhampur deputy magistrate Dr Piyush Singla said, “District disaster management Authority has decided to impose fine of Rs 1,000 from those found violating directive of wearing of mask and maintaining social distancing in the jurisdiction of Udhampur district. Municipality, RDD and revenue authorities are empowered to collect the fines.”“Wearing masks has now been made mandatory in Udhampur! Isn’t it better to spend your money on that book you wanted to read, or that t-shirt you’ve been eyeing online, why do you want to pay fine? Mask hi to pehenna hai! #MaskUp,” tweeted newly-appointed Udahmpur SSP Sargun Shukla.On Thursday, additional district commissioner law and order of Jammu district, Ghanshyam Singh, took to streets of the capital city with policemen distributing masks and imposing penalties from Rs 100 to Rs 700 on the violators.“We tried to create awareness among people about indispensability of wearing masks. We even imposed fines on violators and in the coming days we may implement this with more severity,” the ADC said.He said that fine collected from the violators is being added into the Red Cross Fund. “Social distancing, wearing masks and using sanitisers is mandatory amid the pandemic,” he added.The number of positive cases in J&K is close to 12,000 with over 4,000 positive cases being reported in the last 15 days.IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar has also appealed to the public to wear masks. He has sought assistance of Imams to appeal from mosques for this.Meanwhile, Reasi district commissioner Indu Kanwal Chib said that from July 20, markets in district will open from 11am to 5pm daily and will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays.”On Thursday, 31 people, including a tehsildar and manager of a hotel, were tested Covid-19 positive in Rajouri district. They also include four personnel from ITBP-4, six from JKP, two from IRP, four from BSF, three from health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-j-k-wear-mask-or-shell-out-hefty-penalties/story-zxiVZfaDrZ37TnOWJlQg1N.html
16-07-2020||City||Singha accuses Bindal of using his influence to recruit six employees in HP legislative assembly||Theog legislator and CPI leader Rakesh Singh, on Thursday, accused former state legislative assembly speaker and ex-state BJP president Rajiv Bindal of using his influence to recruit six employees in the Himachal Pradesh legislative assembly.At a press conference in Shimla, Singha said, “In October 2019, six recruitments were made in legislative assembly on the basis of nepotism and influence of Bindal. Bindal’s known persons were recruited on the posts of law officer, deputy reporter and four Class-4 jobs.”He said that daughter of a close relative of Bindal was appointed as law officer, a post which was created against the rules of the legislative assembly. A woman recruited as assistant librarian is wife of Bindal’s known. Of the two persons recruited as junior translators, one is from Bindal’s constituency and the other is a relative of a BJP leader.Singha has demanded judicial investigation into the matter. He said that the state government is planning to give clean chit to Bindal, thus, a judicial investigation should be ordered.Responding to the accusations, Bindal said that none of the recruited employees are his relatives or are known to him. All the employees were recruited as per the rules.In a statement, Bindal said that Singha’s accusations are baseless, untrue and politically influenced. He added that Singha is trying to gain political advantage and confuse the public by making such statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/singha-accuses-bindal-of-using-his-influence-to-recruit-six-employees-in-hp-legislative-assembly/story-H7WVk92Fe9gnHACDO3r3dJ.html
16-07-2020||Delhi||Delivery boys urge: Don’t be harsh with us amid the pandemic||As delivery boys run pillar to post delivering goods including clothes, groceries, etc they share their experiences of at times having to compromise on their dignity. Even before the pandemic struck, it wasn’t an easy life for these delivery boys. But now, since there is an increased stigma attached to those who turn Covid-19 positive, attitudes of people have changed drastically, and more so towards the delivery boys who are mostly outdoors, working amid the Covid-19 crisis, to ensure that we all get whatever essentials and luxury items we order from the comfort of our homes. ‘Some ask us to stay away’A delivery boy, Jagpal, from Delhi, says, “Log kehte hain Yahan phaikh do, Door raho, Sanitise kar do... bura toh lagta hai, but bimaari hi aisi hai ki kuch keh nahin sakte. Despite the couriers being sanitised all the time, we do get a lot of flak most of the times for nothing. We follow all the rules laid down by our company, but logon mein darr bahut hai.” ‘Dhoop mein khada kar dete hai’Santosh, a Gurugram-based delivery boy shares, “Kai baar log wait karate hain, phone hi nahin uthate hai. Sometimes people ask me to come upstairs at their door, but I ring the bell and say ‘Aap neeche aa jaiye, packet main tabhi deliver kar doonga’. And then they make us wait unnecessarily... itni der dhoop mein khada kar dete hai aur samah barbad hota hai vo alag. People should realise that we have to think about our safety, too. Don’t talk to us if you want to follow social distancing but don’t be harsh to us like this.” ‘Some bring sanitizers and make us use them in front of their eyes’Vinod Sahani, another Delhi-based delivery boy, says, “All these things worsened when a delivery boy was infected some time back. Kuch customers hote hain jo kehte hain koi dikkat nahin hain,balance paise side mein rakh dijiye hum utha lenge. Some say packet side bahar rakh dijiye aur amount pooch ke side mein ho jaate hain. Hum aa jate hain tab respect se ‘Thank you sir ya madam’ kehke. Par bura to tab lagta hai jab hume dekhte hi customers sanitiser leke aa jate hain, we tell them that we have sanitised our hands and our packets par unki satisfaction ke liye dobara unke saamne haath sanitize kar lete hain.”‘Bahane karte hain paani na dene ke liye’“It’s so hot so we mostly fill our water bottle when we leave, but at times we run out of water. But nowadays you ask anyone for water and koi na koi bahana bana dete hain. Sanitiser mango to fatafat laa denge,” rues Rajan, a Delhi-based delivery boy. He adds, “Every company today is sending out packets only after they get sanitised, phir bhi customer baar baar poochte hain ki sanitise kiya ya nahi, bolte hai ‘Distance rakho’ ya ‘Andar mat aao, bahar chod do baad me le lenge’.” ‘Achcha lagta hai jab izzat mile’Anupam, a Delhiite, who delivers apparels and groceries around the city, says, “We leave the order outside the gated colonies, and customers come to get it. We don’t go inside the gates as some RWAs have strict rules. Still some people are good and do offer me water, but I politely refuse saying mere paas bottle hai. Achcha lagta hai jab izzat mile... jo log jaanne lage hain unka vyavhar acha hai. Par har type ke log milte hai. Jahan roz jaane lage hain wahan jaan pehchaan ho gayi hai to log izzat karte hain ki hum roz unka saaman laate hai. But sab aise nahi hote; meri kismat achchi rahi hai.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delivery-boys-urge-don-t-be-harsh-with-us-amid-the-pandemic/story-wuVH03imee73rj5lkq9LdJ.html
16-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka crosses 50,000 coronavirus cases as death toll in state mounts to 1,000||With 4,169 new Covid-19 cases being reported on Thursday, Karnataka crossed the 50,000 cases mark with its capital Bangalore continuing to witness an alarming spike in fresh cases inspite of an ongoing week long lockdown. The state now has recorded cumulatively 51,422 Covid-19 cases including 19,729 discharges and 1,032 have succumbed to the virus.Bangalore with 18,828 active cases now accounts for more than 60 percent of all active cases present in the state. A senior official of the government, who did not want to be identified, as he is not authorized to speak to media, said “We are surprised too at the continued growth trajectory (of cases) in Bangalore. After the imposition of lockdown we had expected it to decline.” Asked whether this was an indication of community spread, he said “It is too early to say that but I wouldn’t deny that there are some worrying signs.”Meanwhile the statement of B Sriramulu, the Health and Family Welfare minister on Wednesday that only ‘Only God can save us’ attracted criticism from the opposition parties. KPCC President D K Shivakumar hit out at the minister saying that ‘People are aghast at the statement made by him. If only God has to help the people of Karnataka why should BJP be in power? Let them resign immediately and president’s rule be imposed.’Sriramulu however claimed that his statement had been misinterpreted and it was not meant as an expression of helplessness but only as seeking divine help. Medical Education minister Dr K Sudhakar said that in the next 7-10 days testing capacity will be enhanced to conduct 40,000 to 50,000 tests per day. This is nearly double of the current testing rate of around 20,000 samples per day. Experts have said that enhanced testing, early identification, isolation and treatment are key to limiting the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-crosses-50-000-coronavirus-cases-as-death-toll-in-state-mounts-to-1-000/story-IqavL8EoZ88TItsbMyXh3J.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||2 killed as building collapses in Mumbai’s Malad amid heavy rains||Two people were killed after a ground plus two-storey structure Chawl in Malvani area of Mumbai’s Malad collapsed on Thursday. The incident took place around 2:35 pm on plot no.8 at Abdul Hamid Marg in Malvani. Four fire engine and one rescue van was sent to the spot. Prabhat Rahangdale, Chief Fire Officer of the Mumbai Fire Brigade, said “After arriving at the incident, it was noticed that a ground plus two floor chawl had collapsed. Of the total injured, two were rescued by the Fire Brigade and sent to the hospital. Two more people were already sent to a nearby hospital by locals before our team arrived.”In all, 15 people were rescued and sent to a nearby hospital. The two deceased have been identified as Faizal Wahid Sayyad (18) and Anjum Shahabuddin Shaikh (23) and the rest of the 13 people were treated and discharged, according to the BMC.More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-killed-as-building-collapses-in-mumbai-s-malad-amid-heavy-rains/story-G7rz1bUWSiranVm8QDQgXI.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Getty Foundation gives Panjab University ₹1.4 crore for Gandhi Bhawan’s conservation||Panjab University’s department of Gandhian and Peace Studies has received a Rs 1.4-crore grant from the Getty Foundation, USA, for the conservation of the Gandhi Bhawan on campus.This is the second such grant from the foundation, which had earlier given the varsity Rs 87 lakh for the bhawan’s conservation management plan (CMP).The project, which will be started by November 2020, will entail conservation of the building’s exterior, cladding panels and reflecting pool. With a deadline of one year, the project will be followed by monitoring for another year to determine the impact of the pool on the microclimate of the structure’s interiors.Built in the 1960s, Gandhi Bhawan has been categorised as a Grade-1 heritage building in the Chandigarh Master Plan. It was designed by Le Corbusier’s cousin Pierre Jeanneret, who also designed several other buildings on the campus, including the administrative block, and the arts and science blocks.PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said, “This excellent announcement of grant for Gandhi Bhawan will also enable the university to do more research-based projects related to architecture and heritage, and boost the morale of the faculty and students to take up similar projects in the future. As the university has a rich history, iconic architectural heritage and artefacts too, we appreciate such grants for preserving our repository of heritage for future generations.”Based in Los Angeles, California, USA, the Getty Foundation supports institutions and individuals committed to advancing the greater understanding and preservation of the visual arts throughout the world.Since 1984, it has awarded more than 8,000 grants benefitting over 180 countries on all seven continents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/getty-foundation-gives-panjab-university-1-4-crore-for-gandhi-bhawan-s-conservation/story-v2fJzk3bFznpjss9ZmcFJL.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Powercom, Transco protesters booked for flouting social distancing norms||A day after members of the Powercom and Transco Contract Employees Union of Punjab staged a protest outside Labour Bhawan in Mohali’s Phase-10 for reinstatement of retrenched workers and other demands, the local police registered a case against them for violating social distancing norms.The protesters on Wednesday demanded reinstatement of retrenched workers and immediate resumption of the work order system in the Barnala circle. They also wanted contract employees’ jobs to be made permanent and jobs and compensation given to family members of power workers who died on duty. A case was registered against the protesters under Sections 188, 269, 270 of the IPC and 51 of the Disaster Management Act at the Phase-11 police station on Thursday.Police said around seven persons had been booked in the case, including Balihar Singh, state president of the union, Virinder Singh, general secretary and Rajesh Kumar, vice president. “We have registered a FIR as the protesters flouted the social distancing norms. No statement of any person has been registered as yet,” said inspector Jagdeep Singh, station house officer, Phase-11 police station.It is to be noted; around 150 persons took part in the protest on Wednesday.The stir was part of a massive state-wide protest staged by the contract workers across Punjab on Wednesday. The widows and parents of the deceased employees were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/powercom-transco-protesters-booked-for-flouting-social-distancing-norms/story-JiRffD628wPD3VmVWd3P8O.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Contest launched for positive social messages during Covid outbreak||The Punjab Youth Development Board has launched an online competition for youth for “good” social messages and motivational videos during the Covid-19 pandemic .The best entries will get a certificate of appreciation from the board, Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, chairman, said on Thursday.Bindra reiterated that the board was committed to the welfare of the youth of the state. It would provide them necessary guidance and keep them informed about youth related activities by the Punjab government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/contest-launched-for-positive-social-messages-during-covid-outbreak/story-5kmfPjSa7htLezXHT5uILP.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||4 injured as portion of 3-storey chawl collapses in Mumbai’s Malad||At least four people were injured when a portion of a chawl collapsed in Malvani area in Malad, Mumbai on Thursday, fire brigade officials said.A few others were feared trapped under the debris, they said.A part of the three-storey chawl (old tenements), located at Malvani gate number 5 in the western suburbs, collapsed around 2.30 pm, a fire brigade official said.Four fire engines, a rescue van and ambulances were rushed to the spot.According to the official, five to six people were trapped under the debris. Of them, four were rescued and sent to hospitals after being provided first aid.“Search and rescue operation is on at the site,” the official said.The city has been experiencing heavy rain since the last couple of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-6-people-feared-trapped-as-portion-of-3-storey-chawl-collapses-in-mumbai-s-malad-area/story-ZYugC5CNczkBt6r4mWtyDK.html
16-07-2020||City||1,605 cases sanctioned under Mukhya Mantri Swavlamban Yojna: Jai Ram||The Himachal Pradesh government has sanctioned 1,605 cases under the Mukhya Mantri Swavlamban Yojna (MMSY) since its inception in 2018-19, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday. While interacting with the beneficiaries of MMSY through video conferencing, Thakur said the scheme was launched to encourage youth to establish their own enterprises. “Initially, the project cost limit including working capital was ₹40 lakh under this scheme and was later increased to ₹60 lakh during the year 2019-20,” he said.The CM said the state government also decided that turn capital investment will also include buildings and other assets necessary for establishing the units under the scheme upto pre-specified limit.“The government is providing 25% subsidy on the investment/machinery under the scheme. For women, the subsidy is 30%,” he said, adding that during the current year budget the state government decided to provide 35% subsidy to widows’ upto 45 years of age under the scheme.Thakur said till date as many as 1,605 cases have been sanctioned under this scheme and loans worth ₹312 crore were being provided to the beneficiaries. A subsidy of ₹74.70 crore on this loan amount has also been provided, he added.He said the state government will start online portal to facilitate people interested in availing the benefits of this scheme. The CM also directed the officers to ensure greater coverage of this scheme by launching vigorous IEC campaign through social media platforms and electronic media. He also directed the deputy commissioners to spread awareness and to persuade the banks to speed up approval of loans.Thakur spoke with the beneficiaries of Start-Up Himachal Scheme on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-605-cases-sanctioned-under-mukhya-mantri-swavlamban-yojna-jai-ram/story-q9jX9Oq6zQACFLuUIumm9N.html
16-07-2020||Education||UP to conduct only final year and last semester exams, all other UG, PG exams cancelled: Deputy CM||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday decided to cancel exams of all state universities, except those of final year and last semester. The decision has been taken in the wake of a spike in coronavirus cases in the state. Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma told reporters that students of other classes will be promoted on the basis of internal assessment. All undergraduate and postgraduate exams, except those of final year or last semester, have been cancelled, the minister added. He said the final year and last semester exams will be completed by September 30, either through offline, online or mixed mode by following set protocols. The results of undergraduate and postgraduate classes will be declared by October 15 and 31, respectively, the UP Deputy CM said. “If any student could not appear for the last year/semester examinations, he will be given another chance. As per the convenience of the universities, another examination will be held for such students. This provision will be applicable for this academic year only,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/up-to-conduct-only-final-year-and-last-semester-exams-all-other-ug-pg-exams-cancelled-deputy-cm/story-BbnSRWicfVsgCRENRtAvjL.html
16-07-2020||City||HP govt monitors fresh landslides near Parechu river in Chinese territory||Fresh landslides on the course of Parechu river, a tributary of Spiti, across the international border in China occupied Tibetan Autonomous region has put the Himachal Pradesh government on alert.The breach in the glacial lake formed across the course of Parechu river in China had caused devastation along the banks of Sutlej in 2005. The lakes in the catchment of Parechu river are regularly being monitored by the Himachal government also keeping in mind the rainy season. The monitoring is done by the State Centre on Climate Change (SCCC) of Himachal Pradesh Council for Science Technology & Environment (HIMCOSTE) by using satellite data from April to October every year during the ablation season.Scientists have detected two fresh landslides in the periphery of Parechu Lake, however, there is no threat of lake breach. The Parechu lake, a depression along the Parechu river in the Tibetan Himalayas, was formed after a massive landslide in 2004. Spiti river further confluences with turbulent Sutlej river at Khab in Kinnaur district. A breach in the lake had caused flash floods in the Sutlej basin in 2005. SCCC joint member secretary Nishant Thakur said based on the satellite data for June, it has been observed that the accumulated water in the lake depression is flowing through the peripheral sides and with some on the upstream side. “The central part is comparatively free from any accumulation except a small portion on the downstream side. The inflow and the outflow seems to be normal,” he said.From the satellite imagery, the scientist found two landslides along the river course—one on the upstream side of the depression on the left bank and the second on the downstream side of the depression on the right bank of the Parechu river. The satellite imageries also detected water accumulation along the river course on the downstream side.“Landslide on the left bank on the upstream side also seems to be encroaching the river course, but no significant change in the river flow could be seen,” Thakur said.“Based on the satellite data interpretation, there seems to be no threat from the Parechu Lake. However, it needs to be regularly monitored till it freezes,” he added.The 2005 flashfloods caused by the breach in Parechu Lake had washed away bridges, 11 ropeways, and parts of the old Hindustan Tibet road, and several link roads. The damage was assessed to be worth ₹610 crore. However, no loss of life was reported. The lake again posed a threat in 2013 when the inflow into the lake increased suddenly. However, no breach occurred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-monitors-fresh-landslides-near-parechu-river-in-chinese-territory/story-CPc6R4EgIor18kH9trOrBM.html
16-07-2020||City||Himachal governor stresses on preserving cultural heritage of tribal areas in state||Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Thursday stressed on the need for preserving the rich cultural heritage of the tribal areas in the state and protecting the rights of tribal communities. He was interacting with prominent people and public representatives of Lahaul-Spiti through video conferencing.Appreciating the efforts made by the district administration in curbing the Covid-19 pandemic, Dattatreya stressed on increasing testing for the virus by organising special campaigns. He said the development activities in the tribal area will be further strengthened with the construction of Rohtang tunnel. Local representatives raised the demand of specialist doctors at the regional hospital, Keylong, maintenance of the 197-km long Grampho-Kaza road, repair of the Tandi road and land settlement work in Lahaul area.The governor assured them that the state government will be made aware of their demands.Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Kamal Kant Saroch briefed the governor about preparedness and facilities in view of Covid-19 and impact of Rohtang Tunnel on the valley, especially from tourism point of view and status of telecommunication.He said last year, 1.16 lakh man-days had been generated through MGNREGA and this year also works were in progress in every panchayat.The DC said communication network in the valley has improved significantly and will be further strengthened within a year. He said satellite phones have also been provided in panchayats. Superintendent of police Rajesh Dharmani also gave details on the situation along Indo-Tibetan (China) border area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-governor-stresses-on-preserving-cultural-heritage-of-tribal-areas-in-state/story-AmMAPmzkhvzWNKj7uneTyL.html
16-07-2020||City||Man buried alive as retaining wall collapses in Shimla||A man was buried alive and another injured after a retaining wall collapsed in Shimla on Thursday, police said. Both the persons were rushed to the IGMC where one of them was declared brought dead.The deceased Pyare Lal Sharma ,48, of Mandolghat village in Sunni tehsil was buried alive under the debris of the retaining wall near old barrier in Boileauganj police station area,” superintendent of police Omapati Jamwal said. Prem Lal,58, of Baleri village sustained injuries in the incident and is undergoing treatment at the IGMC hospital. Another person identified as Jagdish was able to escape as the debris fell on an old shed.The SP said they are investigating the matter and the deceased’s body will be handed over to family after postmortem.In another incident, a retaining wall near Brow-Chati link road in Jagatkhana area of Kullu district collapsed and a parked vehicle skidded off the road. However, no loss of life has been reported. The road has been closed as a preventive measure, said Kullu SP Gaurav Singh.Heavy showers to continue, yellow warning issued Heavy rainfall is very likely to continue throughout the state till July 22 as the state meteorological department has issued yellow weather warnings for July 18 in the middle hills and for July 19 in lower and middle hills. State MeT director Manmohan Singh said isolated parts of the state were lashed by rains during the last 24 hours. Minimum temperatures were normal while maximum temperatures were one to two degrees above normal.Highest rainfall at 62.0mm occurred in Shimla district’s Khadrala followed by Jatton Barrage in Sirmaur district which received 48.0mm rain. Rampur Bushahr received 19.0mm, Sarahan 15mm, Kalpa in Kinnaur district 10mm while Dharamshala and Jubbal in Shimla district received 3mm rain each.Shimla recorded a maximum temperature of 26°C and Kufri was pleasant at 17.7°C. Manali recorded a high of 27.4°C and Dalhousie 22.2°C. Maximum temperature in Dharamshala was 30.8°C, Solan 29.0°C, Bilaspur 34.5°C, Hamirpur 34.2°C and Nahan 30°C. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a maximum of 25.5°C.Una was the hottest place with a maximum temperature of 36.6°C while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest at 12.4°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-buried-alive-as-retaining-wall-collapses-in-shimla/story-ar4K25sMbdZTtd9zH2Mm6H.html
16-07-2020||City||Fly out of Pune trend continues, though lockdown impact felt at Lohegaon airport||Pune: Lohegaon international airport in Pune is reporting a 35% reduction in arrivals and a 45% reduction in departures as of Wednesday, July 15.In the wake of the latest lockdown, for 10 days till July 23, airport authorities do not expect this to change, with more exits than entries being reported.Kuldeep Singh, director, Pune airport, said, “Currently we have only 20% of the traffic as compared to the traffic we had pre-lockdown. The number of people going out of the city is more than those entering the city.”In July, Lohegaon airport saw 1,085 passengers arrive on a total of 23 flights, while 1,712 left the city on 24 departure flights.Aviation expert, Dhairyasheel Vandekar said, “The worsening situation in Pune with respect to Covid-19 and increasing cases and job instability is leading to more people leaving the city.”According to data available with airport authorities, as many as 71,496 passengers departed Pune while 41,530 people arrived in Pune during a span of one month, between May 25 and June 25. The civic aviation ministry resumed flight operations in the country on May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fly-out-of-pune-trend-continues-though-lockdown-impact-felt-at-lohegaon-airport/story-ZLts3B0ijoZlwAmr7Tl4PO.html
16-07-2020||City||Four die, five hurt as SUV rolls down gorge in Chamba||Four people were killed and five others were seriously injured after the Mahindra Bolero SUV they were travelling in skidded off the road and rolled down a hill in the tribal Bharmour sub-division of Chamba district on Thursday.The deceased are Amit Kumar,19, of Badgran village, Love Kumar and Anil Kumar, both aged 22, of Pulan village and Jyoti,18, of Khani village.Karun Sharma,20, Ankush,19, both residents of Sari village; Aman,15, Sunil Kumar,17, both from Pulan village and Rahul,22, of Khani village have been seriously injured.Additional district magistrate Prithi Paul Singh said the victims were returning to Bharmour after refuelling their vehicle at Lahal petrol pump. The accident took place 7.5km from Bharmour on Khadamuk-Bharmour road.The SUV rolled down the hill and got stuck on another road below after the driver lost control over the vehicle on a narrow stretch.The ADM said one of the victims died on the spot and three succumbed to injuries at Bharmour civil hospital. Other injured have been shifted to Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College, Chamba.The kin of the deceased have been given immediate relief of ₹10,000 each and injured ₹5,000 each.A case has been registered and investigations are on.Two die, 1 hurt as car falls down gorge in Shimla’s Theog  Two persons were killed and one was injured after their car skidded off the road and fell into a deep gorge in Theog sub-division of Shimla district late on Wednesday, police said.The deceased are Chaman,50, who was driving the car and Attar Singh,54, both residents of Dhamandari village in Theog while the injured is Heera Singh,54, of Kufri.Prima facie the driver lost control over the vehicle while they were on their way from Chaila to Theog. Chaman died on the spot and the other two injured were rushed to a civil hospital from where they were referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, for specialised treatment. Attar Singh died during treatment at the IGMC.Deputy superintendent of police Kulwinder Singh said the bodies will be handed over to the family after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-die-five-hurt-as-suv-rolls-down-gorge-in-chamba/story-KltQy0gHmcAzN226zboweP.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||16 new Covid-19 cases take Mohali’s count to 472||Mohali : A six-year-old girl was among 16 new Covid-19 cases reported in the district on Thursday, taking Mohali’s count to 472.Those infected included four women, aged 45, 43, 40 and 24 years from Sector 66; Sector 125; Jhanjeri and an unspecified location in Mohali, respectively.Five cases from Kharar included two women, 58 and 32, a girl, 6, and a man, 62, from Shivalik City Kharar; and another man, 48, from an unspecified location.Men who had contracted the disease included a 29 -year-old from Phase-1; a 41-year-old from Phase- 4; a 68-year-old from Gillco Towers; and a 57-year-old from Baltana. Two men, aged 47 and 19 years, were from Lalru and the other, a 79-year-old was from Jharmari.Also, seven persons were discharged after recovery; bringing the number of active patients to 169 in district.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said all the patients had been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and were responding well to treatment, he said.At present, the district has 472 confirmed cases, of which 294 have recovered and nine have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/16-new-covid-19-cases-take-mohali-s-count-to-472/story-JkMIJbBttsYDwNKbBEeR0H.html
16-07-2020||City||Covid-19: PUDA restricts public dealing for two weeks from July 20||In view of the rising Covid-19 cases in Mohali, the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA) has restricted public dealing at its office in Sector 62 from July 20 to August 2.Notably, offices of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) also operate from the same premises.In a press statement issued on Thursday, a PUDA spokesman said public dealing will be restricted up to only the Single Window at the ground floor of the building. For public convenience, in addition to the Single Window, another counter will receive complaints and issue receipts on the same floor. No public visits will be permitted beyond the ground floor.In case of the need for an urgent discussion, appointments can be taken through e-mail ID “pudagmada.appointments@gmail.com” with the reason for visit and name of official for meeting. Only people with approved appointments will be allowed to visit the office building, the spokesman said.Considering the rise in Covid-19 cases, the decision to reduce pubic dealing was necessitated, he said, while making an appeal to the public to curtail their visits to the office and cooperate in this time of crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-puda-restricts-public-dealing-for-two-weeks-from-july-20/story-tjgCTJVAzY25soeHvmcUHM.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Unavailability of medication at govt hospital leaves thalassemia patients struggling for survival in Ludhiana||Government hospitals in Ludhiana have run out of essential drugs required by thalassemia patients amid the Covid-19 crisis, which has increased the financial burden on patients’ families.Struggling because of the unavailability of medicines, many patients have written letters to civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, urging the official to re-stock the life saving drugs at the government hospital.In their plea to the civil surgeon, the patients highlighted the exorbitant cost of treatment. On an average, a thalassemia patient spends around Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 on medicines and treatment per month. The availability of the life-saving drug at government hospitals goes a long way in relieving the patients’ financial burden.As many as 300 thalassemia patients are enrolled with the health department. Due to the unavailability of the medicines, families are losing out on their savings, even as patients steadily lose hope of survival.Patients said essential drugs such as Asunra, Desferal and Rocaltrol have been unavailable since the coronavirus outbreak.‘CAN NO LONGER AFFORD TO TAKE THE COMPLETE COURSE’One of the patients wrote, “I have been a thalassemia patient for around 25 years. I am undergoing treatment for the same at a charitable hospital. I need five vials of Desferal daily. As the medicines are very costly, I have not been able to afford to complete the daily course due to which my health is being compromised. I am dependent on my father, a shop keeper. It is difficult for him to spend approximately Rs 50,000 a month on my treatment and medicines. I hope some measure will be taken to provide these medicines as soon as possible.”The parent of a thalassemia patient, who did not wish to be named, said, “A minimum Rs 50,000 to Rs 60,000 is spent each month on treatment. Amid the pandemic, it is not possible to arrange so much money each month. To top it all these lifesaving drugs are not available at government hospitals.”A 30-year-old patient wrote, “I would like to draw your attention towards the non-availability of medicines such as Desferal, Rocaltrol and Defrijet. As I am a thalassemia patient, I need four vials of Desferal daily. My father has passed away and mother is a pensioner. It is very difficult for her to spend approximately Rs 55,000 each month on my treatment and medicines. I hope that some measure will be taken to provide these medicines as soon as possible.”Dr Bagga said blood transfusion officer at the civil hospital Dr Gurinderdeep Singh Grewa was dealing with the issue.Dr Grewal admitted that there was an initial hiccup in the availability of medicines. “But for the last one week medicines have been available,” he said.‘HEALTH DEPT TAKING US FOR A RIDE’However, the patients’ kin say patients registered with the department have not been informed of the availability of medicines.“The health department is taking us for a ride. If the medicine had been available instead of sitting in the civil surgeon’s office, we would be visiting the dispensary at ESI hospital to collect the medicine,” said an exasperated parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unavailability-of-medication-at-govt-hospital-leaves-thalassemia-patients-struggling-for-survival-in-ludhiana/story-D7zVjkQn65zNAMkPHV1ncM.html
16-07-2020||City||BJYM leader, accomplice held with illegal weapons in Ludhiana||An office bearer of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, the youth wing of the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP), and his accomplice were arrested for illegal possession of weapons on Wednesday.The accused have been identified as Sachin Dhingan, the BJYM leader, and Akhilesh Kumar. Both were wanted in a case of kidnapping, assault and robbery and were on the run since July 1. They had kidnapped a travel company owner, stripped him naked and robbed him of Rs 5.3 lakh after brutally assaulting him. The victim said they had even made an objectionable video of him and later dumped him near the vegetable market.Dhingan was arrested from Malerkotla road following a tip-off. He was trying to flee the city in a Maruti Suzuki Baleno Car.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Baljit Singh said a 32-bore pistol and four bullets were recovered from the car. Following this, a case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against the accused at Dehlon police station.After his arrest, police arrested his accomplice Akhilesh Kumar of Begoana village. Kumar tried to flee on seeing the cops but was nabbed. Police recovered a rifle and bullets from his possession too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjym-leader-accomplice-held-with-illegal-weapons/story-57NSsYK4emxKsheXBpxK5H.html
16-07-2020||Lucknow||UP CM calls for concerted strategy for combating Covid-19, communicable diseases||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials on Thursday to prepare a concerted strategy for effectively checking the spread of Covid-19 and communicable diseases. In a meeting with senior officials, the chief minister also called for daily review of the prevailing situation by the nodal officers appointed in different districts, according to an official statement. He stressed that special cleanliness and sanitisation drives should be carried out across districts, and asked officials to ensure proper medical screening and supply of clean potable water. He directed officials to prepare a strategy by establishing coordination between different departments and to ensure its implementation for effectively checking Covid-19 and communicable diseases. Expressing satisfaction that the Covid-19 testing capacity in the state has risen to 48,000 per day, the chief minister said it should be further enhanced to 50,000 per day. He said 30,000-35,000 tests should be done through RT-PCR, 2,000-2,500  through truenet machines and 20,000-25,000 through rapid antigen process every day. The chief minister said there was a need for maintaining alertness in Jhansi, Varanasi, Lucknow, Kanpur city and Prayagraj and taking effective measures for the control of Covid-19 in these districts. He directed for taking all necessary precautions for keeping the police personnel free of infection. He said authorities can consider taking the help of home guards, Prantiya Raksha Dal (PRD) jawans and NCC cadets for assisting the police in Covid-19 containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-calls-for-concerted-strategy-for-combating-covid-19-communicable-diseases/story-KbUwzyuFgWkNbF2OzsleMI.html
16-07-2020||Pune||Covid cases: Discrepancy of over 10k in state and Pune district figures||On Tuesday, July 14, the Maharashtra health department released its daily Covid-19 reporting that Pune district has 23,738 active cases of the 42,092 progressive positive cases reported.Of these, 17,202 have been discharged and 1,152 deaths were reported.However, the Pune district administration in its report released late on Tuesday night, claimed that the district has 13,528 active cases of the 41,000 progressive positives.The number of cases reported by the state and the district administration shows a difference of at least 10,000 cases. With 23,738 active cases, as per the state data, Pune has the second most number of active cases in the state, after Thane. Despite the issue being raised by the district administration in its report on Wednesday, the state health department reported 25,510 active cases in Pune of the 44,000-plus progressive positives. The district office in its Tuesday report claimed that the entire district had 13,528 active cases, including Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) with 9,685 active cases, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) with 2,655 active cases and Pune Rural with 1,188 active cases. The state health department has consistently reported a higher number of deaths and positive cases in Pune district.Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Project said, “The data is picked up from the portal and based on that, the report is made. I will have to look into it.” Dr Abhay Tidke, district surveillance officer, said, “The report is made based on the portal which has to be updated by the government agencies, like civic bodies and district administration. It is possible that it was not updated or maybe it was a technical issue and so the portal could not be updated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/discrepancy-of-over-10k-active-cases-state-and-district-tussle-over-reporting-of-covid19-cases/story-Ss30nB1K6QbG4TO1iefo4K.html
16-07-2020||Pune||Retired scientist succumbs to Covid-19 due to shortage of ventilators in Pune||Pune: P Lakshmi Narsimhan, retired scientist at Botanical Survey of India, aged 61 years, was admitted to Sahyadri hospital for an X-ray and breathlessness. Ramesh Iyer, Pune City Congress committee general secretary said, “I was in contact with the family in their trying times. The patient was admitted at Sahyadri hospital on Tuesday when his situation started deteriorating and the hospital said that he needs to be shifted to a ventilation facility. We tried at multiple places, but could not get a ventilator so finally took him to Sassoon where he was declared dead on Wednesday at 2 am. There was a queue even at Sassoon for ICU beds and three patients were in the queue. I even went on the website provided by the divisional commissioner’s office to check availability of ICU beds. The status revealed that in the majority of hospitals there were no ICU beds available. I am going to lodge a complaint with the divisional commissioner regarding non-availability of ventilators and ICU beds in Sassoon Hospital and shortage of beds in other hospitals.”Dr Sunil Rao, general manager, Sassoon hospital said, “We had no beds. We even tried other hospitals but there were no ICU beds. The patient needed an ICU isolation bed which we did not have and so we had to shift him to another hospital. We did try to stabilise the patient by increasing his oxygen saturation before shifting him out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/retired-scientist-succumbs-to-covid-19-due-to-shortage-of-ventilators-in-pune/story-reo1YONE3HlgR3Neop4LRN.html
16-07-2020||Kolkata||Ramp up testing and identify high infection clusters: Advisory body tells Bengal government||The Global Advisory Body, led by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, has advised the Mamata Banerjee-administration in Bengal to ramp up testing and identify high infection clusters, which could be declared as local containment zones to check the spread of Covid-19.Bengal has witnessed a sharp spike with more than 22,000 Covid-19 cases and nearly 500 deaths being reported in the past one month alone. Till date, the state has recorded 34,427 Covid-19 cases and 1,000 deaths.“To control the spread of the disease, it is very important that the government identifies high-infection clusters and makes them local containment zones. For this to be possible, ramped up testing – using all available methods – is needed,” said the advisory.While on one hand the state government has enforced rigorous lockdown in containment zones after increasing their ambits, testing has also been increased from less than 200 per day in the first week of April to more than 11,000 per day at present.“We would be further increasing the number of tests. Lockdown have been imposed in five towns in north Bengal apart from more than containment areas,” said a senior official in the health department.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had said on Wednesday that cases could spike further over the next two months as testing would be ramped. The positivity rate has also shot up over the past one month from 3.4% on June 17 to 5.3% on July 15.“The youth, local clubs and the community needs to be involved to maintain quality in community health care centres such as the ‘safe homes’. Local youth, NGOs and networking groups comprising former Covid-19 patients need to step in prevent ostracism,” said one of the members of the body.The government has set up around 106 safe houses with more than 6,000 beds where Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms, who do not have enough space in their own house, could be kept in quarantine without going to the hospitals. The GAB was formed by the Mamata Banerjee to advise her government on how to fight the crisis triggered by the viral outbreak. Swarup Sarkar, former regional director of WHO (World Health Organisation); Tom Frieden, ex-CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of the US); Jishnu Das, economist, World Bank; and JVR Prasad Rao, a former union health secretary, are among the other experts. Members have met at elast 13 times through video conferencing.“The chief minister has already asked the local clubs to supervise that everybody wears masks, there is no gathering and no crowding in markets,” said a minister.The advisory body has also asked the government to periodically augment its policies on Covid-19 based on evolving needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/ramp-up-testing-and-identify-high-infection-clusters-advisory-body-tells-bengal-government/story-Iuc39fGYr0P7uK6uc0NCEL.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University’s explorer webinar: Boman Irani provides a master class on learner’s perspective||Chitkara University’s Chitkara College of Education in collaboration with Chitkara International School hosted popular actor Boman Irani. Irani, who wears many hats as a theatre and film actor, voice artist, photographer and teacher, took an online masterclass titled ‘Learner’s perspective: a narrative by an artist extraordinaire.’The masterclass was moderated by Chitkara International School principal Niyati Chitkara. It was helmed with an aim to apprise prospective and in-service teachers of the students’ perspective.Irani, known for his pathbreaking selection of roles such as Virus in 3 Idiots, an austere doctor JC Asthana in Munnabhai MBBS, as a brutally honest news channel head in PK shared his remarkable journey.He shared his learning experiences that could very well become a part of a teacher’s toolkit. Irani spoke about his transformation from a boy with mathematics dyslexia, who would stammer and be nervous around people, into a successful artist and teacher.He shared his mantra of ‘self-worth’ that he used to build his confidence over the years. He emphasised that teaching is like acting and advised the educators to use art and theatrical science during lesson delivery to keep the learners engaged during in-person or online classes. He suggested teachers should add flavours of humour, humanity, identity, empathy and personal experiences during to enhance the overall teaching and learning experience.On being asked by Chitkara University pro-chancellor as to what was his impression of the teaching fraternity after performing iconic teachers’ roles, Irani said he had the greatest love and regard for the teaching fraternity. He added the session was his 100th teaching session since the lockdown began. He has been teaching screen writing to 80 to 85 students everyday as a way of giving back to the film industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-s-explorer-webinar-boman-irani-provides-a-master-class-on-learner-s-perspective/story-nXopFAxWF9MYpgy9NfxARI.html
16-07-2020||Pune||Light rainfall to continue in Pune city till July 21: IMD||The city will continue to receive light rainfall till July 21, although ghat areas continue to witness heavy rains in Pune district, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, on Wednesday.Since the last few days, there is a thick cloud cover over the city, but it has not rained heavily, said, officials. “We are expecting better rainfall in the coming days,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head, IMD.The city recorded a maximum temperature of 28.4 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature of 22.0 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. On Wednesday, Lohegaon recorded 001.0 mm and Pashan, 0.7 mm rainfall.“In spite of light rainfall Pune has witnessed above normal rainfall,” added Kashyapi.Till now Pune has received 262. 2mm rainfall which is above its normal figures (227.4mm), he said.“Mumbai is receiving heavy rains, but Pune district will continue to witness light rain till July 21. The ghat areas in Pune district will continue to receive heavy rainfall,” added KashyapiAcross Maharashtra, there has been moderate rain since many days still most of the districts have received more than normal rainfall.“In Maharashtra except for Akola, Gondia and Nandurbar, every other district has received more rainfall than normal. Even for the entire country, it is a good monsoon,” said Kashyapi.Weather forecast by IMDJuly 16: Moderate rain very likely (isolated heavy to heavy rain in ghat areas)July 17: Light to moderate rain very likely (isolated heavy rain in ghat areas)July 18: Light to moderate rain very likelyJuly 19: Light to moderate rain very likelyJuly 20: Light rain very likelyJuly 21: Light rain very likely||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/light-rainfall-to-continue-in-pune-city-till-july-21-imd/story-PggOxlq3ISqN7AGm9VQPlI.html
16-07-2020||Pune||Pune 4th in nation for CBSE Class 10 results with 98.05 pass percentage||Pune region of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) was ranked fourth among the 16 regions in the country in the Class 10 result, which was declared online on Wednesday.The top three regions include Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai, followed by Bengaluru.The overall passing percentage of Pune is 98.05 per cent and several prominent schools in the city have achieved 100 per cent passing percentage this year.Amongst the toppers in the city, Aadit Shailesh Litake, a student from Sanskriti School, Pune - Bhukum campus scored 99.6 per cent marks.Aadit is a badminton player, a pianist and a winner of the national level music competition. He is the highest scorer in Pune and one of the highest in Western India, he credits his success to his parents and his school, who allowed him to balance studies and his interests together.“I am thankful to my school and teachers, they allowed us to study while ensuring there wasn’t too much pressure,” said Aadit.Another topper, Khanak Patwari from Elpro International School, who scored 99.2 per cent marks, said, “I hadn’t expected to get such high percentage. I am very grateful to my teachers and my family members who constantly supported me throughout the year and always motivated me to work harder, be consistent and optimistic.”“My teachers guided me from time to time, and the regular worksheets and tests helped me prepare for the final exams,” said Patwari.Devyani Mungali, director, Sanskriti School, Pune, said, “Education is a multi-year journey. The outstanding performance is a testament to the partnership between the teachers, parents and students who have worked with patience and faith over several years to enable this success.”Jnana Prabodhini Prashala School also has 100 per cent passing percentage. Gautam Rajhans stood first in the batch and scored 98.6 per cent of marks. A total of 77 students appeared for the exams out of which 64 students scored above 90 per cent.Also, Army Public School, Khadki, achieved 100 per cent passing percentage, while 18 students secured 100 marks in various subjects and 70 students scored above 90 per cent.Aayush Babasaheb More topped in the school with 99 per cent and the second position was secured by Vaishnavi Sunil Salunke with 98.8 per cent.Similarly, at Vikhe Patil Memorial School girls outshined boys in the results this year.“In spite of the Covid-19 crisis during the exams our students have fought all stress and fear and performed well,” said B Mrinalini, principal, Vikhe Patil Memorial School.“Tanvi Kakade secured the first rank with 98.4 per cent in the school. She secured 100 per cent marks in Marathi, Mathematics and Social Science,” said Mrinalini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-4th-in-nation-for-cbse-class-10-results-with-98-05-pass-percentage/story-L41gm2VyZjZaj14Z0MybTJ.html
16-07-2020||Pune||52 people test positive for Covid-19 at shelter home in Sangli||At least 52 people living in a shelter home in Sangli tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, on Wednesday, according to officials of the Sangli city administration.The shelter has been identified as Sawali Beghar Niwara Kendra, Sangli, located in North Shivajinagar.The shelter provides accommodation, sanitation and food to about 71 people. Most of the people living in the facility are senior citizens. While the corporation provides funds, it is run by a local NGO.“Fifty-two people have tested positive, including five staff members,” said Abhijeet Chaudhari, collector of Sangli district.“The challenge is that some of them are mentally deranged. Since it is a closed compound facility, we have declared it as a Covid care centre with a 24*7 medical staff. We are screening them all; if anyone turns serious, they will be sent to Miraj Hospital. The aim is now to prevent mortality,” said Chaudhari.The oldest one who tested positive is a 71-year-old. The family members of the staff members who used to go home every day will also be tested and shifted to institutional quarantine, he said.“The number has crossed 50. Some of the results were inconclusive and 13 were negative,” said Nitin Kadapnis, commissioner, Sangli, Miraj, Kupwad Municipal Corporation.A person living in the shelter who was found positive on July 13 is suspected to be the carrier of the virus that spread among the residents of the shelter, according to Kadapnis.“The person had landed in the shelter a month ago from Walva taluka. He tested positive on July 13,” said Kadapnis.“Swabs of everyone at the shelter were sent for testing. Those who tested negative are being relocated at a government school nearby,” said Kadapnis.Some of the staff members who were running the shelter home also tested positive for the virus.“We are shifting the ones who have tested negative to a nearby school,” said Nitin Dombale, one of the managers of the organisation who tested negative for the virus.The shelter is run under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM) scheme by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India. It is built in a building that served as a school until the school shut down, according to Kadapnis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/52-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-shelter-home-in-sangli/story-rEjS3g70BjxyoUO0pNNecN.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM okays health insurance cover for 9.5 lakh farming families for 2020-21||Punjab CM okays health insurance cover for 9.5 lakh farming families for 2020-21Nearly 5 lakh such families were covered in the previous year under the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima YojanaHT CorrespondentChandigarh: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday gave the go-ahead to bringing 9.5 lakh farmers and their families into the ambit of the health insurance cover under the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana for 2020-21, as against 5 lakh covered in the previous year.The scheme, launched by the state government on Rajiv Gandhi’s birth anniversary on August 20, 2019, with 45 lakh families covered for 2019-20, has proved to be beneficial to people of Punjab during the Covid crisis. The state government has also capped charges for Covid-19 treatment in hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana.The chief minister said that beneficiaries can approach any of the 546 empanelled private hospitals and 208 government hospitals for treatment facility of up to Rs 5 lakh for 1,396 diseases, including surgical treatments such as heart surgery, cancer treatment, joint replacement and accident cases under the health insurance scheme.The number of farmers covered during the first year of the scheme stood at around 5 lakh, as these had been issued J forms in 2015 by the Mandi Board. With 8.7 lakh farmers and 80,000 cane growers now registered with the Mandi Board as J form holders, having sold their agricultural produce on/after January 1, 2020, and from November 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020 sugar season, respectively, the farming families eligible for cover during 2020-21 has now gone up to 9.5 lakh.With the Chief Minister approving their inclusion in the scheme, all 9.5 lakh will be covered with effect from August 20, 2020, according to an official spokesperson.The Mandi Board will pay the entire premium for the insurance cover of all farmers, who will get cashless treatment facility up to Rs 5 lakh per annum. All the eligible farmers having J forms and ‘sugarcane weightment slips’ would be required to submit their duly filled self-declaration, along with the other necessary documents, at the market committee office or with the commission agent (Arhtiya) till July 24, 2020. The chief minister has asked Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh to direct the market committees to facilitate every farmer to avail this cashless treatment facility.ACS, development, Anirudh Tewari said that the Mandi Board has invited applications from eligible farmers to ensure that every farmer is benefitted. The interested farmers can collect the self-declaration form either from the office of market committee or commission agents (arhtiyas) or download the same from the website of the Mandi Board, www.mandiboard.nic.in.The Mandi Board shall upload the data on specially designated portal after receiving applications from farmers and subsequently health insurance cards will be issued to eligible farmers. The scheme is cashless and all ailments that require hospitalisation of more than 24 hours or listed day care procedure are covered under the scheme.Tewari said that besides the family head, husband/wife, father/mother, unmarried children, divorced daughter and her minor children, widowed daughter-in-law and her minor children would be considered eligible to derive benefit under the scheme. Further information can be sought from the toll free no. 104 in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-okays-health-insurance-cover-for-9-5-lakh-farming-families-for-2020-21/story-nvy4FCwW5HcI5x9Jd0L2wI.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rains affect traffic across Mumbai||Traffic across Mumbai was affected as waterlogging was reported from many areas in the city after heavy rains lashed on Thursday morning. Slow traffic movement was reported from various parts of the city, including the Western Express Highway.Madhukar Pandey joint commissioner of police (traffic) said,” Andheri Subway has been shut for vehicular movement due to water logging. Citizens are requested to use alternate route for travelling. King circle too was closed and traffic was diverted via Bhau Daji road towards Sion.”Traffic police said the vehicle movement at Hindmata slip road is closed and traffic is diverted on Hindmata bridge. Traffic is slow at Charchgate junction, Alankar Junction, Khetwadi, Worli naka, Dadar TT, Bandstand, Nana chowk, JJ junction, Mahalaxmi Temple junction, Bhindi Bazar, Bandra railway colony, and Kurla Anand Nagar, S V Road near Andheri, Sainath Subway, SCLR bridge slip road, Linking Road near Bandra, Sakkar Panchayat, and Char rasta near Wadala.On Wednesday, the IMD had issued an ‘orange’ alert for Mumbai region for next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rains-affect-traffic-across-mumbai/story-kKHZVFlh4Ys0dRUp2srEIM.html
16-07-2020||Kolkata||Call me ‘Sir’ and not ‘My Lord’, Calcutta HC Chief Justice to judiciary officers||Calcutta High Court Chief Justice TBN Radhakrishnan has said that he would want to be addressed as ‘Sir’ by all judiciary officers in Bengal and Andaman instead of ‘My Lord’ or ‘Lordship’, as was the practice so far.In a letter to the district judges and chief judges of lower courts in the state and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, High Court Registrar General Rai Chattopadhyay conveyed the message of the chief justice, an official said on Thursday.The chief justice has expressed the desire that “henceforth officers of district judiciary, including members of Registry of the Hon’ble High Court would address the Hon’ble Chief Justice as ‘Sir’ instead of ‘My Lord’ or ‘Lordship’, in conformity with the applicable judicial and administrative precedents”, the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/call-me-sir-and-not-my-lord-calcutta-hc-chief-justice-to-judiciary-officers/story-YmsfpeK4okjPPaX3eaHPPJ.html
16-07-2020||Kolkata||WB Guv says education system in state ‘politically caged’||The education system in West Bengal is “politicaly caged”, an anguished Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Thursday, a day after the vice-chancellors of the state’s 23 universities did not attend a virtual meet called by him to discuss the academic situation amid the Covid-19 outbreak.Dhankhar told a press conference he will seek an explanation from the truant VCs for ignoring his letter calling the meeting. Only one vice chancellor had attended the virtual conference with the governor who is also the chancellor of state universities.Dhankhar told reporters he will also ask the VCs, who were absent, about the academic problems being faced by students because of the outbreak of the disease.“I find there is tightening of this political cage in the education scenario in West Bengal,” he said, apparently referring to most VCs staying away from the meeting.“I wanted to fathom the problems the universities and colleges are facing by calling a virtual meeting of VCs which they opposed tooth and nail for the reasons known to all,” he said.Amid frequent run-ins with the governor, the West Bengal government recently amended the relevant rules relating to the powers of the governor as the chancellor of universities.he new rules have vastly reduced the governor’s role in the functioning of universities.Under the fresh set of rules, all communications between the governor and the universities have to be routed through the higher education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/wb-guv-says-education-system-in-state-politically-caged/story-GhKveMhgNM99OVNtaFwaGJ.html
16-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan ex-minister hits back at Gehlot over horse-trading charges||Former Rajasthan minister Ramesh Meena on Wednesday hit back at Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s allegations about horse-trading and asked him how much money was paid to BSP MLAs who switched over to the Congress in his previous tenure. Earlier in the day, Gehlot talked tough, accusing former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot of being directly involved in the alleged horse-trading with the opposition BJP to bring down his government.Ramesh Meena, who was among those Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) legislators who made the switch to Congress, said: “The chief minister should honestly tell how much money was paid to us when we joined Congress and left the the BSP in the last Congress government.” “He should reveal this if he is claiming that deals worth crores of rupees are happening. We were deceived and promised that our work will be done but that did not happen. But, we worked honestly after joining the Congress and played our role in the Opposition,” he said in a video released by Pilot’s spokesperson.He further alleged that Gehlot did not pay attention to their demands and maintained a dictatorial attitude.Another Congress rebel Murari Lal Meena in a video said, “Today, the way we were accused of corruption, it has shocked us. We are very sad. I would like to ask him (Gehlot) how much money we had taken when we came to the Congress from the BSP during the tenure of his previous government. Those who were honest at the time, how did they become corrupt today?” PTI AG RHL||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-ex-minister-hits-back-at-gehlot-over-horse-trading-charges/story-ZBqXs1WZRpsEa35hbsmR8L.html
16-07-2020||Lucknow||UP CM inaugurates bus stations, calls transport corporation ‘friend in need’||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated and laid foundation stones of several bus stations in districts of the state on Thursday.The Chief Minister said on the occasion, “Officials of the State Road Transport Corporation (SRTC) worked day and night to facilitate the return of migrants and students to their villages during the Covid-19 pandemic.”He also described how the corporation rose to face the challenge of Covid-19.“SRTC is a friend in need,” he added.Recently, Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses were used, among other things, to bring back students stranded in Kota due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-inaugurates-bus-stations-calls-transport-corporation-friend-in-need/story-siDYYLotrsLREduCsgLR7K.html
16-07-2020||Jaipur||With 143 new cases, Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally reaches 26,580||As many as 143 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Rajasthan till 10.30 am today, as per information provided by the State Health Department.According to the health department, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 26,580 including 6,459 active cases and 534 deaths.With the highest single-day spike of 32,695 cases and 606 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 tally on Thursday reached 9,68,876, informed the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The total number of Covid-19 cases includes 3,31,146 active cases, 6,12,815 cured/discharged/migrated and 24,915 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/with-143-new-cases-rajasthan-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-26-580/story-GzFK1z5GiKtm40fGG9ybII.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt taking legal action against large gatherings to prevent Covid-19 spread||Chandigarh: To control the spread of Covid-19, the Punjab government is taking strict legal action against the gathering of five or more people. So far, 81 first information reports (FIRs) have been registered and 120 arrests have been made, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh tweeted on Thursday.“81 FIRs have been registered in cases of large social, political or religious gatherings (gatherings of five or more persons), while 120 persons have been arrested, 117 vehicles challaned and 36 vehicles have been impounded,” the Punjab government tweeted from its official account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-taking-legal-action-against-large-gatherings-to-prevent-covid-19-spread/story-t284jEE9CxwL2lXVpPWKLJ.html
16-07-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal legislative assembly to remain shut till July 24 as employee tests positive||All departments at the West Bengal Legislative Assembly has been shut down completely till July 24 after an employee at the Assembly tested positive for COVID-19.The work at the Assembly will resume from July 27.According to the West Bengal State Health Department till Wednesday evening, 1,589 new COVID-19 positive cases and 20 deaths have been reported in the State on Wednesday.With this, the total number of people infected with COVID-19 rose to 34,427 including 12,747 active cases, 20,680 discharged cases and 1,000 deaths, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-legislative-assembly-to-remain-shut-till-july-24-as-employee-tests-positive/story-JF6a3TI6o8jNIdSFvRXAXI.html
16-07-2020||Delhi||Students rejoice as Delhi Government cancels all state university exams||As news of Delhi Government cancelling all state university exams poured in, students across colleges rejoiced and breathed a sigh of relief. Amid the widespread transmission of coronavirus, students from various universities had been demanding that exams be cancelled. In a tweet, deputy chief minister of Delhi, Manish Sisodia announced: “In light of the major disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic, Delhi govt has decided to cancel all Delhi state university exams including final exams.”  In light of the major disruptions caused by the Coronavirus pandemic, Delhi govt has decided to cancel all Delhi state university exams including final exams https://t.co/g4SFLqaBQKFinal year is the time when students start applying for jobs or give exams for further studies, and were caught in the doldrums as there was no disclosure till now. We speak to some students from GGSIPU on how they think this decision will help them.Joshua Porter, a final year student of BJ(MC) at VIPS (Vivekananda Institute of Professional Studies), feels that this decision has helped quash the uncertainty. “We were stuck in the middle since May, when the exams usually take place. We can now plan to apply for jobs or further studies with ease. There is no pressure,” he says. Aditya Kaushal, final year B.Tech student at MAIT (Maharaja Agrasen Institute of Technology) feels that the whole point of exams needs to be revised. “Companies and employers conduct their own interviews, so I don’t think that exams are a good metric to judge anyone’s capabilities. There is no point in conducting exams just for the sake of it,” he asserts.Md Shahbaz Alam, final year B.Tech student at BVCOE (Bharati Vidyapeeth’s College of Engineering) is of the opinion that either way, there would be some problems and some benefits. “Agar paper hota toh bhi kuch nuksaan hota, agar nahi hai tab bhi thoda nuksaan toh hoga. Offline exams would have posed the threat of contamination, whereas evaluation on past performance and internal exams robs students of a chance at scoring better. If a student scored less in internals due to any reason, then he/she has this chance of improving their overall percentage. But it is for the good that this decision was taken,” he says.As for the option of sitting for online exams, students unanimously agree that those come with their own set of problems. “DU conducted mock tests which turned out to be a failure,” says Projukta Chatterjee, a final year student of BJ(MC) at VIPS, adding, “I welcome this decision, but I would request the authorities to grade us on the basis of our past performance. I studied the whole year as no one knew it would come to this. But then there are students who have backlogs and weren’t quite as meritorious. So there should be fair grading taking these aspects in consideration.”Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/students-rejoice-as-delhi-government-cancels-all-state-university-exams/story-1LmV8gHSrA2hkJba4iGRPK.html
16-07-2020||Bangalore||Dakshina Kannada observes Covid lockdown, relaxation from 8-11 am for essentials||Streets in Mangaluru wore a deserted look as the city woke up to the first morning of the seven-day lockdown on Thursday.The lockdown is being observed after the state government announced it as a necessary step to combat the spread of Covid-19.The week-long total shutdown came into effect in the Karnataka’s Dakshina Kannada district from 8 pm on July 15 till 5 am on July 22.The state government allowed relaxation between 8am to 11 am for purchasing of essential commodities. A slight rush was observed during the hours of the relaxation.Karnataka has so far reported 47,253 positive Covid-19 cases, including 27,859 active cases and 18,466 recoveries.So far, 928 people have lost their lives due to the infectious virus in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/dakshina-kannada-observes-covid-lockdown-relaxation-from-8-11-am-for-essentials/story-HbYeQVlCCWdivyWHtrC36J.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab minister Tript Bajwa’s wife, son test positive for Covid-19||Chandigarh: Two days after Punjab rural development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, 77, tested positive for Covid-19, his wife and son were also found suffering from coronavirus disease on Thursday.“The samples of Bajwa’s wife Rattneshwar Kaur and son were taken on Wednesday and today they tested positive,” Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said.Both are asymptomatic and have been quarantined at home, it is learnt.HAD CHAIRED MEETING WITH RURALDEPT DIRECTOR, WHO TESTED POSITIVEOn July 9, the minister had chaired a meeting of the rural development department where he had come in contact with its director Vipul Ujjwal, who tested positive on July 10. The next day, the minister underwent the RT-PCR test but was found Covid-negative.However, on Tuesday, sources close to Bajwa said he complained of flu-like symptoms following which he was advised to get himself tested again.A day after Bajwa tested positive, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his ministerial colleagues Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Aruna Chaudhary also gave their samples. They tested negative.Three Congress MLAs Parminder Pinki, Kulbir Zeera and Barindermeet Singh Pahra also gave their samples and tested negative.EARLY DETECTION HOLDS KEYDuring Wednesday’s cabinet meeting, Capt Amarinder Singh urged all ministers and officials to get themselves tested.The chief minister said Bajwa, who is admitted in Fortis Hospital, Mohali, was doing well.Capt Amarinder Singh said he had been calling upon people of Punjab to go for testing at the first sign of symptom or suspicion of Covid-19 infection. “Early detection is the way to beat the disease and check fatalities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-minister-tript-bajwa-s-wife-son-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-FsNeFr3eWtPWOy492Zb60I.html
16-07-2020||Lucknow||Govt should take strict action in Guna incident: BSP chief Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Thursday demanded strict action from the government in the Guna incident in which a Dalit couple consumed poison after they were allegedly manhandled by the police during an anti-encroachment drive.“It is very cruel and shameful that in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna, police and administration in the name of an anti-encroachment drive with JCB machine destroyed the crop of a Dalit couple which they have grown by taking a loan and also to make them so helpless that they tried to commit suicide. The nationwide condemnation of this incident is natural. The government should take strict action,” Mayawati tweeted (roughly translated from Hindi).“At one end the BJP propagates that it is settling Dalits, on the other hand, these kinds of incidents are getting common in the same way as it was during the Congress government. Then what is the difference between the two governments, the Dalits should think about this,” she said.Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan late on Wednesday night directed immediate removal of Collector and SP of Guna, after a couple consumed poison allegedly after they were manhandled by police during an anti-encroachment drive in Guna.A State government has also ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident. The incident took place on Tuesday when the police tried to remove people who had encroached land allotted for college in the district.The duo is in a stable condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/govt-should-take-strict-action-in-guna-incident-bsp-chief-mayawati/story-XNvLEiA8ZA8Jwt2KtGjVUI.html
16-07-2020||Bangalore||Sachin Pilot’s future is in Congress only: Veerappa Moily||Former union minister and Senior Congress leader Veerappa Moily on Wednesday said that if at all there is a political future for Sachin Pilot it is in the Congress party.While speaking to ANI, Moily said Sachin Pilot achieved everything by being in Congress party.“Sachin Pilot became MP, union minister in UPA-II, PCC president in Rajasthan and Deputy Chief Minister of Rajasthan. Whatever grievances you have, it needs to be resolved within the forum of the party. There is no hurry for Sachin Pilot. If at all there is a future for him it is in the Congress party. He has to realise that. He says he won’t join BJP, it is good,” Moily said.The former Union Minister Moily further said that Pilot could not become Chief Minister as in Congress, the high command sends an observer and opinion of MLAs is ascertained, be it in Madhya Pradesh or Rajasthan.“The leader who enjoys the support of elected MLAs is made Chief Minister,” Moily said.On July 14, Congress party had sacked Sachin Pilot from the post of Deputy Chief Minister of Rajasthan and also from PCC president.The Rajasthan Congress is in turmoil over the past few days. State Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has blamed the BJP for attempting to destabilise the state government by poaching MLAs. The Congress government in the state is facing a political crisis after simmering differences between Pilot and Ashok Gehlot came out in the open.A controversy broke out in Rajasthan after Special Operation Group (SOG) sent a notice to Pilot to record his statement in the case registered by SOG in the alleged poaching of Congress MLAs in the state. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/sachin-pilot-s-future-is-in-congress-only-veerappa-moily/story-n9RaOl4Ks4RVM2HUSFoP7O.html
16-07-2020||Patna||Covid-19 claims 14 more lives in Bihar; infection tally crosses 20,000||Bihar on Wednesday reported its sharpest rise in Covid-19 deaths with 14 casualties within a span of 24 hours, while 1,320 fresh cases caused the state’s tally to breach the 20,000-mark, according to the state health department.From the villages situated on the outskirts of the state capital, to its posh localities and hallowed precincts of the Patna High Court, the Raj Bhawan and Chief Ministers Residence, people have tested positive everywhere, though the department was tight-lipped on details.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn West Champaran district, Sanjay Jaiswal, the Lok Sabha chief whip of the ruling BJP at the centre and also its Bihar unit president, tested positive along with some close members of his family, a health department official said.Jaiswal is understood to have caught the contagion during his visit last week to the party’s state headquarters here which emerged as a hot spot of sorts on the previous day when 24 people, including party full-timers and employees hired for running errands at the office, had tested positive.With the latest fatalities, the total coronavirus death toll in the state has gone up to 157.Among the fresh casualties, five were reported in Patna district, followed by two each in Gaya and Munger and one each in Aurangabad, Begusarai, Bhagalpur, Nawada and Saran, the department’s bulletin said.Patna accounts for the highest number of 23 fatalities so far, followed by Bhagalpur (13), Darbhanga (10), Gaya (09) and Begusarai, Nalanda and Samastipur (07 each).Patna district was also rattled by 242 fresh cases, which raised its tally to 2,501, the highest in the state, where the aggregate for all 38 districts reached 20,173.Bhagalpur district, which has the second highest tally of 1,134, on Wednesday recorded its biggest single-day spike of 125 cases. Those testing positive included at least six reputed medical practitioners.The terror of the coronavirus was witnessed in the town where the district is headquartered when a middle-aged town visited a medical store to purchase a medicine for his evident breathlessness and collapsed face-down. Onlookers stood frozen for a while and, upon regaining a semblance of composure, tried to resuscitate him by sprinkling water from a distance, fearing that he might be infected.Upon realising that it was too late they informed the police and health officials who reached the spot and kept a watch till the body was taken away in an ambulance. The identity of the man was not known. Health department officials said his sample will be collected before his last rites and sent for testing since shortness of breath is one of several Covid-19 symptoms.Meanwhile, the state was bracing for a 16-day complete lockdown, announced on Tuesday and to be effective from Thursday, which has been clamped in view of the unprecedented spurt in coronavirus cases over the last few weeks.Although 13,533 people have recovered so far across the state, 514 of them in the last 24 hours, the rate of recovery has of late not been able to keep pace with the rising cases.This has caused the state’s recovery rate to plunge to 67.08 per cent, a drop of more than 10 per cent in a fortnight.The number of samples tested after Tuesday was 10,052.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-claims-14-more-lives-in-bihar-infection-tally-crosses-20-000/story-wSwfgw8cliJiFeSlK7U92K.html
16-07-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow bench of Allahabad HC to not function on July 16, 17 due to Covid-19||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court will be closed on Thursday and Friday for sanitisation work in view of a rapid increase in Covid-19 cases here, according to an official order.It said judicial as well as administrative section of the Lucknow bench will not function for the next two days. “There shall be no physical/e-filing of fresh cases on July 16-17,” the order read. “The rapid increase in positive cases of Covid-19 in the city has necessitated immediate adoption of measures to ensure proper sanitisation of the court campus,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-bench-of-allahabad-hc-to-not-function-on-july-16-17-due-to-covid-19/story-lcHxCOjwoc3tc7pSRHmVIO.html
16-07-2020||Ranchi||41% of Jharkhand’s total Covid cases reported in first two weeks of July||In the ongoing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, Jharkhand has entered into another turbulent phase of case explosion in the first two weeks of July, which witnessed 41% of the state’s total cases.In this month’s first two weeks, the state reported 1,756 cases. The period also saw 21 deaths that took the toll to 36.July’s second week, however, has felt the maximum turmoil as the number of cases detected was double the cases discovered in the first week. While 566 cases were detected between July 1-7, 1,190 cases were reported between July 8-14.Besides, the positivity rate of the disease, which is the number of samples found positive out of the total samples tested, also increased in the period to 3.7%, thereby meaning that of the 100 samples tested during this period, an average of 3.7 people were found infected.The period also saw pandemic hitting almost every section of the society and even reached the corridors of power, infecting lawmakers, government officials, doctors, police personnel, journalists and others.The maximum spread of infection in this phase was felt in city and town areas as districts with a sizeable urban population remained the worst-affected.The top five worst hit districts are East Singhbhum (with its headquarters in Jamshedpur), Ranchi, Dhanbad, Koderma and Hazaribag, which reported 309, 272, 139, 130 and 108 new cases respectively in the last two weeks. Ranchi registered the maximum 122% growth as cases jumped to 494 on July 14 from 222 on June 30.The steep surge in number of cases in urban pockets, however, has created a panic, especially after chief minister Hemant Soren and his entire staff went into home quarantine following his contact with an infected minister.Another alarming development came on July 12, when the state reported nine deaths due to the pandemic.According to health experts, the situation can worsen if people don’t start following all preventive protocols and guidelines. “Many people are still violating the norms. Some even don’t use masks. A majority of population has not downloaded the Aarogya Setu App,” said Dr Rakesh Dayal, state nodal officer of the integrated disease surveillance programm (IDSP).Former head of medicine department of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Ranchi, Dr RK Jha said, “Prevention is the only key to keep a check on the spread of pandemic. We have to prepare ourselves mentally as we are in it for a long haul. We have to understand the importance of using masks, maintaining social distancing, using sanitizer and washing hands frequently.”In order to put a break on spread of the disease, several district administrations have been taking stricter measures and passed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Some districts have also clamped complete lockdown for a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/41-of-state-s-total-covid-cases-reported-in-first-two-weeks-of-july/story-wn3NRr7Waoh2i27f4P3U9I.html
16-07-2020||Patna||20 staffers test positive for coronavirus at Bihar Governor’s house||Around 20 members tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday at the Bihar Governor, Phagu Chauhan’s house in Patna, state officials informed.Earlier on the same day, Bihar BJP state president and Lok Sabha MP from Bettiah, Sanjay Jaiswal, his wife and mother also tested positive for coronavirus after several BJP leaders from the party headquarters in Patna were diagnosed positive for the virus.As per data from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Bihar now has a total of 19,284 positive Covid cases, including 6,261 active cases and 12,849 Recoveries.So far, 174 lives have been claimed by the infectious virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/20-staffers-test-positive-for-coronavirus-at-bihar-governor-s-house/story-yvoECBJKgDGIilmg5qsrvI.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||IMD issued red alert for Mumbai and coastal Maharashtra||In the wake of the heavy downpour in Mumbai and coastal Maharashtra, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday upgraded the warning status from orange to red, a special bulletin on the city’s rain said on Wednesday. The city has been witnessing heavy rains since Tuesday night, resulting in water logging in many areas. Red alert has been issued for Mumbai, R K Jenamani, scientist with the National Weather Forecasting Centre, said. The bulletin said scattered “heavy to very heavy rainfall” with isolated “extremely heavy falls” are very likely to occur over Mumbai city, Thane, Raigad and Ratnagiri districts during the next 18 hours. The bulletin added that due to the heavy rains, inundation of low-lying areas is expected. The rains could also lead to disruption in electricity and water supply, local traffic and road transport. Until 8.30 a.m., Dadar had recorded 15.9 centimetres of rainfall; Parel 13.2 cms; Colaba 12.9 cms; Worli 11.7 cms; Santacruz 10.6 cms; Santacruz 6.3 cms; Borivali 10.1 cms, as per the bulletin. From 8.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m., Santacruz received 6.3 centimetres of rainfall; Bandra 9.5 cms; Colaba 1.2 cms; Mahalakshmi 5.3 cms; Ram Mandir (western railway) 6.3 cms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-issued-red-alert-for-city-and-coastal-maharashtra/story-sQKqPgCui0JyGFfw0awDgK.html
16-07-2020||City||Rohtak’s Ajay beats all odds to score 98.6% marks in CBSE Class 10 exams||Scoring 98.6% marks in CBSE Class 10 exams was more than tough for Rohtak’s Ajay Kumar amid bereavement and financial hardships, which he faced at a tender age of 15. Nevertheless, the student of Meham’s Maharaja Agrasen Public School secured a centum in math and social science, bagged 95 marks in science but missed out on a perfect hundred in English and Hindi by one mark each. Ajay’s mother lost a long battle with a heart disease in April. His father Surender Kumar runs a retail shop in their native Behlba village to feed a family of five. “This is a tribute to my mother,” Ajay said, while recalling how during her final days, she encouraged him to study harder and score above 95%. “These results have given my family a reason to smile after so long. I want to opt for non-medical in Class 11 in order to become an engineer,” he added. Talking about how his father and grandparents motivated him, Ajay said, “My success would be meaningless without my 72-year-old grandmother, who took extra care of me after my mother’s demise.” His father said Ajay showed an extraordinary strength while coping with grief. “I am hardly earning Rs 400 to Rs 500 per day and facing a financial crunch. But my son has made me proud and given us a chance to cheer. He was very stressed during his exams as his mother was hospitalised,” he added. About his success mantra, the 15-year-old said, “A dialogue from movie 3 Idiots became a part of my life. I believed ‘all is well’ and worked so hard that hurdles couldn’t stop me from achieving my goal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtak-s-ajay-beats-all-odds-to-score-98-6-marks-in-cbse-class-10-exams/story-ewQbaU1OCqRrBfB8iHpXJO.html
16-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The masks of Chawri||You probably won’t spot such a wide range of quirky and cheap masks in online shopping sites. Neither in the upscale Khan Market, where a front lane store has put up a poster proclaiming “fashion masks available here.” At least you won’t see the masks strung together so casually in such great many numbers along a dusty footpath. Every second piece here is claiming for attention with its playful eccentricity. There’s one mask printed with a male model’s face. It looks disconcerting—as if a poor man’s lips were violently torn off from his mouth and pasted onto the fabric. While the one with a very animated Mickey Mouse seems so alive that you expect it to jump at you any moment now. Another is printed with a cartoon of one of those red double deckers that ply through London roads. A few masks are, of course, more predictable, dotted with conventional flower prints. Some are totally plain in shades of blue and grey.In short, you will be spoilt for choices if it is masks you’re after. This morning, the stall in Old Delhi’s Chawri Bazaar is so over-crowded with them that it is natural to feel that these masks might have been here for a long time, long before the arrival of the coronavirus pandemic that made this face wear a necessity.“Our stall is older than 50 years,” informs Brijendra Jain. In his 20s, the masked hawker informs that it was founded by his father, Ugar Sen Jain, who is now retired and stays at home. The unnamed establishment began keeping masks only recently though. Until the disruption caused by the pandemic, it would mostly sell gamcha, the classic all-purpose scarves especially popular, he says, among the area’s labourers and rickshaw pullers to wipe their sweaty faces and arms.Indeed, a good number of colourful cotton gamchas are arranged at one end of the stall. They are looking quite pretty and on their own, would have been easily noticeable. For the moment, however, the masks are hogging all the limelight.“Our masks are bought by all kinds of people... from working class men who sleep on the Chawri Bazaar streets, to rich men driving on their scooters and bikes,” says Mr Jain, who commutes daily from Lakshmi Nagar on his bicycle.The family originally lived in nearby Chandni Chowk “but some years back we moved out from the Walled City to Lakshmi Nagar... so much peace there.”It’s morning and Mr Jain is still awaiting his first customer. “I get the masks from a wholesale supplier in Sadar Bazaar.” He reveals that the masks were selling briskly until a few days ago “but now their popularity seems to be coming down.”As a matter of fact, a few of the many labourers milling about in the area are bare faced.Mr Jain isn’t sure how long he will continue to stock masks, “but as of now they still are the best-sellers.... the gamchas have fallen behind in the race.”It is true that Delhi started taking to masks a few years ago, prompted by an alarming increase in pollution in the foggy winter seasons, but they were not such a common sight until this March. That the mask has percolated down to the street level proves that it is now truly part of our everyday.Mr Jain’s masks range from ₹5 to ₹50. The stall opens daily from 9am to 6pm. Trials aren’t allowed for obvious reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-masks-of-chawri/story-RFiKzzw0ra8foGUX49h6fP.html
16-07-2020||City||Highest single-day spike in Panchkula||In a highest single-day spike in Panchkula, 24 persons including six ITBP personnel tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total tally in the district to 179.Six of the 24 residents are men, including three 20-year-olds and three 30-year-olds who tested positive at an ITBP camp in Bhanu, Panchkula.“This is the first positive case in ITBP, Bhanu. The patients are being taken care of by the ITBP,” said a senior health officer.Seven women all in the age group of 18 to 38 years were tested from Ashiyana, Industrial Area, Sector 19. “It is a congested area and recently a 15-year-old tested positive here. All the women are contacts of previously infected patients,” the officer said.Four cases tested positive in Barwala—24-year-old man, a 25-year-old woman, a 15-year-old girl and a 31-year-old man. Their source was also traced to a previous patient.Rest of the cases are from other sectors. A 44-year-old woman tested positive in Sector 7, a 61-year-old man in Sector 9, a 48-year-old in Sector 20, a 38-year-old man from Nada Sahib, and a 27-year-old woman from Railly. A 24-year-old woman from Sector 24 and a 23-year-old from Sector 15 also tested positive.Apart from these, three men, including a 64-year-old from Punjab, and a 78-year-old and a 30-year-old from Chandigarh also tested positive in Panchkula.So far, 13,613 samples have been taken for testing, out of which the reports of 369 persons are awaited.A total of 245 persons have tested positive, out of which 179 are from Panchkula and 66 from other states. Out of 179, 121 have been cured and discharged. One has died and 57 are active cases. Apart from these, 758 persons have been quarantined at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/highest-single-day-spike-in-panchkula/story-WcKOHss0V2euTVH9vWrOQL.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha success in CBSE Class 10 exams||While the number of top scorers has dipped considerably across the country, city schools got several high scorers in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams for Class 10, results of which were declared on Wednesday morning.The Pune region, which consists of schools in Maharashtra, Goa, Daman-Diu and Dadra Nagar Haveli, stood fourth, with a success rate of 98.05%. Maharashtra recorded a success rate of 98.16% this year. The overall success rate of all schools across the country was 91.46%, a rise of 0.36% points compared to 2019. Across the country, more than 1.84 lakh students scored 90% and above, while more than 41,000 students scored 95% and above. This is a dip of 18% and 27%, respectively, compared to 2019. All exams were held in the state this year, as they got over before the Covid-19 outbreak. While the ICSE board cancelled six papers, SSC cancelled the last Geography paper. Students from the ICSE and SSC were marked on their average of other subjects and their internal scores in the cancelled papers.J Mohanty, principal, DPS Nerul, said the class average of the school went up to 93.3% from 91.5% in 2019. “We are happy that 83% of the students who took exams from our school scored 90% and above in their exams. We have four students scoring 99% and above. It is really a good result,” he said. “Students of most schools have done very well. CBSE has managed to work on the results well and students don’t have much to complain about,” said Jose Kurian, regional director (western zone II), DAV Public Schools.Suman Samarth, school head at RN Podar School in Santacruz, said the school saw a large number of top scorers. “Of the 297 students who took the exam, 206 students scored 90% and above and 130 students scored 95% and above,” she said. Schools said the overall scores of students dropped in science paper. Seema Maindiratta, principal, DAV Kharghar, said, “Many students who have otherwise scored very well have got low scores in science exam. We do not know the reason.” In the school, 56 of the 169 students scored 90% and above. Kala Gangadharan, principal of Rajhans Vidyalaya in Andheri, said, “We too had similar cases of students scoring lower than expectations in science.” Like in case of CBSE’s Class 12 results, students had trouble accessing the results, as the website remained down. This year, the board has also decided to replace the term ‘fail’ by ‘essential repeat’. Father dies on day of exam, teenager scores 81.2%Atharva Joshi’s mother is proud that the 16-year-old scored 81.2%. For, his father passed away suddenly on the day of his social sciences exam. After the test, he performed the last rites of his father.“On the morning of the exam, my husband’s pulse had gone down. He had suffered a heart attack. My first thought was Atharva’s exams. He was brave to understand the situation. I am proud of my son’s achievement,” said Sunila Joshi. Atharva is a student of Lokpuram Public School, Thane. “I will pursue arts as I want to take up animation.” 3 cheers for this familyThe excitement at the Kumar household in Andheri was three times the usual. The 15-year-old triplets, Sparsh, Yash and Harsh Kumar, scored 97.2%, 96.2% and 92.4%, respectively in the Class 10 board. “We’ve always studied together and most of our interests also match. We love sports and regularly play football,” said Sparsh. He added that in their free time, while he loves to watch cricket, his brother Yash loves gadgets. While their next step is to excel in Class 12 boards, the brothers want to pursue a degree in engineering. “We’ll decide on the branch of engineering based on our studies over the next two years,” said Sparsh. Despite mother’s illness, teenager scores 91.2%Fifteen-year-old Stuti Wadhwa was running between her school, classes and a hospital since the end of January until her exams began in February this year. Her mother was diagnosed with cancer and within a month, succumbed to the disease. A student of Delhi Public School, Nerul, Stuti scored 91.2% in her board exams. “The situation was very stressful and what hit us hard was that we lost her mother, while Stuti’s exams were on. I’m amazed that she still went ahead and appeared for all remaining exams and managed to score so well,” said Dheeraj Wadhwa, her father. While she had appeared for two exams before her mother passed away, she managed to appear for four other papers later.Visually challenged girl from kharghar scores 95.8%Born visually impaired, Mahek Shaikh, 15, didn’t let it stop her from excelling. A student of DAV International School, Kharghar, Mahek scored 95.8% in her board exams.“I studied regularly and ensured I spent three to four hours studying everyday. All my textbooks were converted into e-books and I used various softwares to listen to the textbook material and study,” said Mahek, who plans to pursue a degree in music .While the English books were converted to eBooks by computer softwares, her mother used to record Hindi book chapters on the phone for Mahek to study. “The support we received from the school helped a lot ,” said her mother, Nazima.(With inputs from Ankita G Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-success-in-cbse-class-10-exams/story-LaUzKvkxyy6hNcyGhQqZLP.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Plans on for FYJC admissions||With the entire application process for First Year Junior Colleges (FYJC) moving online, city colleges are now planning the way ahead to conduct the admission process, following safety norms. “A lot of our staff members stay in the suburbs and in places far from the college. Coming to the college will be tough for them. While we can arrange pick-up and drop facility for them, there is definitely a lot of risk involved,” said Ashok Wadia, principal, Jai Hind college, Churchgate. The college has also started looping in its student council to ensure a smooth admission process. Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal, VG Vaze College, Mulund, said verification of documents can be a major challenge. “On the first day, 800 parents come to us to confirm their admissions and this is not possible this year. We have to find a way to provisionally admit students and check their documents later,” he said. This year, the education department has announced that the entire admission process for FYJC would be online. Students in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region can begin filling Part 1 of their application forms, which consist of basic details, from July 26 on the official website of the deputy directorate- https://mumbai.11thadmission.org.in . From July 16 to 24, the website would allow students to fill mock registration forms to get them acquainted with the system. The process of filling Part 2 of the form would begin after results of SSC exams are declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/plans-on-for-fyjc-admissions/story-nwiSxWxqZE2cOC2CI4qZdI.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Tough task ahead for state board students||With CBSE and ICSE schools in the city seeing a large number of high scorers, getting a spot in some of the most coveted colleges may be tough for state board students. This year, 20% of all Class 10 ICSE students who took their exams from the country scored 90.2% and above. Principals said the government needs to consider some equivalence formula to ensure that state board students do not lose out. “Every year, there is a trend which shows that students from other boards take some of the top spots in prominent colleges across the city. This year, the situation can get worse because scores of students, especially from ICSE and IGCSE, are more than expected,” said the principal of a suburban college. Ashok Wadia, principal, Jai Hind College, said, “The equivalence formula would benefit all students, making the process fair for all.”Some principals also said college preferences of students are likely to change due to the current situation. “Some top scorers might still prefer colleges close to their homes so we cannot anticipate the cut-offs so early,” said Satram Verhani, vice-principal, CHM College, Ulhasnagar. In 2019, the Mumbai divisional board had received nearly 1.85 lakh applications from students for the general admission round. While nearly 1.68 lakh were from the state board, the second highest number of applicants came from ICSE (7,881). The Maharashtra State Youth Congress wrote to state education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Wednesday requesting the government to reserve certain seats in junior colleges for state board students this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tough-task-ahead-for-state-board-students/story-5JcPzeUzie7GLGeo89rbOP.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Fadnavis asks CM to withdraw order to appoint administrators to gram panchayats||Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to withdraw a recent order issued by the rural development department to nominate administrators for 14,000 gram panchayats by chief executive officers of the concerned district council in consultation with the district’s guardian minister.Fadnavis in a letter to Thackeray said, “This is a completely motivated decision aimed at gaining political upper hand during a pandemic. Nearly 50% gram panchayats will complete their tenure and will go for elections in November this year. The nomination of political administrators is a bid to squash the democratic tradition of local self-government in villages.”He also said that most sarpanchs were against this decision and that the Akhil Bharatiya Sarpanch Parishad, an organisation of village chiefs, had even said they would move court against the July 13 government resolution.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, the state election commission (SEC) had postponed elections to gram panchayats, whose terms ended or will end between March and November, to end of the year. Of the 28,000 gram panchayats, around 14,000 panchayats are slated for polls. However, the SEC had recommended appointment of administrators on these bodies till the polls. While these elections are not contested on a party symbol, elected gram panchayats are linked to political parties. In the last round of gram panchayat polls in 2017, when 3,131-odd bodies went to polls, BJP had claimed an upper hand though Congress had challenged those claims. In the upcoming polls, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) parties will try to corner BJP to take control of these bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fadnavis-asks-cm-to-withdraw-order-to-appoint-administrators-to-gram-panchayats/story-IjRafdTJa5nJfAX6J6N6fN.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||CBSE Class 10 results: Chandigarh government schools continue to improve results||The government schools of Chandigarh have continued to improve their score for the second consecutive year in the Central Board of School education (CBSE) Class 10 examination results this year.In the results declared on Wednesday, a total of 8,541 government school students successfully marked a pass percentage of 77.18. Students from 93 government high and senior secondary schools appeared in the CBSE Class 10 exams this year.Among those who appeared in the exams, 41 students secured above 90% marks. The pass percentage improved by 1.91% this year in comparison to the performance of government schools in the previous academic year.The pass percentage of government schools in 2019 was 75.27%; a jump of 26.76 % was witnessed from the previous year. In 2017-18, only 48.51% of the students had managed to pass.VIJETA OF GMSSS-22 OVERALL TOPPERWith a score of 96.8%, Vijeta, a student of GMSSS-22A stood first in Class 10 among students of government schools in Chandigarh. She is followed by Gaurika, a student of GMSSS-16, who scored 96.6% marks.Moreover, of the total 93 government high schools and senior secondary schools in the city, five schools—GMSSS-16, GGMSSS-18, GMSSS-21, GMSSS-33 and GMSSS-37B—have given 100% results this year. Also, 26 schools have managed to score 90% or above pass percentage this year.Many schools located on the city’s outskirts have managed to achieve good results this year including GSSS-Khuda Lahora with 90% pass percentage and GMHS-Khuda Jassu with 95.38% pass percentage.According to CBSE, 76.07% of the boys studying in the city’s government schools passed, while the pass percentage of girls was 78.21% this year.Moreover, 6,473 students have appeared from independent schools of Chandigarh and they have managed to get 96.82 pass percentage while JNV in Chandigarh managed to get 100% result this year.WHAT WORKEDDirector school education, Chandigarh, Rubinderjeet Brar, said, “The improvement in the score of government schools is due to increased supervision by senior officials of the department. Many new recruitments in government schools have been made in the last year and teachers have been timely promoted. The introduction of the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) has helped us as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbse-class-10-results-chandigarh-government-schools-continue-to-improve-results/story-iqs9JHbekiFJGnJByld0UN.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||DRI seizes 635kg cannabis worth ₹1 crore||Mumbai zonal Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) officials with the help of their Nagpur unit seized 635kg of cannabis worth nearly ₹1 crore from a tempo and arrested three people in Nagpur on Wednesday. Investigations revealed that the consignment was being smuggled from Odisha and was set to be delivered either in Pune or Mumbai.Acting on inputs, DRI officials intercepted the tempo which was escorted by another vehicle in which the accused were seated.The three accused — Ishwar Jalinder Disale, Kiran Balu Sathe and Maruti Rajendra Jare — were moving ahead of the tempo to look for nakabandi so that they could timely divert the route.The three arrested accused claimed they were involved in the racket for monetary gains. However, they did not reveal much information about the kingpin. They have been booked under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and were remanded in judicial custody till July 29 by a Nagpur court.“We are shocked how a group involved in drug smuggling was moving freely from one state to another during lockdown. This is not possible without influence. We are probing how they managed to pass through various police checks,” said an official part of the investigation.Another official said they have recently seen an unusual trend of rise in instances of cannabis smuggling. Pune customs, too, seized huge quantity of cannabis recently. Anti-narcotics agencies are looking into this trend and checking if the rise in demands of cannabis is due to unavailability of other drugs due to lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dri-seizes-635kg-cannabis-worth-1-crore/story-kt7ctHMX4h7V5nFr4OAvNM.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Students can submit caste certificate in six months||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday declared to give six-month time to students to submit caste certificate to get admissions in professional courses under Maratha reservation quota. Students enrolling for admissions are required to submit caste validity certificate within a specific period. However, due Covid-19 outbreak the students are facing difficulties in obtaining the certificate, the state decided to extend the period to six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-can-submit-caste-certificate-in-six-months/story-KOsdhSEV7AlJ7ZrZd1su9K.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Man booked for abusing CM, Aaditya on Twitter||The Mumbai Police have registered a case against a person for posting derogatory remarks on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his son and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray and energy minister Nitin Raut on Twitter.The accused, Nagpur resident Sameet Thakkar, on June 1, June 30 and July 1, tweeted objectionable posts about Thackerays and Raut. In one such tweet Thakkar called Uddhav ‘Aurangzeb’ and Aaditya (his) ‘Penguin beta’, states the complaint.The objectionable posts shared by Thakkar, who has over 42,700 followers on the microblogging site, were viewed, liked and shared by thousands of Twitterati. Many prominent political figures, including @narendramodi, follow him on the site.However, Mumbai-based advocate Dharmendra Mishra, who is also legal consultant for Shiv Sena, saw the posts and registered a complaint against Thakkar with the VP Road police station on July 13.Another 21-year-old city-based woman also approached the police with a similar complaint saying she found Thakkar’s posts vulgar and obscene. The police recorded her statement and incorporated it in the first information report (FIR) filed against Thakkar.Mishra said, “There has to be some limit while you use your democratic rights to criticise someone. You cannot simply abuse anyone publicly, using foul and vulgar language. I had informed Thakkar to stop posting such derogatory content about respected political figures. But he didn’t stop and continued doing so. Hence, I lodged a complaint against him.”When contacted, Thakkar said, “I have just used strong language which is not unconstitutional in any manner. If my posts were abusive why has Twitter not taken them down? I just used my democratic rights to criticise the government. When VP Road police officers contacted me I told them that I would be able to visit the police station later as the lockdown is in effect and I sent my statement to the commissioner of police and DCP through email.”The police have booked Thakkar under sections 292 (obscene acts or words in public), 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code and 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act. Police are further investigating the case and are collecting electronic evidences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-booked-for-abusing-cm-aaditya-on-twitter/story-kzWiYoHTxjMSdCO4qC0mvM.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Home minister seeks ban on release of Muhammad: The Messenger of God||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has written a letter to Union minister of electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad demanding ban on digital release of the film Muhammad: The Messenger of God. Deshmukh said the movie, which is scheduled to be released on July 21, may hurt sentiments of a particular community.“The movie, if released on scheduled date, will be considered an attempt to blasphemy by a particular community and can potentially disturb religious sentiments. The film is likely to create religious tension leading to law and order problems in the country. Using the powers under section 69A of the Information Technology Act, we request you to block/suspend those digital platforms on which the movie is being released. You are also requested to issue instructions/directions to all digital platforms including YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, Telegram, WhatsApp to ban the release of the film,” the letter stated.The move comes after the home minister received a complaint from Raza Academy.Saeed Noori, president of Raza Academy, said, “The film was scheduled to be released in 2015 in theatres, but after we raised the objection, the release was stopped. Now it is set to be released on OTT (over-the-top media service), to which we have strongly objected. It is an Iranian film and is against the teachings of our religion. Projection of Prophet is not allowed in Muslim religion. It could lead to the religious tension.”Maharashtra Cyber department, too, has written a separate letter to the senior director of the ministry to halt the release of the movie.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/home-minister-seeks-ban-on-release-of-muhammad-the-messenger-of-god/story-6kL3eAVgZ3I5yCJaai2yWL.html
16-07-2020||City||Realtor, aides open fire outside Ludhiana gangster’s house in retaliation||Three days after gangster Ajay Pandit allegedly opened fire outside realtor Sandeep Dhaliwal’s house in Guru Arjun Dev Nagar, the latter retaliated in kind on Tuesday night.According to Pandit’s father, Mulkh Raj, Dhaliwal and his aides opened fire outside his son’s house in Tajpur Road.Raj said Dhaliwal and his aides also threw gasoline bombs at the house and damaged vehicles. He said when he raised the alarm, the accused fled the scene and said they will settle the score with Pandit.Assistant commissioner of police Davinder Chaudhary, said, the matter was being investigated and footage from CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity was being checked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/realtor-aides-open-fire-outside-ludhiana-gangster-s-house-in-retaliation/story-LukgdQXENg8aU5zu2DAN4M.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||AAP starts campaign against high power bills||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Maharashtra, on Wednesday launched a campaign against consumers receiving high electricity bills. The party launched a website - hisaabdo.com - which will enable consumers to file complaints. It also has a ‘bill calculator’ for consumers to compare their bills with the tariff in Delhi.Ranga Rachure, AAP Maharashtra convenor, said, “We will hold the discoms accountable. We demand that the consumption of up to 200 units of electricity be made free for residential consumers.” Earlier, the Maharashtra Navirman Sena demanded 50% discount in bills, while the Janata Dal (Secular), Maharashtra, has also demanded that residential consumers with 300 units usage should be exempted from paying their bills.Power consumers across Maharashtra have received high bills in June. Discoms have, however, maintained that the bills are high as actual meter reading was suspended in March-end, and consumers were being charged based on the average in December, January and February. When meter-reading was initiated in June, consumers were sent bills as per their actual usage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aap-starts-campaign-against-high-power-bills/story-P6p0r6Vttq1ZzFRlAS4zUP.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||SC: No interim stay on Maratha quota in PG medical admissions||In a relief for the Maratha community as well as the Maharashtra government, the Supreme Court on Wednesday did not grant interim stay on reservation benefits while taking admission to postgraduate medical courses for this academic year.The Apex court also decided to hold hearing on day-to-day basis from July 27 on petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the law granting reservation to the community.The three-judge bench led by Justice L Nageswara Rao heard a batch of petitions, including one challenging reservation benefits to postgraduate medical students from the Maratha community in admission for this academic year.The court said hearings of the matter through physical appearance is not possible considering the pandemic outbreak and asked all parties to start virtual hearings. It added that the hearings will take place on July 27, 28 and 29 and both the parties will get equal time to make arguments. The court also asked them not to repeat their arguments.This came after senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for one of the petitioners, said that such matters need to be heard in a physical court arguing that around 12% to 13% seats have already been reserved for the quota. Another advocate, Shivaji Jadhav, told the court that virtual hearing is not possible considering the compilation of thousands of pages of matter in the case.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing an intervener supporting the reservation, said the hearings can be completed in four weeks. Public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan, who is heading a cabinet sub-committee to review progress of legal matters for Maratha reservation and take decisions, said it is a relief for the students as the Apex court again refused to grant a stay on the law for reservation.“The petitioners have been insisting for interim stay on reservation benefits to postgraduate medical students from the Maratha community which the apex court has refused to grant. It is a satisfactory development for the state as the students who got admissions under reservation will not have to face trouble,” Chavan said.During regular hearings, senior counsels Mukul Rohatgi and Paramjit Singh Patwalia will appear on behalf of the state while senior counsels such as Kapil Sibbal and Rafiq Dada will argue in favour of intervener supporting the reservation The erstwhile BJP-led state government, in November 2018, granted 16% reservation to Maratha community, by enacting the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, in government jobs and education. In June 2019, the Bombay high court upheld he move but said the quantum of 16% reservation was not justifiable, and suggested that it be reduced to 12%-13% as recommended by the State Backward Classes Commission.Later, the decision was challenged in the Supreme Court. On February 5, the SC, while hearing a bunch of petitions against Maratha reservation, refused to stay the high court order.Recently, the state government reduced the quota to 12% for students from the Maratha community for junior college admissions from this academic year. The decision was taken following the order issued by the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sc-no-interim-stay-on-maratha-quota-in-pg-medical-admissions/story-oBoGv8telApnZQc09bDSbN.html
16-07-2020||City||Ludhiana cops get pulse oximeters while healthcare workers decry lack of proper face masks||When it comes to fighting the battle against Covid-19, two government departments in Ludhiana stand in stark contrast from each other.While government healthcare workers have been protesting for amenities as basic as face masks while dealing with Covid-19 patients, the police department has arranged for special health kits for their personnel.With a number of cops in the district contracting the infection and the virus even claiming the life of ACP Anil Kohli on April 18, the police department has provided pulse oximeters to police personnel to keep a check on the blood oxygen levels of.A pulse oximeter is a small device, attached painlessly to the fingertip, to monitor the amount of oxygen carried in the body within a few seconds. It also measures the pulse rate.As the novel coronavirus attacks the respiratory system, a drop in the body’s oxygen level can help diagnose infection in lungs, even if the patient is not facing breathlessness. This can enable prompt anti-viral medication and minimise spread of infection.The police department has also been randomly testing its force, and has so far distributed prophylactic medicine worth nearly Rs 5 lakh among cops.On the other hand, healthcare workers have held at least two protests, claiming poor quality of masks and mistreatment towards infected workers admitted at the Ludhiana civil hospital.“The pulse oximeters have been given to the cops, who tested positive previously and particularly those who are in home quarantine with mild symptoms,” said commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal.“If the oximeter detects their oxygen level lower than 95%, they have been directed to call authorities concerned for hospitalisation,” the commissioner added.“So far, 55 cops have been infected. While 27 have recovered, 28 are still under treatment,” he said.Besides providing them free kits, the police officials are conducting interaction and counselling sessions with the infected policemen to boost their morale.On his part, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, “Even with limited resources, we are trying to provide the best of facilities to our employees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-cops-get-pulse-oximeters-while-healthcare-workers-decry-lack-of-proper-face-masks/story-lbm11TBRRyUbBIHTSH4ObO.html
16-07-2020||City||Four more succumb to Covid-19, Ludhiana district’s death toll reaches 39||District’s death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 39 on Wednesday with four more patients succumbing to the virus.The deceased include a 68-year-old man, who lives near Bharat Nagar Chowk. He died at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). The other patients – a 60-year-old man from Surjit Colony, a 60-year-old man from Railway Colony and 42-year-old man from Bal Singh Nagar, Basti Jodhewal – died at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. According to health officials, all patients were suffering from comorbidities.CASES RISE TO 1,569 The district also confirmed 61 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count of positive patients to 1,569.The fresh cases include a DSP, four cops from Mullanpur police station and a computer operator at Moti Nagar police station.Besides five healthcare workers, including one from Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), have also contracted the infection.Of the total 1,569 cases, 1,160 people have recovered and completed the post-discharge quarantine period. The district now has 370 active cases, while 39 have died.Two dead from other districtsA 53-year-old woman from Nawanshahr died in Mohandai Oswal Hospital, while a 61-year-old man from Jalandhar died at CMCH on Wednesday. Both patients had multiple ailments, said health officials||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-more-succumb-to-covid-19-ludhiana-district-s-death-toll-reaches-39/story-xJcIgCeN1JPXiWHHkC76UI.html
16-07-2020||Delhi||National Centre for Disease Control asks Delhi HC for more time to file sero survey report||The National Centre for Disease Control, has filed an affidavit in the Delhi High Court seeking more time to file a report on the results and analysis of antibody testing, also called sero surveillance, stating that the “exercise has to be done methodically and is a time consuming process”.The NCDC said that imposing timeline for the declaration of the results of these studies will lead to a compromise in the quality of analysis and can have a detrimental impact on the evidence based results so as expected to be obtained through such sero survey studies.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage It also said that considering the importance of sero survey study, it has total 12 parameters to be studied for 21387 samples collected from 11 districts across the city which is a huge time consuming exercise. It also said that scientific study results will be mathematically assessed with international studies on the SARS Covid-2 while also adding that the interpretation of the study results would require scientific expert review before finalisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/national-centre-for-disease-control-asks-delhi-hc-for-more-time-to-file-sero-survey-report/story-jGEjkkM4b11yV26GG0IeTN.html
16-07-2020||City||Palghar lynching case: CID files 2 charge sheets||The Maharashtra criminal investigation department (CID) on Wednesday filed two charge sheets in the April 16 Palghar lynching case. Rumour mongering led to the murders of the three people — two monks and their driver — and it had no religious angle, said CID sources.The two charge sheets, around 12,000 pages in total, name 252 accused arrested including 11 juveniles who are lodged at Bhiwandi children’s remand home.Earlier, five police personnel, including Kasa police in-charge assistant inspector Anandrao Kale, sub-inspector Sudhir Katare and three others, were suspended while 35 police personnel (the entire Kasa police staff) were transferred to other police stations in Palghar police district. On May 7, home minister Anil Deshmukh had sent Gaurav Singh, the then SP of Palghar, on compulsory leave.Meanwhile, additional sessions judge of Dahanu DH Keluskar on Tuesday rejected the bail plea of 25 accused arrested in connection with the case.Satish Maneshinde, special public prosecutor, said, the 25 accused had applied for bail on technical grounds, which was rejected by the Dahanu court. He added that he had opposed the plea saying the prosecution has ‘multiple evidences’ against the 25 accused. Maneshinde said the accused were present at the spot during the incident as per the call data records (CDRs) and other technical evidence. So far more than 150 accused have been arrested by Kasa police in the case, which is now being investigated by the state CID.On April 16, two monks Kalpavrishka Giri Maharaj, 70 and Sushil Giri Maharaj, 35; and driver Nilesh Telgade, 30, were going from Kandivli to Surat. Near Gadchinchale, a mob of 500 tribals stopped their vehicle and lynched the trio to death, mistaking them to be kidney smugglers. A case was registered against more than 150 accused including five main accused— Jairam Bhavar, 25; Mahesh Sitaram Ravte, 19; Ganesh Devji Rao, 31; Ramdas Rupji Asare, 27; and Sunil Somji Ravte, 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-cid-files-2-charge-sheets/story-QRcBDoLkm9OVON0lj42PLL.html
16-07-2020||City||Ludhiana deputy mayor files complaint against mayor for ‘misbehaving’ with her husband||Upset over mayor Balkar Sandhu allegedly misbehaving with her husband, deputy mayor Sarabjeet Kaur has submitted a complaint against the mayor with Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday.Seeking action against the mayor at party-level, Kaur said that she will not attend any meeting of the municipal corporation till satisfactory action is taken against the mayor.In her complaint, the deputy mayor said that her husband Jarnail Singh Shimlapur, who is block president (Ludhiana South-2), had called up the mayor on July 3 seeking his approval for a file regarding extension to contractual junior engineers (JE) and sub-divisional officers (SDO) working in the bridges and roads department of the MC.“Responding to this, the mayor asked my husband to not interfere in matters pertaining to the city and restrict himself to his ward. This is not acceptable. as my husband also deals with complaints received at my office and he is a senior Congress leader. We are being asked to restrict ourselves to our ward, will the mayor do so too?” she questioned.She has also alleged that she is not allowed to speak in General House meetings of the MC even when the state government has allotted 50% seats to women.A copy of the complaint was forwarded to local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra and Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.The mayor, while refuting the allegations levelled against him, said, “I have already approved the file for which Jarnail called me up. I never misbehaved with him or made any derogatory remarks. The matter pertains to July 3 and I do not know why it is being raised now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-deputy-mayor-files-complaint-against-mayor-for-misbehaving-with-her-husband/story-HImAmnDbrUZWyhSG5TznXO.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||HC denies bail to cop held for kidnapping||An Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court last week rejected a temporary bail application filed by former state service police officer Manoj Prabhakar Lohar who has been convicted for kidnapping for ransom and sentenced to life imprisonment.Lohar had sought temporary bail on health grounds, contending that he is a cancer survivor and that recently he has undergone a heart surgery and the ICD (implantable cardioverter-defibrillator) implantation required follow-up treatment at Mumbai.It was also argued on his behalf that since several persons lodged at Arthur Road jail in Mumbai were found infected with Covid-19, being a heart patient, the former police officer apprehended that he may also be exposed to the deadly virus.The argument, however, failed to impress upon the bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice Shrikant Kulkarni. The judges found the period of follow-up after the heart surgery was already over and a fresh report by jail authorities stated that the petitioner was in sound health condition and leading a normal life.Besides the bench also noted that just three months back, on April 3, 2019, another bench also headed by justice TV Nalawade, has rejected applications filed by Lohar, who was working as additional superintendent of police at Chalisgaon in Jalgaon district, and his purported agent, Dhiraj Yeole, a local resident, for suspension of a substantive sentence handed down to them and grant of bail.Both of them have been convicted last year by Jalgaon sessions court for kidnapping a local politician, Uttamrao Mahajan, the principal of an Ayurvedic medical college at Chalisgaon in June 2009, and demanding a ransom of about ₹60 lakh for his release. Mahajan, according to the prosecution, was detained illegally and let off only after the superintendent of police, Jalgaon intervened in the matter.HC noted that there was no change in circumstances after the order dated April 3, 2019, when the bench headed by justice Nalawade rejected his bail plea saying that releasing them on bail will send a wrong signal to the public at large and such persons need to be kept behind bars so as to send a strong message to others indulging in similar offences.“These days police officers like the accused (Lohar) are virtually acting as leaders of gangs of dacoit,” HC had said in April 3, 2019 order. “It can be said that people fear police like accused more than the dacoits who commit road robberies or housebreakings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-denies-bail-to-cop-held-for-kidnapping/story-nEMK90eLRIvfraAx6U3v3K.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||CM opposes Akola-Khandwa railway project as it requires 160ha forest land||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has opposed a project proposed by the railways ministry to upgrade the 176-km-long Akola-Khandwa railway line, on grounds that it passes through Melghat tiger reserve and requires over 160 hectares (ha) of forest land. Thackeray in a letter to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal and Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar requested them to consider alternative alignment of the railway line outside the tiger reserve as the proposed one would result in long-term detrimental impact on the habitat of tigers and wildlife.The project involves conversion of the metre-gauge line to a broad-gauge line along the stretch.Melghat is among the first nine tiger reserves declared in 1973-74. Home to 35 tigers, it is spread across an area of 2,768.52 square km (sqkm) and is a part of Satpura-Maikal landscape which has the distinction of being one of the global priority tiger conservation landscapes. Thackeray, in his letter, said the proposed project passes through the core critical tiger habitat of the tiger reserve. The proposal includes open cutting of tunnels, which involves cutting and blasting of rocks using heavy machinery and explosives. It also involves realignment away from the existing track to ease sharp curves on 23.48-km of the total 38-km stretch passing through the core area of the reserve. “This amounts to realignment and not just gauge conversion on the existing railway track,” he said.Considering the long-term irreversible impacts of gauge conversion on endangered species like tiger and their habitat, it would be appropriate to focus on alternative alignments which would not only ensure much more space for the wildlife but bring railway connectivity and greater economic developments to hitherto unconnected villages located in Jalgaon-Jamod and Sangrampur talukas (Buldhana district), benefitting almost 100 villages in the vicinity, said the chief minister.The chief minister further pointed out said 13 villages were rehabilitated away from the core area, following which wildlife has substantially increased. “The project would reverse the benefits accrued from rehabilitation and habitat development,” he wrote.The project, which received approval from the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) in January 2017, was challenged before a Central Empowered Committee (CEC) constituted by the Supreme Court. NBWL was then directed to review its decision, given the impact of diverting 160.94 hectares of forest land for the project within the Wan Sanctuary of Melghat tiger reserve.Following this, NBWL revoked permission for the project in February 2019, citing the National Tiger Conservation Authority’s (NTCA) view that the railway line would run through a tiger reserve, thus impacting sensitive ecology.NBWL is the highest decision-making body of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) on projects involving national parks, sanctuaries and tiger reserves.The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) has also recommended that the best mitigation for the railway line is avoiding upgradation through the tiger reserve and opting for alternative alignments, the CM said. The railway ministry, however, is of the view that the land was owned by the railways before 1980, the year the Forest (Conservation) Act, was passed, and hence the act did not apply to the land as it was under non-forest use prior to 1980. It will not be applicable on doubling of track and gauge conversion projects, the officials said. Prasad Khale, an environmentalist associated with Conservation Action Trust (CAT), who had moved CEC against the project, welcomed the CM’s move and said they would also challenge the project if the railway and environment ministries go ahead with it.“We welcome CM’s decision. I don’t understand why the railway and environment ministries are again pushing it when it was already rejected by CEC, NTCA and NBWL. Even WII has said that changing the alignment is the best possible option. We will definitely challenge if the ministries go ahead with the project,” Khale said.He said that providing corridor to tigers for free movement is more important because if the number of tiger increases only in protected areas and they are not able to move outside then it will lead to more conflicts.Recently, state environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray opposed the Central government’s proposal to conduct coal mining at a site near Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Chandrapur district. He has urged the Union environment minister to withdraw the proposal while flagging concerns that allowing mining activities at the proposed site would harm TATR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-opposes-akola-khandwa-railway-project-as-it-requires-160ha-forest-land/story-aQrAM32zenkRCZq2TDkvgI.html
16-07-2020||City||No containment zones in Ludhiana district now, says DC||In a bid to connect directly with the residents for their queries related to Covid-19 and to educate the masses, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and commissioner of police Rakesh Kumar Agrawal held an interactive Facebook live session “#AskDistrictAdministration”. Both senior officers answered several queries of the residents and also urged them to follow government directions.The deputy commissioner said while the district earlier had three containment and nine micro-containment zones, after reviewing the situation, the containment zone tag was removed from all three areas, while micro-containment zones were limited to seven. The micro-containment zones include Kucha No 5 in Field Ganj, Street No 3 in Vijay Nagar, Blocks B & C in GK Estate, from Lucky Hairdresser to RS Model School in Navi Abadi Khanna, from House No 37 to 76 in Kidwai Nagar, House No 161 to 209 in Janpath Colony near Ayali and from Sohal Building Workshop to Gas Agency in Street No 3 in Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Daba Road.In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, Sharma advised residents not to visit the government offices for any work, and instead submit their applications/complaints/memorandums through email or WhatsApp.Follow quarantine rules’The commissioner of police urged residents coming from foreign countries and other states to strictly follow the government directions on home quarantine. He said two FIRs had been lodged and eight challans issued against people who jumped home quarantine, seven FIRs had been registered against persons who failed to maintain social distancing and indulged in crowding, while more than 28,000 challans had been issued for not wearing face masks in public. “We do not want to take action against any person, so people should follow all government directions. Any person breaking the law will be dealt with strictly,” he warned.He said while lockdown was not a permanent solution in dealing with the pandemic, participation of all stakeholders was necessary to break the chain of infection. He urged residents to report rule violations at police control room number 112.The officials shared that similar Facebook sessions will be held at 7pm on every Wednesday, and urged residents to submit their questions on the official Facebook pages of District Public Relations Office and Commissioner of Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-containment-zones-in-ludhiana-district-now-says-dc/story-P0S0SvHGDjOuo1vKMnntiP.html
16-07-2020||City||Kurukshetra varsity to implement outcome-based education model from coming session||Kurukshetra University has decided to implement outcome-based education (OBE) model to improve the skills of students and fix accountability of the teachers in the coming academic session. Officials claim that KU will be the first varsity in the state to implement such a learning outcome-based curriculum framework in consonance with the requirements of National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) and other national and international accreditation agencies. The decision will bring major changes in the teaching and learning process from the session beginning August-September 2020. OBE is a student-centric teaching and learning methodology in which the course delivery and assessment are planned to achieve stated objectives and outcomes. University’s vice-chancellor (V-C) Nita Khanna said, “It will be a massive exercise to change the syllabus of all 49 on-campus departments and institutes in one go.”“We have taken advantage of the Covid-19 lockdown period to consult various stakeholders such as students, teachers, alumni, and employers. Our faculty has braced itself and we are now ready to launch the new system from the forthcoming session,” she added.The V-C said that OBE generates transparent expectations of the results as students can understand what they expect from their courses while teachers can understand what they need to demonstrate throughout the course. “Even the teachers can structure their classes according to the students’ wishes by reading transparently what needs to be done,” she added.The V-C said that instructors will analyse the results a student has accomplished and in which area they are upgraded to analyse the talent and provide individual assistance and direction to meet their demands. Brajesh Sawhney, director public relations, Kurukshetra University, said this model will help in improving the professional skills of students.He said the main motive behind the move is to improve students’ teamwork capabilities besides communication, leadership and time-management skills.He said the methodology will later be extended to colleges affiliated with the university. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kurukshetra-varsity-to-implement-outcome-based-education-model-from-coming-session/story-WWvGVgX3XCY80kR8uogrvK.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Malad builder told to pay back ₹20 lakh to two homebuyers||The Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRera) recently ordered a builder to refund ₹20 lakh paid by two homebuyers as a booking amount for a flat, four years ago.The complainants, Sumit and Ashutosh Mukherjee, had on July 1, 2016 booked a residential flat in Malad for ₹2.23 crore and made a payment of a token amount of ₹20 lakh to Rajsanket Realty Limited. However, despite cancelling the deal within 40 days — August 10, 2016 — the builder kept on delaying the refund claiming he would do so only after the said flat got sold.The Mukherjees then approached MahaRera, which ruled that the builder must refund the entire amount to them.According to Advocate Shilpa Nagori, who represented the complainants, the order is significant as “the order is very clear that builders can no longer keep the buyers’ amount after cancellation of the order and must refund it”.The complaints contended that after cancelling the booking, they resorted to various means like emails, letters and even a legal notice asking the builder to refund their amount, all of which were neglected by the firm. The firm, Rajsanket Realty, during the hearing expressed willingness to refund the amount but only when finding a new buyer for the said flat, and said that this would take time. The further added that they would refund the amount after 5% deduction. This was mentioned earlier on September 2, 2017 when the Mukherjees had given them a legal notice.MahaRera, in its order, said that based on its September 2, 2017 submission, “There was sufficient time for the respondent to sell out the said flat to new buyer and refund the amount to the complainants as promised. However, due to such act of omission on the part of the respondent, the complainants were compelled to wait for refund for such an unreasonable period and they had to approach MahaRera.” “In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances of this case, MahaRera directs the respondent to refund the full amount paid by the complainants without any interest.”Builders often exploit homebuyers by forfeiting or deducting a huge amount in cases of cancellation of bookings. The buyer, in order to avoid legal hassles, used to accept whatever amount was refunded to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/malad-builder-told-to-pay-back-20-lakh-to-two-homebuyers/story-W6DfTJ1KyVoJep5YKaS1sM.html
16-07-2020||Delhi||NGT raps Haryana over unscientific dumping of municipal waste in Palwal||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday rapped the Haryana administration over unscientific dumping of municipal waste in Palwal district and warned that coercive measures may be taken against those responsible for the lapses and failures.The tribunal said mere proposed steps are not a valid defence to the “criminal” failure of the authorities.It said “there appears to be apathy and lack of realisation of duties in dealing with the matter without a sense of urgency.” A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said there is the failure of the local and state authorities in discharging their statutory and constitutional obligation of ensuring clean environment and complying with binding directions of the tribunal.The green panel directed the additional chief secretary of urban development to ensure compliance of Municipal Solid Management Rules and warned of coercive measures, including direction for prosecution and stoppage of salary, in case of failure.“Mere proposed steps are not a valid defence to the criminal failure of the authorities when stringent punishments are contemplated under the law for such failure as there is continued damage to public health by such failure. “There appears to be apathy and lack of realisation of duties in dealing with the matter without a sense of urgency and allowing damage to the environment and public health. It is disappointing to see such lapses and failures,” the bench said.The tribunal said that if there is any constraint of funds, the same can be recovered from the people contributing the waste but waste management has to be promptly ensured.“The authorities are trustees of the people for this management and their incompetence should not result in damage to public health as is happening in the present case. Their accountability has to be fixed.,” it said. The tribunal had earlier sought time-bound action plan with regard to scientific disposal of existing waste lying at the site.The NGT was hearing a plea filed by Palwal-based SND Public School against illegal dumping of municipal waste by the municipal council on common land in Meghpur village in the district which is marked for grazing.The plea has sought an immediate stay on dumping of waste and removal of dumped garbage from the common land in order to prevent pollution to the adjacent pond and groundwater.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ngt-raps-haryana-over-unscientific-dumping-of-municipal-waste-in-palwal/story-uq3ItWYndAKrxiDlV6KofL.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mobile seized from 194-kg heroin haul accused in Amritsar jail||Central Jail officials have recovered a mobile phone from Ankush Kapoor, a key accused in the 194-kg heroin haul from a house in the Sultanwind area of Amritsar in January this year. “During routine checking at Chakki number 9, we recovered a mobile phone of OPPO company from Ankush Kapoor’s possession,” said assistant jail superintendent Mangal Singh, in his complaint to the Islamabad police of Amritsar commissionerate. The accused has been lodged in the central jail for over six months.  For the heroin haul, a Punjab Police Special Task Force (STF) carried out an operation on the disclosure of one Sukhbir Singh, alias Happy, who was arrested with 6kg heroin in Mohali. After raiding the house in Amritsar, police arrested five other accused — Ankush Kapoor of Queens Road, Amritsar, a local linchpin of the racket, Arman Basharmal of Afghanistan, Sukhwinder Singh, Major Singh and Tamanna Gupta of Amritsar. The Afghan national was called to Amritsar for “refining and increasing” the volume of the heroin by using chemicals.Later, police had said Ankush was running the racket in Amritsar at the behest of the racket’s alleged kingpin Simranjit Singh Sandhu, who was recently arrested in Italy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mobile-seized-from-194-kg-heroin-haul-accused-in-amritsar-jail/story-PON9DRQlGRLvbZ1D8AEwqJ.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH awaits MCI guidelines for conducting MBBS exam||Officials at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, are awaiting the Medical Council of India’s guidelines to take a final call on conducting MBBS examinations for this session.This comes days after Panjab University (PU), to which GMCH is affiliated, has decided to request the University Grants Commission (UGC) to review the decision on final semester examinations because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The institute is in favour of conducting examinations and it is a must for professional courses. In case there are two different thoughts on the matter, we will go by the directions of the Medical Council of India,” Dr BS Chavan, director-cum-principal of the college said.He added that the examination for MD and MS courses were also conducted ensuring social distancing and safety norms, and after taking due permission of the Chandigarh administration.“A lot of space was used, but we successfully conducted the examinations. We can do the same for MBBS courses as well,” he said.At PU’s syndicate meeting on July 14, after debating for hours, the members unanimously resolved that conducting examinations in the current situation would not be safe for students as well as staffers. It was, therefore, decided that UGC will be requested to review their decision.The Union ministry of human resource and development had said on July 6 that the final year examinations in the universities will be held in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmch-awaits-mci-guidelines-for-conducting-mbbs-exam/story-gVMEo81I4DOlQjZbgIPIxL.html
16-07-2020||City||Newspaper vendors deliver fruits and vegetables in Thane||With most societies not permitting newspaper delivery till date, the Thane Newspaper Sellers Association has now tied up with farmers through a mobile app to provide fruits and vegetables across the city.After a 10-day trial run, the vendors started regular deliveries, and every day, they receive around 40 to 50 orders. “The residents can order through the mobile application. Based on orders, we get the packages delivered to us early in the morning. After delivering newspapers, the vendors collect parcels of their areas and get them delivered. There are very few who handle the packages, making it safer,” said Datta Ghadge, chairman, Thane Newspaper Sellers Association. Customers are charged ₹20 per delivery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/newspaper-vendors-deliver-fruits-and-vegetables-in-thane/story-FVZiU93TKBFahas4Y69AVI.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Book Cong MLA misusing Central ration: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday asked chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to order the registration of a criminal case against a Congress legislator who had stocked central ration meant for distribution among the poor in a Jalandhar hotel, besides officials who had allowed Congressmen to indulge in a multi-thousand crore central ration scam.Senior SAD leader and spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said party president Sukhbir Singh Badal had written a letter to the PM recently demanding a central probe into large scale embezzlement and wrongful distribution of central ration meant for 1.4 crore people during the COVID-19 lockdown.“He said the chief minister should also hand over the case for investigation to the CBI or any other central agency as it is clear that Congress leaders have been misappropriating wheat and pulses sent by the centre to the state.” Cheema claimed that the Jalandhar legislator had admitted that he had kept the ration in a hotel||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/book-cong-mla-misusing-central-ration-sad/story-LYR0LncwZ25creSug0vScI.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sanction to prosecute: CBI court directs Chandigarh DIG to submit reply in 2017 graft case involving ex-SHO Kaur||The special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has directed the deputy inspector general (DIG) of Chandigarh Police to submit a reply by July 17 regarding “sanction to prosecute” suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur in the 2017 bribery case.Kaur is also an accused in a recent ₹5 lakh graft case, following which she was suspended and removed as Manimajra SHO. She has been evading arrest since then.In October 2017, a trap was laid by CBI on the complaint of financier Prem Singh Bisht, who had alleged that sub-inspector (SI) Mohan Singh of Sector 31 police station had demanded ₹9 lakh from him to withdraw names of his employees from an attempt to murder FIR.Bisht had alleged that the SI had told him that the ₹8 lakh were for SHO Jaswinder Kaur and ₹1 lakh for him. The CBI had arrested the SI while accepting ₹2 lakh bribe, and the case was closed against Kaur as the agency could not find any evidence to implicate her.However, in the CBI court, the complainant had said that he was taken to SHO Kaur by SI Mohan Singh at Old Car Bazaar in Hallo Majra, where a meeting had taken place and SHO had demanded money.In 2019, Bisht had moved an application to declare SHO Jaswinder Kaur an accused in the case. In February 2020, he had moved another application in the court stating that he was being pressured by the SHO.Taking cognizance of the applications, the court had directed CBI to place before the sanctioning authority (SSP, Chandigarh) all evidence so that the authority could apply its own mind whether to give sanction for prosecution or not.Five months on, Bisht on Wednesday moved another application in CBI court “for taking consideration with regard to deemed sanction against accused Jaswinder Kaur” as laid down in Supreme Court judgement. He said that the case was awaiting sanction and that a decision had not been taken yet.Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge of the CBI court, has issued a notice to the investigation agency and sought its reply on the same application and has also sought a reply from DIG, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sanction-to-prosecute-cbi-court-directs-chandigarh-dig-to-submit-reply-in-2017-graft-case-involving-ex-sho-kaur/story-SInBD2sxPXOHI1kHn9Qo6L.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab plans staggered procurement of paddy, may not use rice mills for storage||With no signs of end to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Punjab food and civil supplies department has decided to procure paddy in a staggered manner as it did during the rabi season that ended in June. But the department is wary of using the rice mills as storage points fearing misappropriation of the stock and mixing of recycled rice with freshly shelled grain. “Paddy poses a bigger challenge because the volume of the kharif crop is at least one-third more than wheat. Also, paddy arrives faster in the mandis (grain markets). An average 120 lakh tonnes of wheat arrives in mandis against 180 lakh tonne paddy,” an additional director-rank official said. During the rabi season that ended on June 30, premises of 1,550 rice mills along with 1,870 mandis and procurement centres managed by mandi board were used for wheat procurement. “Even if the entire paddy stock from the previous season is shelled by the beginning of the new season starting October 1, and handed over to the Food Corporation of India (FCI), we have to see if we can use rice mills as storage points. We don’t want to take any chance,” the official said. State food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said procurement of paddy in rice mills is a tricky issue. “We are working out a solution and may use other places for staggering procurement,” he added.STATE ORDERS 5 LAKH GUNNY BALES The department has placed orders for 5 lakh gunny bales (each bale contains 1,000 bags) with the Jute Corporation of India and has paid a sizeable amount in advance. The tentative cost of the gunny bags for the forthcoming season has been pegged at Rs 1,350 crore. “If we do not place orders now, we would not get supply of gunny bags in the middle of procurement. The department raises funds from the banks and later adjusts the same when cash credit limit (CCL) for procurement is received,” Ashu said. Secretary (agriculture) KS Pannu said sowing of the ‘parmal’ variety of paddy in the current kharif season is almost over. “Right now, the transplantation of aromatic premium basmati variety is going on. The ‘parmal’ variety is likely to be sown over 60 lakh acres. The Central Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) has fixed the minimum support price (MSP) of paddy at Rs 1,888 per quintal in the upcoming harvesting season,” Pannu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-plans-staggered-procurement-of-paddy-may-not-use-rice-mills-for-storage/story-FbQ8iUdvvMoKGdfcox8QTI.html
16-07-2020||City||Panchkula region 6th in Class 10 pass percentage; girls outshine boys||The Panchkula region comprising the states of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh has bagged the 6th position in the country in terms of pass percentage at 94.3% in Class 10 Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams, the result of which were declared on Wednesday. The Chandigarh region comprising UT Ladakh, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, is at 9th position with 91.8%. In 2019, when the two regions – Panchkula and Chandigarh – were combined, the pass percentage was 93.7%. This year, both the regions have scored better than the national overall pass percentage (full subjects) of 91.4%. Eight cases of cheating and unfair means were caught from the Panchkula region and seven from the Chandigarh region.The Chandigarh region also recorded higher number of compartments at 7.7% (9,601) over 5.3% (7,872) in the Panchkula region. Just like the Class 12 results, girls continued to perform better in CBSE Class 10 results. In Panchkula region, 97% girls passed against the pass percentage of 93% of boys. In Chandigarh 95% girls passed against 90% of boys. J&K best performerIn the two regions, Jammu and Kashmir scored the maximum pass percentage of 98.3%, followed by Himachal Pradesh 96.9%. Haryana and Punjab got 3rd and 4th positions with 94% and 92.1% respectively. In UT Chandigarh, 86.2% of candidates passes. UT Ladakh had the lowest pass percentage in the region at 86%. KVS top performersIn Panchkula region, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) schools performed better with 99.7 pass percentage. It was followed by Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV) with 98.7%. Then come other independent schools. In Chandigarh region, again KVS were ahead with 99.1% pass percentage, and it was followed by JNV with 98.9 %. Independent schools came at third position with 92.8% and it was followed by 87.9% pass percentage of government-aided institutes. The pass percentage of government schools was 77.3%.Special studentsThe category includes those with blindness, low vision, hard of hearing, cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, mental disability and other impairment. In Panchkula region, 394 such students appeared out of which 90.3% passed. Even in Chandigarh, 355 such students appeared and 93.5% passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-region-6th-in-class-10-pass-percentage-girls-outshine-boys/story-X4wf8RJQpegvvhM28AYZmJ.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||HC dismisses petition to include lawyers in essential service providers||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday dismissed a petition seeking exemption for lawyers and legal service staffers from lockdown restrictions which were imposed to contain the spread of the disease, and seeking directions to include legal services as essential.“In our considered view, no mandatory directions can be issued to the state legislature to include the legal services rendered by advocates into essential services (as contemplated under the Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act, 2017),” said the bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Madhav Jamdar, while rejecting a petition filed by advocate Imran Mohammed Salar Shaikh.Shaikh had moved HC through advocate Kareem Pathan seeking a direction to state authorities to include services rendered by advocates as essential service, and thereby exempt lawyers and their staff from the restrictions imposed in view of nationwide the lockdown.Shaikh had filed the petition after local police stopped him when he was going to Mumbai sessions court on a bike and imposed a fine of ₹500 for violating restriction on movement.Advocate Pathan argued that lawyers all over the country were attending courts for hearing of the matters filed by them even during lockdown, and therefore directions were necessary to exempt lawyers and their staff from lockdown restrictions by including the service rendered by lawyers as essential. He also urged the court to strike down the fine imposed on the petitioner by traffic police.HC, however, expressed its inability to entertain the petition and issue directions saying, “It is within the exclusive domain of the state legislature to legislate as to which services to be included in essential services, keeping in view paramount interest of the community.”The bench has, however, allowed the petitioner to file a comprehensive representation to the state government raising the issues contained in the petition. It has clarified that the dismissal of the petition shall not be construed by the government as an impediment in deciding the representation filed by the petitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-dismisses-petition-to-include-lawyers-in-essential-service-providers/story-Fxvwroee8X0buQhpA4RDDO.html
16-07-2020||City||Patients at Vasai Covid centre complain of irregular meals||The patients at a Covid care centre under Vasai-Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVMC) have complained of being served untimely meals.“My relative, who is also a diabetic, is admitted at the Varun Industries complex, which has been converted into a 1,200-bed Covid care centre. He complained to me that he wasn’t getting timely food. For a diabetic, timely food is very important. Even we are not allowed to send food for him at the centre too,” said Hanif Patel, a resident of Vishwakarma Nagar, Vasai.Jeevdani Trust, Virar, who is responsible for preparing all three meals, have denied the allegations. “Covid patients require timely meals. Hence, we ensure that the food packets are ready on time. The breakfast is ready by 8am, lunch by 11:30am and dinner by 5:30pm. However, the civic body is responsible for delivering the food packets to the centres,” said Pankaj Thakur, vice president of the Jeevdani Trust, Vasai.Avinash Jadhav, Palghar district chief of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), on Tuesday staged a protest against the poor quality of food and unhygienic conditions of the Covid centres in Vasai. They pasted photos of the Covid care centres at the door of the VVMC commissioner, Gangatharan D.“The patients are not served food on time; they are denied of clean warm water and there are many other issues. The commissioner refused to meet the MNS workers, hence we pasted the photos on the door of his office,” Jadhav said.Gangatharan D, the VVMC Commissioner has denied the allegations. “If people have a problem, they can physically see how the VVMC is providing all the facilities at the Covid care centres,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patients-at-vasai-covid-centre-complain-of-irregular-meals/story-fsiEG4rajWfSdNWXQIexhL.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown lag: Haryana speeds up immunisation drive||Haryana was able to fully vaccinate about 50% of the eligible infants under the universal immunisation programme during the Covid-19 lockdown period in April.The state, however, improved on its vaccination percentage in May and June by covering infants who could not be immunised earlier. The universal immunisation programme is a key intervention for protection of children from life-threatening conditions. National Health Mission (NHM) director Prabhjot Singh said about 40,000 to 45,000 infants are fully immunised every month. Full immunisation for infants under the national programme means administering a dose of BCG vaccine, three doses of pentavalent vaccine, three doses of oral polio vaccine and one dose of measles-rubella vaccine before completion of one year of birth. “In April, about 21,956 infants were fully immunised as outreach immunisation sessions in community settings were suspended due to Covid-19 lockdown. About 70% beneficiaries get vaccinated during outreach sessions. However, we were able to continue facility based sessions,” Prabhjot said. He said 41,245 infants were immunised in May despite zero immunisation sessions in containment and buffer zones. Since vaccine administration was more in May as compared to June, data analysis shows that many infants who could not get vaccinated during April sought immunisation services in May, the NHM director said. He said since many beneficiaries migrated to their hometowns, there was a decline in the routine immunisation coverage. Also, people tried to avoid visiting health facilities due to fear of infection and due to the lockdown, many were unable to reach health facilities, he added. Officials said the state has also achieved more than 92% immunisation against the target of 5.75 lakh beneficiaries set by the Centre for 2019-20. We have improved our dropout rate significantly and there has also been a remarkable improvement in availability of vaccines at session sites, they said. The NHM director said during the lockdown, efforts were made to ensure that delivery services are provided without any interruption at both public and private institutions. In non-Covid-19 health facilities, provisions have been made for separate labour, delivery and recovery rooms and isolation ward for delivery and admission of infected mothers, he said. “We are doing entry-point screening of pregnant women presenting in the obstetric unit. Triaging is being done to minimise contact with suspected Covid-19 cases,” he added. Analysis of data of deliveries during Covid-19 lockdown period (March to May 2020) has shown that 95.4% childbirths during the period were institutional deliveries. The percentage of public institutional deliveries during lockdown was 59.4%, while the percentage of private institutional deliveries was 40.6%, the NHM director said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-lag-haryana-speeds-up-immunisation-drive/story-oBujm1Fvj87mfNkfUntDfN.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||CBSE Class-10 exams: 5 students of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula, tied on top in tricity||With five of its students scoring 99%, Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 15, Panchkula, grabbed the top spot in the tricity in the Class 10 examinations conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE).As the results were announced on Wednesday, it emerged that Ashmita Sen Gupta, Bhuvi Kansal, Garima, Parv Aggarwal and Rasleen Kaur, all students of this school, tied for the first position in the tricity, having secured 495 marks out of 500. Two students from the same school have tied for the third position with two other children, at 98.6%.Of 194 students who appeared for the exam from the school, 66 have secured above 95% and 130 above 90%.Gulshan Kaur, principal, said, “It is all due to the efforts of the students and teachers. We focus on holistic growth of children; academic excellence follows.”The second position in the tricity was secured by Vrinda Gupta of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, Chandigarh, with 98.8%. Carrying on the traditionStudents from this Panchkula school have been securing top positions year after year. Inaugurated in 1994, the co-educational school is a constituent institution of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan.In the CBSE Class-12 exams this year, Krisha Sethi was a tied tricity topper in humanities stream.In the Class 10 exams last year, the school bagged three top ranks in the tricity with two of its students securing All India Rank 2 and 3. In 2018 as well, three of its students shared the top rank in the tricity.“Do what you want,” says Ashmita, who is intrigued by social sciences. Parv advises, “Do your best and keep away from social media distractions,” while for Bhuvi, “Staying stress free and being regular in studies” worked. Garima says, “Hardwork is what pays and there are no short cuts to success,” while for Rasleen Kaur, “There is no hard and fast rule to success. Just fall in love with what you do and success will follow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbse-class-10-exams-5-students-of-bhavan-vidyalaya-panchkula-tied-on-top-in-tricity/story-9XEwRpY0uZGnilNJSqOriO.html
16-07-2020||City||Drop in death toll a priority: New NMMC chief||The newly-appointed Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar has said that reduction of fatalities and breaking the chain of infection will be priorities. For this, Covid infrastructure in the city will be upgraded, he said. Bangar also stated that civic employees will be available 24X7 for the people of the city.Bangar who took charge on Tuesday, following which he held a press conference at the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC0 headquarters in CBD Belapur on Wednesday to lay out his plans to fight Covid-19. Navi Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 356 cases and eight deaths, taking the total count to 10,273 cases and 318 deaths.“Our priority is to reduce fatalities and breaking the infection chain. For this, early detection is important, for which the testing infrastructure, both of the government and private bodies, needs to be upgraded and augmented. Based on the results, we will be able to admit patients in various categories of Covid health facilities,” said Bangar.The civic chief said that rapid antigen tests are very crucial for early detection as the results come in 30 mins. “We will start using it immediately as per the ICMR guidelines. It will be used in containment and hotspot areas as well at hospitals. We will also be undertaking facility upgrade in terms of oxygen equipped beds, ICU beds availability of ventilators among other things. The number of beds and ambulances will also be increased,” he saidThe commissioner informed that the pandemic is an emergency work and all NMMC employees will be available 24x7 irrespective of holidays and office hours.Ruling out the shutting of the wholesale APMC market, which has become a Covid hot spot, the civic chief said, “APMC is very important, and breaking the chain of infection there is a major challenge. It can’t be shut down; instead, we will ensure there is no crowding, social distancing is maintained and the norms are strictly followed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drop-in-death-toll-a-priority-new-nmmc-chief/story-dfmJKcLFlsagHmJxst51NO.html
16-07-2020||City||KDMC did not respond to our plaints, offers for help: Activists||Activists in Kalyan and Dombivli have complained about the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation’s (KDMC) lack of response to their complaints and offers of help.Dr Rupinder Murjani, 37, said, “During initial months of the pandemic, we had complained to the civic body about several things, but there was response. There is no rapid response team in the city. Also there is poor communication from the civic body’s side.”Murjani and Alert Citizens Forum (Jagruk Nagrik) have also complained that the civic body’s decision to allow volunteers to carry out ward-level surveys may have come too late.“The idea of doing ward-wise survey was suggested by us long back. The corporators are being involved now. They should have worked earlier and traced all the patients in a ward and curbed the spread,” said Sreeniwas Ghanekar, founder of Alert Citizens Forum.Responding to the criticism, KDMC chief Vijay Suryavanshi said, “Initially, there was need to improve infrastructure and manpower. When we has just 100 cases in the city, we had 3,500 beds at the quarantine centre and also had three Covid hospitals ready to treat patients. We focused on that and managed to form a doctors’ army and also had enough beds to quarantine people. Many of the work took time due to less manpower.” He said that with the help of volunteers, KDMC plans to “aggressively trace” the spread of the infection in Kalyan and Dombivli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-did-not-respond-to-our-plaints-offers-for-help-activists/story-DaKV8GAzhZpy52jchHUEMJ.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||UGC decision on final exams not binding on Maharashtra universities: State||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday took a stand before the Bombay high court (HC), stating that the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) on July 6, instructing universities to hold final-semester examinations by September-end, were not binding on the state or universities in Maharashtra.Under section 12 of the UGC Act, 1956, the commission is bound to consult “universities or other bodies concerned” before taking any steps or decisions for promotion of university education and maintenance of standards of teaching, examination, and research in universities, said the affidavit filed by Dr Dhanaraj Mane, director of higher education, Maharashtra.The term “other bodies concerned” is not defined under the UGC Act but under the current Covid-19 situation, the term will definitely include the disaster management authority or the state government, Mane pointed out, adding that UGC has not consulted either of them or the universities before issuing exam guidelines. “ UGC has not at all consulted the state government while deciding to hold the examinations, and therefore, the decision is ‘void ab-initio’ and not binding on the universities or the state government,” the affidavit adds.The affidavit was filed in reply to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Dhananjay Kulkarni, challenging a government resolution (GR) issued by the higher education department on June 19 to not permit holding of final-semester examinations of professional as well as non-professional courses in Maharashtra.The affidavit states that it was a conscious decision taken in a meeting before the disaster management authority, in the backdrop of the unprecedented situation created by Covid-19 pandemic.Adding that holding final-semester examinations in the current scenario will be highly dangerous for all stakeholders, the affidavit states that after the introduction of the semester pattern, the importance of final examinations has been reduced, as compared to the annual examinations which used to be held earlier.“The semester system has brought about a sea change, in not only the manner in which educational courses are conducted, but also the manner in which the performance of every student is evaluated and assessed,” states the affidavit, adding, “Now, the final-semester examination is like any other semester examination, and does not carry the decisive value which a final-year examination used to carry in the erstwhile education system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ugc-decision-on-final-exams-not-binding-on-maharashtra-universities-state/story-j8Z8y4Kb41ukBA4tC44Q5O.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||75% drop in sales, claim shopkeepers||Shopkeepers in the city, who have opened their establishments after the easing of lockdown last month, have reported at least 60%-75% decline of sales in daily business as compared to pre-lockdown days. A reason behind this fall is that consumers are buying less as they were hit by the long spell of lockdown. According to the Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT), the apex body of traders, there was a significant decrease in the sales. “Our daily business has declined by approximately 60%-75% and it is becoming very difficult to run the show,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, CAMIT.Hindmata market at Dadar, a famous cloth market, which is generally filled with the hustle bustle of shops, shopkeepers and customers, wore a deserted look with barely any footfall. “We hardly get one customer a day,” said Sachin Gala, owner of a well-known cloth store.Consumers say both fear of contagion and monetary issue are impacting their purchase patterns. “There is no work since the past three months. Hence, I am buying only what is essential. In addition, it is not safe to go outside in these trying times, so I prefer buying things online,” said Suzen Nehal who runs a production house at Andheri.As a result of low-sales, shopkeepers are not being able to pay June salaries to their staff. “I paid my staff April and May salary despite zero income. However, I hardly have any income to pay them now,” said Gala.Mitesh Modi, convenor of Lamington Road Traders Association Action Committee (LRTCCA), said travel restrictions have also impacted the business significantly. “People cannot come to various markets like Lamington Road (electronics market) or Lohar Chawl (electrical market) due to restrictions on travel, and hence they are ordering online. This has affected our business,” said Modi. Currently, only around 50% of the shops have opened despite the state government easing restrictions under Mission Begin Again. They cite shortage of staff, permission to open shops only on alternate days as well as restrictions on timings as the reasons behind many not opening shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/75-drop-in-sales-claim-shopkeepers/story-ZdSBX4S43pGQGq9jPLeRfI.html
16-07-2020||City||Kalyan-Dombivli tops in Covid-19 cases in MMR||The twin cities of Kalyan and Dombivli have seen Covid-19 spread rapidly since June when the lockdown was eased. According to the state health department, Kalyan and Dombivli have a total of 16,071cases of Covid-19 and 239 deaths from the infection. These are among the highest numbers of cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).According to the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), there were 870 cases of Covid-19 reported in the twin cities in May and 5,543 cases in June. In the first two weeks of July, KDMC says there have been 7,001 new cases of Covid-19 and on Wednesday, 498 cases were recorded. According to the state health department, 561 new cases of Covid-19 and 15 deaths were recorded in the area. As of now, no data has been released to show which parts are most affected by Covid-19. “The data analysis work is pending as deputy commissioners who handle the administration works are also infected. Around 72 staff members of the civic body are infected,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.However, commissioner of KDMC Dr Vijay Suryavanshi said the spike is not worrying. “The projection made by the state government states the number of cases will increase. The cases will increase when we do more testing. The only point is we need to increase tracing and also address patients on time. For this, we have started to set up war rooms at each of our 10 wards. Also, we have started ward-wise survey through corporators,” he said. At present, KDMC collects around 900 swabs daily for testing, which have to be sent to Mumbai. There is no testing facility in Kalyan. The plan is to increase this number to 1,500 and have tests processed at its own lab at Gauripada in Kalyan (West), which would enable KDMC to carry out 3,000 tests a day. Recently, KDMC started antigen testing at the ward level, having acquired 10,000 kits. In the coming days, 25,000 more kits will be acquired.Activists say KDMC’s response to the outbreak is marked by poor infrastructure and shortage of manpower. Sajitha Nair, a member of Alert Citizens’ Forum (Jagruk Nagrik), said, “The civic body has now taken corporators and volunteers to carry out surveys of all its wards. This should have been done at an early stage. Also, the civic body should have increased beds and testing capacity by May.” Nair said KDMC had also failed to track those quarantined at home, which has led to a rapid spread of infection.Many have complained about lack of beds for Covid-19 patients, delays in receiving test results, difficulty in accessing ambulances and dismal facilities at civic-run hospitals like Bai Rukminibai Hospital in Kalyan and Shastri Nagar General Hospital in Dombivli.“My daughter in-law tested positive, after which she was taken to the Tata Amantra quarantine centre. My son, grandchildren, wife and I were also taken to the centre. They collected our swab on June 28 and the report came on July 6,” said KL Vasankar, who lives in Karpewadi, in Kalyan (East).Sameer Kamble, a resident of Kalyan (East), said, “I lost both my in-laws to Covid-19 in June. We struggled to get my father in-law admitted – I approached four private hospitals when his oxygen levels were dropping. No one admitted him as we did not have a Covid test report. Finally, he was admitted to Shastri Nagar General Hospital. He got tested but we got his report a day after he died on June 9.” Kamble’s mother in-law would later contract the infection and the family struggled to get an ambulance for her. “I called up all the numbers but no ambulance was sent till the last moment. I drove to a Thane hospital and got her admitted there,” said Kamble. His mother in-law eventually succumbed to Covid-19 on June 14 while being treated at a hospital in Dombivli.Suryavanshi admitted to a shortage of beds for Covid-19 patients, but said KDMC plans to tie up with 24 hospitals to increase the number of available beds. “We have managed to get around 4,000 quarantine beds and 780 beds at Covid hospitals in total. The beds will be increased by 1,000, with oxygen support for critical patients. Also, in every ward we plan to have at least 250 beds to treat patients locally and also another 5,000 beds for those with mild symptoms,” said Suryavanshi, adding that medical staff have not responded to calls to join frontline workers. “Making doctors and other staff available to run hospitals was a task as many kept avoiding the job. We are asking people to join, but the response is low. We are outsourcing staff now as we need to improve on manpower,” said Suryavanshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-tops-in-covid-19-cases-in-mmr/story-1Tqn3hplte13boVssO0ePN.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||612 ICU beds in Covid facilities to be handed over to private groups||To decongest and take the load off civic hospitals, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will soon outsource the functioning of 612 intensive care unit (ICU) beds at jumbo Covid facilities to private firms or groups of private doctors, to manage. The civic body will invite firms to run the ICU facilities, by providing full support staff such as ward staff, nurses, supervisors, senior and resident doctors, and specialists. Currently, there is 86% occupancy of ICU beds in the city.There are eight jumbo facilities temporarily set up across Mumbai to handle Covid-19 cases. These centres have 612 ICU beds adding to Mumbai’s total capacity of 1,737. Jumbo facilities were earlier conceptualised and built by BMC as Covid care centres (CCC-1 and CCC-2) to quarantine high-risk contacts and asymptomatic patients. They were then converted into dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC) with oxygen beds, and dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH) with ICU beds.The civic body said that giving control to private firms will help reduce the pressure on hospital staff and decongest ICUs at Sion, Nair, and KEM hospitals. Till July 13, of its total capacity of 1, 737 ICU beds, 1, 510 were occupied and 227 were vacant.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal said, “The pressure on our medical staff has decreased from what it was initially. We are expecting that in another 15 days, we will bring down the vacancy of ICU beds in Sion, KEM, and Nair hospitals by 25%. I have already issued an order that 612 ICU beds in our jumbo facilities will be outsourced to a group of private doctors.”Chahal said that decongesting civic hospitals will help avoid a shortage of medical staff. “If we are able to bring down the bed occupancy in civic-run hospitals to 50%, then there will be no shortage of medical staff in our hospitals,” he added. As of July 13, the total hospital-bed capacity for Covid patients in the city was 22,819, of which 10,200 beds are vacant. BMC has additional 23,945 beds in CCC-2 facilities and 50,077 beds in CCC-1 facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/612-icu-beds-in-covid-facilities-to-be-handed-over-to-private-groups/story-F7oCD8HskbsfURQluu8P2I.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||BEST bus crushes woman to death||A 25-year-old woman, who was going to work on a two-wheeler with her brother, died after their bike slipped on SV Road at Jogeshwari and she came under the wheels of a BEST bus on Tuesday morning. The driver of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus, Chelladurai Koilpillai, 54, was arrested.According to Oshiwara police, the incident took place at around 10.30am near 24 Karat Theatre in Jogeshwari. The deceased has been identified as Femine Shaikh. Her brother, Dilshad Mohammad Anish Shaikh, 18, has sustained minor injuries.Dilshad in his statement said they were going towards Jogeshwari when a car suddenly applied brake in front of their bike, due to which he lost control and skidded on the road. Sheikh was taken to Millat Hospital in Jogeshwari (West) where she was declared dead on arrival. “We have registered a first information report (FIR) under sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code and section 134 (duty of driver in case of accident and injury to a person) of the Motor Vehicles Act against the bus driver and have arrested him. The accused was later released on bail,” said Dayanand Bangar, senior inspector, Oshiwara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-bus-crushes-woman-to-death/story-niX0T8IttH47XmdDyovD8H.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three persons bit by stray dog in Chandigarh’s Sector 22||Three persons including a woman were bitten by a stray dog in Sector 22 on Wednesday.Anju Soni of Sector 22 was on her way to a milk booth near Shishu Niketan School at around 9am when a stray dog attacked her and bit her in the kneepit. She was taken to Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16 for treatment.“This is the second time one of our family members has been bitten. Six months ago, my son was also bitten by a stray. The menace has been continuously increasing in our locality. There are around 15 to 20 strays here. Though children are their frequent targets, even adults fear going out when the dogs are around,” said Rakesh Soni, husband of the victim.Dr Ravinder Kaur, Sector 22 civil hospital in-charge, said two more persons were bitten by a dog in Sector 22, although they couldn’t be identified; in total, 25 persons were bitten on Wednesday from across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-persons-bit-by-stray-dog-in-chandigarh-s-sector-22/story-0RL1JLIzp2Npp4zemKqecM.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||With no income during lockdown, people in slums forced to borrow money for water: Survey||A recent survey conducted in one of the city’s slum areas has revealed a grim effect of the nationwide lockdown imposed in March to curb the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown, which drew most industry to a standstill, has left many jobless, with no income to sustain themselves. In some instances, residents have been forced to take loans even to buy essentials.The survey of 619 people in the slums of Shivaji Nagar in M-East ward, conducted by NGO Apnalaya, reveals that 46.7% of the respondents had no income during the lockdown period. Of this, 70% had to take loans from family and friends to buy basic items like water and rations. Owing to the lockdown, the employment rate among the group has gone down by 33.3%. “Around 12% of the respondents said that they had to borrow money to buy water, and 42% said that they needed a loan to buy rations,” said Raghunandan Hegde, director-impact, Apnalaya. Shivaji Nagar is a patch of slums near the 132-hectare Deonar dumping yard in central Mumbai. It has a population of approximately six lakh people who live in poor hygienic conditions, with no access to healthcare, clean water, and toilets.The report, which was released on Tuesday, reveals that though 51.4% of the respondents were engaged in some kind of paid work before the lockdown, only 34.5% continue to do the work. In June, the NGO undertook surveys of people engaged as casual labourers, domestic help, conservancy workers, or owners of small businesses. Around 29% of the respondents said they are not sure of their future income, and many do not know if they will be able to resume work. “Though Covid-19 is a health crisis, the lockdown and the lack of response have made it into a humanitarian crisis. The informal nature of jobs keeps people in slums not only poor but also away from welfare schemes. Lack of resources has made slum-dwellers vulnerable during the crisis,” said Arun Kumar, CEO, Apnayala. He added that the data could be extrapolated to represent the situation of all slums, which constitute 42% of Mumbai’s population.The survey results reveal that the average income of Shivaji Nagar residents is also very low. While 17% earned less than Rs4,000 before lockdown, the number has now declined to 23%.Though 27.5% earned anywhere between Rs8,000 and Rs10,000 before the lockdown period, the job losses have reduced the number to a mere 4.8% earning the same amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-no-income-during-lockdown-people-in-slums-forced-to-borrow-money-for-water-survey/story-px8fdUIWQQTXbjBCJPBhlK.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Sheena Bora murder case: CBI court denies bail to Indrani Mukerjea||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Wednesday rejected Indrani Mukerjea’s 45-day interim bail plea sought on grounds of spread of Covid-19 in prison. The prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, Mukerjea had written to the special judge in the last week of June, seeking interim bail, claiming she was at “high risk of getting infected with Covid-19 due to her weak health”. The special court has noted that Mukerjea is a foreign national and thus belongs to the category of prisoners which are exempted for grant of interim bail. The court also observed that only due to the spread of Covid-19, Mukerjea should not be granted bail.Mukerjea, however, had contended that she is a permanent resident of Worli and if she is released on bail, she will have better access to the medical facility.The court negated her contention and observed that every day there is a rise in a number of Covid-19 cases. Besides, the court noted that medical officers are available in the jail and prisoners are well taken care of.The prison authority of Byculla jail had in their report submitted that prisoners are regularly given handwash, soap and sodium hydrochloride in jail and other medicines. The special court considered the said report while rejecting Mukerjea’s plea.Mukerjea had claimed she is suffering from “chronic ischemic changes in her brain arteries/vessels” and needs to be under constant care and monitoring. “Given the increasing numbers of Covid-positive cases in the state, there is no certainty as to when there could be a hearing for bail [merits] and/or trial,” read her plea. The CBI however, stated that Mukerjea does not have major health issues that can put her at risk of Covid-19.Further, Mukerjea referred to the minutes of the high-power committee of the Bombay high court (HC), which states that undertrials booked for murder can be granted interim bail owing to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sheena-bora-murder-case-cbi-court-denies-bail-to-indrani-mukerjea/story-9l3cUJoKIYuaFyvyq5x8SP.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||State council to provide data on plasma donations on SBTC website||After the state government encountered cases of illegal sale of blood plasma, the State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC), will now provide the information on blood banks that store plasma on their website. So far, King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel, has submitted data of ten plasma donors to the council.On Monday, state cyber cell in a statement revealed that owing to the paucity of plasma donors, some potential donors reportedly contacted relatives of patients and offered plasma in exchange for lakhs of rupees. To address such issues, SBTC has decided to make a centralised data of donors from all the blood banks.“We have received directives from the National Blood Transfusion Council to compile data of plasma donations, to keep a check on any illegal business during the pandemic. Once we receive data from all blood banks, we will publish it online so that patients in need of convalescent plasma therapy and hospitals can procure the plasma without the involvement of any middleman,” said Dr Arun Thorat, director of SBTC.Individuals infected with Sars-Cov-2— the virus that causes Covid-19 develops antibodies as part of the body’s natural immune response to the foreign pathogen. This antibody invades pathogens and works to eliminate the novel coronavirus in patients. During convalescent plasma therapy, these antibodies are infused into the blood of the Covid-19 patients to help to fight against the virus.Owing to lockdown, several blood banks are faced with acute shortage of staff which is obstructing compilation of data. At KEM Hospital’s blood bank, only 11 of the 19 employees are working currently.“Many of our employees reside in far-off areas like Nallasopara or Vasai who aren’t regularly coming to the hospital. Also, some staffers are quarantined at home after getting exposed to infected patients in their localities. We are struggling with a manpower crunch,” said a blood bank officer from the hospital.At KEM Hospital, ten recovered patients have donated blood for plasma therapy of critically-ill Covid-19 patients. At BYL Nair Hospital and Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, which is also known as Sion Hospital, 70 and 15 cured patients have donated blood.To collect data, SBTC issued a notice on Monday to all the blood banks across the state seeking data of the donors. “So far, we have received data from KEM Hospital, while other blood banks are in the process of compiling data,” said Dr Thorat.Every day, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) receives around 25 calls on their helpline number seeking blood from recovered Covid-19 patients for plasma therapy. “Plasma therapy is given only to patients who are critically ill. But often relatives of Covid-19 patients get concerned and start hunting for blood of cured patients. The scammers take advantage of their fear and try to siphon off money from them,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.On Monday, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) wrote to the state government to make blood donation from cured patients mandatory under the provisions of the Epidemic Act 1897.“To facilitate this procedure, a mandatory undertaking can be secured from all patients to report on the 15th day after the discharge or recovery. Thereafter, they will be tested for fitness to donate blood. A separate plasma bank may be formed for the procedure at every place with the help of blood banks operating in the public and private sectors,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of the IMA of the Maharashtra wing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-council-to-provide-data-on-plasma-donations-on-sbtc-website/story-hLPD6eEPfDuKyVJ9g8aH1O.html
16-07-2020||City||Anhad Gill tops Ludhiana district in CBSE Class 10||With a score of 98.6%, Anhad Gill, a student of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, has topped Ludhiana district in the Class 10 board examinations conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE).Over 12,000 students from the district appeared in the annual board exams held in March. The board declared the results on Wednesday. As per the alternative assessment scheme this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, if a student appeared for more than three subjects before the examinations were cancelled, an average score was calculated based on the three subjects where the student scored highest. For those who appeared in less than three exams, result was calculated based on the marks in the appeared subjects, along with performance in internal/ practical/ project assessment.GIRLS ALL THE WAYIn Ludhiana, girl students outshone boys by clinching all Top 3 positions. Anhad’s schoolmate, Mansa Mahendru bagged the second position by securing 98.4% marks. With 98.2% marks, the third position was shared by three students — Pankhuri Dawar of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar; Anushka Jha of DCM Presidency School; and Gurleen Kaur of Sant Ishar Singh Ji Memorial Public School, Rara Sahib.Topper Anhad scored a perfect 100 in mathematics and social studies, 99 marks in English, 98 marks in Punjabi and 96 marks in science. “I went through various old sample papers to score well in mathematics. I want to thank my teachers, who supported me throughout the year,” she said.Mansa, who came second, scored 100 marks in English and social studies, 99 in mathematics, 97 in Punjabi and 96 in science.The third position holders — Anushka scored 100 marks in mathematics, 99 in English, 98 in social studies and Hindi and 96 in science; Pankhuri got a perfect 100 in social studies, 99 in science, 98 in mathematics and Punjabi and 96 in English; while Gurleen got 100 marks in science and Punjabi, 99 in mathematics, 97 in English and 95 in social studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anhad-gill-tops-ludhiana-district-in-cbse-class-10/story-ZZOuKgxxFDCHHCFG7nFXxI.html
16-07-2020||City||2 killed, 1 injured after car rams into divider||Two men were killed while a woman was injured when a car rammed into a divider and turned turtle on Wednesday early morning, at Mankoli junction in Bhiwandi. The three victims were on their way to Nasik from Mumbai when the driver lost control of the car.The deceased, identified as Vishal Bhoye, 28, was driving the Nashik-registered car along with Amol Wable, 28 in the passenger seat, and Shama Deshmukh, 30, in the rear. According to Bhiwandi police, the three Nashik residents had come to Mumbai for some personal work and were returning home around 1.50am.“Bhoye was driving fast and as it was raining, he lost control of the car, rammed into the divider and turned turtle in the opposite lane. A bus then collided with the vehicle. Bhoye died on the spot and the other two were taken to a nearby hospital, where Wable succumbed to his injuries. We have registered a case against Bhoye under IPC 304 A, for rash driving and causing death. We informed their families on Wednesday morning,” said an officer from Narpoli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-killed-1-injured-after-car-rams-into-divider/story-zsH9ehQ1nOGzLT1AkbkR0L.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Every Covid case is alarming for us: Aaditya Thackeray||Aaditya Thackeray, state environment minister and guardian minister of Mumbai suburbs, elaborates on the city’s preparedness in tackling the Covid-19 situation. Edited excerpts: Mumbai’s Covid numbers show improvement, but is the city doing better? When will it open up?In terms of the pandemic and when it will get over, the World Health Organization (WHO) knows, or ‘who knows?’ It [the virus] is something we are adjusting to. What is important is to have medical buffer beds as we have embarked on Mission Begin Again. Mission Begin Again started four weeks ago. In Mumbai, testing was liberalised one week ago. We have still not seen what we would call a surge in cases. But can we be sure that it will not rise anymore? That is something we cannot predict. It totally depends on how we, as citizens, respond to this virus and take precautions. There have been countries around the world that have opened up and shut down. We don’t want to do that back and forth. Mumbai will open up in a staggered manner. Every step towards opening up will be supported with buffer beds. For example, last week when we increased shop timings to 9am to 7pm, and we allowed hostels to partially open up, we added 3,500 beds and 220 ICU beds to the city’s capacity.What is your assessment of Mumbai’s performance?We have to always be on alert. As the BMC, state, fire brigade and police, response from the administration has been great in terms of identifying the cases, tracing high-risk groups and isolating index patients. On the medical response side, the line of treatment has evolved every week. Like for example, in March, a couple of doctors told me about oxygen intervention that helped us identify susceptible people, so medical practitioners have been working very hard to give it the best shot and save as many lives as is possible. In terms of response from citizens, today we have over one crore people on the road, even as Mumbai is coming out of lockdown in a staggered way. But everyone is wearing masks, everyone is disciplined. People are now settling into the mode of “there will be cases, how do we take precautions?” The response has been very good. If you compare Mumbai to cities around the world which are equally populous, such as New York, Moscow, Sao Paulo, then Mumbai has done better than expected. Today, Mumbai’s doubling rate is 51 days. Our recovery rate is 70%. We have 7,000 empty beds. Last Monday, we liberalised testing, so testing is no longer on the basis of a doctor’s prescription. No one can say Mumbai is not testing enough. Tests have increased from 4,500 to almost 7,000, yet the number of cases in the past three weeks has steadily dropped from 1,400 to 1,200 to 950 on Monday. Ambulances are plenty. Currently, the death rate in hospitals has reduced. Since BMC has begun to inform people they are positive, instead of the earlier practice where labs communicated this to the patient, the panic among people has come down, as they know where to go and what to do if they are positive. We have evolved every week and we have come to understand the virus more in terms of tackling it. You have to understand the enemy when you are fighting it. What will be done to revive the city’s economy once it is completely out of lockdown?It is generally the human spirit that will push the economy to revive. There is one country that did not choose to lockdown at all – I was reading in New York Times the other day – this country has a death rate higher than that of the United States. Their economy contracted by 4%, and their unemployment is at 9%. When you have a high mortality and infection rate, even if you open up, the economy is not going to run. The first thing we have to safeguard is lives.We have to sustain this period. This is not a usual calamity. It is not like a flood or an earthquake, which has come and gone. We are in the middle of a pandemic. Once this is over, we will be supportive of each other as people and as governments to get back on our feet.Now the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) is seeing a high number of Covid cases. Did the government delay in ramping facilities in MMR?Initially, no one knew what the outbreak will be, but now we are able to understand it better. The virus has moved in two ways, from Mumbai’s slums to its high-rises, and from Mumbai to MMR. So in big cities, we are now ramping up capacity. Earlier, everyone thought that whatever capacity these cities had was enough. Nonetheless, the chief minister took a meeting with all new municipal commissioners appointed three weeks ago. Everyone is working in full swing in Navi Mumbai, Thane, Mira-Bhayander, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Badlapur. All guardian ministers have been taking updates every day. I have been speaking to all municipal commissioners every day. What is being done to contain the outbreak in MMR?First of all, we are looking at a bed capacity of 40,000 to 50,000 for all of MMR. In Mumbai today, jumbo facilities have around 20,000 beds. Institutional beds in hospitals are around 8000. Similarly, municipal commissioners in MMR are working. I visited Kalyan and Thane, and I plan to visit Bhiwandi. We have set models in terms of chasing the virus, testing people, and also quarantine facilities. I took [assistant commissioner of the G/North ward] Kiran Dighavkar with me to tell them what the Dharavi model is. So it is these simple things that will help us get ahead of the virus in MMR. All municipal commissioners have been told that first they need to have standard operating procedures in place. I want to ensure there is strict division of work and coordination among all teams. Will the Dharavi or Worli model be relevant in MMR?Yes. Essentially the Dharavi or Worli model, or the Bandra-East or Govandi, or E-ward model, is that BMC has aggressively chased the virus. We have an entire team working on creation of jumbo facilities. Similarly, different teams are working on ramping up hospital beds and procurement of medical equipment. One is a medical response team working on putting together private hospitals, doctors, smaller clinics, and preparing medical response to the virus. And finally, we have a team that is leading the data analytics. That is what is really helping Mumbai. Likewise in MMR also, a lot of cities are now in lockdown, but when we start opening up aspects of life such as shops in Mumbai and offices working at 10% capacity, and manufacturing industries across Maharashtra, it is important to create buffers, control mortality, and analyse data to predict what could happen, where the virus could move, how it could move, what is the most targeted age group. These are questions the whole world is targeting. Population living in MMR or in Mumbai is equal to population of some of the smaller countries in the world.Mumbai’s suburbs have not been doing well. Are interventions working?The first outbreak was in G South ward, which my constituency is part of. Then it moved to Dharavi, then the E ward in Byculla and Mumbadevi, then it moved to Govandi. We have noticed the virus takes about two weeks to grow and move. BMC is going in and taking out high-risk contacts [in suburbs]. We have observed that the higher the number of people we take in as high-risk contacts, the faster we can control the epidemic in any area. That is what all ward officers have been doing. I make it a point to speak to every ward officer every alternate day. I have been telling them, “Don’t be afraid of the numbers. A lower number does not mean a lesser rate of infection, and a higher number does not mean a higher rate of infection. A higher number means you have been successful in identifying so many people. It is a pandemic. About 25% of the population is going to be affected by it.” The success of a ward officer lies in how many cases he can identify, quarantine, isolate and treat. Isn’t Mumbai’s fatality rate at 5.6% alarming for the state?Every case is alarming for us, not just the deaths because our primary job in an epidemic or a pandemic is to safeguard all citizens. In terms of mortality, the first thing we have been doing is chasing the virus. Most deaths are among patients who have come after a week of fever or symptoms, or after ignoring symptoms or self-medicating. I would say, please go to a doctor.On our part, we are chasing the virus. Instead of the patient coming to us, we are going to the patient, we are going to homes, checking oxygen saturation, temperature, for early detection of cases. For line of treatment to keep mortality in check, we have oxygen concentrators of 5 litres and 10 litres, high rising oxygen cannulas, ventilators. Each week, there is a new line of treatment coming out. But we are at the forefront of trying different medicines and being successful at it. Maharashtra has world’s largest blood plasma trial. All of these medicines [remdesivir, tocilizumab, tamiflu and favipiravir] are being used and procured as soon as companies get licence. As we go ahead in time, these will be commonly available. In BMC hospitals, it will be available for free. Last week, companies got permission to manufacture.Is there a shortage of medicines?In BMC hospitals, they are easily available. Maharashtra is getting remdesivir and tocilizumab on a large scale. The only issue has been licensing from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). The chief minister requested the Prime Minister in a video-conference to expedite the licensing process. After that request, the PM expedited it in 24 hours and all companies got licences for them.Will the government focus more on using jumbo Covid facilities as prime centres of Covid care?The CM asked the MMRDA in March to create a jumbo facility because he foresaw that we would fall short of beds because of the number of international passengers we were getting. Jumbo facilities are places where Covid care is most professional. They are facilities designed to handle Covid care at a single site, with contact-less clinics, PPE donning and dropping areas, negative pressure ICUs. These make jumbo facilities better equipped to manage Covid cases. We are creating enough beds in jumbo facilities and hospitals. Going forward, there will be a balance in Covid and non-Covid care at hospitals. Elective surgeries will happen. However, I have requested all non-Covid hospitals to have triage areas. To refuse a patient is not fair. So they should take in a Covid patient if he comes in, give primary care, and send him to a Covid hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/every-covid-case-is-alarming-for-us-aaditya-thackeray/story-Nv0g7DdvWQtT4izAzxEb1K.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||In 15 days, city surpasses July average; heavy rain likely today||Mumbai surpassed its July average for rainfall on Wednesday with 15 days left till the end of the month. Heavy rain with intermittent intense spells on Wednesday led to waterlogging and traffic disruptions at several places.Between July 1 and July 15, the city has received 912.2 millimetres (mm) rain against the month’s average rainfall of 840.7mm. Mumbai has also met 58% of its seasonal rainfall target. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert (heavy rain at isolated areas) for today in Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. Reduction in rain activity is expected from Friday.On Wednesday, IMD issued a red alert till early this morning followed by an orange alert (heavy rain at isolated areas) for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. Over 24 hours – 8:30am on Tuesday to 8:30am Wednesday – south Mumbai recorded 121.6mm rain while the suburbs received 96.6 mm. Maximum rainfall was recorded in Malad (161.6mm), followed by Bandra Kurla Complex (148.6mm), Kandivli (124mm), and Chembur (118.2mm).On Wednesday morning, between 8:30am and 11: 30am, Santacruz weather station, representative of suburban Mumbai, recorded 62mm rain while the Colaba observatory, representing south Mumbai, received 13mm. Between 11.30am and 2.30pm, rain intensity increased in south Mumbai to 39mm, but reduced in the suburbs to 18mm.Neighbourhoods across the city, including Borivli, Kandivli, Dahisar, Bandra, Santacruz, Mahalaxmi and Byculla, saw intense rain, recording between 65 and 85mm rainfall. Waterlogging was reported in many parts of the city. Rain intensity fell drastically from 2.30pm onwards. IMD classifies 15.6-64.4 mm as moderate rain; heavy rain (64.5-115.5 mm); very heavy rain (115.6-204.4 mm); and extremely heavy rain (over 204.5 mm).Between 8.30am and 8.30pm on Wednesday, Mumbai suburbs and south Mumbai recorded 81.2mm and 39.8mm rain respectively.Director general of IMD, Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said, “The wind direction over Mumbai and surrounding areas from strong westerly winds from the Arabian Sea led to intense rain on Wednesday morning. By afternoon, this wind direction changed to easterly for a brief period. This anti-clockwise shift in wind direction will lead to further dense cloud formation, allowing intense showers again. Moderate to heavy showers are expected till Friday.”Independent meteorologists concurred with IMD’s forecast. “Models also indicate a vortex formation near Mumbai late Wednesday night. Rains are likely to pick up going into Thursday morning,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, of Indian Institute of Technology Bombay.Akshay Deoras, meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom, said, “The cut-off from westerly winds (conducive to rainfall) happens whenever a low pressure system comes close to Mumbai. While the wind transition is expected overnight with disruptive spells making a comeback on Thursday, rain may continue with brief breaks through Thursday afternoon and evening as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-15-days-city-surpasses-july-average-heavy-rain-likely-today/story-fUsdzv9szbwjPP1jQj9OxO.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||7 succumb to virus in Haryana, case count mounts to 23,306||Seven patients lost their lives to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday while Haryana recorded 678 new cases, taking the state’s total number of infections to 23,306, said the health bulletin. As on Wednesday evening, Haryana had 5,320 active cases after 577 patients from 17 districts were discharged/recovered. Faridabad logged the maximum active cases (1,036), followed by Gurugram (1,020). At 21, Charkhi Dadri reported the least active cases. While three patients succumbed to the infection in Faridabad district, one each died in Nuh, Panipat, Bhiwani and Gurugram.So far, there have been 110 fatalities in Gurugram and 104 in Faridabad, while the death toll due to Covid-19 has now risen to 319 (234 men, 85 women) in the state.As per the bulletin, 17,667 patients have recovered from the disease. Ever since the pandemic broke out (until Wednesday), the state had tested 4,00,155 people. The health department said 15,785 tests per million were being conducted in Haryana now. The recovery rate has come down to 75.80%, while the number of days in which cases are doubling is static at 21 days. Fresh cases were detected in all 22 districts in the last 24 hours with Faridabad reporting the highest figure — 216. Gurugram saw 82 fresh cases, Sonepat 66, Rohtak 36, Hisar 34, Ambala 33, Fatehabad 31, Palwal 26, Rewari 25, Panchkula 24, Karnal and Nuh 19 each, Kaithal 10, Jhajjar 9, Kurukshetra, Bhiwani and Panipat 8 each, Mahendergarh and Sirsa 7 each, Yamunanagar 4, and Jind and Charkhi Dadri 3 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-succumb-to-virus-in-haryana-case-count-mounts-to-23-306/story-gtSdKI6ceDLdnJab8AoWhJ.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Part of 80-year-old bldg collapses in Grant Road, two injured; 20 families evacuated||Two people were reported injured and around 20 families were evacuated, as a portion of a three-storey 80-year-old dilapidated building collapsed on Wednesday afternoon in Grant Road. According to the Maharashtra Housing and Development Authority (Mhada), the building was a cess dilapidated building, and the residents were already issued a notice for vacating it in 2018.According to the disaster management cell of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the portion of the house wall on the first floor collapsed at around 1pm on Wednesday afternoon in which two residents sustained minor injuries. Mhada officials said they have inspected the site. A call will be taken on whether the building should be completely demolished or be repaired after the experts submit their opinion on Thursday.Anil Rathod, an engineer from Mhada said, “We have inspected the site, and on Thursday architects will inspect the site, post which we will decide whether the complete building should be demolished or the damaged part be repaired. It will depend on the stability of the entire structure which is around 80-year-old. We had issued notice to the society in 2018 for vacating the same, but residents did not.”Rathod added, “There are 16 residential units in the three-storey building and four commercial units in the building having their tenancy. On Wednesday, after the collapse, around 50 residents were probably evacuated. We are offering the residents space in transit camps immediately until the future course on their building is decided. Prima-facie there are no Covid-19 cases in the building, and we are allotting apartments in transit camps to the residents on Thursday morning itself.”The tenants will be given apartments in Magathane and Gorai area, in Borivli transit camps of Mhada. The two injured in the incident are the landlords of the structure and were rushed to HN Reliance Hospital from where they were discharged by Wednesday evening, BMC said in a statement.In south Mumbai, Mhada’s repair and reconstruction board has over 14,000 buildings that are a century-old. Every year Mhada undertakes a structural audit of these structures before monsoon and releases a list of the most dangerous buildings. Last month, the Mhada had announced 18 buildings, including the Esplanade Mansion marking it as ‘most dangerous’ for residing.Meanwhile, a level two fire was reported at Maker Bhavan near Churchgate station on Wednesday at around 4.13am. The fire was reported on the first floor of the building. The fire was extinguished at around 6.48 am, and the exact cause is under investigation. No injuries were reported, according to Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB)..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/part-of-80-year-old-bldg-collapses-in-grant-road-two-injured-20-families-evacuated/story-XYSSz4SCAhUAAEOycWoF8O.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||No weekend curfew for now, Chandigarh admn to go for random Covid-19 testing||Even as the UT administration on Wednesday decided against imposing weekend curfew in the city, it will initiate random testing for checking spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) here. It also ordered complete ban on physical press conferences.Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, in the war room review meeting held here on Wednesday, asked the director of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to collect samples of OPD and emergency patients and conduct random testing.Random testing was suggested by some PGIMER doctors, who were advocating that the move will help in gauging the actual spread of the disease in the city.Justifying the decision, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “Patients from all parts of the city visit PGIMER. It was considered prudent to collect samples from this set of residents rather than from other areas. This would better indicate the spread of the disease without causing inconvenience to city residents.”PGIMER has started tele-OPD. On an average, 1,200-1,500 patients are registered every day in the OPD. Between 600 and 900 patients are examined physically.WEEKEND CURBS STILL ON TABLEEven though the administration has decided against imposing weekend curfew, it is still under consideration. “After taking expert views on the issue, it was unanimously decided that weekend curfew is not warranted as of now, and it may not be the best strategy to contain the spread of the disease,” Parida said.Unlike some other states, including Punjab, the UT administration is favouring micro-containment zones over lockdown of the entire city for restricting the spread of Covid-19.“Instead of city lockdown for shorter periods, we can go for stricter perimeter control in pockets which are reporting higher incidence of cases. But, we have not totally ruled out the weekend curfew or short period lockdown for the entire city. We will again assess the situation next week and take a call on it,” the adviser said.All PHYSICAL PRESS CONFERENCES BANNEDBadnore, in the meeting, ordered for a complete ban on physical press conferences, where there is a risk of infection due to large gatherings. He also appealed to all political parties not to hold any gatherings or functions as these violate the Union home ministry guidelines, which permit only events like weddings and cremations as exceptional cases.Significantly, all social, religious, cultural and other functions are banned, except for marriage and cremation. Gathering of people for any other event is not allowed. Despite this, political parties have been calling press conferences where the head count has been reported to go beyond 50.The senior superintendent of police has been directed to lodge FIRs in case of illegal gathering of any kind in the city.Badnore decided that there should be more vigorous screening, testing and stricter implementation of orders regarding social distancing and wearing of masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-weekend-curfew-for-now-chandigarh-admn-to-go-for-random-covid-19-testing/story-P2fQDOBh9lavY0hXNjhmyN.html
16-07-2020||City||Thane death rate dropped during lockdown, claims civic chief Dr Vipin Sharma||The lockdown imposed in Thane city since July 2 has had a positive impact, claimed Thane municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma, while talking to media persons on Wednesday. The city’s doubling rate has now increased to 23, and the death rate, as per the civic chief, has decreased to 1.5% in July, compared to 3.7% since March.Sharma claimed that the number of cases in some of the hot spots like Mumbra, Lokmanyanagar, and Wagale Estate was also decreasing.He, however, said that there is still no decision on extending the lockdown, and it will depend on the pattern of cases reported in the coming days.“We have managed to reduce the death rate to 1.5% by screening senior citizens and patients with comorbidities. A watch is kept on critical patients to ensure proper medical treatment is provided. We have also increased contract tracing and testing capacity in the city. Till June-end, we conducted 850 tests per day; today 1,700 tests are conducted, which will increase to 3,000 next week with the rapid antigen tests,” said Sharma.Of the total persons tested daily, 30% are positive for Covid, of which merely 5% show any symptoms and need hospitalisation.Sharma added that the survey of people in containment zones has also increased during the two-week lockdown. “We have seen positive results during the two-week lockdown, as cases have decreased in some of the areas; the doubling rate too has increased.”The civic chief added that the decision to extend the lockdown will be taken only after looking at the growth in cases.Payback time for hospitalsWith mounting complaints of private hospitals overcharging patients, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has now formed flying squads to keep a check on private hospitals that are now functioning as Covid hospitals. Dr Sharma informed that the hospitals will have to return the money to patients whom they had overcharged.“We have appointed flying squads to check on each hospital if patients who do not need ICU are admitted there. I have also issued directives to the hospitals to return the money to those patients whom they have overcharged, or action will be taken,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-death-rate-dropped-during-lockdown-claims-civic-chief-dr-vipin-sharma/story-h1KsNAnO6A14IKmUnujnXL.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Community spread cases in Amritsar go up by 174% in a month||The Amritsar district witnessed an increase of 174% in community transmission cases of Covid-19 in the last one month. Also, nearly two-thirds (67%) of the total cases reported in the district during the same period were that of community spread, wherein the patients had no travel history or were those with untraceable sources of infection. One of the worst-affected districts with the coronavirus in Punjab, Amritsar had reported 630 cases till June 15. But in the next 30 days (till July 15), the district added 517 cases, taking the total tally to 1,147.Of the 517 fresh cases in a month, 348 are of community transmission while the remaining are their close contacts. The district also reported 37 deaths due to Covid-19 during the same period.After relaxations in the nationwide lockdown were announced on May 19, it took 17 days (till June 5) for the district to record 100 cases of community transmission and another 10 days (till June 15) to reach 200-mark in the same category of infection. Of the total 840 Covid-19 cases reported in Amritsar since May 19, as many as 548 (around 65%) are of community spread, say health officials.“These community transmission patients were tested in flu corners after they showed symptoms of the disease. Their source of infection could not be traced but the health department and district administration are working hard to contain the further spread of the infection. People are moving in the markets without taking precautionary measures besides disobeying social-distancing norms ,” said Amritsar assistant civil surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh.He added, “We are testing over 800 people in the district daily. People are reluctant to get themselves tested and they are still hiding their symptoms from the health department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-community-spread-cases-in-amritsar-go-up-by-174-in-a-month/story-hVSIR8kHz7MKQJjftPaSnM.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||NIA raids militant Paramjit Pamma’s house in Mohali, questions parents||A team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) searched the family house of Babbar Khalsa militant Paramjit Singh Pamma in Phase 3B2 here for over four hours. The NIA team also questioned his elderly parents, Amrik Singh and Ratan Kaur.Pamma stays in the United Kingdom (UK) and is reportedly working on Refrendum-2020 project of pro-Khalistan ideologue Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, who was declared a terrorist by the Centre recently.The NIA team searched the house and took into possession the passbooks of bank accounts of his parents in which Pamma deposits money. The team also enquired about Pamma’s remittances and details of fixed deposit (FD) accounts.The NIA team from Delhi had nearly six officers who were joined by Punjab Police personnel for assistance. Pamma’s parents said the NIA team came at around 10.30am and searched the house till 4pm, during which they didn’t allow them to talk to anyone. Ratan Kaur said she had met Paramjit in a Portuguese jail in 2015 and had never spoken to her son since.Pamma’s elder brother Parminder Singh alias Raja was killed by the Punjab Police in an encounter in 1991, Ratan Kaur said. Before he moved abroad, Pamma was arrested in an illegal arms case and spent 10 months in Sangrur jail, she said. He went abroad in 1999 and currently lives in London with his family.Pamma is a key conspirator of the 2010 high-velocity twin bomb blasts in Patiala and Ambala and the mastermind of the 2009 killing of Rulda Singh, head of the Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, a wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), according to Punjab Police sources.Rulda Singh was shot at on July 28, 2009, in Patiala and succumbed to his injuries on August 15, 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nia-raids-militant-paramjit-pamma-s-house-in-mohali-questions-parents/story-imsYaJ1lr4Xo39ynR8eRdI.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||CBSE Class 10 result: Sports achievers from Chandigarh excel in board exams, score over 90%||They excelled in their respective sports disciplines both nationally and internationally, and now they have achieved impressive scores in the CBSE Class 10 board exams too.Meet Yashika Sharma, Kanhiaya Aaditya, Jashanbir Singh and Radhika Vasudeva, the young sporting stars who have scored above 90 percent marks in the board exams, the results of which were announced on Wednesday.An international roller skater Yashika Sharma scored 93.6% in the boards.A student of St Anne’s School, Sector 32, Chandigarh, Yashika represented the country in the World Roller Games held in Barcelona, Spain, last year. She had also competed in five national championships and won as many medals, including three gold and two silver medals. “Sports is my strength and it helps me for my overall development. I want to pursue skating further along with my studies. My aim is to join defence services and have already started preparing for it,” says Yashika.Kanhiaya Aaditya, a junior national champion in baseball, scored 92%. The St John’s High School student also competed in martial arts nationals. “Sports helped me focus better in academics and because of my sports activities, I am able to concentrate and score better marks in the boards. I am thankful to my teachers, coaches and parents for their support,” says Kanhiaya, who has also represented India in floor ball, a newly introduced sport in the country.National medallist skater Jashanbir Singh scored 95% in boards. He is a student of Manav Mangal Smart School, Phase 10, Mohali. Jashanbir had won two gold medals in under 17 School National Games last year. He said his ability to focus and deal with pressure while performing in a big competition gave him an edge when it came to studies. “I only used to study for a few hours after practice, but I would focus really hard and get more done in less time. I was also very calm during the exams,” says Jashanbir, who wants to be an engineer.National-level tennis player Radhika Vasudeva scored 91.4% in the board exams. Radhika, a student of Delhi Public School, has played in the Khelo India Youth Games and won many titles at the All-India level tournaments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbse-class-10-result-sports-achievers-from-chandigarh-excel-in-board-exams-score-over-90/story-zkNAR1ZFNgd9S2Y9nx5vDP.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||SIT names ex-Kotkapura SHO as accused in Behbal Kalan firing case||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing cases has named the then Kotkapura station house officer (SHO) Gurdeep Singh Pandher as an accused in the first information report (FIR) registered in connection with the Behbal Kalan incident. He has been named for criminal conspiracy.SIT member IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh said, “During investigation, it was found that he was involved in the Behbal Kalan firing conspiracy. A charge-sheet has been filed against one accused, soon we will file a supplementary charge-sheet against the other accused.”SIT sources added that the probe had found that the Behbal Kalan conspiracy was hatched at Kotkapura and Pandher acted as right-hand man of top officials accused in the police firing incidents. Pandher’s counsel Gursahib Singh Brar said they had been informed that his client had been named as an accused in the Behbal Kalan firing case, but it is yet to be confirmed under what charges his name has been included in the FIR.Last month, the SIT had also named Faridkot lawyer Sohail Singh Brar and Pankaj Bansal as accused in the Behbal Kalan firing case after their arrest. The SIT had arrested Pandher on June 25 by adding Sections 409 and 467 of the IPC in FIR 192, which was registered on Pandher’s complaint on October 14, 2015. Presently Pandher is lodged at Bathinda jail under judicial custody.BAIL PLEA IN ANOTHER CASE DISMISSED The court of additional district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi on Wednesday dismissed the bail applications of Pandher and then Kotkapura DSP Baljit Singh in FIR registered in 2015 in connection with Kotkapura firing incident. District attorney Rajnish Goyal said Pandher’s regular bail plea and Baljit’s anticipatory bail plea has been rejected by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sit-names-ex-kotkapura-sho-as-accused-in-behbal-kalan-firing-case/story-Jhg7cTfJFUJ7edQYckw6NP.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Remove encroachment from village ponds within 6 months: HC to Punjab||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday asked Punjab government to remove all the encroachments and unauthorised constructions raised on village ponds within six months. The high court bench of justice Rajiv Sharma and justice HS Sidhu also asked the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to monitor quality of water of village ponds. DCs across the state have been directed to ensure that no untreated sewerage/sewage is discharged in the village ponds. The mining activity of any nature whatsoever in the village ponds throughout the state is banned, the court said adding that stringent action be taken against the defaulters. The high court was hearing a plea of one, Tejinder Kumar and others from Jalandhar who had levelled allegations of illegal sand mining from a pond in Kang Araya village, Phillaur, Jalandhar.The government had told court that the district development and panchayat officer, Jalandhar, is seized of the matter and had sent mining officials to visit the spot to verify the facts. Appropriate action will be taken in this case, the government had told court.The high court bench took suo motu note of the petition and has issued directions which are to be implemented across the state. “The village ponds are essential for re-charging of ground water. The village ponds are part of eco-system and also support aquatic life,” the bench said, adding that maximum number of village ponds have been encroached upon and unauthorised construction has been raised with impunity.“The encroachment has also been made on catchment areas as well. The untreated sewerage/sewage is permitted to be let off in the village ponds affecting the fragile ecology of the area. There is urgent need to revive, conserve, preserve, repair, rejuvenate and restore village ponds,” the bench said adding that the village ponds support the regional eco-system and it is the constitutional/statutory duty of the gram panchayat to safeguard the water bodies/water sheds in their territorial jurisdiction.The bench has also directed that government would ensure that all village ponds are revived, repaired, renovated, rejuvenated after restoration within a period of six months and further that revenue record of these be upgraded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/remove-encroachment-from-village-ponds-within-6-months-hc-to-punjab/story-zgRNkc1BspTa2CEwChzJpN.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra HSC results to be out at 1pm today||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will release the results of the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) or Class 12 exams at 1pm today (July 16). Students can check their results on the board’s official website — mahresult.nic.in. This year, nearly 15 lakh students had registered for the exams, of which 3.39 lakh students are from Mumbai division alone, which consists of Thane, Raigad and Palghar.Follow Maharashtra Board class 12th Results 2020 Live UpdatesA total of 1,919 students with special needs had registered for the exams. Since last year, the board has started putting ‘divyang’ stickers on the papers of such students to ensure that their papers can be easily identified as many are eligible for special concessions such as additional time and right to choose vocational subjects.Students can apply for revaluation of their scores between July 17 to July 27 and for photocopy between July 17 and August 5 on the board’s official website. Fees for the same can also be paid online. Students who wish to apply for revaluation have to first secure a photocopy for their papers and then apply for revaluation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hsc-results-to-be-out-at-1pm-today/story-aOSyBkX6JAu1JVUjE1fVOK.html
16-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid-19 tally crosses 2.75L, recoveries exceed 1.5L||With 7,975 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours — the second highest single-day rise —Maharashtra’s case tally crossed the 2.75 lakh mark to reach 275,640. On a positive note, the tally of recovered patients also crossed the 1.5 lakh mark with 3,606 more recoveries, taking the total to 152,613. The state’s recovery rate is 55.39%, less than the national rate of 63.24%. The state has 111,801 active cases, as of Wednesday. Also, health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has requested the Centre to include masks and sanitisers in the list of essential commodities, so as to cap their prices.Mumbai retained its stable rate of rise in cases by reporting 1,374 new infections, which pushed Maharashtra’s worst-hit city’s tally towards the 1 lakh mark at 96,474, with 22,888 active cases. The past 24 hours also saw 233 new deaths across the state, taking the toll to 10,928. Of the latest fatalities reported, 62 are in Mumbai, 31 in Pune city, 15 in Kalyan-Dombivli, 11 in Pimpri-Chinchwad and nine each in Navi Mumbai, Jalgaon city and Nashik city. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state fell to 3.94% from 4.8% reported on June 16, 3.25% on May 25 and 3.37% on May 31. The national CFR is 2.60%. The CFR, too, has been on a decline as it dropped to 2.85% in the week’s average of July 9-15, from 3.21% during July 2-8, 3.51% in the week before that and 4.16% during June 17-24. The state saw 51, 916 cases and 1,480 fatalities in the past seven days with a daily average of 7,417 cases and 211 fatalities. 35,962 tests were conducted in more than 110 laboratories across the state in the last 24 hours, making the positivity rate 22.17%. The progressive positivity rate of the state is 19.56%, after the tally of tests stood at 14, 08,901. Of them 2,75640 people tested positive. Although the daily number of new cases is rising in the state, the state share of cases in the country has dropped to 28.6% from over 30% last month. State authorities felt that compared to other states, Maharashtra has fared well in containing the spread. “With the concentrated efforts in the most affected cities, we can do better over the next few weeks. If the smaller towns and rural areas could control the spread effectively, the flattening of the curve could be achieved by the end of August,” said a state official.Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean and member of the expert committee appointed by the state to recommend steps to curb the spread, said that the virus infection is expected to stabilise in August. “We have seen a major drop in cases in Mumbai as the weekly average of cases has dropped to 8,400 from more than 10,000 in May. There is inflow of the patients from other adjoining cities, which has also added to the number of cases in Mumbai. We can expect stabilisation of cases even in other cities in next few weeks and then a downward trend in August.”Dr Supe said that the state government’s steps of making antiviral drugs like remdesivir, tocilizumab in the public hospitals are going to play a significant role in treatment and will help in bringing down the CFR.Meanwhile, state health minister Rajesh Tope announced steps will be taken to cap the prices of the masks and sanitisers. Tope said that besides requesting the Centre to enlist masks and sanitisers as essential commodities to control prices, the state government has also constituted a committee to restrict their prices. “Central government has delisted these commodities from bringing them out of government control. In such a case, there will be no control on hoarding and selling prices of the masks and sanitisers. We are requesting the Centre to put them again in the list so that action can be taken by police or food and drugs administration. Without waiting for the Central government decision, we have constituted a committee and a cap on the prices will be imposed in a week’s time,” said Rajendra Shingne, minister, food and drugs administration.Tope said masks and sanitisers are being sold at inflated prices. “When we are making them mandatory, the commodities should be affordable to the poor class too. Against their cost of production of ₹15-20, masks are being sold at prices ranging between ₹100 and ₹300. Once we receive the legal opinion and the report by the committee, the decision over capping of prices will be taken in next five to six days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-75l-recoveries-exceed-1-5l/story-W2V9B3dPBWFPEIw1BJyAJI.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Day after minister found infected, Punjab CM tests negative for Covid||A day after his cabinet colleague Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa tested positive for Covid-19, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday underwent TruNat test for the virus and was found negative. Samples of two ministers and three MLAs were also taken for the Covid-19 test.The CM said Bajwa was doing well at a private hospital in Mohali. Sample of minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was found negative, while the result of minister Aruna Chaudhary; and MLAs Parminder Pinki, Kulbir Zeera and Barindermeet Singh Pahra was awaited. A team of Punjab health department was especially sent to Punjab Bhawan to collect samples of ministers and their staff members. Punjab health minister Balbir Sidhu said he underwent a test three days back and it was negative for coronavirus. “I will give samples again in the coming days, if needed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/day-after-minister-found-infected-punjab-cm-tests-negative-for-covid/story-qgva3k1RhI4pVkFNVYzpMI.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Court grants bail to singer Sidhu Moose Wala in Sangrur firing case||A court in Sangrur on Wednesday granted bail to Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala in a case involving firing at the Ladda Kothi shooting range in the district on May 1.Sidhu had got interim bail on June 30 and was asked by the court to join police investigation within seven days.“The court granted regular bail to Moose Wala after seeing the police report. He had joined the probe. Of the nine people booked under the Arms Act, eight were already on bail,” said Moose Wala’s counsel Gagandeep Sibia.The incident came to the fore after a video of the singer firing from a private weapon at the Ladda Kothi shooting range surfaced on social media.Nine people, including Moose Wala and six policemen, were booked at the Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5 under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. The police added sections of the Arms Act in the first information report (FIR) on May 18. On May 4, the same people were booked in Barnala as the singer was seen in another video firing from an official assault rifle at a shooting range at Badbar village of the district. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Daljit Singh Virk, Julkan station house officer (SHO) Gurpreet Singh Bhinder, three assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) and other cops were suspended.Bureau of Investigation SP Gurmeet Singh said the police recovered a pistol from one of the accused and sent the weapon for laboratory testing. But no recovery was made from Moose Wala, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/court-grants-bail-to-singer-sidhu-moose-wala-in-sangrur-firing-case/story-T26g8urhWf7laa4IvmSQvO.html
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Store animal feed safely during monsoons: Ludhiana vet varsity expert||Dr APS Sethi, head of department (HoD), animal nutrition department of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), said animal feed should be stored safely during monsoons as it can develop mould if it gets wet.He said feed stores should be well ventilated and stacked in a way such that there is air circulation within rows.He added that clumpy feeds should not be used to feed livestock and aflatoxin levels should be evaluated at regular intervals.The livestock sector is one of the fastest growing segments of the agricultural economy. The supply of green forage throughout the year is important for farmers to maintain production from ruminant stock.Most of the cultivated fodder is grown in the state and only about 7% area is under fodder crops.Another source of fodder is from grasses and shrubs that grow abundantly on the rangeland and roadsides during the monsoons.Most of these reach their flowering stage during August-September. Grass that grows during monsoons have large water and fibre content. The water fills up the stomach and therefore is of no use. This causes animals to pass watery dung. Livestock farmers must chop some of the young grass and dry it in sunlight before feeding. It will absorb water from the grass and will turn it into a good feed.Rain during harvests can affect quality due to leaching, which leads to movement of water-soluble components out of the forage.Many of the compounds are highly digestible carbohydrates. Almost one-third of the dry matter leached by rain is soluble carbohydrates. Generally, lactic acid bacteria produce sufficient acid and reduce pH quickly enough to inhibit clostridia from growing. However, a quick pH drop is more difficult to achieve when forage is wet and/or low in sugars, due to overcast conditions or even rain-leaching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/store-animal-feed-safely-during-monsoons-ludhiana-vet-varsity-expert/story-dTcph7pNG6cvweG473ZExL.html
16-07-2020||Delhi||To ramp up coronavirus testing, Delhi clinics put TB machines to use||In a bid to expand coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing in the national capital, the Delhi government has started using two machines usually used to detect tuberculosis, to diagnose for the Sars-Cov-2 virus.The CBNAAT (Cartridge-Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test) and TrueNat machines have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) as confirmatory tests for Covid-19, which means an additional reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is not needed to confirm the result, as required in the case of rapid antigen testing, for instance.RT-PCR is the most reliable test for Covid-19.Also read: Beaten projections but can’t be complacent, says Delhi CM on Covid-19 situation“Delhi has started using the CBNAAT and TrueNat machines over the last two to three days. These are just different mechanisms of doing the same molecular testing,” an official from the Delhi government said, asking not to be named.The city scaled up its testing considerably in the third week of June by deploying the antigen-based method, first within containment zones and then in other areas as well. Antigen tests are highly sensitive, meaning those who test positive are considered to be “true positives”. However, as the specificity is low those who test negative have to undergo an RT-PCR test if they are symptomatic, or the doctor suspects the infection.As of Wednesday evening, Delhi has tested a total of 736,436 samples, which translates to a testing per million rate of 37,167. The national capital has 116,993 cases of Covid-19. While CBNAAT and TrueNat machines test fewer samples in a cycle, the tests are faster than a traditional RT-PCR test and can be used by hospitals’ emergency departments.Also read: Rapid antigen tests high on accuracy, but protocols crucial“With different kits, the machines used for TB diagnosis can be used to test for Covid-19 too. The main advantage is that test results can be provided in an hour, in comparison to around six hours it takes for the RT-PCR test, so it can be used in cases of emergencies to check for Covid-19 before performing a surgery or procedure,” said Dr KK Chopra, director, New Delhi TB Centre, one of the centres using the method.According to him, there are at least 32 such centres in Delhi with CB-NAAT machines and several more with TrueNat machines that were deployed this year. The machines are also available with most of the major hospitals in the city.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had approved these methods for preliminary Covid-19 testing in April, with many states already using it in remote areas that do not have RT-PCR machines. In May, with newer kits, the machines were approved for confirmatory testing. The machines are being used to diagnose Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Telangana, and Uttar Pradesh, among others.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Earlier, the kits available for these machines could detect only the ‘E’ gene that is common to all coronaviruses. Hence, a confirmatory RT-PCR test had to be done for those that tested positive. Now, there is a two-step process in place which is as accurate as the RT-PCR test. The second step can detect the RdRp enzyme specific to Sars-Cov-2 that causes Covid-19, so there is no need for a confirmatory test anymore,” said Dr Chopra.CBNAAT or GeneXpert has single-use cartridge that contains the reagents needed for RNA amplification. A biosafety level 2 (BSL2) lab is needed to conduct the tests. The TrueNat is a smaller, battery operated machine that needs minimal laboratory infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-ramp-up-testing-capital-s-clinics-put-tb-machines-to-use/story-DquBTuOx7Nw5LcGUiYT0fI.html
16-07-2020||Pune||Pune records more Covid-19 cases in a day than Mumbai for first time||Pune city crossed the 30,000 mark for progressive positive cases on Wednesday with the city’s death toll from Covid-related fatalities at 889. According to the state health department, Mumbai reported 1,374 positives on Tuesday, while Pune reported 1,416 positives. Fifteen deaths were reported in 24 hours and five deaths of people residing out of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jurisdiction.Of the 10,064 active cases in the city, 502 are in a critical condition with 76 on ventilators. The rest are in ICUs or under treatment with non-invasive ventilators. A total of 746 were discharged on Wednesday taking the count of such cases to 19,570. A total of 6,343 samples were tested, of which 2,328 were tested using the rapid antigen testing kits; of these 451 tested positive.The deaths include five from the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital - an 84 year old male from Shaniwar peth; a 49-year-old female from Baner; a 78-year-old female from Karve nagar; a 69-year- old male from Mundhwa; and an 80-year-old male from Kothrud. Sassoon General Hospital reported four deaths - a 61-year-old from Yerwada; a 55-year-old male from Kharadi; a 74-year-old male from Market Yard and a 61-year-old woman from Katraj. Two deaths were reported from Naidu hospital and one each from KEM hospital, Noble Hospital, Jehangir hospital and one from AIIMS, a 53-year- old female from Bopodi. From cases of residents outside PMC limits, the deaths include one at Sassoon, one at Sahyadri hospital, one at Symbiosis hospital and one at the AICTS hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-claims-20-deaths-in-pune-city/story-moWDZ9ErnLF9w8aCGfgqXP.html
16-07-2020||Gurugram||Curfew fears trigger panic buying in Gurugram, customers empty out shelves||A day after Haryana health minister Anil Vij said that the state was contemplating enforcement of a curfew in four districts adjoining Delhi, workers at supermarkets, vegetable shops, kiranas, and grocery stores across the city said they witnessed a 5-10% surge in their sales on Wednesday . Grocery, vegetable and ration store owners across the city insisted that the pattern of purchase was also different, with a large number of visitors buying goods in bulk, with bills even running into five digits in some cases.“Usually, my stock of potatoes and onions last for 3-4 days. However, today morning there was a major demand for both the items. The overall rush too was marginally higher than usual. The stock of potatoes and onions, which can last for more than a month before going bad, disappeared within a few hours. Few of my customers said they were buying in bulk as they wanted to stock up in case the city went into another lockdown or curfew,” said Anil Yadav, a vegetable vendor in Sector 50.Ankit Mehta, a distributor of grocery, ready-to-cook meals and spices for a private company said that there was a 5-8% surge in sales on Wednesday.“Normally, we see a spike in sales during the first week of every month, when people just get their salaries. Hence, seeing a spike in the middle of the month is very unusual for us. Our customers informed us that there was a rumour circulating that the city may see a curfew over the weekend like some of the other states and hence, they wanted to stock up adequately,” said Mehta.Shiv Kumar Sharma, deputy manager of a Kendriya Bhandar outlet in sector 56, said that people were purchasing in bulk on Wednesday, with bills running between Rs 4,000-5,000 and into five figures in some cases.“A block in this locality, which has more than 400 flats, became a containment zone on Monday. Hence, the total number of visitors I had today was low. Despite this, the total business on Wednesday was almost the same. Most customers, purchased ration in large quantities that could easily last them for nearly two months. In some cases, the bills crossed Rs 10,000,” said Sharma.At a supermarket, in a mall on Golf Course Road, such was the rush at the counter during the afternoon that people had to stand in queues for at least 10-15 minutes.“The supermarket at South Point Mall is usually crowded. However, today, the rush was much higher than usual. People were purchasing different types of goods that have a long-shelf life and filling their trolleys to the brim. It took the cashier at the counter nearly 3-5 minutes to finish one billing,” said Shivam Bansal, a resident of DLF 5.On Tuesday, while speaking to the media in Ambala, Vij indicated that the government was contemplating enforcing some form of restrictions, such as a curfew, in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, and Jhajjar— all adjoining Delhi.Delhi is one of the worst affected states in the country having witnessed 11,69,93 cases so far, with 3,487 deaths. Vij said that the government is also considering sealing the borders with the national capital.He said that together the four districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, and Jhajjar account for nearly 80% of the total cases in Haryana and to curb the spread of the infection “stricter curbs” may be needed. He said that a final decision on the matter will be only taken after discussions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/curfew-fears-trigger-panic-buying-customers-empty-out-shelves-at-grocery-stores/story-ptkSytVhGxAxmPxN1d2bzO.html
16-07-2020||Noida||Noida doctor tests Covid-19 positive again, 45 days after recovering from first bout of infection||A doctor at the Gautam Budh Nagar district hospital has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for a second time, 45 days after being cured of the infection, said his colleagues. Experts and biologists, however, said a reinfection was unlikely and it could be that the person never fully recovered from the first infection.The doctor first tested positive on May 15 when he was working in the isolation ward of Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (Child PGI), following which he was admitted to that ward itself. He was discharged from the hospital on May 30 after testing negative for the virus. After the mandatory quarantine period (of about 10-15 days), he resumed work at the emergency ward of the district hospital in Sector 30.About two weeks ago, he complained of dizziness, said one of his colleagues . “He had no symptoms such as fever or cough, but we didn’t want to take any chances. He was made to take a rapid antigen test, where came positive. For reconfirmation, he was tested again on June 27 through the lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, the definitive test for Covid-19, and that too was positive,” the doctor’s colleague said, requesting anonymity as he is not authorised to speak to the media. When contacted, Dr VB Dhaka, the chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the district hospital, declined comment. “I’ve recently taken this charge and don’t know about this case, so I am unable to comment on it,” he said.Acting chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Nepal Singh did not answer his phone or reply to text messages, despite several attempts to reach him.Microbiologists, however, said it cannot be assumed that the man was reinfected. “There are many possibilities. Many who are doing the RT-PCR test are not well acquainted with the process, and so we need to check if the reporting was done correctly. The virus can also persist in the body for a very long time -- even up to 45 days in rare cases. Also, there are issues like tests giving out false positives and false negatives,” Dr Shobha Broor, former head, microbiology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, said.Dr Saurabh Srivastava, the head of Covid-19 ward at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida, said to his knowledge, the body’s immune system is designed to fight infections by producing antibodies. “It’s believed that people who have had the virus would have developed Covid-19 antibodies and, hence, would have some level of protection from a recurrent infection. So, there is a possibility that this particular patient may not have fully recovered the first time. Also, the fading away of protective antibodies from the body in some cases cannot be ruled out,” he said.Experts say there is no evidence of a reinfection globally. “There is experimental evidence from monkeys that once infected, there is a resistance to a reinfection. In humans, reinfection has not been observed in recovered patients, despite the fact that several months have passed since the first wave of the pandemic. We do not know whether this could be necessarily attributable to antibodies, but the rise of antibodies is correlated to the disappearance of the virus. So, in a nutshell, there is a reason to believe that recovery from infection is associated with the gaining of at least a short-term immunity, courtesy the antibodies,” Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research), Delhi, had told HT on July 5.Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said he is looking into the matter. “If there is a chance of reinfection, then we will have to take additional precautions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-doctor-tests-covid-19-positive-again-45-days-after-recovering-from-first-bout-of-infection/story-LYZiGABP4oDE8602reUeUJ.html
16-07-2020||Noida||Biomedical waste trebles in Noida since onset of Covid-19||With the number of Covid-19 cases being reported from the city on the rise, the biomedical waste being generated by the city, too, has increased threefold over the last four months, even as agencies managing bio waste assert that the volume of non-Covid waste generated by hospitals has dropped. According to the Noida authority and the agency managing bio waste, earlier the city hospitals, dispensaries and pathologies generated 800 to 900kg of biomedical waste every day (before March), but it has now increased to at least 3,000kg daily (in July). Of the 3,000kg, 2,100 to 2,200kg has been labelled Covid-19 waste, and is collected in yellow bags and incinerated, officials said. The rest of the waste -- about 750 to 800kg -- is non-Covid and even that includes a large number of PPE kits generated from hospitals, dental clinics and dispensaries not dealing with Covid-19. “We ensure that all Covid-19 waste is collected and managed properly. The volume of waste generated is also increasing, particularly since Mid-May. Most of the new waste includes PPE kits, gloves, masks etc. Private agencies hired by us collect the bio waste from the Covid-19 hospitals and isolation centres, and a separate agency collects it from those who are home quarantined,” SC Mishra, project engineer, health, Noida authority, said. While the waste has doubled, none of the workers handling the bio waste has been so far contracted Covid-19 or shown any symptoms, the agencies manager said.According to experts, the biomedical waste is segregated through four coloured categories – yellow, red, white/transparent and blue.Of this, yellow includes organic waste such as human tissues, body parts, blood bags, bandages, expired medicines, chemicals, plasters and is treated through incineration. The Covid-19 waste that includes PPE kits etc. also comes under the same category. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) guidelines, revised in June, the general waste contaminated by blood/body fluids of persons infected with Covid-19 shall be segregated in the yellow bag along with gloves and masks used by them.The red bag includes plastic wares and is treated though sterilisation followed by recycling. The while bag collects metals and plastics such as syringes and scalpels which are either encapsulated in lime or the metal is recovered after sterilisation. The blue bag is for glassware and is recycled“The load has increased a lot, and the waste is being collected as per the latest pollution control board’s guidelines. The waste being generated includes a large number of PPE kits, masks and gloves, syringes, a lot of waste food, food packing materials, and human waste, in some cases. This is an entirely new genre of waste that we are collecting in yellow bags, and they are handled with extreme precautions. The waste is more than double of what we had been managing earlier. So we had to increase the staff strength and press into service 10 extra vehicles to transport all the waste to our incinerator facility in Meerut,” said Sanjay Kaushik, CEO Synergy, the agency that handles biomedical waste across 33 districts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Bihar. “The non-Covid biomedical waste, which used to be about 900kg a day, before the pandemic, has dropped to around 600 to 800kg now, and even a lot of that is PPE kits generated from non-Covid hospitals and pathologies,” Kaushik said. While the hospital and quarantine facilities are generating a substantial amount of waste, about 40 kilos are also being collected through door-to-door pickup from those in home quarantine.“We had been collecting Covid-19 waste such as masks and gloves from over 200 home quarantine spots since mid-May. We had to train our staff to handle such waste which is now equivalent to biomedical waste and is collected in yellow bags. The volume is increasing, from just five to 10kg earlier to 40-45kg at present,” said Nagarjuna Reddy, project head, AG Enviro Infra Projects pvt ltd, the agency hired by the Noida authority to do the door-to-door collection of waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/biomedical-waste-trebles-in-noida-since-onset-of-covid-19/story-pLJlUyADoNItbmmBDKiymI.html
16-07-2020||Education||CBSE Class 10: At 82.61%, Delhi govt schools close in on private counterparts||The performance of government schools in Delhi improved by around 11 percentage points, from 71.6% in 2019 to 82.61% this year, in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 10 exams results announced on Wednesday. In contrast, the overall pass percentage of private schools dropped to 90.19% from 93.18% in 2019.The overall pass percentage of Delhi region also increased to 85.86% this year from last year’s 80.97%. But despite the improvement, government schools could not get past private schools in overall results unlike in the CBSE class 12 exams, where government schools fared better.The pass percentage of Delhi government schools has risen to 82.61% this year-- highest since CBSE reintroduced the compulsory board exams in class 10 in 2018. The government schools had recorded a pass percentage of 68.9% in 2017-18 and 71.6% in 2018-19. Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia congratulated the students. “Our children have made us proud again! After record breaking results of Class 12, the upward graph of Delhi Education continues in Class 10. Overjoyed that this year, the result improved to 82.61% from 71.58% last year Congratulations to #TeamEducation. You have really raised the bar!” he tweeted.In gender-wise performance in government schools, 78.64% boys passed as compared to 86.76% girls. The gap is marginally less in private schools where 86.20% boys passed this year as compared to 92.49% girls.According to the data provided by the Delhi government, out of 1,005 schools from which students took the class 10 exams, 147 achieved 100% results. The number of 100% achiever schools was 60 last year. Similarly, the number of schools achieving 90% and above increased to 474 this year from 226 in 2019. Around 786 government school students scored 90% and above in aggregate. Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalayas (RPVV)-- the model schools of the Delhi government --- recorded a pass percentage of 99.33%. The average Quality Index (QI), which reflects the performance of each student, has also increased to 265.31 this year from 259.60 in 2019 in government schools. Government school principals said they had focussed on improving class 10 results since the beginning of the academic session. Mohammad Shariq, principal of a School of Excellence (SoE) in Kalkaji, said, “The school had extended extra help to students. We held special counselling sessions for parents of students who were slow learners and helped their children study at home. We gave extra classes to board students in winter vacations as well,” he said. The school recorded 100% results with the highest percentage being 95.6%. The principals said though they were yet to catch up with private schools in class 10, they were happy with the improvement. AK Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed school in Rohini, said, “The Delhi government had hired resource teachers and experts for board students this year. It helped a lot in preparing students for the board exams,” he said. Private schools principals cited reasons such as change in exam and the evaluation pattern as a possible reason behind the drop in their pass percentage. Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said the possible reason behind the improvement in pass percentage of government schools is the change in evaluation policy adopted by the CBSE in northeast Delhi, where the number of government schools are more than private schools. “The number of government schools in northeast Delhi is more than private schools. Many students in northeast Delhi appeared in only one or two subjects. They managed to get more marks under the new evaluation policy,” Arora said. The CBSE had cancelled exams of four subjects in northeast Delhi due to the communal riots in February. Though the board had announced in April that it would conduct exams in the region again in July, it could not be done due to the Covid-19 outbreak.These students were evaluated on the basis of a revised assessment scheme formulated by the board wherein average marks secured in best performing subjects are awarded in subjects that could not take place.Manju Sethi, principal of Bluebells School International in Kailash Colony, said the change in exam pattern might have led to the slight drop in pass percentage of private schools. The CBSE has 25% objective-type questions in all the subjects. “It is difficult to come up with a concrete reason for the drop in pass percentage of private schools. Students might have lost marks in objective-type questions. There is a possibility of a complete deduction of marks in multiple-choice questions. Also, we are really disappointed with fewer students getting full marks in scoring subjects like Mathematics,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-class-10-at-82-61-delhi-govt-schools-close-in-on-private-counterparts/story-9BzTgZhdODVSpoMe3QPf7L.html
16-07-2020||Noida||Noida girl gets 497 out of 500 marks in CBSE class 10 exams||Sixteen-year-old Navya Rastogi is a big fan of science fiction. She likes logic and is a firm believer of the fact that co-ordination between thoughts and actions can always lead to good results.A student of Amity International School, Noida, Navya scored 497 (99.4%) marks out of an aggregate of 500 in her Class 10 CBSE exams, the results of which was declared on Wednesday. Navya now wants to pursue Commerce in Class 11 and Class 12.. “I never believe in keeping anything pending for tomorrow. I always ensured that I put in at least six to seven hours of study time on a regular basis,” she said, giving credit of her success to her consistent preparation. Navya wants to become a lawyer and said her aim was to join a good law university after she finished her Class 12.“I believe that it will be the best for my logical bent of mind,” she says.Navya scored 100 out of 100 marks in both Hindi and social science. In the remaining three subjects – mathematics, science and English – she scored 99.The other highest scorers from the district included Aniket Das (99.2%, Amity International School), Arpit Sinha (99%, Apeejay School), Chandrashekhar Dharmrajan (98.6%, Amity International School), Shirsho Sinha and Vanshika Singh (98.6%, both from Apeejay School), Udita Raj (98.4%, Delhi Public School, Noida), Arnav Modi (98.2%, Shiv Nadar School) and Shavalini Vashishtha (98.2%, Delhi Public School, Noida).Contacted, both Aniket and Arpit said they will be choosing science with mathematics in Class 11.In Delhi Public School, Noida, the highest school aggregate is 98.4% with 100% students securing a First Division. As many as 80 students have secured a perfect score in various subjects, out of which 22 students got 100 in Mathematics,19 in Hindi and 13 in French.In Apeejay School, Noida, out of 330 students who appeared for this examination, 136 (41.2%) students have secured 90% or above, in aggregate, with the school average aggregate being 84.95%.Elsewhere, at Amity International School, out of 521 students, 518 secured first division while three got second division. Reacting about the success of her students, Amita Chauhan, chairperson of Amity International School, said that the performance is a reflection of their hard work and the immense efforts put in by teachers and parents as well. “We are extremely proud of our students and wish them great success in their academic journey ahead,” she said.Kamini Bhasin, the principal of Delhi Public School, Noida, said that the school has achieved an average aggregate of 89.53% in this examination. “It is a matter of pride for me that DPS Noida has perfected its formula of success, which is a blend of hard work, tenacity, determination and positive encouragement,” she said.AK Sharma, the principal of Apeejay School, said that the outstanding results has set the momentum for the young scholars to fulfil their aspirations and look forward to a promising future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-girl-gets-497-out-of-500-marks-in-cbse-class-10-exams/story-h7j1UWKMLaJTNbWxvCwzII.html
16-07-2020||Delhi||Dip in scores above 90%, 95% in CBSE class 10 results||In contrast with this year’s class 12 Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) results, which saw a huge spike in the number of high-scorers, the class 10 results declared on Wednesday showed a dip in the percentage of students who scored above 90% overall and 95% marks. While the former fell by 18%, the latter number dipped by 26.98%.This year, 184,358 and 41,804 students from across the country scored above 90% and 95% respectively, fewer than last year when 225,143 and 57,256 students scored in the same range. CBSE officials attributed this dip to the Covid-19 situation, saying it may have caused stress among students at the beginning of March while they were still appearing for their papers.Principals of private schools said that while the marking pattern has been similar to previous years, students have reported scoring less than expected marks in mathematics. This year, the board had introduced the option of choosing a basic mathematics paper, which would be simpler than the standard math paper.Madhulika Sen, principal, Tagore International School, said, “While teachers that the marking pattern wasn’t much different, one recent could be moderation. We will have to discuss and find out the exact reason. While mathematics and Hindi results weren’t as good as previous years, social sciences scores have seen a huge spike, where of 133 students, 107 students have scored above 90%. Generally, 40-45% of our students score above 90%. But this year, the number stands at 30%.”Ashruti Singhal, a math teacher at Amity International School in Mayur Vihar, said, “While we had to convince parents to let students opt for the basic mathematics paper, there wasn’t much difference between that and the standard math paper. Students had expected it to be simpler. In our school, however, 48 students scored between 95 and 99% in math, and 13 got 100.”“The students have scored around what we expected based on the marking pattern of previous years. However, some students said they expected to score higher in the basic mathematics paper,” said Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School. Of 174 students, 13 scored more than 95% overall, and 49 scored above 90%.Not everybody is, however, disappointed with the results. Sarita Batra, principal of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) in Shalimar Bagh, said, “Our school has performed better than last year. While speaking to other schools, we found out that students have scored better in standard mathematics across multiple RPVV schools. Besides, class 10 students appeared for almost all exams. The average marking scheme implemented in class 12, where multiple papers weren’t conducted, might have increased the number of top scorers in those classes.”“To assess students during a challenging situation like the pandemic cannot be easy. Students were stressed due to the Covid-19 situation and yet our school has done better than in previous years. Of 236 students who appeared for the exams this year, 119 scored above 90%,” said Dharmendra Goyal, principal, Ahlcon Public School.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dip-in-scores-above-90-95-in-cbse-class-10-results/story-D0hsJsmC1yZy5Ye65MpdbI.html
16-07-2020||City||Mohali’s Ivy Hospital, doctor fined ₹50 lakh for medical negligence||The Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has fined a Mohali-based private hospital and its doctor ₹50 lakh in an alleged case of medical negligence filed by a Yamunanagar resident. Petitioner Anuj Gupta moved the commission on May 31, 2017, three years after his mother Kamlesh Rani died at Ivy Hospital in Sector 71, Mohali.His advocate Kavita Arora said the elderly woman was referred to the hospital from Yamunanagar on March 10.“After the first operation on March 11, the hospital asked the family to pay ₹ 2 lakh and prepared the discharge formalities on March 18 even as the family insisted that the patient is not well. Later, the hospital agreed to readmit her the same day. The hospital doctors did some re-exploration for a week and raised the second bill for ₹20-25 lakh,” she said. The patient was operated upon again on March 24, but she died on May 6 due to alleged complications in surgery.The hospital, in its defence, told commission that the complainant failed to show how it was negligent in any manner whatsoever. “The complainant has not produced any documentary evidence to prove that the death of the patient had any connection with the surgeries conducted or as a result of medical negligence on its part,” it was stated. Doctor Vijay Bansal, under whose supervision the surgery was conducted, stated in his reply: “The case was handled diligently. However, due to multiple factors, such as age, recurrent high grade cancer for two years, hypertension and weakness, she developed complications.”However, commission president Justice Paramjeet Singh Dhaliwal, in the judgment on June 30, 2020, observed: “Human life is most precious... It is true that medical negligence cases do sometimes involve questions of factual complexity... In the present case, complainant has been able to discharge the onus of proving on a balance of probabilities, the medical negligence averred against the hospital and the doctor.”The commission directed the hospital and Dr Bansal to pay ₹50 lakh “in lump sum, as compensation, for the death of the patient, including the expenses incurred on her treatment... along with interest at the rate of 7% per annum from the date of filing of this complaint till payment, along with ₹50,000 towards the litigation costs.” The hospital has not reacted to the judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-s-ivy-hospital-fined-50-lakh-for-medical-negligence/story-fguDPnttgIAnYWODSTZsxK.html
16-07-2020||Pune||Pune residents decry shortage of beds, ICU and no contact tracing||Pune Even as the city is seeing an increased number of Covid-19 cases, residents are also facing shortage of beds. In some cases it was found that while patients and their relatives are searching for an isolation bed for over 24 hours, no one from the administration has contacted them for testing the family members. While the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) estimated about 46k cases by July-end and accordingly a shortage of over 330 ICU beds. However, cases of shortage of beds have already started rising and citizens are finding it difficult to get isolation beds, ICU beds or even proper guidance at some places.Many councillors and representatives have come across people from their wards or assemblies complaining about bed shortage. BJP MLA Siddharth Shirole has been critical of the state government through his social media handles. The Shivajinagar MLA has launched a helpline number to coordinate between government agencies and direct people to the required facility. Shirole said, “It has been only close to two weeks since we started the helpline number and on an average we are receiving 30 to 40 calls with regards to non-availability of beds, ambulance, swab testing, and billing related issues. The utmost concern is unavailability of beds.” He said, “We use the dashboard to facilitate beds to patients, but often the dashboard is not updated on a real-time basis and so when the patient arrives at the hospital, they are sent back stating no beds. The situation is worse in private hospitals. As people from all socio-economic strata are getting affected, most prefer private hospitals which is leading to this imbalance of civic-run facilities being vacant whereas private hospital are overflowing with patients.”District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Wednesday instructed officials to increase contract tracing to contain the spread of the virus. The meeting was conducted for health officials from the three cantonment boards located in the district namely Pune, Khadki and Dehu road cantonment boards. “Covid care centres and institutional quarantines must be increased. Those quarantined must be stamped with the quarantined symbol,” he said.Patient kept with non-Covid patientsA 76-year-old male, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday morning. He was feeling breathlessness and weak. The patient and his grandson, who was accompanying him in an ambulance, had come from Paud road to Koregoan Park to another hospital which has earlier claimed of having beds, but by the time the family reached the hospital they said that there were no more beds available. With limited oxygen supply, the patient was taken to Sassoon hospital where he was admitted to the emergency ward. The man said, “My grandfather also suffers from hypertension, diabetes and needs continuous oxygen supply. He has now been kept in an emergency ward with non-Covid patients. He keeps coming out of the ward taking off the oxygen mask. I had to get him from the ambulance, put him on stretcher and take him to the ward. We have demanded for an oxygen isolation bed in Covid-19 ward, but are yet to get it.”Sassoon General Hospital dean Dr Murlidhar Tambe was unavailable for comment despite repeated attempts. High-risk patient gets no bed for three days after testing positiveA 58-year-old woman suffering from hypertension, diabetes and kidney ailments and requiring dialysis could not find an isolation bed for three days even after testing positive. The woman, a resident of PCMC’s Thergaon, living with two sons who also tested positive for Covid, had to live in her house for three days till they got a bed. One of her sons who requested anonymity said, “My mother tested positive on Thursday and finally on Saturday we got a bed in civic-run YCM hospital. During this period we tried to get beds, but did not get any positive response. Mother requires dialysis and she used to visit the hospital for the same so it could be that she got infected from there. We did get calls from the state helpline numbers and we also used the dashboard but no help. She is still in the hospital and is stable. I and my brother have isolated ourselves at home while our mom is at the hospital. She requires ICU but there is a waiting list and she get oxygen facility now.”Dr Rajendra Wable, dean of YCM hospital, said that the hospital has over 50 ventilators which are yet to be installed due to shortage of manpower and experts. “We did try to get paramedical staff including nurses from Kerala who offered to help but they wanted a non-Covid ward to work at. We have created a dedicated ward for patients who require ventilation wherein ICU ward like treatment in terms of medication and non-invasive ventilation is provided. We have about 3-4 patients who are currently awaiting a ventilator bed,” he said.No contact tracing A woman who lives in Shivajinagar tested positive and needed an isolation bed. However, despite contacting four hospitals including civic body’s Naidu hospital, they were refused any bed. The test result came on Tuesday at around 9 pm from a private laboratory and after finding no bed, they decided to take their sister to their two-room home shared by five people. The patient’s sister said, “My sister works at a private eye clinic and started complaining about fever and itchiness in the throat a few days ago and we decided to test her. We searched for beds for hours and finally reached COEP college which is an isolation centre, but did not get any cooperation. In fact, they behaved rudely with us. After contacting local politicians and friends, we got a bed at Sinhgad isolation centre at Wadgaon where I also got tested since I was with her all along. During all this period we did not receive any call from PMC to test the rest of the family members which also includes our parents who are senior citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shortage-of-beds-icu-and-no-contact-tracing/story-Elfu0WSZObuR058cKwosNL.html
16-07-2020||Education||Delhi govt begins process to set up its own education board||The Delhi government on Wednesday initiated the process of formation of its own school education board and constituted two committees — Delhi Education Board Committee and Delhi Curriculum Reform Committee — to work on it. In its Budget 2020-21, the Delhi government had announced plans for curriculum reforms and creating a new board of education for the national capital.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday convened a joint meeting of these committees. “Our government schools have showcased exemplary performance in class 12 board exam results. This is a reflection of the work that has been done in the last five years. But 98% result is not enough, we have to work together to take education to the next level,” he said.The committee for creation of the framework for Delhi State Education Board will study global best practices in learning assessment, re-imagine current assessment practices and provide a roadmap for an innovative, student-friendly scheme of assessment to be followed by the new board. “The committee for the creation of a new curriculum for children up to the age of 14 years will study globally renowned best practices in curriculum and reforms and recommend what is best suited for Delhi,” the government said in a statement.The committee is mandated to re-imagine current curriculum, pedagogical practices and provide a roadmap for an innovative, student-friendly curriculum for the pre-primary, primary and upper primary stages in the schools of Delhi.“Our past results have been reflective of what can be done within the existing education system in the past five years, by bringing about massive transformation in the quality of education. But now, the team should think about redesigning the education system in a way that will suit the demand and challenges of the 21st century world,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-begins-process-to-set-up-its-own-education-board/story-XWdeUDuaW4p5P8s17jSArM.html
16-07-2020||Pune||Covid-19 patient dies as family fails to find ICU bed in pvt hospitals for six days in Pune||Pune: A 44-year-old security guard who was tested Covid-19 positive died as he could not get an ICU bed for treatment, according to his family. For six days the family of the deceased contacted private hospitals with ICU beds as per the bed availability status displayed on Pune district online dashboard only to be denied the facility citing shortage of beds. The patient died on July 11.The deceased of Kalewadi area was working as a contract security guard at a private firm in Pimpri-Chinchwad. His wife is a waste picker with Kagad Kach Patra Kashtakari Panchayat (KKPKP) organisation. They have three married sons. Wife and one of the daughters-in-law have tested positive and are hospitalised.“My father was admitted to a nearby private hospital with fever and breathing problem on July 4. He was tested positive for Covid-19 with tuberculosis. Being an asthmatic for last 20 years, he also developed pneumonia symptoms. He underwent treatment at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital in Chinchwad for two days before he was shifted with other positive patients to one of the quarantine centres in Akurdi on July 7. His health condition worsened at the centre as he was forced to climb the stairs till fourth floor. He was immediately brought back to YCM hospital and doctors asked us to look for a ICU bed hospital citing shortage. So, all family members visited many private hospitals for ICU bed in vain,” said the patient’s elder son. The patient’s son said that many multi-speciality hospitals across Pimpri-Chinchwad denied admission citing shortage of ICU beds and his father was left to undergo treatment at the YCM general ward without ventilator and ICU facilities. “On July 10, we sought KKPKP’s assistance when my father’s medical conditioned worsened,” he said.According to the family, a private hospital agreed to provide ICU bed, but demanded Rs 2 lakh deposit. The family managed to pay Rs 20,000 and shifted patient from YCM hospital to the private hospital. “My father stopped breathing when we were taking him to the private hospital in an ambulance on July 11. Later, the doctors tried to revive him, but he died within half an hour,” said the patient’s son. Shrenik Mutha, a KKPKP member, said, “We contacted PCMC municipal commissioner and Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) officials as the patient was eligible for medical assistance. It is sad that Pimpri-Chinchwad that prides itself as a medical tourism destination could not provide ICU bed facility for six days. The case also exposed the reality of bed availability dashboard. We can safely estimate that his total insurance cover was more than 5 lakhs. He did not die because of insufficient insurance cover, but lack of coordination between government agencies. He was betrayed by the system that is supposed to protect him.”Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner Sharvan Hardikar said, “I will look into the case and take action. We will soon set up PCMC dashboard on real-time bed availability and are increasing ICU bed capacity to provide medical facility to as many residents as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-patient-dies-as-family-fails-to-find-icu-bed-in-pvt-hospitals-for-six-days-in-pune/story-lhZHWzq5mcA7H7xwB93JEN.html
16-07-2020||Pune||Yerawada Cental Jail inmates can now video call their relatives and lawyers||Yerawada Central Jail inmates can now contact their relatives and lawyers via a video calling facility. Following the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, lawyers approached the court seeking a way to contact their clients in jail. The court ordered the jail authorities to facilitate a lawyer-relative –inmate interface through the video calling facility. Following the directions, the jail authorities have been purchasing smartphones and till now at least 39 of 60 jails in the state have bought smartphones. The Yerawada jail administration has bought two smartphones while Kolhapur jail has obtained five smartphones, Nashik has four, Mumbai has two, Thane has three while Taloja has three smartphones.“Visiting jails was prohibited during the lockdown period and this smartphone-based video calling facility has been extended to the lawyers and relatives. The facility assists for lawyer-inmate interaction which is strictly monitored as per the jail norms. The video calling facility has already been started,” said Yerawada jail superintendent UT Pawar.To avail the facility, heir family members or lawyers need to send an email seeking appointment for the inmate and get themselves registered for the monitored video calling. Once the registration is complete, the authorities will inform them about the date and timings of the video conference.Once all the formalities are completed, video calling can take place in presence of jail authorities. The practice of communication between lawyers, relatives and inmates had been stopped due the coronavirus outbreak. Earlier, a meeting used to be organised at the jail campus as per the established procedure.Pawar said that dedicated email ids had been shared with the lawyers and relatives wherein they send in their appointments which is verified by the jail authorities. Yerawada jail has a capacity to house 2,449 inmates, but currently has at least 6,000 inmates. Advocate Milind Pawar, said, “This is a good step by the jail authorities as it prevents in-person meets which is not advisable during Covid-19. Meeting the accused lodged in the jail is mandatory for the lawyer and this was not taking place due the lockdown. This video calling facility is safe and meets the guidelines of the state government and is helpful to both the lawyer and the inmate,” he said. Coin box-based video callingThe jail authorities have also received directions to start a coin box-based voice calling facility for the inmates. With the implementation of the said facility, the inmates will be able to speak directly to their relatives through the coin box facility.The state jail authorities have purchased 60 such coin boxes and are in the process of procuring more to cater to the needs of all the jails in the state.What is the process?- A dedicated email id has been generated for each state prison- The lawyers and relatives must log on the website www.mahaprisons.gov.in to put in their request- yerwadacp1871@gmail.com is the dedicated email id for the Pune Prison- Lawyers/ relatives should include the name, barrack number and case details and send it to the email id mentioned above- The jail department informs them about the date and timing for the interaction- Current interaction is limited to 10 minutes only||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yerawada-cental-jail-inmates-can-now-video-call-their-relatives-and-lawyers/story-v0yQscOdudt1SS6S97OT8N.html
