17-07-2020||City||75-year-old Dalit sarpanch shot dead in Rohtak village||A 75-year-old Dalit sarpanch of Chiri village here was shot dead by two masked assailants on Thursday night, police said.The incident took place around 8.30pm on Thursday when the village head, Balkrishan, was eating dinner with his wife at their house.The victim’s son, Kuldeep Singh, said two unidentified assailants barged into their house and fired shots at his father at close range.“When my mother raised an alarm, I and my cousin came out from another room and chased the assailants for 500 metres, but they managed to flee on their bike. Then we took my father to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), where doctors declared him brought dead,” the complainant added.DSP Shamsher Singh Dahiya said they had registered a case under sections 302 (murder), 34 and 452 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 25 of the Arms Act against the unidentified assailants, who are at large.“We have launched a manhunt to nab the accused. The motive behind the murder could not be known,” the DSP added.HOODA SEEKS IMMEDIATE ARRESTSReacting to the sarpanch’s killing, former Haryana chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said law and order have completely collapsed in the state. He has demanded immediate arrest of the assailants. “The situation has worsened in Rohtak, Sonepat , Jhajjar, Bhiwani and Jind, where criminals are targeting public representatives and common citizens. I have spoken to Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava and Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma demanding immediate arrest of the sarpanch’s assailants,” Hooda said, adding that the government should compensate the victim’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/75-year-old-dalit-sarpanch-shot-dead-in-rohtak-village/story-JLv1Cyr8T4QSVHYL5z5m5H.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||795 fresh cases detected in Haryana, tally nears 25,000||Five coronavirus infected patients in Haryana succumbed to the respiratory illness on Friday, taking the death toll to 327. Among the dead were two persons each from Gurugram and Nuh and one from Palwal. As per the medical bulletin, 795 new infections were reported on Friday, which pushed the cumulative number of positive cases to 24,797. The number of active patients on Friday was 5,752. Six NCR districts accounted for 77% of the new cases. The bulletin said that 533 infected persons recovered from the viral illness on Friday, taking the total number of cured cases to 18,718, over 75% of the cumulative positive cases. Three NCR districts bordering Delhi — Faridabad (160), Gurugram (133) and Sonepat (69) — collectively threw up 45 % of the fresh infections on Friday. In addition, three more NCR districts — Rewari (156) and Nuh (43) bordering Gurugram; and Mahendergarh (57) bordering Rewari — accounted for 32% of the new infections.In all, the six NCR districts collectively accounted for 618 new infections out of 795.The bulletin said there were 76 critically ill patients, including 17 on ventilator support, while 5,676 infected persons had mild symptoms.Among the other districts, Hisar reported 39 new cases followed by Panchkula (26), Jhajjar (25), Karnal (24), Panipat (15), Palwal (12), Bhiwani and Sirsa (10 each), Kurukshetra (9), Yamunanagar (6) and Kaithal (1).Though the health bulletin mentioned five deaths, Ambala and Rohtak administrations reported three fatalities on Friday. Ambala CMO Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Two people died in the district, taking its death toll to eight. Both of them had attended wedding ceremonies lately.”Temples to remain open till 10pm on SundayThe state government on Friday ordered that temples in Haryana, except Gurugram and Faridabad, will remain open from 5am to 10pm on July 19 in view of Shivratri observed during the month of Shravan. Additional chief secretary (ACS), home, Vijai Vardhan said temple managements have been advised to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs), including allowing only individual prayers and sanitisation of premises at regular intervals. “To prevent overcrowding, temple managements have been told to issue tokens and ensure that not more than five persons are allowed to worship inside the temple,” said the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/795-fresh-cases-detected-in-haryana-tally-nears-25-000/story-fA6upmWprLiXnww2q9JveO.html
17-07-2020||City||Slum women taught to make rakhi, handicrafts to sustain themselves||New Delhi:Kumari Jyoti, 21, had lost her job in April this year after a garment factory where she used to work decided to wrap up its operations due to Covid-19 pandemic. After being without work and money for over two months, Jyoti is now part of a group of women undergoing skill training to make items such as rakhi and handicrafts under the aegis of the New Delhi district administration.The New Delhi district administration has from Thursday started a skill-development programme to empower people, especially women from economically weaker sections living in slum areas and battling for survival. The initiative named as “Ummeed Ki Rakhi” aims at generating a source of employment for those families who lost their job due to the impact of Covid-19 on society. “I have a family of six people, including my parents and all used to work before Covid-19 outbreak. Now everyone is sitting idle at home so it was difficult to survive without money and work for two months. A few days back I came to know about skill training being given by the government. I’m being trained to make rakhis as the festival of Rakshabandhan is approaching. With such initiatives, many needy persons will not only get money but also become self-reliant,” Jyoti, a resident of Budh Nagar near Narayana said.According to officials, under the initiative, a self-help group of around 50 people, mainly women, is being trained about making Rakhi ahead of the festival of Rakshabandhan.They said local NGOs have been roped in to provide raw material and for sale of Rakhi.Tanvi Garg, district magistrate New Delhi, said “Ummeed Ki Rakhi” is a self-help group project under which effort is being made to generate employment by rakhi making for those who lost their jobs due to the pandemic.She said that under this project, different self-help groups of around 50 people each, mainly women, are created from the slums of Budh Nagar, Inderpuri and other areas in the district.“These SHGs are being trained about Rakhi making with the help of volunteers and various NGOs. Once the Rakhi making project is successful, we will provide them training to make homemade items, handicrafts, etc., so that a self-sustainable model of employment generation can be established,” Garg said.Most of SHG members in the programme are women who used to work at factories and shops.Nitin Shakya, the district’s coronavirus nodal officer who is supervising the initiative, said only one centre has been set up at a primary school where aspirants have imparted skill training of Rakhi making and product generation. He said that four more such centres will come up at Vasant Vihar, Nangal Raya, Narayana and Chanakyapuri slums.He said the target is to make 10,000 rakhis and those will not only be sold in the open market but also stalls will be set up in the government offices in the district. “The district administration will promote the sale of rakhi for their own staff and also motivate others to help these self-help group. Proceeds from the sale of Rakhis will be given to the self-help group after deduction of the cost of raw materials,” he said.Shakya said that all safety standards with respect to social distancing, mask, sanitisers among others are ensured while imparting training to aspirants and preparing Rakhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/slum-women-taught-to-make-rakhi-handicrafts-to-sustain-themselves/story-YW24LHsePZ46wGq8ZHv7XI.html
17-07-2020||City||Human trial of Covaxin begins at Rohtak PGIMS||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday announced that human trials to fight coronavirus with Covaxin — the country’s foremost vaccine candidate for Covid-19 — have started at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak. “Three subjects were enrolled for this purpose today (Friday). All three have tolerated the vaccine very well. There were no adverse effects,” he tweeted. Covaxin has been developed by the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company Bharat Biotech in collaboration with National Institute of Virology (NIV) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) earlier approved the biotech company to initiate the phase 1 and 2 human clinical trials. PGIMS has become the second facility in India after All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, to begin the human trials. Dr Savita Verma, principal investigator of the trial, said they had administered the first dose of vaccine (0.5ml) to three volunteers on Friday. “These volunteers were kept under observation for three hours. They tolerated the vaccine very well. Later, the volunteers were sent back home and a team of doctors will now examine their health everyday. PGIMS, along with three other medical institutes, will conduct human trials on 50 volunteers in the first phase. The second phase will commence 14 days later after seeing the result of the vaccine in these volunteers,” she added. Dr Verma said 17 individuals have undergone rigorous medical scrutiny so far to check whether they have been previously infected with the virus or suffered from any liver, lungs or kidney ailments and any other infectious diseases.“Three of these volunteers, who were found eligible, were administered the vaccine today and the report of 13 is awaited,” she added.Co-investigator Dr Ramesh Verma said, “If any of these volunteers experiences adverse effects, Bharat Biotech will compensate them. We urge more volunteers to register themselves for the human trials,” Dr Verma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/human-trial-of-covaxin-begins-at-rohtak-pgims/story-BT385QzniBwie1Av5isJnM.html
17-07-2020||India||Unlock 2.0: Pet salons and vets call for caution, avoid crowding||Pet parents living in zones where the access to pet parlours and veterinarian services are allowed, had started thronging the parlours as soon as they reopened post lockdown. But then the influx of pet parents lead to overcrowding of these places. Now, most of the pet clinics and grooming salons, which are operational, have decided to take to strict precautionary measures. “To avoid over crowding, we have been asking all our clients to make prior appointments. No walk in is being entertained, unless it’s an emergency. Additionally, it’s also the responsibility of people to check their temperatures and ensure that they don’t come out from a hotspot just to visit a groomer,” says veterinarian Santosh Kumar who has clinics in Gurugram and Delhi. In the present phase of unlock, when most are expected to stay indoors and avoid the spread of Covid-19, many pet parents — who are tired of grooming their pets by themselves in the last three-four months — are visiting pet salons in desperation. The grooming salons that are open, have resorted to strictly practising social distancing. Akshay Mahendru, owner of a pet salon, says, “We are doing grooming on appointment basis only, and allotting slots for each pet parent, who can get the service done and move out without coming in contact with another person. Only the pet goes inside, and the parents can wait in the car or go buy groceries. We don’t want them to wait in the facility.” Pet groomers have also been advising pet parents to clean their pets clean before they venture out for a salon visit. “When you leave your home, wipe your dog’s collar and leash with an antibacterial wipe or soapy water and then make them get into your car. When you reach the salon or clinic for your dog’s appointment, ensure that you are the only client being allowed inside. Avoid getting inside if there are customers waiting for the place to be vacant. Ensure that you and the clinic staff are wearing masks and gloves at all times, and sanitizer is available for use,” advises Preeti Sood, a Delhi-based pet groomer, adding, “For grooming, it’s advisable to leave your dog in the care of your groomer and come back to pick up once the grooming is over. Upon returning, don’t go inside the salon and wait for the staff to get your dog to the car. Use digital payment options to avoid contact.”Kumar opines, “Dogs haven’t been proved as biological carriers of coronavirus. However, we need to ensure to dab a little bit of sanitiser and run it through our pets’ body and their paws, each time you are back from your visit to the vet or groomer. Ensure that you also wipe down the leash and the collar again.”Follow more on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/unlock-2-0-pet-salons-and-vets-call-for-caution-avoid-crowding/story-YXBQ1AGGkXu59MkN8I6cdP.html
17-07-2020||Gurugram||Serological survey: 24 out of 360 people found with antibodies in Gurugram||Out of the 360 people selected randomly from different occupational backgrounds for the ongoing serological survey in the city to study the prevalence of Covid-19 infection, 24 were found to have developed antibodies, according to officials of the district health department on Friday.A serological survey is an epidemiological tool used to understand the prevalence of Covid-19 infection. It looks for antibodies to SARS-CoV2 — the virus that causes Covid-19. The survey helps in identifying individuals who have developed an immune response to the virus. It may be due to an active infection or a prior one. Antibodies are the proteins generated by the body to fight infection. It remains in the body for a long time, even after a patient has recovered. A serological survey, therefore, enables health officials to detect unreported cases of infection and understand its prevalence within a community. The district health department conducted the first round of serological survey on June 24 at the CMO office in the old Civil Hospital. At least 182 blood samples were collected mostly from police personnel, healthcare workers, etc. A total of 32 people tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. Following the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the health department took blood samples from people involved in different occupations, such as health workers, shopkeepers, vendors, sanitation workers, among others. As shared by the health department on Friday, out of the 360 people tested, 24 people had developed antibodies against Covid-19. These included five health workers, five shopkeepers, four workers of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), two policemen, two drivers, a vendor, an immunocompromised patient, a person from a containment zone, an industrial worker, a media professional and a person from a rural area.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said, “To estimate the proportion of the population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 infection, the IgG Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) test is being conducted as a part of the serological survey. The test looks for antibodies developed in an individual for the coronavirus, and is highly sensitive and specific.”“For this, Gurugram received 460 antibody testing kits. Up to 100 kits have been used in people who had got their Covid-19 tests done earlier and were found to be either true positives or negatives. For the remaining kits, blood samples of only those people were taken who have a higher exposure to contract the infection. Out of the 360 kits used on such people in different parts of the city out, 24 had developed antibodies,” he added.As reported by HT earlier this week, the health department is increasing the sample size of the serological survey to 2,000 for which a private health consultant company is likely to be hired. The matter is currently awaiting a nod from the district administration. According to Yadav, the plan is to conduct more than 400 people for the survey in a month. “To cover 2,000 people, the survey will take nearly four to five months to be completed,” said Yadav.New Cases in GurugramMeanwhile, Gurugram on Friday reported 133 new Covid-19 cases. With these fresh infections, the total count of persons infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus reached 7,483. Out of these, 1,053 are active cases and 6,318 have recovered. In the last 24 hours, two Covid-19 deaths were reported. The total toll now stands at 112, out of which 75 are due to co-morbidities, while 37 have died without any known co-morbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/serological-survey-24-out-of-360-people-found-with-antibodies-in-gurugram/story-znxto5TVAqSixOoCs6JkBK.html
17-07-2020||City||Police come up with centralised system for deployment of personnel||Gurugram: To keep a check on criminal activities, the district police have come up with a centralised system for deployment of police personnel, officials said on Friday, adding that over 2,500 policemen would be deployed under the new plan. The move comes after the police department conducted the crime mapping exercise for identifying areas from where maximum cases of theft, burglary, and robberies were reported. As part of the new deployment plan, 79 police control room (PCR) vans, 123 patrol bikes and 61 check posts would be deployed in inner and outer cordons of the district.Subash Boken, police spokesperson, said that on the directions of police commissioner, a thorough crime mapping exercise was conducted over the past fortnight in which the police identified the crime prone areas from where maximum thefts, burglaries, and robberies were reported and the major routes used by the criminals to escape. “Accordingly, a deployment plan has been prepared in which both inter-district and inter-state check posts would be set up and police personnel would be deployed in three shifts of eight hours each. Earlier, the deployment of PCR vans and riders (patrol bikes) was from respective police stations and the policemen would also assist in other duties. As per the new plan, the personnel deputed with PCR vans, riders and nakas (check posts) would only be assigned specific patrolling duties,” Boken said in a statement.The personnel deployed on these duties would get one weekly off, he added. The police said the deployment plan was prepared in a way to ensure that the police teams (PCR vans, riders) are able to reach a spot in the least amount of time. All the PCR vans and riders have been provided with GPS and wireless communication system, they said. The police commissioner also issued directions to crime branch units to prepare a roster of most wanted criminals, proclaimed offenders and history-sheeters in a bid to reduce crime rate in the city, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-come-up-with-centralised-system-for-deployment-of-personnel/story-loD80VkEiHL7jmUG1Y6mAK.html
17-07-2020||Gurugram||Three months on since spit ban, not a single fine issued||Despite a municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) order three months ago banning spitting in public, the civic body is yet to issue even a single fine in this regard. Either the people had taken the order seriously or officials had not.Suspecting the latter, the MCG has now asked its sanitary and enforcement wing officials for an explanation.“Officials tasked with issuing such fines will be directed to start fining people for spitting in public on an immediate basis. The MCG is committed to ensuring that the spread of coronavirus is limited to the greatest extent and engaged in various initiatives towards this cause,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.On April 15, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) had banned spitting in public fearing that it could spread the coronavirus disease, which is transmitted through respiratory droplets through the nose and mouth.On April 22, commissioner Singh had issued a public notice that said spitting in public spaces will invite an on-the-spot penalty of ₹1000 to violators under the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994.As per MCG officials privy to the matter, the fact that the civic body had not issued a single fine was only realised when officials were compiling data on fines issued for people not wearing masks in public.“It seems that after the direction issued in April, officials simply forgot about the directive and as such did not fine a single person for spitting in public. It was only when the weekly report on masks fining was being compiled earlier this week that a senior official also asked to include figures of public spitting. When officials said that not a single fine has been issued in this regard, did they realise about this,” said an official privy to the matter.Until June 17, MCG had issued fines for violations in mask-wearing to 308 people and collected fines worth ₹1.54 lakh.Bijendra Sharma, senior sanitary inspector (SSI), MCG, distanced himself from the matter.“My sanitary inspector is not present in the office today (Friday). I’ll ask him for the latest update on the issuance of fines for spitting in public spaces on Saturday,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-months-on-since-spit-ban-not-a-single-fine-issued/story-N9VwqtlhtCyOHOEB06TuqN.html
17-07-2020||Gurugram||Increased testing is turning the Covid tide in Gurugram, says admin||A sharp increase in testing, a declining test positivity rate (TPR), and an all time high recovery rate of 84.7 percent — these were the three main numbers that officials from the district administration and health department cited at a press conference on Friday, as evidence that Gurugram had turned the tide in its response to the Covid-19 pandemic.As per data furnished by the district chief medical officer, Dr. Virender Yadav, Gurugram has (till July 16) conducted at least 69,354 tests, of which 26,125 were rapid antigen tests, conducted in the last three odd weeks. The remainder constitutes RT-PCR tests (recognised as the gold standard in testing for the virus) done by the health department and private labs together. While dis-aggregated data for RT-PCR tests was not provided, Yadav said that the health department is now conducting close to 540 RT PCR tests per day in Gurugram, at par with private labs. “In all, the district is now conducting over 2,000 tests per day, as opposed to about 600 in June. The improvement stems largely from this increase in testing, followed by tracing and isolation,” he said.Yadav also added that the district’s overall TPR was just under 10 percent, while the number of new positives each day is within range of daily new recoveries. The World Health Organization (WHO) had suggested a TPR of 5% over two weeks, while increasing testing.“The TPR in June 23 ws nearly 14 percent, and we were getting close to 150-200 new cases daily. Our aim is to continuously reduce TPR while increasing tests. We are still getting about 100 new cases every day but that’s not worrying because our positivity rate is low, around nine percent,” he said. An analysis of health department data shows that the rapid antigen method now makes up a bulk of the district’s tests. Since they were first deployed in Gurugram on June 24 26,125 antigen tests have been conducted, while only 18,522 RT PCR tests were conducted during the same period. However, despite being the primary strategy for containment — as confirmed by multiple officials in the health department — antigen tests have not picked up a significant amount of positive cases, when compared to the RT PCR method. Within Gurugram, the two have a large discrepancy in their respective positivity rates, which experts say is expected, given that the Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR) validated antigen kits are fundamentally less sensitive and every negative case had to be followed by an RT-PCR test for confirmation. Of the total antigen tests conducted, 2,470 samples were retested via RT PCR (as people were showing symptoms), which found 283 individuals positive. It also raised concerns if whether Gurugram was effectively containing the the virus.As per numbers given by Yadav at Friday’s press conference, 679 positive cases in three weeks were detected via antigen tests (indicating a TPR of 2.5 percent). During the same period, 1909 positives were detected via RT PCR tests (indicating a TPR of 10 percent). “This is worrying, because a fundamentally less reliable test is being adopted as the district’s primary testing strategy. It is very likely that antigen tests, despite being able to identify several positives at once, are also letting an equal number of false negatives slip through the cracks, which does not really help with cutting chain of transmission,” said Dheeraj Singh, a city-based data scientist tracking state and district trends.Dr. Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, responded, saying, “Antigen tests are not as targeted, whereas an RT-PCR test is done only when there is a higher likelihood of infection. The discrepancy between their positivity rates is not worrying.” Until July 16, the district had seen 110 deaths, with a case-fatality ratio (CFR) of 1.5%. CMO Yadav said that, by Monday, they are expecting the district’s mortality rate to dip below 1.5% for the first time in at least six weeks. The mortality ratio came down to 1.49% on Friday itself with two more deaths and total cases at 7,483. “By Monday, we expect the mortality rate to settle at somewhere around 1.47% percent. Of 110 deaths (till July 16), about 10 deaths have been sudden, where the patient couldn’t be isolated in time. This hasn’t happened in July.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/increased-testing-is-turning-the-covid-tide-in-gurugram-says-admin/story-cebVVffcfrR2FWUQgXu9oO.html
17-07-2020||City||Health department to tie up with RWAs to hold Covid-19 testing camps in residential societies||To ramp up Covid-19 testing in the city, the health department, along with the district administration, will hold antigen testing camps in gated societies and condominiums in the coming weeks. Officials said that the proposal is at an initial stage and they plan to approach the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) for coordination. “The plan is to conduct antigen detection tests in high-rise buildings, condominiums and gated colonies during the evening hours. The test will be conducted from 4pm to 7pm or 8pm, depending on the suggestions put forward by the RWAs,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO), Gurugram, while addressing a press meet on Friday. “We are yet to tie up with the residential societies for holding these Covid-19 testing camps in their areas,” he said. The rapid antigen diagnostic test detects the proteins attached to the coronavirus by testing a sample collected from the nasal cavity of a patient using swabs. The test delivers result within 30 minutes.Dhruv Bansal, media spokesperson for the DLF RWAs, called health department’s initiative an excellent move. “The RWA will coordinate with the health department in holding the testing camps in the evening. Two Covid-19 testing camps have already been organised in DLF Phase-I and Phase-2 with the help of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram(MCG). We want to conduct the camp again so that more number of people could turn up for the tests,” said Bansal. Vijay Chopra, president, The Ivy condominium, Sector 28 said, “The health department has said that they will be conducting antigen tests of more than 150 people in our society. Dates are yet to be finalised as we are still circulating the message regarding the testing camps. The health team has already taken 51 samples from the society for the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test this week. Out of them, 30 have tested negative and results of 21 are awaited. Next week antigen tests will be conducted on residents, estate staff and house helps.”Testing camps are currently being conducted for rapid detection of the virus in various Covid-19 clusters across the city. Till now, more than 26,000 people in the clusters have been tested using the antigen detection kits manufactured by a South Korean company based in Manesar. Out of the 26,125 tests conducted so far, 697 had tested coronavirus positive and have been asked to isolate at home.Yadav said that following the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) guidelines, those who tested negative for the antigen test, were asked to give oral and nasal swab samples for the RT-PCR test for final confirmation. “It was found that 280 were Covid-19 positive, out of the 25,428 people who tested negative for the antigen detection test,” said Yadav. RT-PCR is considered to be the gold standard of Covid-19 testing as it detects the genetic material of the virus and helps in diagnosing active Covid-19 infections.He said that within the next 16 days, 154 antigen testing camps will be organised in parts of Rajiv Nagar, Nathupur, Palam Vihar, Laxman Vihar, Firoj Gandhi Colony, Mullahera, Patel Nagar, Om Nagar, Manesar and Sohna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-department-to-tie-up-with-rwas-to-hold-covid-19-testing-camps-in-residential-societies/story-2LV6R1WIH9jlICt6gML1TM.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Clinical trials for Covaxin start at PGIMS-Rohtak; 3 given doses||The Phase-1 of human clinical trials for Covaxin — one of the two indigenous vaccine candidates for Covid-19— started at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS)-Rohtak on Friday. Haryana’s health minister Anil Vij took to Twitter to break the news on Friday afternoon.“Human trial with Corona vaccine (COVAXIN) of Bharat Biotech started at PGI Rohtak today. Three subjects were enrolled today. All have tolerated the vaccine very well. There were no adverse efforts (sic),” wrote Vij on Twitter.Covaxin is an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, which is being developed by Bharat Biotech and ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune. It is one of the two Indian vaccine candidates that have received the Drug Controller General of India’s nod to proceed with the Phase-1 and Phase-2 human clinical trials. In Rohtak, the sample size for Phase-1 trials is expected to around 8 to 10 people, officials said. In the past 10 days since PGIMS-Rohtak began enrolling subjects for trials, close to 100 individuals from Haryana have registered to be a part of the study.Officials at PGIMS Rohtak said that 22 of these volunteers have already been screened for their medical history, and three of them received the vaccine on Friday.Human dosing began at 10:30am, when one of the three subjects was first given a 3ug dose of Covaxin, via an intramuscular injection. After observing the subject for 30 minutes, the remaining two subjects received their vaccine doses between 11am and 12pm. “The subjects are in the age group of 22 to 35. They were kept under observation at PGIMS for three hours before being sent home. During follow-up calls in the evening, the subjects were not showing any adverse reactions. We are quite relieved and happy at today’s progress,” said Dr Savita Verma, principal investigator of the Covaxin clinical trial at PGIMS-Rohtak.The subjects will now be given a second dose of the vaccine in 14 days, provided no adverse reactions are reported prior to the date. Blood samples, to check for the presence of antibodies, will also be taken from the subjects at 14 days and 28 days, officials at PGIMS confirmed. “There are two proposed doses of the final vaccine — 3ug and 6ug. These are extrapolated from data obtained from pre-trial tests on animals. We have administered the lower dose today,” Verma added. Doctors at PGIMS explained that, at this point in the double-blind trial, it is unknown whether any of the three subjects received a placebo. “The vials we received are not marked. There is a 4:1 ratio, where for every four persons who receive the vaccine, one person gets a placebo, but as the administrator, we will not know who gets what. We may know in 14 days, depending on seroconversion,” Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/clinical-trials-for-covaxin-start-at-pgims-rohtak-3-given-doses/story-44P8pRFxn9u9gSh70iiK3N.html
17-07-2020||City||Govt offers shelters to people evicted in demolition drive||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday issues directions to arrange temporary shelters to people affected by the East Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (EDMC) demolition drive in East Laxmi Market. The east civic body had demolished 56 houses constructed on a service road of the Master Plan Road following a court order.The directions were issued after Kejriwal on Friday visited the area and met affected people. Kejriwal said directions had been issued to arrange immediate temporary shelters in tents on nearby plots or in schools.“Many jhuggis have been demolished here on the directions of the Delhi High Court. I directed the officials to begin an in-depth study of the order of the Delhi High Court, and on how a court order for demolition can be issued in these times of the pandemic. After analysing the court order, we will explore all options and try to find a permanent solution. We will arrange temporary shelters to people by either erecting tents on nearby land, or providing lodging facilities in schools, where all necessary arrangements such as food, water, lodging, and sanitation will be made,” Kejriwal said in a statement.According to EDMC officials, the matter related to the construction of houses on a service lane along the nullah road in east Delhi had been on in the high court since 2011, and those who had encroached upon the service road were given proper hearing. The action was taken after high court gave an ultimatum to the civic body to remove encroachments before August 17, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-offers-shelters-to-people-evicted-in-demolition-drive/story-nTQ8wYSoPtoU0CWg3oqTgO.html
17-07-2020||City||Government allows penal interest waiver of six months if pending amount paid by September 30||The Uttar Pradesh government has offered to waive six months’ penal interest on pending dues of people who have bought property from their respective area development authorities, provided they pay the pending amount by September 30, 2020.Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) officials said that the order will help the cash-strapped body generate revenue. Since the Covid-19 hit, the authority has been losing cash as the state leveraged its resources to fight the pandemic.The order defines six months as from March 1, 2020 to August 31.“At present we have provision of 12% of simple interest and 3% additional penal interest in case of pending payments. According to the government order, if the pending payments are cleared by September 30, there will be no levy of penal interest on pending amount for the six months,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, authority’s chief architect and town planner.According to officials, the new provision under the government order is likely to benefit about 7000 property owners who have pending payments to be made to the authority.“In case there is any other waiver applicable on residential/commercial properties, such as if one-time payments are made within 45-60 days, then the computation of the waiver will not take into account the period of March 1 to August 31. The provisions of the government order will not amount to any concession or change in terms and conditions of the agreement,” the government order said.According to officials, the repayment period in case of economically weaker sections is 10 years, three years in case of middle income group flats and two years in case of higher income group flats. It is five years in case of commercial properties.“The allottee has to repay within the time frame specified for each type of property and has to repay in monthly instalments. In normal course 12% simple interest is charged on monthly instalments. In case of default of single instalment, the component of penal interest, which is 3% above the simple interest, is charged accordingly,” Shivpuri added.Developers feel that the order should be more relaxed.“We feel the present order should be more accommodative in terms that it should be rolled out for a period of at least one year in wake of the pandemic. Since many states are enforcing lockdown again and eight days in a week (two days of Saturday and Sunday) are also under weekend restrictions in UP, the real estate will hardly see people coming in to look for property which they usually arrive during the weekends,” said Gaurav Gupta, president – Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI - Ghaziabad). “Further, the construction works have also suffered during the lockdown and full workforce is still not available. So, people will have no big liquidity available with them in present times to pay up entire pending amount by September 30.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-allows-penal-interest-waiver-of-six-months-if-pending-amount-paid-by-september-30/story-YQ7MBAbGSYoZBnBwsemLEI.html
17-07-2020||City||Two wanted men held for murder of vegetable vendor||A week after the murder of a 34-year-old vegetable vendor in Surajpur, two wanted criminals, one of them a sharpshooter for the Sunder Bhati gang, were nabbed early Friday morning in connection with the case, the police said, adding that the two suspects were held following an encounter. The vegetable vendor, Durgesh, was shot at on July 9 at his shop outside a housing society. He died during treatment on July 14. His family had allegedly blamed the son of a policeman posted with the fire department for the death, as the cop’s son had been booked in May by the Surajpur police after he allegedly assaulted Durgesh when he refused to pay extortion money to him. The police had also taken him in custody to question him.However, around 1am on Friday, the police, while checking at the FNG road near Sector 144, waved a Brezza car to stop. But the car’s occupants tried to flee and fired at the police team chasing them.“Both the suspects were injured in the retaliatory firing. They were identified as Yogesh Bhati and Kapil Bhati who carried rewards of Rs 50,000 and Rs 25, 000 on their heads, respectively. Yogesh is one of the top 10 criminals of the district and works as a sharpshooter for the Sunder Bhati gang. They were also involved in several extortion cases,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Zone 2.Police officials said that the car had been stolen by them from Dadri on February 5. From the vehicle, Rs 50,000 was also recovered which was part of the loot from a previous robbery. Two country made pistols were also recovered from them, the officials said, adding that they were taken to the district hospital for treatment.The duo was allegedly responsible for the shooting of Durgesh as he had refused to pay extortion money to them, said the police. Chander said that a probe is on for the connection between the two extortion bids and the role of the previous suspect in this murder.“Yogesh was also responsible for the murder of another criminal Nandu, a native of Noida, in police custody in Bijnore upon instructions from Sunder. Kapil was involved in the murder of his own father with whom he had issues,” said DCP.The police have identified at least 16 criminal cases, including that of murder, against Yogesh while Kapil also has several murder cases against him, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-wanted-men-held-for-murder-of-vegetable-vendor/story-DXJlpOpmuMRwWM2vU39S3O.html
17-07-2020||City||Separate labour rooms to be set up for pregnant women found covid positive||Chandigarh The health and family welfare department has set up separate labour rooms in all district hospitals for deliveries of pregnant women reported positive. The decision follows 90 such women of 5,929 tested, reporting positive during their third trisemester of pregnancy. State health minister Balbir Sidhu said covid test was mandatory during the third trimester of pregnancy. Patiala district performed the best by conducting 1,715 tests of pregnant women, of which 61 tested positive and 16 deliveries had been made safely. Civil surgeons had also been directed to establish one dedicated Operation Theatre for affected patients at district hospitals, as per Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in the regard, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/separate-labour-rooms-to-be-set-up-for-pregnant-women-found-covid-positive/story-gYvnU5Pq5T8hlnDTGKGTHP.html
17-07-2020||City||Gautam Budh Nagar sets up testing camps for general public, asks for another 1L antigen kits||NOIDA: Aiming to check the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration set up testing camps for the general public at five places in the district on Friday. Testing will be done for four days, at five new locations, every day. The target for each day is to take samples of at least 3,000 persons for rapid antigen kits, the officials said.On the first day of this drive, though, the district achieved more than 100% of its target; a total of 3,020 persons were tested through rapid antigen kits, of which 46 reported positive.According to district magistrate Suhas LY, apart from 27,000 antigen kits received in earlier lots, requisition of another one lakh rapid antigen kits for the month of July has been sent to the government.“The kits received in the earlier lots were spent during the 10-day surveillance in the district, which ended on July 12. As far as new requisitions are concerned, we have received 24,000 kits so far. We have started four-day surveillance camps in different localities. Every day, it will be held at five different places and we have set the target of taking samples of at least 3,000 persons in these camps,” he said.The DM also said that now anyone can get tested at these camps.“Even if somebody doesn’t have any symptoms of Covid-19, but wishes to be tested, it will be done without any delay. Of the 22,397 samples taken during the 10-day surveillance drive earlier this month, only 1,265 tested positive. It indicates that our positivity rate was 5.6% in that drive – which is 12th in the state,” he said.The DM further said despite the rising number of positive cases, residents are ease with the administration’s efforts. “We have constituted many rapid response teams, who will help in identifying positive patients from different localities. In a meeting through video conferencing held on Wednesday, all residents’ associations appreciated the preventive and surveillance measures taken by the district administration,” he said.The five camps were held at Stellar Kings road (Sector 50), Paras Season Society (Sector 168), Silver City (Sector 93), Krishna Apartments (Sector 61) and Pan Oasis apartments (Sector 70) on Friday. Five teams have been formed for this. The administration has also formed a mobile team which will be sent to different places in the district as and when required.According to sources, the camps will be held in community centres (sectors 11 and 25), Amrapali Eden park (Sector 50), Sadarpur baraat ghar (Sector 44) and Cleo County (Sector 121) on Saturday. On Sunday, they will be held at Sector 45 opposite Shiv Mandir in Chhalera, Shahpur community centre in Sector 128, primary school in Rasoolpur in Sector 62, Mahagun Maestro in Sector 50 and Grand Omaxe in Sector 93B.On July 20, the camps will be held in community centres of sectors 20 and 24, Chhijarsi baraat ghar in Sector 63, Mahagun Manor in Sector 50 and Gail apartment in Sector 62.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gautam-budh-nagar-sets-up-testing-camps-for-general-public-asks-for-another-1l-antigen-kits/story-jM1D45b7kXBpOGBxqdPkoJ.html
17-07-2020||City||Jallianwala Bagh gets facelift with 80% redevelopment done||Amritsar Witness to the British regime’s atrocities on Indians, the historic Jallianwala Bagh near the Golden Temple has finally got a facelift with 80% of the redevelopment project completed. Dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the massacre on April 13, 1919, the Union culture and tourism ministry is executing the project to transform the historical monument at a cost of Rs 20 crore. Work started last year.A group of media persons got a preview of the work completed till now with the garden being opened for them. The facility is otherwise closed for the public. The garden has acquired a new look and has been given a modern, contemporary feel. Newly-constructed slopes under the landscaping on both sides of the stretch that leads to the flame-shaped memorial of those killed in the massacre, enhances its solemn grace. The Amar Jyoti has been relocated. Rajya Sabha member and Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust member Shwait Malik had arranged the preview. Though the bullet marks have been preserved properly, the “Shaheedi Khu” (Martyrs’ Well) and the historic narrow street leading to its entrance have been modernised totally, amid controversy with some social activists claiming that the heritage character of the monument was being destroyed in the name of giving a facelift. The well has been plastered and painted from the inside. Glass has been fitted on the windows of the new see-through canopy built on it.Pertinently, the narrow street which was used by the British troops to enter the premises to fire at the Indians, who had gathered there peacefully, and carries heritage value, has been given a new design with sculptures depicting ordinary men and women of that age on newly-plastered walls of both sides. The galleries depicting the history of the massacre and other episodes of Indian freedom struggle are ready. Speakers for light and sound show have been installed. Malik added that the rest of the work will be finished within two months and the memorial will be thrown open for public soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jallianwala-bagh-gets-facelift-with-80-redevelopment-done/story-ar6r4Ib6ov3ca8Z1tyZrRN.html
17-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad plans to clear backlog of contact tracing of Covid-19 patients within a week||With rising number of Covid-19 cases, officials of the district health department are struggling to upload the contact tracing figures to the state portal. According to the department officials, they have so far updated 11,184 contacts of 2,434 patients even as the district has a total of about 3,765 Covid-19 cases till July 16.The Ghaziabad district has adopted a new system for speedy contact tracing, increased testing and faster referral of Covid patients to hospitals, with a view to break the chain of infections. For contact tracing, the administration had roped in the services of the district police about a week ago and 18 police officers from across the district were assigned the task along with officials from the administration and the health department.Health department officials said they have finished uploading contact details of about 65% of the total Covid-19 patients in the district. The officials said there was slight lag in the process as cases have been rising at an average of 134 new cases per day since July 1.“Our teams are already on job of updating the contact tracing details on to the state portal and about 97% of this data is in our manual records. Under the revamped system, I have asked them to finish the work within a week. Once that is done, it will help us track contacts and carry out testing and referrals as needed,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.The Ghaziabad district currently has a score of about 4.6 contacts per patient. The district, as of July 10, has 189 Category 1 zones ( areas with a lone Covid-19 case) and 173 Category 2 zones (areas with more than one Covid-19 case). “The rise in number of category-2 containment zones means that the infection is being spread by positive patients to family members, relatives or acquaintances nearby. So it becomes imperative that we trace all contacts of a patient at the earliest,” said an official from the health department, on condition of anonymity.“In the past one week, after police were made a part of contact tracing, we have traced about 500 contacts of 250 Covid-19 patients. We are helping the health department and have also traced about 90 of 120 missing patients,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police.The contact tracing is also being done with the help of a team of six doctors -- three who are assigned to speak to patients over the phone and three to visit them. The team is stationed at a dedicated control room at the district headquarters.“Now, for better referral of patients to the appropriate Covid hospital, we have assigned three police station areas to each of the six doctors. It will now be their responsibility to track and send ambulances so that referrals is faster. Under the earlier system, referrals were getting done over 12 to 36 hours, which is now done within 12 to 24 hours,” said the health official quoted above.The rise in the number of Covid-19 cases is also a result of increased testing. From March 5 (when the first case was reported) to June 30, the district could conduct only 12,160 tests. During the last week of June, the district started rapid antigen testing which increased testing capabilities and also expedited results.Until Friday morning, the total sampling/testing figures had touched 60,000 in Ghaziabad and included 27,000 rapid antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-plans-to-clear-backlog-of-contact-tracing-of-covid-19-patients-within-a-week/story-p29UpUyT5kLDhnB7OwoIlJ.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||26-year-old found hanging in Chandigarh’s Sector 25||The body of a 26-year-old man was found hanging from a tree in Sector 25 on Friday.The victim, Sohan, a resident of Kansal in Mohali, was working as a clerk with a Punjab and Haryana high court advocate. No suicide note has been recovered so far. The victim’s relatives found his body hanging in a forested stretch between Khuda Lahora Bridge and Dhanas Lake. The victim’s cousin, told the police that on Thursday Sohan had left home for work on his motorcycle but when he did not return home, they started looking for him but to no avail. They were able to find him by tracking his mobile phone on Friday morning. He was rushed to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he was declared brought dead. The motorcycle of the deceased that was found parked nearby was taken into possession. The police have initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/26-year-old-found-hanging-in-chandigarh-s-sector-25/story-rXhMijOjAownNzuSU5RhAM.html
17-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad, Lucknow to have paid hotel isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday gave the nod for an optional mode of isolation of certain categories of asymptomatic patients in hotels in Ghaziabad and Lucknow.The government said the rates are nominal at ₹2,000 a day for double occupancy and ₹1,500 a day for single occupancy. Unlike in Delhi, home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients is not allowed in Uttar Padesh but they can now make use of hotel isolation, besides availing of paid Covid-19 treatment at select private hospitals.The state officials said the facility is allowed only in the cities of Ghaziabad and Lucknow for now. The Ghaziabad district administration had sent a proposal to the state government after several hotels have given their consent for having isolation facilities in their establishments.“The proposal was sent to the state officials as there is a demand from residents for better amenities at isolation centres and they are willing to pay for them. The government order has been received and it has identified two hotels initially. The chief medical officers will give permission to patients for hotel isolation and will deploy one doctor, two staff nurses and one pharmacist and also six oxygen cylinders at each hotel,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.The two hotels identified are Taru Inn and Elite, both located in Bajaria and have about 95 rooms combined. It says that apart from rental, a one-time fee of ₹2,000 has to be paid by the patient for medical services.“At least 25% single occupancy rooms will be reserved for women, children, and those aged 55-65 years. The remaining 75% rooms will be double occupancy. Those over 65 years of age, minor children without parents, pregnant women and those suffering co-morbid conditions will not be allowed to be in hotel isolation. In case any patient admitted there suffers health complications, (s)he will be immediately referred to an L2 or L3 category hospital,” the government order said.Detailing the new policy, Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (health), said the government already has n availability of 1.5 lakh beds in L1, L2 and L3 category Covid hospitals. He said the government has also notified the recommendations of the committee headed by Dr VK Paul, member, Niti Aayog, for capping the treatment costs at private hospitals.“Now, we have also allowed for optional facility of isolation in hotels in two cities of Ghaziabad and Lucknow. per day room rates will include room rent and food, and the government will provide doctors and nurses to check on patients. This is optional and there have been requests from residents who wish to have a television and attached bathroom when they are in isolation,” he said.He added that home isolation is not allowed in Uttar Pradesh for asymptomatic patients as there is a chance of them infecting their family members and even others outside their homes.Earlier in May, the Ghaziabad authorities had allowed city hotels to be paid quarantine facilities for foreign travellers who were flown in from different countries under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission.’As of July 16, the Ghaziabad district has a total of 3,765 overall cases, which include 1,497 active cases. Since July 1, the new Covid-19 cases are being reported at an average of 134 cases per day, as per the health department figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-lucknow-to-have-paid-hotel-isolation-of-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients/story-tFpQUveYgS5hqKMlW89uLO.html
17-07-2020||City||Panic grips Khanna after unexploded rockets found||Panic gripped Khanna after police recovered two unexploded rockets near the market committee office on Friday. On receiving information, a police party reached the spot and cordoned off the area and called the bomb disposal squad to defuse the explosives. The police have placed sacks of sand around the rockets and deputed force for keeping people away.The police suspected that the weapons have come in the containers with scrap from the bay countries, imported by the local furnace and factory owners. The factory owner has thrown the explosives in the plot to avoid police questioning, an official said.Inspector Ranbir Kumar, SHO at city 2 police station said that a ragpicker noticed the rockets in a pit and informed members of the market committee. The police have initiated an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panic-grips-khanna-after-unexploded-rockets-found/story-40nZ7Cj767KtfZgqdWhzbK.html
17-07-2020||City||Newlywed woman found dead in Ludhiana, husband, in-laws booked||A newlywed woman was found dead in Jalaldiwal village of Raikot on Friday, following which her husband and in-laws were booked for dowry death. The deceased has been identified as Baljit Kaur, 30.The accused Navdeep Singh, her husband, Charanjit Kaur, her mother-in-law, and Amarjit Kaur, Charanjit’s sister, are on the run.The victim’s father, Gurmukh Singh, said that Navdeep had started harassing Baljit for dowry soon after their marriage on October 7, 2019. On Friday morning, he received a call from Amarjit, who informed him that Baljit was lying unconscious. When he reached there, he found she had died. The husband and in-laws fled the house when he asked them how Baljit had died.ASI Gursant Singh, in-charge at Jalaldiwal police post, said an FIR under Section 304-B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/newlywed-woman-found-dead-in-ludhiana-husband-in-laws-booked/story-M0cqX9BpSHIcTO3xBOhYMM.html
17-07-2020||City||ASI booked for murder in Faridkot||Faridkot Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurmail Singh of Faridkot Police Lines has been booked for murder, after a 21-year-old man he had entered into a brawl with on July 4 succumbed to injuries at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) at Ludhiana on Thursday night. The victim has been identified as Arshdeep Singh. “In his statement before death, Arshdeep said that ASI Gurmail Singh attacked him with a knife-like weapon on his chest and hand. He was admitted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot on July 4, from where he was referred to DMCH, Ludhiana, on Thursday night,” the police said. SP Bhupinder Singh Sidhu said the ASI was suspended immediately after the incident and a case had been registered against him. “A medical board was formed to conduct the post-mortem and appropriate sections have been added in the FIR after the man’s death,” he added.A case is registered under Sections 302 (murder), 341 (wrongful restraint), 379 (theft) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the City police station in Faridkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-booked-for-murder-in-faridkot/story-YArUdBaA6w3TMxAv06lk8K.html
17-07-2020||City||With Class-12 results out, Punjab Technical University starts online registration process||With the Central Board of Secondary Education’s Class-12 results out, colleges affiliated with Punjab Technical University have started their online registration process. With colleges being bombarded with queries in the run up to the admission season, Gujranwala Guru Nanak Institute of Management and Technology, Ghumar Mandi, has started the online registration process and has also started a student enquiry forum to address students’ concerns. Principal professor Harpreet Singh said, “We are receiving an average 30 queries a daily and many students are coming to the institute to enquire about the admission process. We are also receiving online enquiries. All queries are being answered. The college offers a bachelor of science degree in fashion designing, bachelor of hotel management and catering technology (BHMCT), bachelor of business administration (BBA), bachelor of computer applications (BCA), master of computer applications (MCA), masters of business administration (MBA) and bachelor of commerce (honours). Khalsa Institute of Management and Technology (KIMT), Civil lines, had started an online registration-cum-enquiry module for students seeking admission to graduate and post-graduate courses in April. The module is receiving all the more enquiries after the result declaration. Director Harpreet Kaur said, “A team looks after the registration process and the response from students has increased after Class-12 results were declared. Many students and their parents are visiting the college to enquire after the admission process.”As per information, students can fill the online forms on the college website kimtludhiana.org where they will also get information regarding different courses such as MBA, MCA, BBA and BCA. The registered candidates will be given online guidance about the eligibility criteria and admission process.Meanwhile, colleges affiliated with Panjab University are waiting for the academic calendar, which is expected to be released by authorities next week. Colleges affiliated with PU will start the registration process soon after. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-class-12-results-out-punjab-technical-university-starts-online-registration-process/story-n3aIsMPUMbs8KJ6hjNtu4J.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||No syndicate meeting at Punjabi varsity for 11 months; action on inquiry reports delayed indefinitely||Punjabi University has not held a syndicate meeting for the past 11 months, raising questions over the administration’s working. The last syndicate meeting, in which administrative issues were taken up, was held on August 21, 2019, under the chairpersonship of vice-chancellor professor BS Ghuman, whose tenure was renewed for three years by the Punjab government last month. In March this year, only a special annual budget meeting that was attended by syndicate members was held. The delay in holding the syndicate meeting has delayed action against officials and employees on the basis of the findings of inquiry reports related to allegations of corruption, nepotism and misuse of funds during 2007-2017.FINANCIAL CRISIS NOT DISCUSSED’A senior professor, who did not wish to be named, said, “Apart for fixing responsibility on those found guilty in inquiry reports, the administration has failed to discuss key issues concerning the varsity, primarily the acute financial crisis, by not holding a syndicate meeting. Over the past 11 months, appointments and key decisions have been made hoping that they will be approved by the syndicate, which is illegal.” It may be mentioned that in June, the higher education department had given directions to hold a meeting. The directions have not been adhered to so far.V-C Ghuman said “Though the meeting was held in March but only the annual budget was listed in the agenda. For other key administrative issues, the meeting will be held sooner.”He added that the discussions were on with the newly appointed registrar to finalise the agenda.“The probe reports will be discussed prominently in a meeting that is expected to be organised online,” he said. It may be mentioned that even the principal secretary (higher education) had directed the vice-chancellor to hold a syndicate meeting at the earliest so as to decide future of these reports. 12 PROBES WERE ORDEREDFollowing the resignation of former vice-chancellor (V-C) Dr Jaspal Singh in March 2017, the then secretary of higher education, Anurag Verma, was appointed as officiating V-C.Verma had received complaints regarding alleged irregularities in the university’s functioning from 2007 to 2017. These included allegations of nepotism, corruption, and bungling of funds in the examination branch, among other issues.On the basis of these complaints, Verma had ordered 14 internal inquiries in April, 2017. The sealed reports of these were handed over to incumbent V-C prof BS Ghuman in December, 2017.The V-C had formed a two-member committee, comprising of former IAS officer Jagjit Puri and former IPS officer VK Kapoor, to further investigate the internal inquiry reports.The panel had submitted its sealed findings to the university in July, 2018, but the reports are gathering dust since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-syndicate-meeting-at-punjabi-varsity-for-11-months-action-on-inquiry-reports-delayed-indefinitely/story-ThoQvWHt397Xy7OGC2ff9K.html
17-07-2020||City||Two deaths, 68 fresh cases in Ludhiana||Two persons lost their battle to Covid-19 while 68 others tested positive in Ludhiana on Friday. Besides, six from other districts also tested positive here. The district’s tally has now reached 1,694 while the number of active cases is 514, said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. Giving details about the two victims who succumbed to the virus, Bagga said, “One of the victims is a 50-year-old male from Jatpura village in Raikot, who was undergoing treatment at Rajindra hospital in Patiala while the other is a 70-year- old from Uttam Nagar in Khanna, who was undergoing treatment at the Ludhiana civil hospital.ANOTHER CONGRESS COUNCILLOR TESTS +VEA week after Congress councillor Manpreet Grewal tested positive for Covid-19, another councillor from the party, Rakesh Prashar, 57, tested positive on Thursday evening.As per information, Prashar had distributed ration among the needy residents of his ward on Shahpur road on Monday, after which he developed the symptoms. Following this, he got himself tested. Prashar said, “I am having mild symptoms and I was at home till Friday evening. But now I have decided to shift to a hospital. I had quarantined myself at home after developing symptoms. I have also advised others, who participated in the ration distribution drive, to get themselves tested. My family members will also be tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-deaths-68-fresh-cases-in-district/story-SFvCiULgSTTSoEkxLZwfYI.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Fast track relief work in cyclone-affected districts: CM Thackeray||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the district administration of the three districts -Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg - that were affected due to the Cyclone Nisarga last month, to fast track the process to provide aid and restoration work. Thackeray also too a review of the preparedness of Ganpati festival celebrations in the Konkan region and directed authorities to ramp up beds, get more ambulances, and set up vigilance committees.In a review meeting held via video-conferencing, Thackeray reviewed the relief work in the three districts and said aid should be provided on a “war footing”. The district administration, according to a senior official, has sought additional funds after the state government decided to provide additional aid for material damage, house, and crop damage.“After the state government announced additional relief for damage to homes depending on the severity, and for material damages, a recalculation was done. Raigad, which was the most affected district, has sought ₹80 crore additional fund. Ratnagiri has sought about ₹36 crore additional fund,” an official, who was in the meeting, said requesting anonymity. The state government has so far disbursed ₹490.13 crore for the package.Thackeray, meanwhile, has directed the district authorities to set up vigilance committees in every village, ramp up isolation facilities and other medical facilities, get more ambulances, etc. Lakhs of people from Mumbai, Thane, and Pune districts travel to Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts during the festival.The measures are being put in place so that the Covid-19 cases do not increase in this region due to the increased movement of people from the affected areas. The CM has appealed to the locals to keep the celebrations low-key, maintain physical distance, avoid crowding, etc. The district authorities are directed to strictly follow the state’s guidelines for public Ganpati mandals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fast-track-relief-work-in-cyclone-affected-districts-cm-thackeray/story-dzeBwUw0bsNFNRCVyGIxAI.html
17-07-2020||City||With Rakhi round the corner, Ludhiana’s post office is back in vogue||With Raksha Bandhan a mere two weeks away, numerous residents are availing the postal services to send rakhis to relatives abroad or in different parts of India. Though the number of Covid-19 cases are relentlessly rising across the district, a large number of people could be seen pouring into the Ludhiana head post office situated at Ferozepur Road. The post office receives an average 44,000 articles daily, of which 18,000 are rakhis these days, say officials. Last month, the head post office received 7,000 ordinary mails, 6,500 registered articles and 12,000 speed post orders. With the festival a fortnight away, the post office received 10,000 ordinary mails, 11,000 registered articles and 23,000 speed post requests.Ludhiana post office senior superintendent Amanpreet Singh said, “Ordinarily, we receive 25,000 mails a day. Ahead of rakhi, the volume always increases. However, this time, perhaps due to the growing number of Covid-19 cases, people are avoiding travel and sending rakhi via post.”‘SECURITY MEASURES IN PLACE’ We have taken all precautionary measures and boxes have made to ensure people maintain social distancing . At every counter, a board instructing people to wear marks and maintain social distancing have been propped up, said Amanpreet. “All the articles received are properly sanitised and sorted at the National Sorting Hub office based at the Ludhiana railway station. The hub receives mail from 11 districts,” he said.Ask him if the rakhis will reach on time amid the pandemic, he says, “All the mails will be delivered at the same time as earlier and in the states where few areas have been declared hot spots, there the articles will reach but may take more days then usual,” he said. Ankita Khosla, a resident of Ghumar Mandi, said, “I have sent the rakhis to Canada and Delhi through speed post. I want to visit my parents, but due to spike in number of Covid-19 cases, I decided to stay at home. The coronavirus pandemic has affected all services and I hope my brothers will receive the letter before rakhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-rakhi-round-the-corner-ludhiana-s-post-office-is-back-in-vogue/story-1OshGWLKd34QBUlGKvUEkM.html
17-07-2020||City||11-year-old girl dies in a mishap while playing||An 11-year-old girl on Thursday died after her dupatta allegedly got entangled in a rod, in her Mira Road home.The victim, while playing with her sister, climbed on an empty gas cylinder when her dupatta got entangled on a rod on the ceiling and she lost balance. We are still awaiting the post-mortem report, said a senior police inspector.Senior police inspector Sanjay Hazare of Kashimira police station, said, “Her sister informed their mother who was in the other room, while their father, a security guard, was at work on night shift. Neighbours rushed for help after they heard the victim’s mother scream. They pulled down the victim and took her to a hospital where she was declared dead. We have registered a case of accidental death and are awaiting the post mortem report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-year-old-girl-dies-in-a-mishap-while-playing/story-vk4y7QkRRtNXACFpAuwMOM.html
17-07-2020||City||Infections haunt the men in khaki||On the frontline in the battle against Covid-19, the men in khaki in Ludhiana are one of the most susceptible groups to the infection. The department has already lost one of its men to the virus while at least 28 others are still fighting it. Till date, as many as 59 cops have been infected with the deadly virus. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said the personnel are required to be continuously on the ground to enforce the lockdown restrictions, which leaves them vulnerable. He added that the department is taking special measures to keep the infection at bay. “We are conducting regular health check-ups and providing our personnel multivitamins and fruits to boost their immunity. Besides, special exercise sessions are also held to keep them fit,” he said.The DCP added that the department has had to make several changes in its working since the pandemic outbreak. “We are now encouraging people to file their complaints online instead of physically visiting the police station. Besides, we are restricting the entry of people inside police stations and also regularly sanitising the vicinity,” said Chaudhary.Last week, the department was forced to suspend operations at the Moti Nagar police station for two days after five cops tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infections-haunt-the-men-in-khaki/story-QglOKmEXzpR5R3cHoF04vN.html
17-07-2020||City||Retired army man rushed to PGI with bullet injury||A retired army man was admitted to the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, with a bullet injury in the head on Thursday morning.The man, identified as Surjit Singh, who is in his late 50s, was later shifted to Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and was still under treatment at the time of filing of this report. He is a resident of Bhainsa Tibba and works as a security guard in a bank at Sector 7, Panchkula.“A man has injured himself, but we have yet to ascertain whether it was an accidental fire wherein he injured himself during cleaning his weapon or he actually shot himself. At present he is undergoing treatment at PGIMER and we have yet to record his statement,” said Naveen, SHO, Mansa Devi Complex police station.Meanwhile, in a video shared on the social media, whose authenticity HT could not independently verify, Surjit said: “My name is Surjit Singh and I belong to Mandi district, Himachal Pradesh. Here I live in Bhainsa Tibba and I am a retired fauji. Today I shot myself in the head after a civilian named Kuldeep threatened to kill me.”Police have initiated investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/retired-army-man-rushed-to-pgi-with-bullet-injury/story-DgBqxndxjk1ah4WJFj19KJ.html
17-07-2020||City||Allow wholesale fruit, veg markets to function in second phase of lockdown: APMC||PUNE The officials of the Pune Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) have asked the district administration and municipal commissioner to allow the functioning of wholesale vegetable and grocery markets in the second phase of the lockdown.BJ Deshmukh, APMC administrator, Pune, said, “As per the district administration’s lockdown order, the vegetable, grocery and wholesale markets are closed. But as the district administration has announced that it will allow essential service in the second phase between 8 am to noon, we have asked them to allow us to function.”Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar while announcing the lockdown had said that some relaxations will be given from July 18 midnight and essential services like groceries and vegetables will be allowed, but a detailed order for the same will be published by the administrationDeshmukh said, “We have asked the municipal commissioner to provide us with proper guidelines to function. Also, it is not possible to wrap up the market in four hours.”He said guidelines will be issued to traders after getting clarification from the district administration and municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/allow-wholesale-fruit-veg-markets-to-function-in-second-phase-of-lockdown-apmc/story-jCQ7iuoOUQgjTiRFHEzg1I.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Aaditya Thackeray seeks change in highway alignment to save 400-year-old banyan tree||State environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray wrote to Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari requesting him to save a 400-year old banyan tree in Sangli district that is designated to be axed for the construction of a national highway through a village. Thackeray, in the letter to Gadkari, requested to change the alignment of the proposed national highway to save the tree.The locals in the Bhause village in the district have also opposed the cutting of the tree for the construction of the Ratnagiri-Kolhapur-Miraj-Solapur National Highway 166.In the letter, Thackeray said, “There is a temple of Goddess Yalamma in the village which has a 400-year-old banyan tree. This banyan tree covers an area of around 400 square meters and has a historical significance and is a natural habitat for bats and other rare birds.” Considering the historical significance and the damage it could cause to the local environment, the minister requested to change the alignment of the highway to some extent and save the banyan tree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aaditya-thackeray-seeks-change-in-highway-alignment-to-save-400-year-old-banyan-tree/story-hhkhSpZZXEzH3xRJseXbzJ.html
17-07-2020||City||Use money from PMC fixed deposits to buy medical equipment: Opposition||PUNE The opposition parties in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have appealed to the municipal commissioner to dissolve the fix deposits of the civic body and purchase ventilators and other medical equipment amid the rising Covid-19 positive cases in the city.Opposition party leader Deepali Dhumal, Congress leader Aba Bagul, Shiv Sena leader Prithviraj Sutar and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena leader Vasant More have jointly written a letter to the municipal commissioner.Bagul said, “Many PMC clinics and hospitals are lying idle. The civic body needs funds to purchase necessary medical equipment and install them. The fixed deposits of the civic body can be utilised for this purpose.”“The local self-government has to handle the health crises and the ruling party is failing at it,” said Bagul.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which is in power in PMC has asked the Central government to intervene and take control of the city.BJP MLA Siddharth Shirole has written a letter to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah regarding the issue.“The situation in Pune is critical and the state government has failed to handle the crisis. The central government should intervene and take control of the city,” said Shirole.“The Maha Vikas Agadhi (MVA) which is ruling in the centre has failed to handle the crisis,” said Shirole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/use-money-from-pmc-fixed-deposits-to-buy-medical-equipment-opposition/story-n29pcuYFBM4v0qXl73zevJ.html
17-07-2020||City||Three booked for kidnapping woman over custody dispute in Ludhiana||Police on Friday booked a resident of Jagraon for kidnapping his son-in-law’s sister, following a domestic dispute in Qadian village.The accused has been identified as Makhan of Bilaspur village in Jagraon. Makhan’s daughter Sakoora is married to Mohammad Mashoor for the past 10 years. Their relationship turned sour and Sakoora started living with her father. They have three children from their marriage, of which one is staying with Sakoora and two with Mashoor. However, on Friday, Makhan, his son Shareef and Dulla kidnapped Mashoor’s sister Kia, and demanded custody of Sakoora’s two children. A complaint was given to the police by Mashoor’s brother, Mohammad Sipahia of Kutbewal village. In his complaint, he said that he was taking Kia to a hospital on a motorcycle when a Bolero car intercepted them near Qadian village. The accused alighted from the car and started thrashing Sipahia and took Kia with them.He immediately sounded the police.Inspector Gopal Krishan, SHO at Salem Tabri police station said that the complainant alleged that the accused called him and demanded the custody of his two grandchildren in order to free Kia.A case under sections of 365 (kidnapping), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-booked-for-kidnapping-woman-over-custody-dispute-in-ludhiana/story-MoKSsSsLY0sGHuFjzCHPRI.html
17-07-2020||City||Rs 74 cr ‘bank fraud’: CBI book Akali leader, his firms, 13 others in Faridkot||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked an Akali leader, two of his rice sheller companies and 13 others for allegedly defrauding Punjab National Bank to the tune of Rs 74 crore.The CBI has lodged two separate FIRs after an investigation was conducted by superintendent of police and head of branch, ACB, Chandigarh, Akhilesh Kumar Chaurasia, against rice mills Golden Agrarian Pvt Ltd in Faridkot, Amyra Foods in Lambi, and its directors under Sections 120B, 420, 406 and 403 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 at the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) of CBI in Chandigarh.Akali leader and former chairman of Faridkot Improvement Trust Harinderjit Singh Samra, his wife Bhupinder Kaur, sons Rajveer Singh Samra and Sukhveer Singh Samra and Malkiat Singh who are directors of these companies and 10 others who were guarantors are booked by the CBI.The PNB alleged that the accused disposed of the rice stock, the prime security with the bank, without prior intimation or approval thereby causing a wrongful loss to the tunes of Rs 74 crore.According to the FIRs, CBI had received two written complaints from the chief manager of PNB Faridkot Navjinder Singh.In the first complaint, the bank alleged Golden Agrarian Pvt Ltd and its directors Malkiat Singh and Harinderjit Singh Samra have committed a fraud which caused Rs 47 crore loss to the bank. CBI booked Malkiat, Samra, his sons, his wife, Samra Ice and Gen Mills, Everest Industries, State Agri Warehousing Colleteral Management Ltd, five others and unknown public servants in the case.In the second complaint, PNB claimed that Amyra Foods Pvt Ltd in Muktsar and its directors Rajveer Samra and Bhupinder Kaur committed fraud causing Rs 27.12 crore loss to the bank. An FIR was lodged against Amyra Foods, its directors and 10 others.The chief manager of PNB, in his report, also stated that during internal inquiry it was found that grave irregularities were committed by the then branch head Hira Lal and the then deputy manager Jaspreet Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-74-cr-bank-fraud-cbi-book-akali-leader-his-firms-13-others-in-faridkot/story-PWV0luVNLJhSM4jClLVwJK.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Six held for smuggling in 14 kilos of gold, valued at ₹7 crore, from Myanmar||With the arrest of six men -- from Delhi, Bihar and West Bengal -- the directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) on Friday claimed to have busted a gold smuggling racket and recovered 14 kilos of gold worth ₹7 crore from the arrested persons. Senior officers said the gold was smuggled in from Myanmar and was being transported to Delhi via road from Assam, in the absence of international flights.According to the DRI officials, the operation was executed on Tuesday and arrests were made simultaneously in Delhi, Mujaffarpur and Siliguri in west Bengal.Deputy director Nilesh Rai said based on intelligence inputs, the Delhi unit of DRI acted and intercepted two men at Jewar toll plaza when they were headed to Delhi in a roadways bus from Guwahati via Siliguri. “Gold bars weighing 4.98kg were recovered from them,” Rai said.“Simultaneously, on further information, our teams in Siliguri intercepted two passengers at a bus station when they were about to board a bus to Patna, Bihar. Their luggage was checked and 30 gold bars weighing 4.98kg were recovered,” Rai said.The officer said teams kept building intelligence and in yet another operation in Patna, they intercepted two other passengers who had arrived there in buses from Guwahati. “Twenty-four gold bars weighing 3.982kg were recovered from the duo,” he said.“Further inquiry revealed that all seized gold bars were smuggled into India from Myanmar. These were being taken to Delhi by road from Guwahati, via Siliguri and Patna. The gold bars were found concealed in the handles of stroller bags, inside inner wears and in specially modified waist belts,” Rai said.He said the arrested men were using the road route, probably believing that the checking would be less stringent on highways as compared to airports.DRI and other agencies have started cracking down on gold smuggling after a similar racket came to fore in Kerala on July 5. The customs had seized an air consignment bound for the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram and found 30 kilos of gold, valued at ₹15 crore. The smuggling of gold using diplomatic channels triggered a political firestorm in the state with the opposition accusing the state government of abetting the racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/six-held-for-smuggling-in-14-kilos-of-gold-valued-at-7-crore-from-myanmar/story-jzV49sd0D086WuKMowLFsM.html
17-07-2020||City||Amritsar court rejects bail plea of 3 docs accused in fake covid report scam||Amritsar The court of additional sessions judge Sarabjit Singh Dhaliwal rejected the bail pleas of Dr Robin Tuli, his wife Dr Ridham Tuli and Dr Mohinder Singh on Friday. The three, in collusion with three other doctors at a private hospital, are accused of preparing fake covid-19 positive reports at their laboratory, Tuli Diagnostic Centre (TDC), to fleece patients. All six accused are absconding, with the other three withdrawing their bail applications. The racket had surfaced in June when at least four patients, reported to be covid-19 positive at the accused’s lab, turned out to be negative for the disease after retesting at the lab in Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar.On June 23, the Punjab vigilance bureau registered a case against the owner of TDC, Dr Tuli, his wife Dr Ridham, pathologist Dr Sanjay Piplani and Dr Mohinder Singh, for attempt to murder, fraud, criminal conspiracy and corruption. The vigilance had also booked EMC Super-Specialty hospital’s owner Dr Pawan Arora, and Dr Pankaj Soni for colluding with the lab.Vigilance investigation also found that some of those declared covid-19 positive in a mala fide manner were admitted to the isolation ward of the EMC Hospital, where genuine patients were being treated. At least, three patients contracted infection due to this, it was claimed.Amritsar police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said, “We are conducting raids to nab the absconding accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-3-docs-accused-in-fake-covid-report-scam/story-K7e1vk11MkQffiqDJ84YJM.html
17-07-2020||City||MC chief visits micro-containment zone, urges residents to cooperate with govt officials||Municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal visited Kidwai Nagar, a micro-containment zone, on Friday and interacted with the residents there. While interacting with the residents, the MC chief urged for their cooperation with government officials. He said that the MC staff has been working tirelessly to ensure the safety and well being of residents.Sabharwal said, “All micro-containment zones are being sanitised at regular intervals. Directions have also been issued to the staff to intensify the sanitisation and cleanliness drive so that we can break the Covid-19 chain.”He urged the residents to always wear a mask, maintain physical distancing and hand hygiene. The areas which have been announced as micro-containment zones in the city include Kucha No 5 in Field Ganj, Street No 3 in Vijay Nagar, Blocks B&C in GK Estate, from Lucky Hairdresser to RS Model School in Navi Abadi Khanna, from house no 37 to 76 in Kidwai Nagar, house no 161 to 209 in Janpath Colony near Ayali and from Sohal Building Workshop to Gas Agency in Street No 3 in Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Daba Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-chief-visits-micro-containment-zone-urges-residents-to-cooperate-with-govt-officials/story-yjEnv56jWODmizrTycAByI.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police warn people against fake TikTok||The Punjab Police’s state cyber crime cell on Friday warned citizens against downloading any APK files that mimic the services of TikTok or any other popular app banned by the central government as these can be sources of malware spread.Amid reports of a message circulating via instant messaging services, SMS or WhatsApp that the banned Chinese app, TikTok, is now available as TikTok Pro in India, a warning has been issued by the police.A URL is provided with the message for users to download the app, a police spokesperson said.Pointing out that TikTok and 58 other mobile apps have been banned by the Centre for engaging in activities prejudicial to India’s sovereignty and integrity, defence, security and public order, the spokesperson said the cyber crime cell has found that the malware called `TikTok Pro’ is a fake app with a logo closely replicating the real one.However, the fake app is not available for download on Google PlayStore or Apple App Store, which clearly indicates that it is a fraud, he said.Further, the URL (http://tiny.cciTiktokPro) provided as the download link does not follow the basic security protocol as the site starts with http and not https.Also, clicking on the file immediately installs a 2.2MB APK file (Tiktok_pro.apk) on the system and specifies the source as https://githubusercontent.com/legitprime/10gb/master/Tiktok_pro.apk.When clicked on the link, a message ‘This site cannot be reached’ is displayed.Police said any information in this regard can be shared with the Centre via email at ssp.cyber-pb@nic.in to help the department take legal action against the criminals indulging in such fraudulent activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-police-warn-people-against-fake-tiktok/story-7m8F5rkEv1UlVPJEHrk97I.html
17-07-2020||City||28 booked for lockdown violations in Ludhiana||Coming down heavily against lockdown violators, the city police booked 28 people in 18 different cases on Thursday.In the first incident, the police have arrested Sumit Narula of Pakhowal road for roaming beyond permissible hours. While Gurpreet Singh of Sector 32, Chandigarh was arrested for opening his store after 8 pm. Jai Singh of 33 Futta road was arrested for opening liquor vend and selling liquor beyond permissible hours. Deepak Sharma of Chandar Nagar was also found selling liquor after 8 pm.The police have also booked eight unidentified men for creating ruckus in Guru Arjun Dev Nagar on Thursday. A shopkeeper of New Kundanpuri was also arrested for operating beyond permissible hours.Mobile shop owner Ashish Kumar and tea-stall owner Deepak were also arrested for violating lockdown norms. Vicky Kumar, Lala Kumar of Jodhan, and Prem Kumar of Moti Bagh Colony arrested for serving eatable beyond permissible hours at 200 Futta road. Others were also booked for violating lockdown norms. Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal said that the police will continue to take action against lockdown violators.The police have already collected a fine of ₹1.14 crore from 27,700 people since the lockdown was imposed in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/28-booked-for-lockdown-violations-in-ludhiana/story-CBvZAnO7SalnRUpGVr3CrM.html
17-07-2020||Kolkata||Restriction on flights from six cities to Kolkata extended till July 31||The Kolkata airport authorities on Friday extended the suspension of flights arriving from six cities till July 31 as coronavirus cases continue to surge in the country and state. The earlier restriction was in place till July 19.The six affected cities are: Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Nagpur and Ahmedabad. The measure was first taken to check the spread of the highly contagious coronavirus.Bengal’s Covid-19 tally reached 38,011 on Friday after it reported a record single-day spike of 1,894 cases, while the toll jumped to 1,049 with 26 more deaths, a health department bulletin said. The state now has 14,709 active Covid-19 cases, it said.Since Thursday evening, 838 people have recovered from the disease, the bulletin said, adding that 13,240 samples have been tested in this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/restriction-on-flights-from-six-cities-to-kolkata-extended-till-july-31/story-boD8DUtP35T0kERHhqAGkK.html
17-07-2020||City||Father, son booked on murder charges in Shahkot||The rural police booked a father-son duo on Friday on charges of murder and voluntarily causing hurt in Shahkot.Station house officer (SHO) Surinder Kumar said that the accused have been identified as Sanjiv Sharma, of Dushehra Ground area in Shahkot and his son Tarun Sharma.Sanjiv alias Siba, a resident of the same locality, filed a complaint and stated that his son Ankush and his friend Karan were returning home on a motorcycle on Thursday when the accused waylaid them, attacked them with sharp-edged weapons and seriously injured them.He said both were rushed to civil hospital where doctors declared Ankush brought dead.The SHO said that a case was registered against the father-son duo under Sections 302 and 323 and 324of the IPC. No arrest has been made so far and raids are being conducted to nab the accused who are on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/father-son-booked-on-murder-charges-in-shahkot/story-pBw0CkFiAKEmwLlKGpbSsO.html
17-07-2020||City||Punjab plans to take Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana online||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Friday announced that it will expedite and make alternative arrangements for providing jobs to the state’s youth under its Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana flagship scheme, by getting around the limitations that the covid-19 had imposed. A spokesperson said the department of employment generation, skill development and training will go online for providing counselling to job aspirants and provide online placement opportunities to the state’s youth. As a first step, the department is organising a Webinar on “Emerging Dynamics in Employment of Youth post Covid-19: Challenges and Opportunities” to create awareness among youth on the changed scenario of employment, emerging sectors and employment opportunities. The date will be adequately publicised for the benefit of all. This will make them employable. About 25,000 students/professionals from engineering, management, medicine, pharmacy, humanities, general graduates like BCA, BBA, BCom etc are expected to attend the webinar. The spokesperson said panellists from companies like Microsoft, Walmart, Pepsico, Dell and Amazon would attend the webinar. Employment generation and training minister Charanjit Channi, secretary Rahul Tiwari and other senior officers of the department would also interact with the youth during the webinar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-plans-to-take-ghar-ghar-rozgar-yojana-online/story-wyCQEwlq7y3NXeQ1GUsiNO.html
17-07-2020||Admission||DU data leak: Students lodge FIR yet feel unsafe and stressed||“Imagine how you’d feel if you picked up your phone expecting to see a message from your friend, but instead received a message from an unknown number that had explicit content. This is how it began. Initially there were calls from coaching centres and some fake companies but after a few days I started getting many objectionable and lewd messages that were not acceptable at all,” says Rashi Sahu, a Delhi University student who is one of the many girls who is facing a tough time since the incident of a massive data breach of students’ details has been reported. The struggles for Sahu, and many others like her began when DU reportedly issued students admit cards for exams on its website. Soon phones of students, specifically girls started ringing, and unknown numbers raised eyebrows. “I shared this concern with my friends who told me that this is not only happening to me but there are many other students who are facing the same issue. We eventually realised that these lewd calls and messages were a result of data theft from DU’s website,” adds Sahu. Some students say they have been receiving threat calls as well. “People call and say either you talk to us or we may do something that will ruin your future. These calls are all from unknown numbers. I also got many WhatsApp messages and e-mails that were explicit in content. I feel so unsafe. Who should I go to?” asks Diksha Yadav, another DU student. Recently, some girl students, who had opted for online exams, took to social media to complaint about their harassed state due to non-stop calls and messages from unknown numbers. Elucidating on how this all began, Arun Hooda, a student of LLM at Faculty of Law, says, “When I tried to log in, to access my admit card, I noticed that it’s very easy for me to access the admit card of any other student by just changing a few numbers on the URL. Even the gateway password that we got for downloading our admit card was quite easy to guess, as it was a combination of certain college codes, and the year of admission along with other generic details. In the previous years, the printed admit cards that we used to receive never had students’ phone numbers. However, that’s not the case with the online admit cards issued this time, and we are can’t even think about the repercussions this can have if confidential data gets exposed to those who thrive on cyber crimes!” “In this case, students can file a police complaint as the leakage of data is a breach to their privacy and sensitive information disclosure,” says Mukesh Choudhary, cyber crime consultant with Jaipur Police, adding, “If the website is managed by a private body, the victim can ask for a compensation of upto ₹5 crore as per section 43A of IT (A) Act 2008. But, it’s not applicable if government body is involved in its complete management. Timely Security audit for the website and servers of government departments are necessary to maintain privacy and security averting such threats.”Hooda, who escalated his concern to the DU authorities, after seeing a possibility of a larger breach due to unlocking of admit cards online, adds, “Through unlocking the admit cards, anyone can also access the original admission form that a student would have filled at the time of his or her admission, which contains details such as Aadhaar card, bank account number, address, etc.” Akshay Lakra, an LLB student at the Campus Law Centre, escalated his concern through social media, and tells us that “As soon as I voiced my concern on social media, many female students approached me confirming that they were receiving calls and obscene messages from unknown numbers. When we linked the course of events, that’s when we understood that this was happening due to the online admit cards. DU then issued a unique key password to all students. However, that has also been breached in no time!”Hooda and Lakra had then filed a police complaint regarding the issue. “We resolved to take this up legally,” says Lakra, adding, “We have tried to reach out to both, DU authorities and Delhi Police to explain how students are distressed over the matter to highlight the risks and problems involved. But, when just the online uploading of admit cards has led to theft of students’ personal details, then how do we expect that DU is capable to conduct online exams without any hiccups?” Though students have filed a police complaint regarding this issue, but continue to remain stressed about the situation. Karan Goel, ACP, Cyber Crime, Gurugram, says that in cases such as these, “Victim should come out in open, and not be embarrassed about it. It can happen to anybody. Dialogue is very important with parents and law-enforcement agencies. Data theft cases are generally through unverified or lesser-known websites or domains available on internet. While visiting any domain, double-check if you’re on the right page. Don’t lackadaisically do any web surfing, like in this case they submitted data.” Adding to this, Harleen Kaur, a Delhi-based psychologist, suggests, “If you are confused about what’s happening, reach out to someone. Report anonymously if you like, but act on that gut feeling which is making you uncomfortable... It’s important to report as well as talk about it so that the youngsters who are at an impressionable age don’t feel helpless.” If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Call helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918Author tweets @FizzyBuddha For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/college-admissions/du-data-leak-students-lodge-fir-yet-feel-unsafe-and-stressed/story-tDSSNT7lu5AAtBXITaQ9CK.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Elderly woman’s purse snatched in Chandigarh’s Sector 34||Two motorcycle-borne men snatched a 74-year-old woman’s purse in Sector 34 on Thursday night.The victim, Manjit Kaur, told the police that she was returning from the local gurdwara around 10pm. When she reached near House Number 1230, Sector 34C, two men on a motorcycle snatched her purse and sped away. She claimed her purse contained an ATM card, Rs 1,000 in cash, a mobile phone and some documents. A case under Sections 379-A (snatching) and 356 (assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/elderly-woman-s-purse-snatched-in-chandigarh-s-sector-34/story-BL5FAA2JnPOGgQeKDCP33M.html
17-07-2020||City||Phillaur man held for raping 32-year-old woman||Shimlapuri police arrested a resident of Phillaur for raping a 32-year-old woman in a village of the district on Friday. In her complaint to the police, the woman stated that the accused who is known to her, forcefully made sexual relations with her for over a year. She said that the accused lives near her house in a village of Phillaur and so she started staying at her parents’ house at Daba road for the past year.On Thursday, the accused barged into her parents’ house, when the woman was alone at home and raped her. He also threatened her not to reveal the incident to anyone. She later gave a complaint to the police. Assistant sub-inspector Simranjit Kaur, who is investigating the case, said that the police lodged an FIR under Sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/phillaur-man-held-for-raping-32-year-old-woman/story-o43AOp6T7yGv0RhBKUiX2I.html
17-07-2020||City||NIIFT admissions: Last date to submit online forms is July 20||The last day of submitting the online forms for the Northern India Institute of Fashion Technology (NIIFT) admission process this year is July 20. The admissions to the undergraduate courses will be done through an online entrance examination. However, admission to all postgraduate programmes at NIIFT, Mohali will be on the basis of merit of the requisite qualifying exams. The state’s department of industries and commerce, established the institute in 1995 comprehending and visualising the need of trained professionals in the arena of textile and garment industry. In 2013, NIIFT got affiliated to Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala for providing degrees to students, steering and supporting in admission procedure, faculty recruitment and training as well as curriculum scheduling and upgrading. Ludhiana, apart from being a significant textile cluster, is at its fruition in the production of hosiery, knitwear and ready-made garments. NIIFT, in August 2008, achieved another milestone, by opening a new centre at Ludhiana, for providing the industry with trained professionals in the fashion business. Since then, NIIFT, Ludhiana has emerged as a premier institute and strives to impart knowledge comparable with international standards. The institute has grown with each passing year adding new courses and continuously evolving strong relations with the garment industry. The institute is offering B.Sc (fashion design knits), BSc (fashion design), BSc (textile design), MSc (garment manufacturing technology), MSc (fashion marketing and management), MDes (fashion and textiles).All interested candidates can download the prospectus and apply online, by visiting the official website: www.niiftindia.comUpon successful completion of the course, pass-out students can start their own enterprises, in the textile, fashion and apparel sector, apart from getting placements as design consultants, fashion designers, merchandisers, sourcing and product managers and fashion photographers and stylists, to name a few.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/niift-admissions-last-date-to-submit-online-forms-is-july-20/story-AktfKKiUdCHgOAekmI1K8N.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Six SHOs shifted in Chandigarh||As many six station house officers (SHO) were shifted amid the reshuffle of 10 inspectors of Chandigarh Police on Friday.Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO, Sarangpur, is now Sector 17 SHO, and inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO, Industrial Area, will take charge of the Sarangpur station. Sector 17 SHO inspector Jaspal Singh has been shifted to the security wing and inspector Jaspal Singh, SHO, Sector 3, to the traffic wing.Inspector Paramjit Kaur, from the security wing has been appointed SHO Sector 31, whose SHO inspector Rajdeep Singh has been sent to the security wing.Two inspectors posted in crime branch — inspector Sher Singh is now SHO Sector 3, while inspector Ranjit Singh is SHO Maloya.Inspector Harminderjit Singh is now SHO Industrial Area, while he was earlier posted as chief law instructor, Training Centre, while Ram Dayal has been shifted from police lines to Police Control Room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-shos-shifted-in-chandigarh/story-DekIjDOX62nGBLcKnZdz4I.html
17-07-2020||City||Ludhiana MC to plant 17,000 saplings as part of plantation drive||With an aim to plant 17,000 saplings during this monsoon season, the Ludhiana municipal corporation on Friday started a plantation drive. Over 1,450 saplings were planted on the first day of the drive. The saplings are also be planted alongside Buddha nullah.The drive was started by mayor Balkar Sandhu, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, councillors Mamta Ashu, Dr Jai Prakash, Pankaj Sharma among others by planting the saplings at Lal Sardari Lal Kapoor road (Lodhi club road). As per the MC officials, around 1,450 saplings were planted in BRS Nagar, Hambran road and Balloke Sewer Treatment Plant (STP) on Friday. Last year, the target was to plant around 36,000 saplings, but this year it has been reduced to around 17,000, due to the lack of space and keeping in mind the survival rate of plants. Geotagging of saplings, which commenced last year, is also being done to keep a record of the plantation. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The drive is taken up every year to increase green cover in the city. Directions have also been issued to the staff to make sure that the saplings survive. If needed, grills would also be installed around the areas where saplings would be planted.”Free saplings for residentsJunior engineer of MC horticulture wing, Kirpal Singh said, “The civic body would provide the saplings free of cost to the residents, who will have to plant the saplings under our supervision and keep a check on the same so that the saplings survive. The saplings would also be geo-tagged. The MC has saplings of fruit trees, medicinal plants etc which can be planted by residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-to-plant-17-000-saplings-as-part-of-plantation-drive/story-GrzbT0L732iCU0uZ3NSWrN.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sanction to prosecute SHO Jaswinder Kaur under consideration: DIG to CBI court||Sanction to prosecute suspended inspector Jaswinder Kaur in a 2017 graft case is under consideration, the deputy inspector general (DIG) of Chandigarh Police informed a special CBI court on Friday.The official was responding to a July 15 order by Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge of the CBI court, on a plea by the complainant in the graft case. The matter has now been adjourned for arguments on July 22.In October 2017, sub-inspector (SI) Mohan Singh was arrested for accepting Rs 2 lakh in bribe, allegedly on the directions of the then Sector 31 SHO, Jaswinder Kaur.Prem Singh Bisht, the complainant, had alleged that the SI, who was the investigating officer in an attempt to murder case, demanded Rs 9 lakh to drop the names of three of his employees from the FIR.Bisht had alleged that the SI had told him that the Rs 8 lakh were for SHO Jaswinder Kaur and Rs 1 lakh for him. The CBI had arrested the SI while accepting Rs 2 lakh bribe, but the case was closed against Kaur as the agency could not find any evidence to implicate her.However, in the CBI court, the complainant had said that he was taken to SHO Kaur by the SI at Old Car Bazaar in Hallomajra, where a meeting had taken place and SHO had demanded money.In 2019, Bisht had moved an application to declare Kaur an accused in the case, followed by another application in February 2020, where he stated he was being pressured by the SHO.Taking cognizance of the applications, the court had directed CBI to place before the sanctioning authority (SSP, Chandigarh) all evidence, so that the authority could apply its own mind whether to give sanction for prosecution or not.On July 15, citing a Supreme Court judgment, Bisht moved another application in the CBI court, stating that five months had passed, but the sanctioning authority had not decided upon grant of sanction for prosecution against Kaur. On this, the court had issued a notice to the investigating agency and sought its reply on the application, besides seeking a reply from the UT DIG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sanction-to-prosecute-sho-jaswinder-kaur-under-consideration-dig-to-cbi-court/story-3yD7sZzDKvqNIF2LulFlCK.html
17-07-2020||City||Mohali shines in Mission Fateh Warrior enrolment contest||With the active involvement of district heads of all departments, Mohali has enrolled 24,711 Mission Fateh Warriors on the COVA Punjab App.Sharing this, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Aashika Jain said volunteers engaged in awareness generation on Covid-19 safety protocols had bagged five gold, 10 silver and 38 bronze certificates in the enrolment contest.The Mission Fateh Warriors contest aims at roping in maximum volunteers to spread awareness on containing the spread of novel coronavirus. “This contest was launched on June 17 for a period of one month and has now been extended for two months, with introduction of a diamond certificate,” Jain said.During these two months, the Punjab chief minister will continue to award weekly bronze certificates, fortnightly silver certificates and monthly gold certificates.Jain said the government alone cannot contain the pandemic, therefore united efforts were required to stem out the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-shines-in-mission-fateh-warrior-enrolment-contest/story-r87tzgWXIs4NZOrZTD8eoL.html
17-07-2020||City||Mohali employment bureau organises online counselling session for youth||The District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) on Friday organised an online counselling session for unemployed youth. The session registered participation of 32 candidates, said Aashika Jain, additional deputy commissioner, Mohali.The participants was apprised of facilities available at DBEE and given an insight into the opportunities for higher education, through various professional courses.They were also made aware of various self-employment schemes as well as the high-end job fair to be organised by state government in September.The Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission (PGRKAM) registration process and DBEE Helpline number (78142-59210) and e-mail address were shared.Manjesh Kumar (deputy CEO), Nabiha Khan (career counsellor) and Inderjit Kaur (placement officer) addressed the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-employment-bureau-organises-online-counselling-session-for-youth/story-dT82jUNj0kL5rgQUrz52cJ.html
17-07-2020||City||Amarnath shrine board awaits admn’s final response on annual pilgrimage||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases across Jammu and Kashmir and high court directions, Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) is waiting for the final decision on the annual pilgrimage from the administration, a top official said.On Thursday, J&K recorded 493 fresh infections with 16 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the number of coronavirus cases to 11,666 with 211 fatalities.The annual pilgrimage was likely to take place between July 21 and August 3 from the shorter Baltal track in view of the pandemic.The Supreme Court had on Monday declined a plea to restrict the annual Amarnath yatra due to the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench led by justice D Y Chandrachud said the court did not want to interfere in the issue which has to be solely dealt with by the local administration.However, the J&K high court on Wednesday asked SASB to “urgently take all decisions regarding the Yatra in view of the pandemic. However, the court hasn’t set any deadline for the government to take the decision.A senior official on condition of anonymity said, “SASB never said the pilgrimage shall begin from July 21. They were speculations only. There were certain directions by the Supreme Court and J&K high court. On the basis of court directions, the local administration has been asked to decide over the same.”“Now, we have asked for the report from the administration about the pilgrimage feasibility and their response is still awaited. Thereafter, the SASB will hold a meeting and take a final call in the matter,” he informed.He, however, said the basic arrangements of track clearance from shorter Baltal track have been done and the morning and evening aarti was being telecast live by Prasar Bharti.Sources in the SASB admitted that given the circumstances uncertainty looms over the pilgrimage.Meanwhile, CRPF has started securing Yatri Niwas base camp on the banks of Tawi river in Jammu. The paramilitary force has started setting up check posts on the Tawi bridge leading to Bhagwati Nagar. “At least six check-posts are being set up by the CRPF. Similar posts are also being established at the Yatri Niwas base camp from where the pilgrims leave for the yatra,” said a CRPF officer.Sources in administration had told HT on July 7 that J&K chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam had decided that 1,000 pilgrims on helicopters and 500 on foot shall be allowed each day during the curtailed pilgrimage that is likely to be held from July 21 to August 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amarnath-shrine-board-awaits-admn-s-final-response-on-annual-pilgrimage/story-pMmfjwfSa7DIPqowPQkuhP.html
17-07-2020||Kolkata||Can be killed in encounter, alleges BJP lawmaker; publicity, says TMC||Arjun Singh, Bharatiya Janata Party Lok Sabha member from Barrackpore in the North 24 Parganas district, alleged on Friday afternoon that he might be killed in a police encounter at the behest of ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders.Singh made the statement hours after a police team went to his home at Bhatpara in search of one of his nephews but were denied entry by Central paramilitary force personnel in charge of Singh’s security as the officers did not have a search warrant.In a tweet in Hindi, BJP national general secretary Kaliash Vijayvargiya said police may try to kill Singh and his son and cautioned chief minister Mamata Banerjee that the fallout would be serious if that happened.“Police surrounded the home of Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh. We fear that Singh and his son, legislator Pawan Singh, may be killed in an encounter. Mamata Ji the fallout will be serious if it happens,” tweeted Vijayvargiya.Senior officers of Barrackpore police district refused to comment on the visit of the police team but state food minister and district Trinamool Congress (TMC) president Jyotipriyo Mullick alleged that it was in connection with a bank scam.“The raid was in connection with a scam at a local cooperative bank. The culture of encounter is nurtured in Uttar Pradesh. West Bengal does not believe in encounter killings. Arjun Singh is saying all this for media coverage. He is looking for publicity,” said Mullick.“I am ready to die to free West Bengal from the misrule of TMC,” said the BJP leader.Arjun Singh, a former four-time TMC legislator from Bhatpara and former chairman of the local civic body, joined the BJP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and defeated TMC’s two-time MP Dinesh Trivedi from Barrackpore. Singh’s son is the legislator from Bhatpara.There have been several political clashes in different parts of the constituency, including Bhatpara, during and after the Lok Sabha election. In the most recent incident, Dharmendra Singh, a local TMC leader in the Kankinara industrial area was shot in the head by two motorcycle-borne men on Wednesday morning. The incident triggered tension in the area. The TMC leader is admitted in a private hospital in Kolkata.The region has a sizeable Hindi-speaking population comprising jute mill and factory workers hailing mostly from Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/may-be-killed-in-encounter-alleges-bjp-s-lawmaker-publicity-says-tmc/story-oGu2L0OEvMh6w1TuLoUGJJ.html
17-07-2020||City||Himachal fruit merchants get CID notice over non-payment to growers||In a bid to provide outstanding amounts to orchardists who were cheated by various fruit merchants due to non-payment for their produce, a special investigation team (SIT) of Himachal Pradesh CID has issued notices to over 15 fruits merchants and asked them to show up at the CID headquarters within two weeks.CID superintendent of police (crime) Vijendra Kalia, who issued the notices, said that the merchants will be given some time to pay the dues, but stern action will be taken against those who fail to comply.In 2019, a five-member SIT, under Kalia’s leadership, was set up to investigate the matter as many orchardists had filed FIRs against fruit merchants in various police stations of the state. The SIT was able to nab some fruit merchants and around ₹8 crore were recovered from them and paid to orchardists, but due to the nationwide lockdown, the process had met with a halt, but now the SIT has sped it up again.Himachal fruit vegetable and flowers association president Harish Chauhan said hundreds of orchardists have been cheated by fruit merchants as they had not paid them their dues, the amount of which is estimated to be more than ₹100 crore. This has been going on for the last seven to eight years, but after state government’s action, several orchardists were able to get their money back, Chauhan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-fruit-merchants-get-cid-over-non-payment-to-growers/story-dqigtOfcuAhPFMko0gv52O.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||In view of covid-19, Maharashtra govt urges people to celebrate Bakri Eid at home||The upcoming Bakri Eid festival should be celebrated in a simple manner due to the Covid-19 outbreak, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Friday and asked people to follow guidelines issued.The guidelines were issued after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy CM Ajit Pawar, Deshmukh and other ministers met earlier this week to discuss issues relating to Baki Eid (Eid-ul-Adha), which falls later this month.“Bakri Eid should be celebrated in a simple manner this year given the Covid-19 outbreak,” an official statement quoted Deshmukh as saying.The state government reiterated there is a ban in place on all religious programmes and people should offer “namaz” in their homes and not in mosques.It also said sacrificial animals should be bought online or over the phone as markets dealing with them will be closed, adding that “qurbani” should preferably be symbolic.There will be no relaxation in restrictions for Eid in containment zones, and people are directed not to congregate in public places on the day of the festival, it added.All guidelines announced by health department, police and local administration must be followed diligently, it said.As on Thursday, Maharashtra had an overall Covid-19 count of 2,84,281, the highest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-view-of-covid-19-maharashtra-govt-urges-people-to-celebrate-bakri-eid-at-home/story-SNv23DaHAuiVLAlIKhXi6K.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mattewara industrial park : Sekhowal villagers, panchayat oppose land acquisition||Slamming the state government’s decision to establish an industrial park over 1,000 acres in Mattewara, the villagers and panchayat of Sekhowal village said they will hold an agitation if 407 acres of panchayat land in the village is acquired for the project.Accusing the administration and government of cheating them, the villagers said around 60 families were dependent on the chunk of cultivable land that is proposed to be used for the project.Levelling serious accusations at administrative officials, sarpanch Amrik Kaur said, “The authorities got my approval on documents around two months ago saying that ‘parks’ will be established on around 200-acre land. The authorities never told us that the whole 407 acres of land would be acquired and industrial parks will be established on the same. I would have never given the nod if I knew that panchayat land would be taken over by the government for building an industrial park. Apart from destroying the lives of villagers, who earn their bread and butter by working in these fields, the state government will also damage the Mattewara forest, which is situated near the village. We will not let the government acquire the panchayat land and will raise an agitation, if needed.”‘SARPANCH WAS MISLEAD’Former sarpanch Dhir Singh said,”The current sarpanch is illiterate and could not understand the conspiracy. The panchayat of the village got possession of the land around five years ago after we won the case in the Supreme Court. The land was earlier being used as a potato seed farm. We will never hand over the land to the government and the government should also not play with the lives of villagers.”LIP, AAP EXTEND SUPPORT The Lok Insaf Party (LIP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have also extended their support to villagers. They said that they will also join the protest. While LIP president and MLA Simarjet Singh Bains visited the village on Thursday, AAP MLA and deputy leader of opposition in legislative assembly Sarvjit Kaur Manuke met the villagers on Friday. Residents of the city have also started a campaign on social media networks to stop the government from ‘destroying’ the Mattewara forest.SDM (east) Baljinder Singh Dhillon said,”I have joined the office recently and I am not aware of the episode, which took place before my joining. I will look into the grievances of the villagers.”The state government has proposed to establish the industrial park on government and panchayat land of Haidar Nagar, Sekhowal, Salempur, Sailkiana and Machian Kalan villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mattewara-industrial-park-sekhowal-villagers-panchayat-oppose-land-acquisition/story-FY3ikwbO6nkQG50P9JgMgN.html
17-07-2020||City||Infighting in HP Congress: Disciplinary panel to decide fate of dozen leaders||Amid turmoil within the Himachal Pradesh Congress, party state chief Kuldeep Rathore has called an emergency meeting of the party’s disciplinary committee to decide the fate of erring leaders who are up in arms against the state leadership.The rift in the party widened after a group led by former state Congress president Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu stepped up its activities. All India Congress Committee had appointed 56-year-old Rathore as the president last year, replacing Sukhu ahead of the Lok Sabha (LS) elections after the party’s stalwart and former chief minister Virbhadra Singh demanded his (Sukhu’s) removal. Rathore is close to Congress deputy leader in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma. The former CM also supported Rathore’s appointment.The state disciplinary committee headed by Solan legislator Dhani Ram Shandil will meet on July 22.Differences between Sukhu and Virbhadra resurfaced after the party’s worst-ever performance in LS elections in the state. The BJP won each of the four seats with a record margin of over 3.25 lakh votes.Both Virbhadra and Sukhu blamed each other for the defeat, while a large section of sitting legislators and party nominees, who unsuccessfully contested to state assembly, held Rathore’s poor management and ineptness responsible for the party’s debacle. However, AICC’s in-charge for Himachal affairs Rajani Ashok Patil openly supported Rathore ignoring the dissent of the rival group.Recently, the leaders owing allegiance to Sukhu, including six-time legislator Harshwardhan Chauna, former parliamentary secretaries Rohit Thakur and Sohan Lal Thakur, former urban development minister Sudhir Sharma and Palampur legislator Ashish Butail, got together to chalk out their future strategy. They opined that it was difficult for the party to contest elections under the present set-up and called for appointing former health minister Kaul Singh Thakur as the party chief.A section of leaders from Mandi district had also raised a banner of revolt against Rathore. In a letter shot to the party’s central high command, they alleged that senior leaders were sidelined when Rathore had reshuffled the party, among other complaints.Following this, Congress issued a show-cause notice to all the 12 signatories which included former minister Mansa Ram, former chief parliamentary secretaries Lal Singh Kaushal, Jiwan Thakur, Sohan Lal Thakur, Champa Thakur, Jagdish Bedi and Mansa Ram, former minister Vijay Pal Singh, former HPCC spokesperson Jagdish Bedi. On the other hand, former CM Virbhadra Singh had also hosted a lunch, possibly in a show of strength for Rathore, on July 12, for which several leaders turned up at his residence, including MLAs Mohan Lal Brakta, Pawan Kajal, Rajender Rana, Sunder Singh Takur, Mukesh Agnihotri and Kasumpti legislator Anirudh Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infighting-in-hp-congress-disciplinary-panel-to-decide-fate-of-dozen-leaders/story-FQRLdw6Ntexlf1w9IznzFL.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi-based NGO donates 2,450 PPEs to frontline workers in Ludhiana||The NGO, United Way Delhi, on Friday donated essential supplies to healthcare and sanitation workers, who are fighting the pandemic on the frontline in Ludhiana. The donated supplies include 2,450 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, 50 litre hand sanitisers, 5,000 units of three-ply masks; 30,000 hand gloves; 1,200 N95 masks, five intensive-care unit beds, 200-litre disinfectant, 20 non-contact thermometers, 200-litre hand wash, 20 foot operated hand sanitiser dispensers for Covid-19 designated hospitals and Covid-care centres in Ludhiana.The supplies were handed over to Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and Ludhiana Smart City CEO Sanyam Aggarwal. Punjab financial commissioner (revenue) Vishwajeet Khanna and Congress MLA Surinder Dawar connected through video-conference.Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said it was also the community’s responsibility to take initiatives to defeat the Covid-19. “United Way Delhi’s contribution for the healthcare workers in Punjab is one step where we can see the organisation helping the community and aiding the government efforts. He urged other social organisations and NGOs to come forward and support the district administration in the fight against Covid-19.”United Way Delhi board chair Kapil Kumria said the organisation hoped to cover all districts of Punjab.Coca-Cola India and South West Asia public affairs, communications and sustainability vice-president Ishteyaque Amjad said, “We are humbled to collaborate with our partner United Way in providing support to the health and safety of the country’s frontline warriors. We are hopeful that with collective efforts and resilience, we will be able to steer ourselves out of these testing times.”Essential supplies for hospitals and frontline workers are being donated in other cities, including Patiala, Amritsar, Faridkot and Ludhiana. It is being facilitated with support from the Coca-Cola Foundation under the aegis of CSR and sister chapter United Way Mumbai.“With a surge in positive cases in the Punjab region, it is important that we safeguard our healthcare workers. We are committed to contribute in the efforts of the Punjab government to take all possible measures towards fighting COVID-19. We will continue to work relentlessly with government bodies and local institutions to support their basic needs during these times,” said Sachin Golwalkar, CEO, United Way Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-based-ngo-donates-2-450-ppes-to-frontline-workers-in-ludhiana/story-xy58h6oTlf58gGdbKVv1EP.html
17-07-2020||Bangalore||Lockdown not the solution to control Covid-19, no proposal to extend it in Bengaluru: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said lockdown is not the solution for controlling Covid-19 and made it clear that there was no proposal before the government to extend it in Bengaluru Bengaluru urban and rural areas are currently under “complete lockdown” since 8 pm of July 14 and it will be effective till 5 am on July 22.With the spike in cases, speculations were rife that the current lockdown is likely to be extended for 15 days, as that much time is required to break the chain. “Lockdown is not the solution to control Covid. There is no proposal before the government to extend the lockdown,” Yediyurappa was quoted as saying by his office in a release. The Chief Minister today chaired a meeting with ministers who have been made in-charge of eight zones in the city and officials regarding the Covid-19 situation in Bengaluru. Earlier too, on July 13, the eve of the lockdown, Yediyurappa had said the government did not plan to extend it in Bengaluru urban and rural districts, and had appealed to the people to cooperate by not paying heed to rumours.However, earlier today city Mayor M Goutham Kumar and commissioner of the civic body Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike B H Anil Kumar had favoured its extension.They had said that in their personal opinion, a 15 day lockdown would be good, as that much time is required to break the chain. The Opposition Congress too had asked for a minimum of 15 days lockdown after taking expert opinion. “Respected Chief Minister, you have imposed lockdown in Bengaluru, but it is difficult to expect results from this lockdown, which has been imposed just for for the sake of it. Take expert opinion and enforce strict lockdown in Bengaluru at least for 15 days. If not, even if God comes,it will be difficult to protect Bengaluru,” KPCC Working President Eshwar Khandre tweeted.Speaking to reporters after attending the meeting chaired by the CM, revenue minister R Ashoka said lockdown will not be extended and all activities can resume as usual from July 22.“Lockdown will not be extended. I’m saying this after discussing with the Chief Minister. There is no such thinking before the government.CM has got report from the experts, it was discussed in the meeting.By lockdown we can only postpone things, we have taken that breathing time.If we continue lockdown it will keep on continuing,” he said. The minister said the process of sealing places, wherever required, would continue. He said the plan to conduct more tests was discussed at the meeting and all the required zone wise arrangements would be made “We also discussed about beds and shortage of ventilators and steps will be taken to arrange for them,” he said. As of July 16 evening, cumulatively 51,422 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 1,032 deaths and 19,729 discharges. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 25,288 infections.Out of 4,169 fresh cases reported on Thursday, a whopping 2,344 were from Bengaluru urban alone At the meeting, the Chief Minister said all necessary steps should be taken to clear all the difficulties faced by infected patients in getting admitted to hospitals. The CMO statement quoted Yediyurappa as directing Ministers to hold meetings with private hospitals to ensure that Covid and non-Covid patients get treatment. Warning of strict action against private hospitals if they don’t allocate beds for COVID patients,he said volunteers and nodal officers would be appointed to gather information about admission of such patients and availability of beds The Chief Minister said rapid antigen tests should be conducted on those dying at hospitals or homes and necessary action taken to hand over the bodies or to conduct last rites as per the procedures, depending on the cause of death. Recruitment was on to appoint doctors to resolve shortage, he said,adding that volunteers have been identified in each ward for micromanagement and ambulances allocated. Marriage halls and lodges have been selected in all wards for those not having separate quarantine facilities, Yediyurappa said and stressed on increasing testing. Deploying extra police force at places where there are chances of people gathering in large numbers, ensuring beds availability and ambulances within two hours of a patient testing positive- with decentralized monitoring, giving priority to those symptomatic above 65-years during allocation of beds were among directions given by the Chief Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/lockdown-not-the-solution-to-control-covid-19-no-proposal-to-extend-it-in-bengaluru-yediyurappa/story-faTMVaab3JiP3imaDVVatK.html
17-07-2020||City||Farmer dies, woman suffers injuries as truck hits their bike||A 45-year-old biker died and a 50-year-old woman, who was riding pillion, suffered grievous injuries after a truck hit them on the national highway near Ladhowal toll barrier on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Gurjeet Singh, 45, of Talwan village. The injured is Surinder Kaur, 50, of the same village, who works in a garment factory. As per the police, Gurjeet was heading to Ludhiana city to buy some farm equipments when Surinder sought a lift from him to reach her factory in Hussainpura village.When they reached near the toll plaza, a speeding truck hit their bike and the duo fell down on the road, said eyewitnesses. Though Gurjeet was wearing a helmet, it came off as he fell down and his head hit the road, killing him on the spot. The woman suffered multiple injuries, including a fracture in the arm. Some passersby rushed her to the hospital, where her condition is stated to be stable. Ladhowal station house officer, sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, said the truck driver, identified as Ramesh Kumar, 50, of Hoshiarpur, has been arrested under Section 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-dies-woman-suffers-injuries-as-truck-hits-their-bike/story-uV2rrtQXMxET3wjLMq7OTO.html
17-07-2020||City||Bee-keepers seek govt support to sell export-grade honey in domestic mkt||Bathinda With the lockdown leading to stockpiling of thousands of quintals of mustard honey across the country, apiarists want government’s intervention to convert the glut-like situation into a new business opportunity. Industry sources said around 60,000-tonne honey is lying in cold stores across the country as export of mustard honey was hit due to the covid-19. Bee-keepers are seeking the formation of a dedicated policy for honey to support bee-keepers in marketing mustard honey in the domestic market and other high-value honey by-products like pollens, bee venom, royal jelly and beeswax.The honey has huge demand in the west and is also called ‘cream honey’, being dreamed from mustard flower nectar President of Progressive Bee Keepers Association Narpinder Dhaliwal said Punjab farmers have a stock of 15,000 tonne of mustard honey but it has no Indian market. “An integrated honey policy is needed as bees play a crucial role in the pollination of agricultural and horticultural crops. The myth needs to be broken that crystallised mustard honey is adulterated. Since honey is also known for immunity booster properties, stockpile can be marketed in the country with the assistance of government agencies to improve the economy of bee-keepers,” said Dhaliwal.With an annual estimated production of 18,000 tonnes, Punjab is the third-largest producer of honey. According to National Bee Board data, Punjab has 2.7 lakh bee colonies.Beekeepers say liquid honey or one the one that is derived from nectar of all other flowers and does not crystalise, is consumed in India.Shahzada Singh Kapoor of Ludhiana-based Kashmir Apiaries, one of the country’s largest honey exporters, says since overseas shipments are uncertain, the government should step in to help small and marginal bee-keepers in marketing their produce. “Contrary to the per capita honey consumption in the West of 700-grams, Indian consumption is just 60-gram. Indian bakery and sweet confectionary should be incentivised to replace sugar with a healthier option of honey,” he said.Kapoor, a second generation honey export entrepreneur, said India has about 35 lakh box-bee colonies against the potential to harvest 12 crore such units, adding that byproducts of honey were also good opportunities.“If mentored, bee-keeping can become a more profit-making venture. Bee pollen has an immense scope in the health supplement sector, where venom can be sold to the pharmaceutical sector,” he added.A progressive bee-keeper from Bathinda’s Tungwali village Gurcharan Mann said the state government should buy the entire stock of honey for marketing by Markfed at its mega honey packaging unit in Jalandhar.“To reduce financial burden on bee-keepers, the state should provide sugar to feed bees in the ongoing off-season. Markfed should purchase honey kept at cold stores and this cab be lifted, as and when needed for for marketing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bee-keepers-seek-govt-support-to-sell-export-grade-honey-in-domestic-mkt/story-mtoDOPtBR0iAl8vNayFzDP.html
17-07-2020||Kolkata||35 more areas added to list of containment zones in Bengal||The West Bengal government has added 35 more areas to the list of ‘broad-based’ containment zones in the state, increasing the count to 676, amid the strict lockdown clamped in all such places to stem the spread of Covid-19, a senior official said on Friday.The number of such zones in Kolkata, however, has reduced from 28 to 24, although the metropolis continues to record maximum Covid-19 cases in the state every day, he said.The number of active cases in Kolkata stands at 4,512.The government has recently clubbed containment zones and the buffer zones around them to constitute a ‘broad-based’ containment zone.Currently, North 24 Parganas district has the highest number of containment zones at 95, followed by Howrah at 85, East Burdwan at 71, North Dinajpur at 70 and Nadia at 54.In all, 12 zones in Kolkata have managed to shed the ‘containment’ tag, while at least eight new areas were added to the list that was released on Thursday.According to state government website ‘Egiye Bangla’, eight out of the 24 zones in the state capital have “multiple premises”. Two slum areas at Bakul Bagan Row in Bhowanipore and Ultadanga Main Road have been earmarked as broad-based containment zones.Seven residential complexes -- four in Ballygunge and one each in Maniktala, Bhowanipore and Kankurgachi -- also form a part of the list.The fresh spell of total lockdown in the containment zones of the state, which came into force on July 9, will continue till July 19.West Bengal has so far recorded 1,023 deaths due to Covid-19, while the total tally climbed to 36,117.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/35-more-areas-added-to-list-of-containment-zones-in-bengal/story-AAr3sriDQhF5ck3PJ81mJJ.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Retired high court judge Navita Singh to probe case of 267 missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib||Amritsar: Navita Singh, a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court, will probe the case of the missing 267 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib.Akal Takht, the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs, announced this on Friday after a section of the community expressed doubts over the fairness of the panel constituted by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to inquire into the case. The SGPC had also urged Akal Takht to hand over the probe to a retired judge or independent Sikh personality.Acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh announced the name of the retired woman Sikh judge. He said Ishar Singh, a lawyer at the Telangana high court, will assist her in the probe.“On July 12, the SGPC executive committee passed a resolution, urging Akal Takht to get the matter probed at its own level. So, the probe has been assigned to Navita Singh. If the need arises, the services of account experts, former and incumbent employees and officials of the SGPC will be provided to investigators who have been asked to give their report within a month. Akal Takht will take action accordingly,” the acting jathedar said.MAY 2016 FIRE SPARKED OFF CASEFourteen saroops of Guru Granth Sahib were damaged in a fire at the SGPC publishing house at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib in May 2016, according to the committee but the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) claimed after five years that the damage was done at a mass scale and that this fact was hidden to save the then SAD-BJP government from public wrath as the Bargari sacrilege incident was already a burning issue and the assembly elections were close.On the basis of the statement of a retired employee of the SGPC, the PHRO said that 267 saroops went missing after the fire and a probe must be conducted to ascertain their whereabouts.COMMON DIGITAL PLATFORMFOR PANTHIC UNITYGiani Harpreet Singh said a common digital platform will be introduced for Panthic unity in the light of the ideology of Guru Granth Sahib and to defeat divisive forces. “The step has been taken in view that some elements are trying to divide the Panth. Announcement of this platform will be made after discussing the matter at a meeting of the Panj Singh Sahiban (five Sikh clergymen),” he said.Besides, the jathedar appealed to Sikh youngsters to adopt constructive thinking and focus on academics to achieve greater heights in economic, social and political fields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/retired-high-court-judge-navita-singh-to-probe-case-of-267-missing-saroops-of-guru-granth-sahib/story-CpBMmpigZcpfbARdhA0MaJ.html
17-07-2020||City||With 2,345 Covid-19 cases, Srinagar among worst-hit cities in north India||With 2,345 Covid-19 cases, Srinagar is among the worst-hit cities in north India. The J&K administration claims that all is well but has issued gag orders to doctors and health department officials asking them not to speak to the media.Fifty-seven fatalities, including 54 locals from Srinagar, show the city is emerging as a Covid-hotspot. For the last four days after a surge in cases, fresh restrictions were imposed in the city. Markets are now closed and red zones have again been sealed.On Thursday, 259 people were found positive in Srinagar alone, a day before the surge there were 153 cases. The spike has left people worried and doctors have already started flagging the issue of shortage of Covid-19 beds in the hospitals within the city. “The administration got four months to prepare amid the lockdown and now we are being told there is a shortage of beds. If tomorrow, 1,000 cases will are reported, is the government prepared to tackle the exigency? Do we have sufficient high-flow oxygen beds available in the hospitals?’’ asked Adil Ahmad, who lives on the outskirts of the city at Shalteng.Huma Bhatt, a young entrepreneur and poet, said people should stay indoors as cases are rising. “Not wearing masks, gloves or taking precautions can be suicidal.”‘PEOPLE NOT FOLLOWING GUIDELINES’J&K art, cultural and language academy former secretary Rafiq Masoodi said there has been a dangerous increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Kashmir, especially in Srinagar city. “The government can’t police people everywhere. I am a senior citizen and I don’t go out but once a month when I go to get groceries, I can only spot three or four people wearing masks,’’ he said. “When government knows that people are not adhering to norms then why are they opening parks, gardens and tourist places?” he asked. “There have been instances where people have posted pictures from the Dal Lake to demonstrate how social distancing is being ignored,” he said, alleging that people were not being screened properly at the airport. Former Srinagar Municipal Corporation mayor Junaid Azim Mattu said the government needs to adopt a comprehensive, multi-pronged approach to deal with rising Covid-19 cases in Srinagar.“There is no other way to get a grip on the situation. SMC, the health department and the district administration need to work at close quarters and do so consistently,’’ he tweeted.Mattu said the designation of containment zones is one measure and not a strategy in itself. “Allied measures need to be taken. Hospitals, large public offices, bank branches and markets are the most vulnerable hotspots and need our focused attention on a daily basis. Multiple cases at JK Bank HQ is a case we need to study and draw quick lessons from.’’DC SAYS TALLY INCLUDES PEOPLE FROM OTHER DISTRICTSSrinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary said most cases that are added to Srinagar’s tally don’t actually belong to the district. “Yesterday’s 259 cases include 120 security forces and 68 people from other districts. During instances where 151 to 119 cases were reported in a single day cases, only 20% cases were from the Srinagar.’’Contrary to the DC’ s claims, Srinagar has been among the worst affected districts since the Covid-19 outbreak. It now has 946 more positive cases than Baramulla district that has 1,399 positive cases. Of these cases, 327 were travelers who came from different parts of the country or foreign countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-2-345-covid-19-cases-srinagar-among-worst-hit-cities-in-north-india/story-HrCtLhG9HOkxiujZtD0kaM.html
17-07-2020||City||Heavy rainfall likely in Himachal till July 23||Heavy rainfall is likely in Himachal Pradesh for the next four days as the state meterological department has issued yellow weather warnings in middle and lower hills for July 18 and 19 while an orange warning has been issued in middle and lower hills for July 20 and 21.State MeT director Manmohan Singh said rain is very likely to continue throughout the state till July 23. On Friday, light to moderate rainfall at isolated places in Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur, Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Kullu, Mandi, Chamba and Kangra districts. Minimum and maximum temperatures were normal throughout the state.Jogindernagar in Mandi district received highest 58mm rain followed by Dharampur in Mandi district at 50mm and Banjar in Kullu district witnessed 48mm rain. Baijnath received 28mm, Ghumarwin 25mm, Rampur Bushahr 24mm, Dharamshala 22.8mm, Jubbal and Dalhousie 18 mm each while Manali and Nadaun received 9.0mm rainfall.Maximum temperature in Shimla was 23.7°C and 17.2°C in Kufri. Prominent hill stations including Manali recorded 26.4°C maximum temperature while Dalhousie in Chamba district recorded 20.1°C. Maximum temperatures in Dharamshala was 29.8°C, Solan 30°C, Bilaspur 35°C, Hamirpur 34.8°C and Nahan in Sirmaur district was 29.3°C.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded 24.0°C maximum temperature.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest at 12.5°C while Una was the hottest place in the state at 36.2°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rainfall-likely-in-himachal-till-july-23/story-54q8FeiYXPJQRRjbbUah5J.html
17-07-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru police commissioner quarantines himself after driver tests Covid-19 positive||Bengaluru police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao on Friday said he has quarantined himself for four days after his driver tested positive for coronavirus.Rao said he would get himself tested on Monday, which will be his fifth test in the past three months. “My driver is tested Corona positive, I have home quarantined myself for four days and will get myself tested again on Monday for the (5) fifth time since 3 months,” Rao tweeted.He also said that he had to be in “numerous inadvertent interactions with positive cases”.“Seek your good wishes, I am not yet positive,” he added.According to a senior police officer, over 400 policemen including a few IPS officers have tested positive for coronavirus, five of whom lost their lives, about 200 recovered from the disease and about 20 police stations were sealed due to coronavirus infection among policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-police-commissioner-quarantines-himself-after-driver-tests-covid-19-positive/story-DInz9Huc8wcyFxNMvOXSOL.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Liverpool varsity appoints Punjab-origin poet as honorary professor of English and law||University of Liverpool has appointed award-winning poet and human rights lawyer Mona Arshi as the honorary professor of English and law, the university said in a statement on Friday.Arshi, who was born to Punjabi-Sikh parents and grew up in Hounslow in west London, in tweet said, “It feels really important for women from my background and history to be in these spaces”.In 2015, Arshi had won the Felix Dennis Prize for ‘best first collection’ at the Forward Prize for Poetry for her work, Small Hands, which was completed after working as a lawyer for human rights organisation, Liberty, for a decade. ‘Small Hands’ was among the first cohort of publications released by Pavilion Poetry, a new imprint launched jointly by the University’s department of English and Liverpool University Press, the university said.Arshi said, “I am delighted to accept this appointment. Language and centring the human in the landscape of our language matters more than ever. It feels important that the relationship between the role of a human rights lawyer and that of a poet is made explicit.”“I am looking forward to working with both staff and the diverse student community in terms of building conversations together about the role of the imagination and empathy, and how poetry in particular offers an aberrant alternative in language,” she added.The three-year post will see Arshi take part in events with students from both English and law subjects, as well as contributing to the university’s programme of public engagements.Fiona Beveridge, executive pro-vice-chancellor, said: “We are tremendously excited by this appointment. Mona’s poetry speaks to important contemporary issues and her practice is a vivid demonstration of how art can give voice to the voiceless and draw attention to the plight of the most marginalised groups in society.”The university added that following Arshi’s quick rise to literary success, she has appeared at readings and literary festivals across the UK, while her work has been published in different countries, journals and public spaces, including the London Underground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/liverpool-varsity-appoints-punjab-origin-poet-as-honorary-professor-of-english-and-law/story-3DCDQYtv1t8pjvAxjvajmO.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Two BKC plots worth ₹2,000 crore to be put on lease||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is looking to lease two plots at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), after successfully signing a similar deal at the commercial hub worth ₹2,238 crore with a Japanese company in 2019.BKC is one of the most popular business districts in the state.The two plots with an area of 6,018 square metres (sqm) have a reserve price of around ₹3.44 lakh per sqm in the G block of BKC. The plots were previously up for lease in 2019, but had found no takers owing to the stagnant property market.“Last time, we had invited bids separately for all three plots. This time, we have issued tenders for the amalgamated plot of C-44 and C-48, which might interest companies,” said a senior MMRDA official. MMRDA is expecting to earn ₹2,000 crore from the sale of the plots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-bkc-plots-worth-2-000-crore-to-be-put-on-lease/story-6pzA8p572JlyyXx0b0U5ZI.html
17-07-2020||City||Humiliated by lover’s father, 27-year-old milkman ends life in Ludhiana||A 27-year-old milkman ended his life after he was allegedly humiliated and assaulted by his lover’s father.The victim’s father said that he had gone to meet the girl at her house in Mundian Kalan on July 13 but was caught by her father. The girl’s father, who works in the education department, allegedly dragged him around and even thrashed him. Unable to bear the humiliation, the victim left home without telling anyone. Later, his scooter was found near the canal in Katana Sahib. On Friday morning, the body was fished out of the canal near Jhammat bridge.Based on the victim’s father’s complaint, police have registered a case of abetment to suicide against the girl’s father. The accused is currently on the run. DEBT RIDDEN MAN HANGS SELFA 23-year-old debt-ridden man allegedly ended his life by hanging himself from a roof girder in his house in Moga Colony of Mundian Kalan on Friday. He worked as a pick-up auto driver.His father told the police that the 23-year-old had bought the auto after obtaining a loan. However, due to the lockdown, he was not getting any work and was unable to pay the instalments, due which he was under stress. Police have initiated inquest proceedings in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/humiliated-by-lover-s-father-27-year-old-milkman-ends-life-in-ludhiana/story-AwXf5yUeTUF0IRgn85CAHO.html
17-07-2020||Lucknow||Covid: UP CM instructs to form 1 lakh teams for effective surveillance||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed to constitute one lakh teams in the state for effective surveillance on Covid-19 situation.“For effective surveillance, the Chief Minister instructed to constitute one lakh teams in the entire state and said that the monitoring of the team of each district should be done under the leadership of the District Magistrate,” a tweet from Office of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister said roughly translated from Hindi.“KGMU’s Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Department, Dr Ved Prakash informed the Chief Minister that presently due to rain, moisture in the air has increased, due to which this infection is increasing,” said another tweet from the UP CMO. As per another tweet, Dr Prakash said that it is necessary for everyone to wear a mask and comply with social distancing to deal with the infection. Proper ventilation is necessary for public places, he added. Dr Prakash, as per a subsequent tweet, said that 80 per cent of Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic or mild, while 15 per cent of the patients are moderate. In addition, only 5 per cent of the patients are severe/critical. Home isolation of asymptomatic or mild patients should be done to avoid this, he said further.While UP CM Yogi Adityanath said, through the public address system, people should be constantly aware of the necessary steps to deal with Covid-19, such as social distancing, masking, sanitization, hygiene etc.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare website on Friday, the active cases in the state are 15,720. The number of cured and discharged is 26,675. The death toll is at 1,046. The total number of cases of coronavirus are 43,441 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-up-cm-instructs-to-form-1-lakh-teams-for-effective-surveillance/story-zYB462P3R1Dzt2Cd40UCAO.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Clinical trials for coronavirus vaccine Covaxin start at PGIMS, Rohtak: Haryana health minister||Chandigarh: Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday announced that clinical trials to fight Covid-19 with Covaxin — the country’s foremost vaccine candidate for Covid-19 — have started at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak.“Three subjects were enrolled for this purpose today (Friday). All three have tolerated the vaccine very well. There were no adverse effects,” he tweeted.In 10 days since PGIMS began enrolling subjects for clinical trials of Covaxin, close to 100 individuals from Haryana have registered to be a part of the study.Officials at PGIMS Rohtak — one of the 12 locations in the country selected to execute clinical trials of the indigenous vaccine — said that 22 of these volunteers have already been screened for their medical history, and that at least three of them will receive a dose of the experimental vaccine by the weekend or early next week.Covaxin is an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, which is being developed by Bharat Biotech and the ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune. It is one of the two Indian vaccine candidates that have received the Drug Controller General of India’s nod to proceed with the Phase 1 and Phase 2 human clinical trials. In Rohtak, the sample size for Phase 1 trials is expected to around 8 to 10 people, officials said.Earlier, Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, who is a part of a three-member team leading the clinical trials at PGIMS, Rohtak, said, “The first batch of volunteers have been screened. Eight individuals have undergone rigorous medical scrutiny to check whether or not they have been previously infected with the virus, whether they suffer from any ailments of the liver, lungs, or kidneys, and to check if they have any history of other infectious diseases. Three of these volunteers, who were found eligible, will receive a dose of the vaccine, possibly by the weekend. Another 14 people were screened on Thursday and their biochemical reports are awaited.”With inputs from HTC, Gurugram||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/clinical-trials-for-coronavirus-vaccine-covaxin-start-at-pgims-rohtak-haryana-health-minister/story-4CkYJuy73NyKbkHExQg9hO.html
17-07-2020||Lucknow||5 members of a family killed in wall collapse in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur||Five members of a family were killed and two others badly injured after a wall of their house collapsed during the wee hours of Friday in Raj Ghat Chowki area of Uttar Pradesh’s Shajahanpur, district administration said.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath called it an “unfortunate incident” and announced financial help of Rs 4 lakh for the family. He also directed the district administration to ensure that the injured get complete treatment.“After getting the information, we immediately rushed to the spot and began the rescue operation. In the tragic incident, five members including four children, and their mother Shabnam (45), who was a widow, died,” Shajahanpur district magistrate Indra Vikram Singh said.He added that two other children got injured and are being treated in a hospital.Singh cited incessant rainfall as a possible reason behind the wall collapse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/5-members-of-a-family-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-uttar-pradesh-s-shahjahanpur/story-zyS68BE0splQYnNjfPWShM.html
17-07-2020||Lucknow||Mayawati asks UP govt to pay special attention to cleanliness in Covid centres||BSP supremo Mayawati on Friday claimed that there was lack of sanitation in Covid facilities set up in the state and expressed fears that they could emerge as new centres of the spread of the infection. She also expressed concern over the plight of migrant labourers who have returned to their home towns after the country-wide lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak. “The government needs to pay serious attention that most of the Covid centres set up in UP to check coronavirus do not become new centres of diseases because of lack of cleanliness and proper maintenance,” Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. In another tweet, the BSP chief said, “The economic condition of lakhs of migrant labourers, who had returned to their homes in UP because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, continues to be very bad and now they are forced to wander for their livelihood. This is a matter of grave concern.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mayawati-asks-up-govt-to-pay-special-attention-to-cleanliness-in-covid-centres/story-z2Q6J9DilMOInjoh8QMgIL.html
17-07-2020||Jaipur||Two FIRs lodged in Rajasthan over Cong complaints of horse trading||The Rajasthan Police registered two FIRs on Friday on a complaint lodged by the Congress over the alleged conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government through horse trading of MLAs. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had earlier in the day demanded the arrest of union minister and BJP leader Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and rebel Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma after two audio clips surfaced pertaining to an alleged conspiracy to topple the Rajasthan government.“Two FIRs have been registered under IPC sections 124-A (sedition) and 120-B (Conspiracy) to probe into horse trading of MLAs and alleged audio recordings that went viral on social media,” ADG (ATS and SOG), Ashok Rathore, told PTI.   He said Sanjay Jain, whose name surfaced in one of the audio recordings, was called for interrogation on Thursday and is being further questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/two-firs-lodged-in-rajasthan-over-cong-complaints-of-horse-trading/story-nQcEtsb85W94kh6dfm1N4O.html
17-07-2020||Jaipur||Congress suspends Sachin Pilot camp’s Bhanwar Lal Sharma, Vishvendra Singh from party over leaked audio tapes||The Congress on Friday suspended Rajasthan rebel leaders Bhanwar Lal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh from the primary membership of the party, claiming they were involved in a conspiracy to bring down the Ashok Gehlot-led government in the state.Their suspension was announced by senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala, who during the press conference also accused Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat of being involved in the horse-trading of its members of legislative assembly (MLAs). The party has demanded Shekhawat must be booked in connection with its allegation.Bhanwar Lal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh are a part of the rebel camp supporting former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Pilot has 18 Congress MLAs and three Independents supporting him.“In view of the tapes released in a section of media, Shri Bhanwar Lal Sharma (MLA, Sardarshahar) and Shri Vishvendra Singh (MLA, Deeg Kumher) have been suspended from the Congress Party with immediate effect for anti-party activities,” the Congress said in a press release.“Show-cause notice has been issued to them to explain their conduct in the conspiracy to topple the Congress Government in Rajasthan,” it said.The party in a release after Surjewala’s press conference talked about two “sensational and shocking” audio tapes which it said surfaced through the media. “These audiotapes have allegedly revealed the conversation between Union cabinet minister Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Congress MLA Shri Bhanwar Lal Sharma and BJP leader Shri Sanjay Jain,” the release said.The intention and conspiracy to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan by offering money and trying to change the loyalty of its MLAs are clear through this so-called negotiation. This is the dark chapter in the history of democracy,” it said.Pilot and the 18 legislators supporting had on Thursday approached Rajasthan High Court’s Jaipur bench to seek the cancellation of the disqualification notice served on them by assembly speaker CP Joshi.They have insisted that the anti-defection law could not be invoked against them for disagreeing outside the House with some government decisions and policies.The petition will be heard on Friday by a two-member division bench of the high court at 1pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/congress-suspends-sachin-pilot-camp-s-bhanwar-lal-sharma-vishvendra-singh-from-party-over-leaked-audio-tapes/story-FOIzXYDTUGn3dUQoljnHWM.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four cops, woman health worker among 40 test positive in Himachal, tally now 1,417||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally breached the 1400-mark on Friday with 40 people, including four policemen and a female health worker, testing positive for the virus.Ten cases were reported in Sirmaur, Seven in Chamba, six in Shimla, five in Kullu, four in Solan, three each in Kangra and Kinnaur and two in Mandi.The total number of cases stand at 1,417.Chamba chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Guleri said four policemen, having travel history to Delhi, have tested positive in the district. They were in quarantine. The police personnel had gone to arrest a proclaimed offender and may have contracted the virus in Delhi.Besides, a 28-year-old woman healthcare provider at a Covid care centre in Dalhousie has tested positive.Two youngsters back from Kyrgyzstan have also tested positive. Both the 26-year-old man from Chamba town and the 22-year-old returnee were quarantined in a paid facility and are now being admitted to the Covid care centre at Balu.Dr Guleri said the total number of positive cases in the the district has climbed to 78 of which 23 are active cases.In Mandi district a two-year-old girl tested positive. She had returned from Delhi with her family. She has been shifted to a Covid-care centre.Five labourers have tested positive in Kullu. They were here to work in apple orchards.Six cases have been reported in Shimla and two each in Kangra and Kinnaur.JUMP IN CASES IN JUNEHimachal breached the 1400-mark on 120th day of reporting its first case on March 20.Special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said active cases stand at 382 as 40 more patients have been cured. As many as 1,011 people have recovered till date. The recovery rate in the state is 71%.Till date, 1,10,585 samples have been tested in the state. Himachal Pradesh recorded only 40 cases in March and April. But 290 cases were reported in May; 623 in June and 464 cases till July 17.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 322 cases, followed by Solan with 290 cases. Hamirpur has 278 cases, Una 151, Chamba 78, Shimla 69, Bilaspur 63, Sirmaur 58, Mandi 46, Kinnaur 39, Kullu 19 and Lahaul-Spiti district four.TWO FOREIGN TOURISTS QUARANTINED IN UNAThe Una district administration has quarantined two foreign tourists including a woman after they entered the state sans Covid-19 report.Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said a German man and a South African woman were on their way to Dharamshala. They had a five-day booking in a hotel. They also claimed to have been tested negative for Covid-19. However, their claims cannot be verified. They have been institutionally quarantined. The duo will be tested for Covid-19 after some days and allowed to proceed to their destination if found negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-policemen-woman-health-worker-among-seven-test-positive-in-chamba-taking-himachal-s-covid-19-count-to-1-384/story-uL5h852HupilrcDAnIJbiM.html
17-07-2020||Lucknow||Ram temple construction to begin soon; PM to attend ceremony: Report||The construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya is likely to begin soon with members of Shri Ramjanmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, mandated by the Supreme Court, meeting in Ayodhya on Saturday to finalise the date agreed upon by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The trust members confirmed that an invitation has been sent to the Prime Minister and in tomorrow’s meeting the date for the beginning of temple construction is likely to be finalised. “Chairman of the temple construction committee Nripendra Mishra will be present at the meeting. He will come with a date that has been approved by the Prime Minister,” said the source.Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat too will be present on the occasion of the beginning of temple construction.According to sources, the construction at Ramjanmbhoomi is likely to begin in August. While the temple construction ceremony was supposed to be celebrated with many Union Ministers, Chief Ministers and other important dignitaries in attendance, the list of attendees after COVID-19 spread is likely to have only Prime Minister Modi, Bhagwat, UP Chief Minister, few Ministers and MPs from the region, stated the source. The members of temple trust mandated by the Supreme Court stated that while the programme of ‘ Shilanyas’ has been done at ‘Singh dwara’, it was not a proper ceremony. “Bhoomi pujan will be done at Garbh Griha to begin temple construction. This is the formal beginning of temple construction for which invites have been sent out,” added the source. The construction of a grand Ram temple at the Janmabhoomi of Lord Ram has been defining issue for the Bharatiya Janata Party as it has been on the manifesto of the party for over two decades.The Ramjanmabhoomi Trust was formed by the Central Government after the Supreme Court of India directive regarding it on November 9 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ram-temple-construction-to-begin-soon-pm-to-attend-ceremony-report/story-395azzZXd4oIFoYjQ0AmWL.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Residents evacuated after building develops cracks in Maharashtra’s Thane||At least nine families were evacuated from a 20-year-old building, after it developed cracks and tilted in Khopat area of Maharashtra’s Thane city, a civic official said on Friday.The civic authorities have also emptied two chawls adjoining Sai Anand Apartments, which developed cracks and tilted late on Thursday night, said Santosh Kadam, chief of the Regional Disaster Management Cell of the Thane Municipal Corporation.Local firemen and police personnel rushed to the scene for the evacuation, the official said.At least nine flats in the building have been sealed and the residents were shifted to a civic school nearby, he said.As a precautionary measure, residents of Salunke Chawl and Bhoir Chawl have also been evacuated and shifted to the nearby civic school, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/residents-evacuated-after-building-develops-cracks-in-maharashtra-s-thane/story-mXLqEMabyjOoFcJHJKP5EL.html
17-07-2020||Jaipur||Cong demands FIR against Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat, accuses him of conspiring to topple Gehlot govt||The Congress on Friday upped the ante against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), accusing the ruling party of hatching a conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan.It also demanded an FIR to be registered against Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat, who the party said was involved in horse trading of Rajasthan MLAs.Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala held a press conference on Friday in which he said that two audio recordings have surfaced in which Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Union minister Shekhawat and a BJP leader Sanjay Jain are purportedly talking about the “conspiracy” to topple the government. Surjewala also read out a transcript of the purported conversation, alleging money was offered to party leaders to switch sides.He demanded an FIR against the three and their arrest. Surjewala also said that chief whip Mahesh Joshi has given a complaint to the Special Operation Group for registration of FIR in the matter. He also accused Sharma of being in touch with Sachin Pilot.Sharma, meanwhile, denied the allegations. He called the audio tapes as fabricated, and accused chief minister Ashok Gehlot of doing this.However, Surjewala said that Sharma has been suspended from the primary membership of Congress pending inquiry on these tapes.He also said that another Congress MLA and former minister Vishvendra Singh has also been suspended from the primary membership of the party.Surjewala then pointed fingers at the BJP’s central leadership and claimed that the conspiracy was planned at the behest of the big leaders.Rajasthan has been witnessing a political turmoil since Gehlot claimed at a press conference last week that attempts were made to topple his government, and pointed fingers at Pilot. Miffed, the former deputy chief minister left the state with his supporters who later claimed that the Gehlot government is in minority.But the Congress stood with Gehlot and removed Pilot from the post of Rajasthan Congress chief. The chief minister also dropped him from the state cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/cong-demands-fir-against-union-minister-gajendra-shekhawat-accuses-him-of-conspiring-to-topple-gehlot-govt/story-B4wU9LkFEB5ifAaSgdMKTP.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 patients in central district get access to admin’s ‘Fight Corona’ app||Covid-19 patients in central Delhi district can download the Fight Corona app, previously limited to administration officials, to register their queries or requests regarding sanitisation supply of essential commodities for those under home isolation, lifting biomedical waste, as well as to seek psychological help. The app was made available for Android users on Thursday evening.District magistrate (central) Nidhi Srivastava said the app is an extension of the telemedicine and surveillance hub, a control room to assist Covid-19 patients launched earlier this month.The hub is a control room, staffed by 32 civil defence volunteers, computer science teachers and doctors, where residents can call a toll-free number for their queries, while officials also make follow-up calls.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayAs on Thursday, the district has 1,498 active cases of the disease and 58 containment zones, district officials said.“Covid-19 patients will be able to get assistance both on the app as well as the toll-free number. The app is live now and is meant only to cater to Covid-positive patients, whose contact details are synced with our database,” the DM said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage According to officials, the app will have the same services that are presently available on the telemedicine helpline. “The difference is that the queries on the app will be limited to the Covid-positive patients, while all residents can log in for general information. Through the app, we will be able to better track patients’ health status. Also, it will help us identify clustering of cases in a particular area, which can be converted into a containment zone,” said Dilkhush Meena, SDM (Kotwali), central district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-patients-in-central-district-get-access-to-admin-s-fight-corona-app/story-Icn1VmoCM4VM2LqIAeP7BP.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Our lady of Khan Market||Even during the best times of the pre-Covid era, Khan Market was a bleak place in early mornings. There would be no crowd, and only a few cafes would be open for an early-hour breakfast.The market is looking bleak this morning, too. Doubly more so because the cafes that used to be open by this hour are still locked. In any case, the coronavirus pandemic forbids table service in restaurants. At least two cafes have already shut down permanently because of their inability to pay high rents to Khan Market landlords.The only human sighting on the market’s middle lane is of a showroom security guard changing his blue long-sleeved shirt into a casual T-shirt—his night shift must be ending.There’s actually another figure further ahead, down the lane: A masked woman in red top and shorts. She is strolling slowly, carefully looking at closed shops and cafes on either sides. The woman could easily pass off as Ms Marple, the famous mystery sleuth of Agatha Christie mysteries, probably on a lookout for clues to solve some Khan Market crime.But Joban is no literary character. Even so, she is an equally rare specie—one of the very few persons on Earth who call Khan Market a home. Delhi’s most upscale shopping destination began as a low key bazaar with shops on the ground floors and residences on the upper floors, allocated to Partition refugees. Over the years, most of those flats owners sold away their homes or raised them on rent as commercial outlets. What were houses turned overnight into expensive restaurants and fashion houses. Only 7 homes out of 74 survive. Joban’s is one of them.The lady ambles up to the end of the middle lane and turns towards her door. She gestures up at the lush pink bougainvillea creepers falling down the front of the building, saying, “My mother, Harbans, planted it many many years ago, as a twig, with no roots.”Joban is 76 and divides her time between Khan Market and Scarsdale in New York. A single person, her two children live with their families in Europe. Her father, Avtar Singh Dugal, a doctor, migrated from hometown Lahore after the Partition.“We were given the flat in Khan Market in 1952.” Eventually, the doctor settled into a cosy life in this central Delhi locality with his home upstairs and the clinic directly below. He died in 1984. What used to be the clinic was leased out to a business.Joban confesses that it’s the first time in 50 years “that I have spent the summer in Delhi.” She arrived in February for her annual trip and had her return ticket to the US booked for March-end when coronavirus hit worldwide and disrupted her travel itinerary. The pandemic is also obliging her tenants to finally call it quits.This has given Joban a new opportunity. She has no intentions to rent out the property to the highest bidder, but has other ambitions. “I want to turn this place into a light house for each person navigating to their authentic self to find safe harbour.” Inspired by the ideals of economist Sardar Tarlok Singh, the first private secretary to prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Joban plans to create a space that will “help the youth of India become the architect of the modern world.”Gazing up again at the bougainvillaeas, she hopes that her ambitious initiative will take birth sooner than later and “grow organically with time,” just like “mummy’s plant.” Later in the evening, Joban is spotted again walking in Khan Market. This time she is dressed more formally, as she steps inside a long-time shop run by a fellow Khan Market dweller.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-our-lady-of-khan-market/story-AScp9Chwnf9oNTnRaxOcRN.html
17-07-2020||City||No religious angle in Palghar lynching case charge sheet, says Maharashtra home minister||Home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said that the criminal investigation department’s (CID) investigation into the April 16 Palghar mob lynching case revealed that the incident occurred owing to social media posts on child-lifters being in the prowl in the area. He said that though a political party tried to give the incident a religious colour, the investigation cleared the air. “The charge sheet filed by CID clearly states that the killings of the two sadhus and their driver by a mob were triggered by the rumours. There was no religious angle to it,” Deshmukh said.The home minister informed that the CID registered statements of 808 people and arrested 154 accused and that the further course of action will be decided by the court. On April 16, two sadhus and their driver were dragged out of their vehicle outside Gadhchinchale village, located about 110 kilometres from Palghar, and beaten to death by a mob.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-religious-angle-to-palghar-lynching-case-charge-sheet-says-maharashtra-home-minister/story-jpubnOW1cmRu8PN9LbeDJK.html
17-07-2020||City||Maharashtra sees fewer deaths during childbirth||Maharashtra’s efforts to minimise maternal deaths during childbirth seems to be working as the state has the least number of maternal deaths in the country after Kerala. MMR is defined as the number of deaths during child birth or pregnancy per 100,000 live births in a period. The maternal mortality ratio (MMR) of Maharashtra is 46 as per the Maternal Mortality in India 2016-18 report, conducted by the Office of Registrar General through sample registration system and released on Thursday. Kerala has the lowest MMR at 43 in the country.The state has recorded constant improvement in MMR in the last few years. In 2015-17, MMR in Maharashtra was 55, while in 2014-16, it was 61 and 68 in 2013-15, said health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas. Maharashtra has met the objective of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), which aims to reduce the global maternal mortality ratio to less than 70 per 100,000 live births.“The state has taken up special programmes to keep pregnant women and infants healthy. We have started 248 first referral units [FRU] which are being used for normal deliveries as well as for C-sections. FRUs are health facilities that are identified at the tertiary level, where all emergency and essential services are available in rural areas of the state,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Tamil Nadu has the third least deaths at 60, followed by Telangana (63), Andhra Pradesh (56), Jharkhand (71) and Gujarat (75), the report stated.Assam recorded the highest MMR as it has 215 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births. The other states with highest maternal mortality ratio are Uttar Pradesh (197), Madhya Pradesh (183) and Rajasthan (164). Apart from conducting population census and monitoring the implementation of registration of births and deaths in the country, the Office of the Registrar General, India, gives out estimates on fertility and mortality rates using the Sample Registration System (SRS). SRS is the largest demographic sample survey in the country, which among other indicators, provides direct estimates of maternal mortality through a nationally representative sample.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-sees-fewer-deaths-during-childbirth/story-XrWN7MASy7xc640S3A8uuL.html
17-07-2020||City||Nephew’s wife held for 70-year-old’s murder in Mumbai||Four days after the murder of a 70-year-old woman in Chembur, Tilak Nagar police arrested her nephew’s wife on Thursday. The police said the accused, identified as 32-year-old Anjana Patil, hit her husband’s aunt Sajanabai Patil on her head with a bat and then strangled her to death. She then dragged the Sajanabai’s body to the bathroom and ransacked the house to make the murder look like a part of a robbery attempt, said a police officer. Anjana, her husband Dinesh and Sajanabai used to stay on the first floor of Nav Bharat Cooperative Society. Dinesh is employed at a petroleum firm, while Anjana is a homemaker. Her parents also stay in the same building.According to the police, the two women used to quarrel frequently over trivial issues. Recently, Anjana took some cash which Sajanabai withdrew the post office, without informing the latter. Sajanabai suspected that Anjana took the money and confronted her over the issue.“On Monday, there was a heated argument between the two women when the victim questioned the accused about the money the issue. In fit of rage, the accused picked up a bat lying in the house and hit the victim on her head repeatedly. She later strangled her with a rope,” said deputy commissioner of police Datta Nalawade, in-charge of Zone 6. She then dragged the victim’s body to the bathroom and cleaned blood stains from the floor as well from the senior citizen’s clothes. “The accused then hid her own blood-stained gown and ransacked the house and scattered clothes from the wardrobe in the room so that it would seem that the victim was murdered by robbers,” added Nalawade. Anjana then left the door open and went to her parents home who live in the same building. Around 4pm, when the accused’s sister in-law went to her house, she found Sajanabai lying in a pool of blood and alerted the other relatives in the building and the police. The victim’s body was taken to Rajawadi Hospital, where she was declared dead. The doctors at the hospital found multiple injuries on the victim’s head as well as strangulation marks around her neck, following which the police filed a case of murder against unidentified people and questioned all the relatives and neighbours. The police learnt from the neighbours that the two women would often have arguments and that Anjana was in the house at the time of the murder. There were also discrepancies in Anjana’s statement, who claimed that the woman fell in the bathroom and died, said the police. After repeated interrogations, Anjana confessed to the crime, following which she was arrested for murder and destruction of evidence, said Nalawade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nephew-s-wife-held-for-70-year-old-s-murder-in-mumbai/story-rJEjd4UbihJvSj0Kn7fgSL.html
17-07-2020||City||Maharashtra Class 12 results: 49 colleges manage perfect score||A total of 49 colleges from the Mumbai division, which also includes Thane, Raigad and Palghar, recorded 100% result in higher secondary certificate (HSC) exams this year, as per data shared by the state board on Thursday. With this, the number of colleges with perfect results dipped 30%, compared to 70 in 2019. Most colleges that achieved the feat are small junior colleges, mainly located in Thane and Navi Mumbai. Snigdha Roy, principal, Fr Agnel Multipurpose School and Junior College, Vashi, which featured in the list, said, “We ensure continuous mentoring for two years. Each child is monitored and given guidance. Every time the child undergoes a test, the weak areas are analysed and a format to study is prepared. However, we do this with the consent of the student and as per their convenience. We also have a counsellor who has built a rapport with the students and ensures they are involved in both academics as well as extra-curricular activities. This helps build a balance for the students and keeps them energetic too.”Saraswati Vidyalaya High School and Junior College has two campuses – Rabodi and Ghodbunder Road, Thane. Both the institutes have managed cent percent results, “A student’s good result is the outcome of team work, support from teachers, parents’ motivation and the hard work of the student. We explain this to parents and ensure that students who need special attention are given coaching. The study leave and vacations are utilised by teachers to guide students. We ensure that they are motivated at all times,” said Meera Korde, chairperson, Saraswati Vidyalaya High School and Junior college.Some prominent colleges, however, missed the 100% mark by a few points. “We have a 99.73% result this year. Of the five students who failed, two were absent and one was a cheating case,” said Rajpal Hande, principal, Mithibai College, Vile Parle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-class-12-results-49-colleges-manage-perfect-score/story-YcdYIigH7PTK0q8utyLM3K.html
17-07-2020||City||Maharashtra Class 12 results out: UG admissions begin today||With the higher secondary certificate (HSC) results out on Thursday, the online registration process for undergraduate degree courses in colleges affiliated to the University of Mumbai (MU), except autonomous colleges, will start on Friday.A link for the process will be available on mum.digitaluniversity.ac. The schedule for the admissions process, however, will be released later, said university officials.For the first time this year, MU will not only conduct the pre-admission registration process online, but also manage document verification and fee payment process digitally.“Keeping in mind the current Covid-19 situation in the state and city, it would be unfair to ask students to physically visit colleges to confirm admissions. We are currently working on making this option available to students for their benefit,” said a spokesperson for the university.Until last year, students could finish the registrations online and individually approach colleges for admissions. This year, the process might witness changes, say MU officials. “This pre-admission registration process helps students opt for more than one college. The process has been explained well on the website, so students will have no trouble completing this step,” said the spokesperson.However, students aiming for professional courses, including engineering and medical, will have to wait longer for the next step. The National Testing Authority (NTA) recently pushed the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for engineering and medical aspirants to September. The schedule will be out after the exams.Re-evaluation, photocopy from FridayStudents can apply for re-evaluation of their scores between July 17 and July 27 and for photocopies between July 17 and August 5 on the board’s official website. Fees can be paid online. Students who wish to apply for revaluation have to first secure a photocopy for their papers and then apply for revaluation. Board teachers complete evaluation While HSC exams concluded before Covid-19 crisis and the resultant lockdown, officials at the board worked on war footing to ensure results are not further delayed.“Some papers had to be moderated and the computation of results had to be done. Somehow, all our staff from the board and our teachers supported us in this process,” said an official from the board. Signal school student scores 55% Eighteen-year-old Dashrath Pawar, who earlier cleared his Class 10 boards after attending classes at the Teen Hath Naka signal school in Thane, scored 55% in the arts stream from Dnyansadhna College in Thane in the HSC exam. Pawar’s parents sell flowers at signals for a living and he had dropped out of school in Class 9 to help his parents earn an income. Two years ago, Pawar joined the signal school, started by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) along with a non-governmental organisation, Samarth Bharat Vyaspeeth, and cleared his Class 10 exams. He is currently undergoing training at the police academy in Dadoji Kondev Stadium, Thane. Pawar said at Dnyansadhna College, his teachers supported him and helped him understand the concepts well.“ I have worked very hard in the past two years. From 6am till noon, I would go for the police training and then attend classes till 6pm. After my college, I would visit the signal school for revision, till my parents returned home,” said Pawar who resides in Kalwa. “I want to join the police force to ensure that everyone is treated equally before the law as well as to ensure that law and order is maintained,” said Pawar.The school, which is inside a shipping container, was started to provide education to children who beg or sell goods at signals. It not only focusses on imparting education, but also teaches students to follow good health and hygiene practices as well as behaviour. This student defied cancer Anisha Anjalikal Joy, 20, who is undergoing treatment for bone cancer, scored 86% in the science stream from Thane’s Dnyansadhna College. Only two months before the board exams, Joy underwent a surgery, but it did not deter the Ambernath resident from appearing for her exams.After she was diagnosed with cancer three years ago, Joy was forced to take a break from studies owing to as she had to undergo medical several procedures. She scored 95 marks in biology and wants to pursue a career in science or information technology.“I was diagnosed with bone cancer on my left thigh after I finished my Class 11 exams in 2017. I underwent a series of chemotherapies and several surgeries and took a break from studies for two consecutive academic years. There were frequent hospital visits and treatments lined up but my family’s support helped me tide through the situation. My college staff also ensured that a seat is reserved for me. Despite finding it difficult to move, I used to attend classes with the help of a walker,” said Joy.Joy has been a bright student and scored 81% in her Class 11 exams.“I will always be grateful to the staff of Dnyansadhna College for their immense support,” she added.Student gives exam on computerScoring 90.3% in Class 12 HSC boards is no mean feat, for 18-year old Bhavya Shah, the achievement is even sweeter. Born with 100% visual impairment, Shah was allowed to appear for the exams on a computer this year by the state board.“In Class 10, I appeared for board exams with a scribe as well as with a computer, depending on the subjects. This year, the board permitted me to appear for all the papers without a scribe,” said Bhavya, who wrote his exams with a screen reader software that helped him type the answers.While scoring well in his boards was his aim until now, the next big step for the teenager is pursuing his undergraduate degree in the United States.“I was accepted by Harvard as well as Stanford universities but I chose the latter and will soon join soon. I’m yet to pick a major but I’ll choose a variety of subjects and will eventually figure out my major,” he said.In 2018, the board had allowed a student to write his exam on a computer as he had an issue with the sweat gland. In 2019, a girl was allowed to write her paper with the help of an iPad.Blind student scores 91%Born with 100% visual impairment, Sarvesh Nayak, a student of Ruia College relied on his Braille study materials, ever since he started writing. He also made sure he cleared all his doubts in the class without hesitating. And the results showed. Sarvesh scored an impressive 91% in his HSC exams, with 95 marks in sociology, 94 in political science and 93 in economics.“I had worked very hard throughout the year and always studied very systematically. This is a good score and I am really happy,” said the Thane resident.Sarvesh is now aspiring to make a career in law. “I want to be recognised as one of the best lawyers in the city,” he added. Twin athletes cross the 91% markSeventeen-year-old twins Mahika and Tisha Pahuja, who study at Jai Hind College, are state-level athletes. While Mahika scored 94.92% in HSC exams, Tisha secured 91.8%. “We’ve always studied together, and help each other solve problems whenever we get stuck at something. While the college helped us immensely, knowing that we have each other’s backs gives us more confidence,” said Mahika.Apart from athletics, the two sisters also play basketball. “The combination of sports and studies helps keep our mind free of stress, which helped us do well in the boards,” said Tisha.Pushing the boundariesEighteen-year-old Ayush Shah suffers from muscular dystrophy but that does not deter this gritty teenager from pursuing his dreams. A student of Mulund’s VG Vaze College, Shah scored 66.1% in his HSC exam in the science stream.“I used to study every day and revise whatever was taught in class. Because of my condition, I couldn’t study for more than two-three hours at a stretch, so I used to take breaks in between,” said Shah, who plans to pursue an undergraduate degree in BSc IT.“I’ve had tremendous support from my college as well as parents, and that helps me do better every time during exams,” he added. (Inputs from Ankita G Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-class-12-results-out-ug-admissions-begin-today/story-Xu9H19pxU3CBzc14Ne0EAP.html
17-07-2020||City||Congress upset over advertisement||Congress registered its resentment over an advertisement, for the job portal, issued by the state industries department for not carrying photos of any party leader. The advertisement about the newly launched MahaJobs portal featured leaders from the party’s ruling allies Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Expressing disappointment over the issue, Congress parliamentarian Rajeev Satav tweeted, “The scheme is good, but one should remember that this is a coalition government. I hope the government will rectify its mistake while issuing advertisements in the future.”Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat later said that he received a call from industries minister and Shiv Sena leader Subhash Desai to clear air over the issue. “He [Desai] assured us that the mistake will be rectified in the future. We are drawing curtains on it now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-upset-over-advertisement/story-DJYILJb2tFMcipwPuPqv8M.html
17-07-2020||City||2 men hold employees at gunpoint, rob ₹4.16 lakh from Navi Mumbai bank||Two men robbed a cooperative bank of ₹4.16 lakh at gunpoint in Koparkhairane on Thursday. The duo arrived at the bank posing as customers and later held the bank employees hostage. According to Koparkhairane police, the accused, suspected to be in their early thirties, arrived at the bank, located in Sector 19, on a black motorbike, around 2.20pm. The faces were covered and they were wearing gloves.The police procured the CCTV footage from the bank and are trying to identify the accused. In the footage, one of the accused is seen holding a firearm.“The men deliberately chose to target the bank around lunch time, as it closes operations for customers after lunch time. The accused pretended to inquire about loans and waited inside after customers left. Once there were fewer people inside, one of the accused pulled out a gun and held the employees hostage. There was also a scuffle between some of the employees and the accused,” said an officer from Koparkhairane police station.Some employees sustained minor injuries in the scuffle. The accused filled the money in their rucksacks and fled on the two-wheeler. The police said they have intensified checking at all entry and exit points towards Thane and Mumbai to nab the accused. Police suspect that the accused may have conducted a recce of the bank before committing the robbery. A case of robbery has been registered against the unidentified men under sections of Indian Penal Code and Indian Arms Act. The police are recording the statements of the bank staff including the security guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-men-hold-employees-at-gunpoint-rob-4-16-lakh-from-navi-mumbai-bank/story-LflowMrlrpsCIBbokEQqVO.html
17-07-2020||City||30-year-old held for stealing goods worth ₹2.8 lakh in Thane||A hearing and speech impaired man was nabbed by Wagle Estate police on Saturday for breaking into an electronics showroom in Thane and stealing goods worth ₹2.8 lakh on June 30. The accused broke the glass window of the first floor of the showroom and stole eight mobile phones of different brands. Based on the CCTV footage of the showroom, the police managed to nab the accused, identified as Tushar. The police said that the accused is from Goa and has no place to stay or job in the city. “With the help of a sign language expert, we questioned him, following which he accepted his crime and took us to the spot where he hid the phones. We recovered four phones from the spot and have taken the accused into custody for further investigation,” said deputy commissioner of police Avinash Ambure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-year-old-held-for-stealing-goods-worth-2-8-lakh-in-thane/story-dMXkuS78iFHvJTsbQmyFsK.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mann slams Punjab govt over abolition of posts in water resources dept||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president Bhagwant Mann on Thursday slammed the state government’s decision to abolish thousands of posts in the water resources department.Opposing the decision, Mann said that Punjab was already facing major challenges due to the looming water crisis and the government move would only make things worse. “The decision taken by the cabinet to reduce the sanctioned posts in the department from 24,263 to 15,606 in the name of reorganisation, by merging it with the mines and geology department on the pretext of saving Rs 71 crore is an anti-employment decision,” the Sangrur MP said in a statement.The AAP state chief said the decision was aimed at perpetuating the contract and outsourcing system in the state. The need of the hour was to address the shortage of field staff in the department to curb the declining ground water level, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mann-slams-punjab-govt-over-abolition-of-posts-in-water-resources-dept/story-l3CVjHX9t4ezBqM91XeJUJ.html
17-07-2020||City||Centre’s ordinances: Haryana arhtiyas’ body extends support to farmers’ protest||Haryana Arhtiyas Association on Thursday extended its support to the farmers’ protest from July 20, against the Centre’s recent ordinances on the agriculture sector. This was decided in a meeting of the association that was attended by representatives from Ambala, Yamunanagar and Panchkula on Thursday. The members condemned the three farm ordinances passed by the Modi government by stating that “the ordinances will make grain markets in Haryana and Punjab like those in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar.”Addressing the mediapersons, State President of Arhtiyas Association, Ashok Gupta said, “Under the new ordinance, the farmers can sell their produce to any buyer armed with just a PAN card but those selling in the markets must have GST details, market licence, among other documents. If this act comes into force, the market system will break and the farmers will be forced to sell their produce outside. The government wants to break the farmer-arhtiya chain and also nullify the Essential Commodity Act that will promote privatisation and ultimately inflation.” Duni Chand, Patron of Haryana State Arhtiyas Association said, “The commission agents will support the farmers in their protest on Monday against the new farm ordinances which if comes into force, will make the grain markets in Haryana and Punjab like those in UP or Bihar. The government also wants to repeal the Minimum Support Price system.” Bharti Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Charuni thanked the commission agents for extending their support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-s-ordinances-haryana-arhtiyas-body-extends-support-to-farmers-protest/story-enN62Iqt0i5EviQ4FRG3DL.html
17-07-2020||City||Sand mining on Yamuna banks: NGT takes notice, forms joint committee||Following the complaints of rampant and large-scale sand mining on Yamuna banks, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has issued directions to the Haryana government and formed a joint committee under the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Hearing the complaint filed by Yamunanagar-based farmer Kiran Pal Rana, the bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel ruled that the joint committee comprising CPCB, Haryana state pollution control board and Yamunanagar district magistrate with regard to the area in Haryana should furnish a factual and action-taken report within three months, while scheduling the next hearing on January 6, 2021.The bench also ruled that the applicant may serve a set of papers to CPCB, Haryana pollution control board and Yamunanagar district magistrate within two weeks and file affidavit of service via email. In his complaint, the farmer alleged that in the lack of action by the authorities concerned, illegal mechanised in-stream riverbed mining was taking place on the banks of Yamuna river in Gumthala’s north and south blocks in Yamunanagar and near Nangla Rai village of Kairana block in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli. He claimed that the mining mafia carried out the illegal mining activities during the lockdown, which is also a violation of guidelines issued under the Environment (Protection) Act as well as the sustainable sand mining guidelines issued by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change.“The illegal mining activities have changed the course of the river as the miners have created embankments to stop the flow besides building illegal bridges on the river,” he added. The complainant also mentioned a CAG report based on geospatial studies in June last year with critical findings regarding the illegal sand mining in Yamunanagar and resultant loss of revenue to the government. “In the last two years, six children have died by falling in deep mining pits in Yamunanagar, Panipat and Shamli. The miners have illegally excavated about 50 acres in Tajewala village and sold material worth around ₹155 crore, causing revenue loss of around ₹21 crore to the exchequer,” the complainant said. “Though the local administration has taken cognisance of the issue and ordered an inquiry, there is no information on what disciplinary actions have been taken against the violators involved,” he added.Reacting to the NGT orders, Haryana state pollution control board member secretary S Narayanan said, “Directions in this regard have been issued and the state pollution control board will comply with the orders of the green tribunal.”In his response over the allegations, Yamunanagar deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said, “Action is being taken as per the law and we will ensure compliance with the NGT orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sand-mining-on-yamuna-banks-ngt-takes-notice-forms-joint-committee/story-B61gaBR0SRLlTfd25acUzM.html
17-07-2020||City||Metro-4: Bombay HC allows MMRDA to build piers in mangrove zone||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday allowed the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to construct piers of an approach road and spur line to Mogharpada depot, Thane, on the Metro-4 corridor within the mangrove buffer zone.The bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht granted permission for work in the mangroves buffer zone primarily in view of the fact that the construction is for the larger public interest.The bench , however, directed MMRDA to scrupulously comply with the conditions imposed by state environment impact assessment authority while granting coastal regulation zone (CRZ) clearance for the work on November 28 last year.MMRDA moved HC, through advocate Akshay Shinde, seeking the court’s permission for the work in the mangrove buffer zone along Ghodbunder Road in Thane, as the court in November 2018 held that no mangroves shall be removed or no construction shall take place within the 50-metre buffer zone around mangroves without the prior permission of the court.Metro Line 4 will Wadala to Kasarwadvli on Ghodbunder Road in Thane. The 32.32-km entirely elevated corridor will have 32 stations along the line that runs parallel to eastern express highway, covering Ghatkopar and Mulund.According to MMRDA’s petition, the proposed car depot at Mogharpada forms an integral part of the project, which the authority plans to utilise for routine repairs as well as the major overhaul of coaches and repair, replacement and testing of heavy equipment.MMRDA added that the car depot, spread over 36.50 hectares, is proposed to be constructed at 200 metres of the existing road, and 16 piers of the approach road and four piers of the spur line fall in CRZ area. None of the piers nor the spur line, however, affect mangroves, the petition added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/metro-4-bombay-hc-allows-mmrda-to-build-piers-in-mangrove-zone/story-THHskFI5QYnPOLyQLwrXxI.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Reinstate 14 drivers terminated on grounds of colour blindness: HC to MSRTC||In a major reprieve for 14 drivers whose services were terminated by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) after they were diagnosed with colour blindness, the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed MSRTC to reinstate them and pay them pending wages. The bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla held that MSRTC’s move to discontinue services of the drivers was in breach of provisions of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 and the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.Services of all 14 drivers were discontinued between April and June 2018 after their colour blindness was confirmed by experts from Sir JJ Hospital, Mumbai. MSRTC had also rejected their representations for reinstatement, following which the drivers moved the high court.HC upheld their claim and said, “Petitioners have admittedly acquired their disability viz colour blindness during the course of their employment,” said the bench. “As a result, the petitioners are now entitled to alternative jobs as reasonable accommodation under section 20 of the 2016 Act,” it added.The bench said section 20(4) of the Disabilities Act, 2016 mandate that the petitioners ought to be shifted to an alternative post within MSRTC with the same pay scale and service benefits and if it is not possible for MSRTC to adjust the petitioners in any post immediately, they have to be kept on supernumerary posts until suitable posts become available.It has now directed MSRTC to reinstate all the 14 drivers in service on posts suitable to their present condition, within four weeks. The bench has also directed the state transport body to pay full back wages to the drivers as their services were terminated in breach of their statutory rights, and it would be “wholly inequitable and unjust” to deny them full back wages.The bench also struck down clause 11 of the July 2016 circular issued by MSRTC, which treated intervening period between medical examination of drivers and a decision thereon, as leave without pay. HC said it was contrary to the provisions of the 2016 Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/reinstate-14-drivers-terminated-on-grounds-of-colour-blindness-hc-to-msrtc/story-F308K8iDpFUdzrY7j9bqCO.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Dharavi model apt for dense urban areas’: Kiran Dighavkar||What is the Dharavi model, which will be replicated in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to curb the rising number of cases?The Dharavi model is most apt for locations where social distancing and home quarantining of patients and high-risk contacts is not possible, mostly slums. Aspects of this model can be used in dense urban areas with high cases, such as organising fever camps, early detection, quarantining suspected Covid cases and institutional quarantine of a large number of high-risk contacts.WHO or ICMR direct contact-tracing on a massive scale. But in Dharavi, contact-tracing is difficult because 5,000 people are using one toilet block. The only thing in our control is proactive work. We are chasing the virus, as opposed to people identifying they are unwell, doing a test and coming to us. We arrange a large number of fever camps, screen residents, identify suspected Covid-19 cases and shift them to institutional quarantine facilities. When we aim to conduct maximum fever camps and tests, we will identify more cases and high-risk contacts and will need more institutional quarantine facilities. We acquired schools, colleges, installed beds and doctors monitored the facilities 24x7, supplied free medicines and gave free meals.How will you be involved in helping municipal commissioners of the MMR to implement the Dharavi model?I presented the Dharavi model before the municipal commissioners of MMR when I accompanied Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray, on his request. The main point is augmenting capacity at institutional facilities, and ensuring they have good amenities. When a person is agreeing to leave his home and stay at a quarantine facility, it is our job to ensure he is comfortable. The more high-risk contacts you remove from the community, the faster the spread of infection stops.Public-private partnership and community participation are crucial. The Dharavi model is about community support too. The support government received from private doctors, hospitals, NGOs, volunteers and elected representatives was excellent.What is the present situation in Dharavi?Our active cases are a two-digit number, hardly 97, and 2,070 people have been discharged. There are 2,415 cumulative positive cases. Doubling rate of Dharavi is 345 days. The infection growth rate is 0.4%.Dharavi’s mortality is high with over 200 Covid deaths at least? In G-North ward, including Dadar, Mahim, and Dharavi, there were 72 deaths in April, 167 deaths in May, 33 deaths in June, and two deaths in July. We are using early detection, hospitalisation and treatment. Beyond this, mortality figures are not in the ward officer’s hand once the patient goes to a hospital. A death is reported by the hospital to the epidemiology cell, which verifies it and then confirms it as a Covid death. As the unlock process starts in Dharavi, what is the most challenging aspect? The situation is very dynamic. Labourers who had left Dharavi in March and April are returning after seeing relief in the area. Many factories have started. There are many house helps and sanitary workers, who work across the city, staying in Dharavi. There is a possibility cases will surge again, or they may not. My only worry is this success should not go in our heads, and we should not assume we have tackled the virus for good, and no more cases should show. We will keep screening and testing. We are working on behavioural change of residents for cleanliness and sanitary habits, especially while using community toilets. I also want to create a permanent Covid health care infrastructure in Dharavi, like we built a 200-bed hospital in front of Maharashtra Nature Park, with oxygen supply beds in a record 15 days in April. This will be converted into a permanent structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-model-apt-for-dense-urban-areas/story-0cMveeKubMy4B0q862DF6M.html
17-07-2020||City||Rise in MMR cases cause for Covid concern||The spread of Covid-19 in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has emerged a major cause for concern, with the number of cases crossing 62,000 in Thane district.On Thursday, Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 524 cases and nine deaths, taking its count to 14,598 and toll to 225. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) recorded 413 cases and 13 deaths on Thursday, pushing the total to 14,832 cases and 523 deaths. With 6,208 active cases, Kalyan-Dombivli is leading in the district, followed by 6,028 in Thane. These are cases recorded by the civic bodies. The health department tally is different owing to reconciliation.The corporations now plan to implement the Dharavi model.The cases began to rise steadily since June, when the Mission Begin Again started. Thane city started to see a rise of 300-400 cases, while Kalyan-Dombivli saw a drastic increase in the past fortnight. Navi Mumbai, too, crossed 10,546 cases on Thursday. An official from the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) said, “On Thursday, we saw 273 new cases and four deaths, taking the total to 10,546 cases and 322 deaths. The recovery rate in Navi Mumbai is better than the neighbouring city – 6,520 people have recovered, with the recovery rate of 62%. The active cases are now at 3,704.”After Kalyan, NMMC on Thursday started rapid antigen testing at its dedicated Covid hospital in Vashi. Antigen testing centres are also set up at NMMC hospitals at Nerul and Airoli.Abhijit Bangar, the newly appointed civic chief, said, “Antigen tests will primarily be conducted for free on high-risk contacts. I have ordered that the testing centres be set up at the 23 urban health posts of NMMC.”The civic body has 40,000 antigen test kits and will procure 60,000 more such kits. Bangar said they have also asked the government for one lakh kits.Along with the three major cities, Ulhasnagar city is also seeing a spike. It has recorded 5,046 positive cases and 74 deaths, with the active cases at 1,999. The city recorded 202 cases on Thursday.Bhiwandi, on the other hand, saw a dip since July, recording 63 cases on Thursday. Its total stands at 2,967. In June, Bhiwandi saw more than 100 cases a day. However, the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) recorded the highest number of deaths (14) on Thursday. The city has 168 deaths till now. “Most of the deaths are reconciliation figures, received from those taking treatment outside the city,” said Pankaj Ashiya, commissioner, BNCMC.Ambernath, which stated implementing the Dharavi model of Chase the Virus, from Thursday, has the least number of active cases (415). Ambernath recorded 41 new cases on Thursday, taking the total to 2,870 and deaths to 111. Badlapur city saw 90 more cases, taking the total to 1,703. Meanwhile, in the Thane rural area, the zilla parishad has asked villages that do not have a single case in 28 days to hoist a green flag in the gram panchayat. Moreover, all those who have come in contact with a positive person should be mandatorily checked. Thane rural has 1,972 active patients, with the toll at 99. Hiralal Sonawane, CEO, Thane zilla parishad, said, “At least 15 people who have come in contact with a positive person should be tested and isolated. A plan has been set in motion for what should be done each day after a patient gets admitted. This includes tracing contacts, testing and isolating them, providing treatment to the patients and so on. All of this should be implemented mandatorily and a daily report should be submitted to the district health officer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rise-in-mmr-cases-cause-for-covid-concern/story-8ipp6puPLyP49sySWcId8M.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Time to ‘chase the virus’ in MMR||The city’s model of ‘chasing the virus’ to contain the outbreak of Covid-19, which was used successfully in the densely populated area of Dharavi, and parts of Worli, Govandi, Bandra East, or Byculla, will also be replicated in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), considering the surge in cases.When Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray visited Thane and Kalyan earlier this week to take stock of the situation, he was accompanied by Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G-North ward with jurisdiction over Dharavi, to help cities in MMR replicate the model.Aaditya Thackeray told Hindustan Times on Tuesday, “Yes. [the Dharavi model will be used in MMR.] Essentially the Dharavi or Worli model, or the Bandra East or Govandi, or E ward model is that BMC has aggressively chased the virus.”According to Thackeray, when aspects of life will begin to open up in cities adjoining Mumbai, it will be important to have medical buffer beds, control mortality, and analyse data to predict what could happen.Kiran Dighavkar said, “The Dharavi model is about organising a large number of fever camps for early detection of suspected cases, quarantining them in institutional facilities, tracing the maximum number of high-risk contacts and moving them to quarantine facilities too. We are testing a lot. We are not waiting for a patient to fall sick, get a test done, and then come to us. We are chasing suspected patients. It requires large-scale infrastructure for institutional quarantine facilities and manpower for screening and testing.” The state is planning to create 40,000 to 50,000 Covid hospital beds for all cities in the MMR, and is also planning to construct jumbo facilities. Thackeray said, “We have set models in terms of chasing the virus, testing people, and also quarantine facilities. All municipal commissioners have been told that first they need to have standard operating procedures in place. I want to ensure there is strict division of work, and coordination among all teams.” As of Thursday, Navi Mumbai has recorded 10,546 total cases and 322 deaths with a doubling rate of 22 days, Kalyan has recorded a total of 14,598 cases and 225 deaths with a doubling rate of 14 days, and Thane has recorded a total of 14,832 cases and 523 deaths, with a doubling rate of 23 days.The rising number of cases is also a worry for Mumbai’s Covid-19 curve, as the city is gradually coming out of lockdown. Mumbai’s municipal commissioner IS Chahal said on Tuesday that the city will completely open up, and local trains, malls and gymnasiums will become operational only when the situation in MMR shows the same improvement as Mumbai.Sanjay Pattiwar, public health consultant, said, “Large scale testing, institutional quarantine, community participation, involvement of private practitioners is a pattern known to everyone, replicating it will not be a problem. But it requires a large number of resources that need to be made available quickly. I would suggest the government should decentralise quarantine centres, and make small local quarantine centres catering to people living in a two kilometre radius or so. These will be easier to manage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/time-to-chase-the-virus-in-mmr/story-un54XzemWLqGMrUoreXWJK.html
17-07-2020||City||Carcass of dolphin found near Mumbai||An 8-foot-long Humpback dolphin, weighing 50kg, washed ashore Uttan coast in Bhayander on Wednesday. Local fishermen alerted the forest department, who arrived at the spot but decided against the post-mortem, as carcass was decomposed. Using an excavator, the carcass was buried in a 10-foot-deep pit . “Coastal pollution could be one the major causes for the death of the mammal,” said Professor Bhushan Bhoir,who teaches zoology in a Palghar college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/carcass-of-dolphin-found-near-mumbai/story-rFQIQyqWxuPUp1MylkekqJ.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||HC relief for long-term convicts to avail emergency parole||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday held that a person convicted and sentenced for more than seven years, who did not avail parole or furlough twice or more before the Covid outbreak, can still be released on emergency parole. Two persons convicted for crimes under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and lodged at Kolhapur Prison approached the HC after their application for emergency parole was rejected by the superintendent of the prison. The superintendent had held that as the emergency parole rule framed by the High Power Committee (HPC) stipulated that the applicant should have availed of parole or furlough twice and as the two convicts did not fulfill the criteria, the application was rejected. The HC, however, observed that the order was absurd, and directed the superintendent to reconsider the applications afresh.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Milind Jadhav, while hearing a plea by Milind Patil and Nishant Mane challenging the emergency parole rule laid down by HPC, was informed by senior advocate Satish Talekar that following a directive by the Supreme Court (SC) on March 23, the HPC had framed emergency bail and parole rules. The rules were for all those undertrials and convicts whose sentence was less than seven years. The rules were amended on May 8 to include convicts with sentences of more than seven years. The amended emergency parole rule stated that applications of such convicts would be based on two conditions – that a convict should have availed parole or furlough twice or more and returned on time prior to the emergency rules came into force; and that he should not be a habitual offender.Talekar submitted that as his clients had availed of furlough only once, their application for emergency parole was rejected, though two other convicts who were serving similar sentences were permitted. Talekar argued that the amended rule was absurd and would defeat the purpose of decongesting jails and hence section 19 (C) (ii) of the Maharashtra Prisons (Mumbai Furlough and Parole) Rules, 1959, inserted by Maharashtra Prisons (Mumbai Furlough and Parole) (Amendment) Rule, 2020, should be declared ultra-vires of Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India.The two convicts along with three others had been arrested in 2013 and sentenced to life imprisonment. All five were lodged at Kolhapur Central Prison since their arrest and were serving their sentences after being convicted. Following the Covid outbreak, four of them applied for furlough/parole. While two were granted furlough/parole, Patil and Mane’s application was rejected as they did not conform with the amended emergency furlough/parole rules.After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that as two other convicts had been granted emergency parole, Patil and Mane should also get the benefit of the same, and quashed the rejection order of the superintendent. HC directed the superintendent to decide the applications for emergency parole in two weeks and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-relief-for-long-term-convicts-to-avail-emergency-parole/story-rtKddkWhlZIBuvwkYvKgUK.html
17-07-2020||City||623 primary, middle schools shut down in Haryana since 2011, reveals RTI reply||As many as 623 primary and middle government schools have been shut down in Haryana since October 2011 due to poor enrolment.The information was provided by the Haryana school education department in response to an RTI (right to information) query filed by Rewari-based social activist Saket Dhingra. As per the department, there are 8,687 government primary schools and 2,383 middle schools functional across the state.“The government has closed 623 schools since October 2011. 124 schools were shut down in 2011, 385 in 2014, 62 in 2018 and 52 in 2019,” the report said. Dhingra said the closure of 623 government schools since 2011 due to poor enrolment has raised questions on the implementation of the government schemes and programmes to encourage students to join government schools.“If students are turning away from state-run schools, then why is the government spending crores on mid-day meal schemes, free uniforms, free textbooks and other projects?” he questioned.As per the RTI report, the Haryana government has built only 12 new schools — six in Rohtak, two in Sonepat, one each in Palwal, Hisar, Yamunanagar and Kaithal — since 2011. Haryana elementary education department director Pardeep Dagar admits the closure of over 600 government primary and middle schools due to poor enrolment. “Pupil strength in these schools had dropped below 10 and their students were accommodated in other schools. The government has built fewer schools due to low demand, but we have upgraded many schools over the past few years. The students who were shifted are not facing any problem due to closure of their previous schools,” the director said.Haryana Vidyalaya Adhyapak Sangh secretary Satbir Goyat said the government schoolchildren were shifting to private schools due to better infrastructure and facilities, resulting in poor enrolment leading to closure of government schools. “The government schools have performed better in Delhi and Chandigarh due to better infrastructure. In these two union territories, the enrolment and results have improved due to better government policies which lack in Haryana,” he added. Many parents prefer private schools due to English-medium curriculum and other facilities. “In private schools, every subject has a particular teacher. Whereas in the government primary schools, all subjects are taught by a single teacher, or at times two,” said a parent. The government should recruit new tech-savvy teachers, provide better infrastructure and facilities like smart classes and computer labs in state-run schools, parents demand. Blaming lack of government policies for the closure of schools, former Haryana education minister Geeta Bhukkal said, “Students have been opting for private schools over the past few years due to shortage of teachers, poor infrastructure and lack of government’s vision. Due to Covid crisis, over 8 lakh migrant labourers went back to their native villages. Now, more schools will face closure as their children studied in those schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/623-primary-middle-schools-shut-down-in-haryana-since-2011-reveals-rti-reply/story-LHJCJI7NoJQjSljgQIGk8O.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||23 years later, man held for smuggling diamonds||Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested Harish Kalyandas Bhavsar alias Harikrishna alias Paresh Zhaveri alias Boby, 53, a resident of south Mumbai who had been absconding for 23 years. A detention order was issued against him under Cofeposa (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities) Act in 1997 after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) found him involved in smuggling diamonds from Singapore.According to police, Bhavsar used to import raw gold and diamond from Singapore but did not pay due taxes, following which ED started an inquiry and found that he was involved in smuggling. A detention order was served to the preventive branch of Mumbai Police to nab the culprit and send him to jail. However, when the unit 1 of crime branch, under the directive of preventive branch, visited Bhavsar’s residence he was not there. Since then, police visited his house many times, but Bhavsar had moved to Khetwadi in south Mumbai, said inspector Vinayak Mer of unit 1.Following information about his new address, he was nabbed on Wednesday and was handed over to the preventive branch for further process, added Mer. Bhavsar has approached the Bombay high court which is pending in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/23-years-later-man-held-for-smuggling-diamonds/story-xXjNAwgnxP2MHb1EW2zROL.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Don’t follow celebrities’ Twitter accounts blindly: Cyber police||In view of the recent spate of cyberattack wherein Twitter accounts of eminent personalities including Barack Obama, Bill Gates, Elon Musk, and Warren Buffet were hacked, Maharashtra Cyber police on Thursday issued an advisory urging Twitter users not to blindly follow accounts, including those of prominent celebrities.Cyber police said accounts of several prominent personalities were hacked and used to post cryptocurrency scam messages and phishing links. Many users have fallen prey to the scams. Maharashtra cyber police, the nodal anti-cybercrime law enforcement agency in the state, believe it is possible that hackers could try to gain access to prominent Indian Twitter users in a similar fashion. “In times of pandemic, any such hacking incident can also cause widespread rumours leading to chaos. Citizens should be alert and not blindly trust any tweet,” said Yashasvi Yadav, special inspector general of police (Cyber), Maharashtra. Twitter support has found that these interruptions were the result of social engineering attack. They have revealed that accounts of some employees, who have access to internal tools of the microblogging site, were compromised which led to the hackers gaining control of the prominent twitter handles.After the attack, Maharashtra Cyber police have intensified their vigilance as there is possibility of such incident happening in the Indian cyberspace since several Indian public personalities use twitter frequently.To prevent users from falling prey to the scam, the police advised Twitter users not to blindly trust content posted on social media platforms and take time to determine if the content is authentic or fake.Police urged users not to spread or further circulate any posts that seem like fake news or rumours as well as posts promoting hate speech and violence.“We have also asked other social media platforms to be on the lookout for similar incident, and inform the police in case of a cybersecurity breach,” a senior officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-follow-celebrities-twitter-accounts-blindly-cyber-police/story-TUnO75rWncxoemPpVxfWRJ.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Locust swarms likely to hit Haryana again next week||The Haryana government has decided to buy three drones as a part of the massive exercise that is underway to stock additional quantities of pesticide ahead of the locust swarms’ yet another and by far more destructive attack after July 22. The locust warning organisation has warned of more high-intensity attacks in Nuh, Rewari, Mahendergarh, Bhiwani, and Charkhi Dadri districts after July 22. The warning was issued after large-scale locust breeding was observed in Jhunjhunu district of Rajasthan.These attacks are likely to be more severe than the previous ones across 13,038 acres in Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri, Palwal, Sirsa, Nuh, Rewari, Bhiwani and Narnaul. According to additional chief secretary, ACS, agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal, arrangements were being made to stock additional quantities of pesticide Lambda cyhalothrin 5 EC.“The state government has stepped up its efforts to control the menace and prevent losses due to crop damage in view of warning regarding potential intense attacks in several districts after July 22,” he added.The locust swarms in the region, Kaushal said, had become resistant to the commonly used pesticide chlorpyrifos. To prevent homogeneity in use of pesticides during repeated spraying, arrangements are being made to stock 20,000 litres of Lambda cyhalothrin in addition to existing stocks. He said the state government will also acquire fogging machines being bought by the Centre from the United Kingdom (UK) for usage on trees. The state government has pressed into action 66 fire tenders besides 3,540 tractor-mounted spray pumps. Kaushal said the preparatory measures put in place had prevented significant losses in most districts during these attacks.“We are closely monitoring the situation,” he said, urging the farmers in the affected districts to stay alert and inform the officials if they found locusts anywhere.Box: EXTENT OF DAMAGE CAUSEDWorst-hit Rewari and Sirsa districts suffered losses up to 30%In most of the districts, losses to the crop were 5%-10%No report of any loss in Jhajjar, Palwal and Nuh districts during the recent locust attackAbout 93% bajra and cotton crops were saved in Narnaul4,808 litre pesticide sprayed over 8,245 acres||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/locust-swarms-likely-to-hit-haryana-again-next-week/story-33QdGLvepGNuqLUyz1bNZN.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Masked men rob senior citizen at knife point in Mumbai||A gang of masked men robbed a senior citizen of ₹10,000 at knifepoint at Aarey Colony in Goregaon (East) on Wednesday. A case has been registered against unknown men under sections 392 (robbery), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 37 (1) and 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act.According to the complainant Ramachhedan Yarav, 61, the incident took place between 1am and 1.30am when the four persons wearing mask entered the buffalo shed, threatened him with knife, and demanded money. When Yadav refused to give the money, two of them pinned him down to the ground and beat him up till he gave them ₹10,000, said police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/masked-men-rob-senior-citizen-at-knife-point-in-mumbai/story-t2GDELYndJPfj2kXScZtrI.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Three, including a minor, arrested for stealing motorbikes in Mumbai||Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Wednesday arrested a group of three people including a minor for allegedly stealing motorbikes in the western suburbs. The accused would steal the bikes, change a few parts and the registration number, and then sell them to college students for ₹5,000 to ₹10,000, said a police officer.Mohammad Ali Imtiyaz Andale, 19, is the main accused in the case. Both Andale and another arrested accused Afzal Aksar Khan, 19, are residents of Goregaon.After receiving a tip-off that a group of people involved in bike theft are active in Goregaon, officers from unit 11 of crime branch laid a trap and arrested the accused when they were riding a stolen bike, on Wednesday afternoon. During inquiry police learnt that they had stolen a bike from Sahar in Andheri (East), where a case of theft was registered, said deputy commissioner of police (crime branch) Akbar Pathan. The accused also revealed that they had stolen five bikes from MIDC, DN Nagar, Aarey and Sakinaka areas. “We have recovered five bikes from them and four bikes from college students from Goregaon and Malad-based colleges,” said an officer. The accused were handed over to Sakinaka police for further inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-including-a-minor-arrested-for-stealing-motorbikes-in-mumbai/story-nhRzvXrGKACQPRRJlGEncK.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||7 dead, 18 injured in three building collapses in Mumbai in 24 hours||Seven people died and 18 others were injured on Thursday in three separate incidents of structure collapses in the city reported within 24 hours. The collapses took place while the city has been receiving heavy rainfall for the past three days.In one of the incidents, five people were killed and three were injured after large portion of a ground-plus-six storey residential structure collapsed in Fort. Calling it one of the most risky operations by the fire brigade, officials said several people were feared to be trapped under the debris while some were stranded inside the building as the staircase was blocked.The incident took place around 4.43pm when a large portion of Bhanushali building on Mint Road in Fort collapsed. Eight fire engines, two rescue vans and around 10 ambulances were pressed into service. The rescue operation was going at the time of going to press.Sachidanand Gawde, spokesperson of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), said, “Five dead bodies have been recovered from the debris. One of the deceased is unknown.”The deceased have been identified as Jokhna Gupta, 70; Kusum Gupta, 45; Padumlal Gupta, 60; and Kiran Mishra (age unknown) while the identity of the other victim is yet to be ascertained.Prabhat Rahangdale, chief fire officer of Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB), said, “People are trapped under debris and some are stranded inside. Five have been rescued and sent to hospital, of whom two are dead. Search operation for trapped individuals is in progress.” A civic official said the building was vacated by the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) to carry out repair works, however, some residents were still residing in it in violation of the eviction notice. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal after reaching the spot told the media, “This is a Mhada cess building. There were 12 tenants who were vacated after the building was found to be dangerous, but around three of them had returned.”In another incident, two people were killed and 13 were injured after a ground-plus-two storey chawl in Malwani, Malad collapsed around 2.35pm. Four fire engines and one rescue van was sent to the spot.Rahangdale said, “Two people were already sent to a nearby hospital by locals before our teams arrived. Search and rescue operation is still on.”In all, 15 people were rescued and sent to a nearby hospital. The two deceased have been identified as Faizal Wahid Sayyad, 18, and Anjum Shahabuddin Shaikh, 23. The 13 injured people were treated and discharged, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The third structure collapse was reported around 8.30pm wherein a part of ceiling of ground-plus-one storey Iqbal Manzil in Marol collapsed. Two people were injured while two senior citizens were stranded on the first floor. Meanwhile, heavy showers in the city have led to waterlogging in several parts of the city. According to BMC reports, waterlogging was reported in 15 different places in the city including Hindmata, Dadar, Sion, Matunga, Wadala, Chembur, Bandra and Andheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/7-dead-18-injured-in-three-building-collapses-in-24-hours/story-jySoiKlODk3sE0NmmequKN.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||3 NCR districts account for 50% active cases in Haryana||Haryana reported 696 new coronavirus infections on Thursday, taking the cumulative number of positive cases to 24,002. Three infected patients, two from Panipat and one from Jhajjar, succumbed to the respiratory illness on Thursday, pushing the death toll to 322. The number of active patients on Thursday was 5,495. About 53% of the new infections reported on Thursday were from the national capital region (NCR) districts of Faridabad (170), Gurugram (142) and Sonepat (59). These three border districts also accounted for 50% of the active infections. RECOVERIES REACH 18,185As per a medical bulletin, 518 infected patients recovered on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 18,185. Interestingly, about 55% of the recoveries on Thursday were registered in Faridabad, Gurugram and Sonepat. The recovery rate on Thursday continued to be over 75% and there was also an improvement in the fatality rate that stood at 1.34%.The bulletin said there were 84 critically ill patients, including 20 on ventilator support, while 5,411 infected persons had mild symptoms. Among other districts, Rewari reported 84 new cases followed by Ambala (45), Panipat (36), Palwal (25), Hisar (21), Panchkula and Jhajjar (18 each), Mahendergarh (16), Fatehabad (15), Rohtak (14), Sirsa (9), Kurukshetra and Bhiwani (8 each), Kaithal (5), Jind (2) and Yamunanagar (1).Karnal, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri did not report any fresh case on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-ncr-districts-account-for-50-active-cases-in-haryana/story-XvyKnMJrH6BJOU3vM0QtvJ.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM reviews preparations for Maratha reservation case||A day after the Supreme Court decided to hold regular hearings of petitions challenging the constitutional validity of Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act (SEBC) that grants 16% reservation to Maratha community, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting to review the state’s preparations for the same. “The chief minister was briefed about the development in the hearing held in the apex on Wednesday. He was satisfied with the preparations done by us to fight the legal battle,” said PWD minister Ashok Chavan, who is heading the cabinet sub-committee formed to review progress of legal matters for Maratha reservation. The government provided 16% reservation to Maratha community in government jobs and education by enacting SEBC Act. However, the Bombay high court while upholding the legislation in June last year had said the quantum of 16% reservation was not justifiable and the same should be reduced to 12%-13%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-reviews-preparations-for-maratha-reservation-case/story-rQTCMr7mbhGrJBaSezHobP.html
17-07-2020||City||Palghar tutor booked for taking classes despite restrictions||A 44-year-old tutor, Jaimala Bhalchandra Bhoir, has been booked by Palghar police on Wednesday for allegedly taking classes of 20 children in her bungalow in violation of lockdown norms and the ban order by Palghar district collector restricting gathering of more than four people.Senior inspector DS Patil of Palghar police said, “Bhoir who runs a tutorial had called 20 students for home tuitions despite the ban. We got a tip-off and raided the centre. We have booked Bhoir under sections 188 (disobedience), 269(spread of infection) of the Indian Penal Code and Disaster Management Act, 2005.”“We have not arrested her yet but have issued a notice asking her to be present before the Palghar court after a charge sheet is filed,” said Patil adding that this is the first such case where a private tutorial owner has been booked for taking classes in violation of lockdown norms. Schools and colleges in the district have been shut since March 23 after the imposition of the nationwide lockdown in view of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-tutor-booked-for-taking-classes-despite-restrictions/story-PB31snXHN0xKBssC5IvwZM.html
17-07-2020||City||RMPs in Patiala asked to refer patients with Covid symptoms to govt hospitals||Patiala Taking note of the spike in Covid-19 cases, the district health department has directed private registered medical practitioners (RMPs) and Ayush practitioners to immediately report suspected cases to public health institutions.The department instructed them to refer symptomatic or suspected patients to the nearby public health centre so that immediate testing procedure can be followed to contain the spread of the infection.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra held a meeting with some members of RMPs. “They were told to share information pertaining to patients with influenza like illnesses (ILI), severe acute respiratory illnesses (SARI) or interstate travellers visiting their clinic to the district health department so that prompt testing and clinical management as per the government guidelines can be done,” he said.A health officials said the department was facing problems as RMPs take time in referring a patient for Covid test which increases the chances of infection spread. “Local clinics are the first stop of people who are unwell. We want them to refer patients with Covid symptoms to govt health institutions without delay,” a government doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rmps-in-patiala-asked-to-refer-patients-with-covid-symptoms-to-govt-hospitals/story-lMzT87qPskfldCvIrQiSZP.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Former state chief election commissioner Neela Satyanarayan succumbs to Covid-19||Maharashtra’s first woman commissioner of the state election commission (SEC) and noted Marathi author Neela Satyanarayana succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday morning. Satyanarayana, 72, was admitted to SevenHills Hospital a few days ago after she tested positive. The 1972 batch IAS officer was appointed as the first woman commissioner of SEC, after she retired from the civil services as additional chief secretary, revenue, in February 2009. She retired as commissioner in July 2014. Satyanarayana had penned more than 10 books of poetry and 17 novels. Her autobiographical work ‘One Full, One Half’, based on her experiences as the mother of a boy suffering from Down’s Syndrome, was widely appreciated in the literary world. Expressing his condolences, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said, “She was an outstanding officer, a prolific writer, a courageous mother, and social thinker. She discharged every role in her career and life with absolute dedication, positive attitude, and passion. In her demise, we have lost a dedicated officer and socially responsive thinker.” CM Uddhav Thackeray said, “Maharashtra will always remember her for her sensitivity which has left her imprint not only in the civil service but also in the field of literature and arts. She was a role model for many Marathi youths who aspired to take up a career in civil services.”SEC chief UPS Madan said that the use of information technology in the election process began during her tenure. “Introduction of NOTA, use of pen instead of ink, and projects like Krantijyoti, were launched by her,” he said.Three members of Satyanarayana’s family also tested positive and have been admitted to hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/former-state-chief-election-commissioner-neela-satyanarayan-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-ds9hj0D9im0YB0Wd3rhsqJ.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Sanitiser to be distributed on CR trains, at railway stations||The Central Railway (CR) has tied up with a private company to provide free sanitisers to passengers in local and outstation trains. Under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), 400 local and outstation train passengers will be provided sanitisers and their luggage will be sprayed with disinfectant.Further, sanitisers will be provided on local trains between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Karjat and Kalyan railway stations. They will also be provided at railway stations on the harbor line.Additionally, 87 railway ticket booking counters and the surrounding area at railway stations will be disinfected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sanitiser-to-be-distributed-on-cr-trains-at-railway-stations/story-nLUMG8SpjzPj6suosbyKXO.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Only charter flights from UAE permitted to operate to India till July 26: Civil aviation ministry||The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) on Wednesday summoned four United Arab Emirates (UAE) airlines – Air Arabia, FlyDubai, Emirates and Etihad – and directed them to stop operations of their commercial flights and permitted only charter flights from the country to fly to India till July 26. A ministry official said, “The airlines, along with UAE’s ambassador to India, were summoned by the aviation secretary on Wednesday and were asked to stop their unauthorised flights movements with immediate effect.”On July 9, the government decided to allow UAE and Indian carriers to operate only charter flights from UAE to India. However, according to ministry officials, since July 12, UAE carriers unilaterally started commercial operations to India, for which it planned schedules and sold tickets. The development comes after Air Arabia operated its commercial flights to Mumbai over the last weekend without seeking requisite permissions from the Maharashtra government. On Monday, HT reported that the state government issued a show-cause notice to the airline over the issue for violating rules and asked Air Arabia to respond by the next day.While rules permit only charter flights to operate, an airline must get traffic clearance from the respective destination states as well as the Indian embassy. MoCA said this rule was brought to ensure that flights landing in the country are legitimate charter flights commissioned by either a community or a corporate house.On Thursday, Valsa Nair, principal secretary of state aviation department, said, “Air Arabia has apologised, and said it will ensure that the violation won’t be committed again.”Taking cognisance of the matter, aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday asked air traffic control (ATC) across the country to allow UAE flights to land, provided the airlines submit documents showing approvals from the respective states to the controllers before their departure to the destination airport. Arun Kumar, director general of DCCA, said, “We have tightened the rules and things are falling in place now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-charter-flights-from-uae-permitted-to-operate-to-india-till-july-26-civil-aviation-ministry/story-R5OGeNb150uDfyzSDFnJIL.html
17-07-2020||City||Malerkotla authorities not meeting Covid-19 test target of 80 a day||Even as testing is widely seen as one of the steps towards fighting covid-19, authorities have failed to meet its own daily target of 80 in Malerkotla, one of the 12 blocks of the district. This is despite the fact that block has 75% of the district’s deaths (15 of total 21). The block also has one-third of the active cases (29 of 82) and 259 cases of the district’s 683 (38%) confirmed cases. Over the past 55 days from May 21 to July 14, the testing target was achieved only six times, even as 2,220 total samples have been taken from block in the last 55 days. For the district, 19,533 samples have been collected to date. Sources said 20-25 samples were being taken from Malerkotla town. Additional deputy commissioner (general) Rajesh Tripathi, who is heading the drive against coronavirus in the area, said that the teams of civil administration and health department are focusing on a mass movement to promote masks and the residents will be motivated to get themselves tested.“We will increase testing in the area but it will take some time. The administration has made various groups of over 100 people from different walks of life. We will focus on protection measures. From Friday, a movement to promote the use of masks will be launched,” added ADC Tripathi.Sangrur civil surgeon Dr GB Singh said he would hold a meeting on Friday. “We have contacted private mill owners whose workers are tested positive. Samples will be collected from every required area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malerkotla-authorities-not-meeting-covid-19-test-target-of-80-a-day/story-Xq50yaYakrcLsscYzB7JMM.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad accused Varavara Rao tests positive for Covid-19||Poet and activist Varavara Rao, who was lodged at Taloja Jail as an undertrial in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Rao, 81, is asymptomatic but will be treated with symptomatic drugs. His family has alleged criminal negligence by state authorities.Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, dean of Sir JJ Hospital, confirmed on Thursday that Rao was Covid-positive. “He is asymptomatic and stable. From Sir JJ Hospital, he will either be shifted to Gokuldas Tejpal (GT) hospital or St George’s Hospital. His oxygen saturation is above 95%. He will be treated with symptomatic drugs,” said Dr Mankeshwar.Rao’s family issued a statement on Thursday expressing concern regarding Rao’s treatment and alleged Rao had been kept in “pathetic condition” at Sir JJ Hospital, “having to lie in urine-soaked clothes for hours, and with very little nursing aid available at the hospital”.Refuting the family’s claims, Mankeshwar said, “These are fake allegations made against the hospital. I have taken all the required care of the patient.” For further comment, he told HT to speak to the hospital medical superintendent, Dr Sanjay Surase. Despite repeated attempts, Surase was unavailable for a comment.The family’s statement also said, “The Covid finding highlights the criminal negligence of the state jail authorities, who have been repeatedly warned about the danger of Covid in Taloja Jail, and the fragile condition of the Hyderabad-based poet-writer. It is a matter of concern too that the trial court handling the Bhima Koregaon/ Elgar Parishad case turned a deaf ear to pleas for medical bail seeing the poor health condition of VV Rao and the danger of Covid.” The statement said Rao’s fellow inmate and co-accused in the Elgar Parishad case, Vernon Gonsalves, was also at risk of contracting Covid-19 as Gonsalves had been caring for Rao in jail.Rao’s family expressed doubts about Rao being shifted to St George’s Hospital, which is a dedicated civic-run Covid hospital. “This is again bad news as St George’s, with its poor health care record, may hardly be the place where Rao has a chance to recover. The only way VV stands a good chance is if Bombay high court (HC), hearing the matter tomorrow, gives him medical bail, and is shifted to decent private speciality hospital,” read the statement.Rao had moved HC, appealing against an order of a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court that rejected his interim bail application on June 26. The plea will be heard today.Rao is one of 11 people booked in the Elgar Parishad case, on charges of conspiring to organise an event in Pune that has been linked to the violence at Bhima-Koregaon on January 1, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-accused-varavara-rao-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-pAwnLS0BjFdAhiSUQkYMiO.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Vidhan Bhavan staff protest compulsory 50% attendance; monsoon session likely to be curtailed to 2 days||Vidhan Bhavan employees are upset with a July 13 order making 50% attendance mandatory, despite 17 staffers, including four police personnel, testing positive for Covid-19.The monsoon session of the state legislature is likely to be held for only two days, with limited presence of legislators, from August 3. The legislature secretariat, through an order issued on Monday, made 50% attendance mandatory for its employees. Maharashtra legislature principal secretary Rajendra Bhagwat, “We have asked the employees to come to work every alternate day, to ensure their safety. The decision has been taken only because of the ensuing session.”The employees, however, have expressed their discontent over this new rule, considering the state government has mandated only 15% attendance in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.“When the state government has mandated 15% attendance, how can the legislature secretariat ask 50% employees to attend office? At least 17 of our employees [of the total 750] have tested positive, while one has succumbed to the virus. Our employees are not allowed to travel by local trains meant for essential service providers. Most of the employees have been working from home efficiently, and asking 50% to attend office will put their lives at risk,” said an office-bearer of the employees union at Vidhan Bhavan.The monsoon session of the state legislature is scheduled to be held from August 3, after it was postponed last month. The legislature has been tapping the possibility of holding the session online or having a blended approach of online and physical attendance. The state government is expected to curtail the session to two days, with limited attendance of legislators living in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. “Holding the session is inevitable to table and approve the supplementary demands to the state budget for the healthcare outlay required for the fight against the pandemic. The state legislature has written a letter to the parliament administration for guidance on holding the session. Though the mechanism is ready for an online session, many legislators and even a section of legislative office-bearers are against it. In such a case, we may curtail it to two days and allow only limited lawmakers to attend,” said an official from the parliamentary affairs department. “Another option is to postpone the session again. The decision is expected to be taken during a business advisory committee meeting to be held next week.” A two-week programme has been chalked out for the session, but it is part of the formality, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vidhan-bhavan-staff-protest-compulsory-50-attendance-monsoon-session-likely-to-be-curtailed-to-2-days/story-xEIVMkXCE8IN1xFtb5p0WI.html
17-07-2020||City||Sikhs protest against ISI for backing pro-Khalistan activities||NEW DELHIMembers of the Sikh community on Thursday held a protest near the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi against ISI for backing pro-Khalistan activities and the ‘Referendum 2020’, police said.The protest, led by former Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjit Singh GK, began around 11.30am, a senior police officer said.There were around 50-60 Sikh protestors who tried to march towards the Pakistan high commission from Teen Murti. However, they were stopped near Chanakyapuri police station, he said. The protestors were shouting slogans against Pakistan’s spy agency ISI for promoting pro-Khalistan activities and supporting the ‘Khalistan Referendum 2020’, an online campaign to demand a separate homeland for the Sikhs.The ‘Referendum 2020’ is an initiative of pro-Khalistan group Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), which has been banned by the Indian government for advocating a separate homeland for the Sikhs.The Centre in a July 10, 2019, notification had declared SFJ as an unlawful association and had banned it for five years, saying the group’s primary objective was to establish an “independent and sovereign country” in Punjab and it openly espouses the cause of Khalistan, challenging the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sikhs-protest-against-isi-for-backing-pro-khalistan-activities/story-nUyCP2APNDqtd56VmLBOAO.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||BMC app to check Covid-19 bed availability yet to go live||A month after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) launched a mobile application that would allow citizens to check the availability of Covid-19 beds in private, state- and civic-run hospitals in real time, the application is yet go live. The software developer says the app is ready but BMC is yet to give access to its data from hospitals. According to BMC, the project is awaiting a final go-ahead from the civic commissioner.Last month on June 17, mayor of Mumbai Kishori Pednekar had launched an application named Air Venti, which was expected to go live within a week with data on bed availability at all private, government and BMC-run hospitals. BMC had said the app would initially provide information related to available beds in intensive care units and ventilators. Later, it would have information related to quarantine facilities in several Covid-19 care centres. Eventually, the app would also have information on beds available in hospitals for the treatment of non-Covid diseases like dengue and malaria. At a later stage, information about rainfall, waterlogging and other alerts would be sent to citizens via this app.However, the app is yet to go live.Shantanu Kulkarni, the software developer whose firm Probity Soft developed Air Venti, said, “We are ready with the application, and one can also download it from Google Play store. We have approached the Mumbai mayor to ask BMC to either link their dashboard data with the mobile application developed by us or ask hospitals to report the data to us.” He added, “We are told the mayor has also asked BMC’s administration to do the same, considering this application will be beneficial for citizens by helping them find beds easily.”According to senior BMC officials, the decision to make the data live on Air Venti is awaiting approval from BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. A BMC official said, “Once we get the final go-ahead from the commissioner’s office, the data will go live.” Chahal was not available for comment.Mumbai-based activist Anil Galgali said, “I have written twice to the authorities that all details of bed availability, expenditure and available or proposed infrastructure should be made available online, but the same has not happened. In this case, we have a mobile application ready for citizens to use and get information, but details have not been uploaded. This is not transparency.”BMC has faced criticism for limiting citizens’ access to information regarding the availability of beds, which has made the process of finding beds in hospitals complicated for many patients. On June 10, BMC launched 24 helpline numbers from which citizens could get information on the availability of beds. Later, it was decided that information regarding bed availability would be put up online by connecting the civic body’s disaster management control room to a mobile application, which could be accessed by citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-app-to-check-covid-19-bed-availability-yet-to-go-live/story-B2NXzpKfF1kUdcV5TOeywJ.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown effect: Builders offer 8%-18% discounts to woo buyers||Builders across Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are resorting to distress sales to woo homebuyers and raise money as the Covid-19 pandemic continues to wreak havoc with the realty sector.According to Knight Frank, a real estate consultancy firm, this is one of the toughest phases for the realty sector. “Builders need money for their projects and hence, are giving discounts in the range of 8%-18% to woo homebuyers. Since we see no solution in sight, we may even see more reductions in the coming days,” said Gulam Zia, executive director, Knight Frank India.MMR, which covers regions like Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Raigad, is regarded as a prime realty market in India. However, builders have hardly recorded any sales in the past couple of months.The situation can be gauged from the fact that realty sales from April to June this year declined to a low of 2,687 units, compared to 15,959 units sold in the January-March quarter.According to the Builders Association of India (BAI), builders are now being forced to make distress sales. “Builders are facing acute monetary crises as there are no sales taking place,” said Anand Gupta, committee member, BAI. “Even those who have booked their apartments are now cancelling their bookings due to job losses. This is impacting us in a big way. “We are left with no alternative but to cut prices to raise money,” he added.One of the biggest fears builders are facing is that once the loan moratorium ends in August, banks will line up for payments from September onwards. Also, financial constraints will delay projects, making the whole scheme unviable, leaving the builder saddled with huge losses.Rajesh Vardhan, managing director, Vardhman Group, blames the banks and financial institutions for the mess. “For years, these banks and financial institutions made a fortune from real estate, and now when we need their support, they are not forthcoming. All we demand is a restructuring of our loans,” said Vardhan.Despite the discounts, homebuyers are still not taking the bait. “It is a very insecure job environment and not the right time to take a risk,” said Rahul Rajan, a senior executive at a private firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-effect-builders-offer-8-18-discounts-to-woo-buyers/story-3zsw6OQy82ieEnoHQfjoUL.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||2 arrested accused escape from Covid isolation centre||Two accused, arrested by police in separate cases of attempted murder and rape of a minor, escaped from a Covid isolation centre in Shivaji Nagar, Govandi, where they were receiving treatment after testing positive while in police custody.Santosh Meghraj Tivarekar, 20, and Irfan Shakir Ali Khan, 19, tested positive in the first week of July, while they were in police custody, following their arrests by RCF police station on June 29 and July 1, respectively.“Tivarekar is a habitual offender who was arrested on June 29 for allegedly stabbing a person from the opposing gang. Khan was arrested on July 1 for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl,” said Sopan Nighot, senior inspector of RCF police station.After testing positive, the two were quarantined at the Shivaji Nagar Covid isolation centre along with a third person, also accused in a criminal case. The centre is being used to treat arrested accused who test positive for Covid and need to be isolated. The centre is guarded by two policemen, at the front and rear exits. According to police, in the early hours of July 13, Tivarekar and Khan broke the lock of their room door with the help of a metal object. They locked the door from outside and escaped. After a staffer arrived at 9am to provide breakfast, it was discovered that the two accused had escaped.“The two escaped after jumping the wall of the centre. So far, negligence of any policemen has not emerged. We have formed multiple teams to trace them,” said Datta Nalawade, deputy commissioner of police (prevention), holding additional charge of zone 6.“We are trying to find out their whereabouts and the investigation is on,” said Kishore Gayke, senior inspector, Shivaji Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-arrested-accused-escape-from-covid-isolation-centre/story-rvpoXeMOfjyNVh886zg7eO.html
17-07-2020||City||Four CRPF personnel among 19 fresh Covid-19 cases in Panchkula||A day after Panchkula recorded the highest single-day spike with 24 Covid-19 cases, the district recorded 19 fresh infections on Thursday. The patients include four Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel.The district’s tally stands at 198, of which 121 patients have been cured and one person has died. There are now 76 active cases.Two of the CRPF personnel from Pinjore are 42 years old, while the other two are aged 54 and 28. Earlier, on July 11, a 40-year-old CRPF personnel had also tested positive for the virus.Apart from this, three men, aged 62, 50 and 26, were found positive in Shiv Colony. Five cases were confirmed in Sector 25. These include three women, aged 66, 39 and 31, a 21-year-old man and a 13-year-old boy.The remaining patients are a 40-year-old man from Tagra Hari Singh, Kalka; a 46-year-old man from Kiratpur, Kalka; a 26-year-old man from Abhaypur, a 36-year-old man from Sector 16, a 16-year-old boy from Sector 7, a 52-year-old man from Vishwakarma Colony, Pinjore; and a 50-year-old man from Sector 15.In the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases, local MLA Gian Chand Gupta said more initiatives should be taken to spread awareness among people to wear face masks and maintain social distancing, while violators should be dealt with strictly.He has directed the municipal corporation to display informative messages on hoardings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-crpf-personnel-among-19-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-panchkula/story-FxzVSacPyIpGpvtgpidnaJ.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Non-profit Project Mumbai to receive special UN award||Project Mumbai, a 20-month-old non-profit organisation that has worked on various social initiatives during the Covid-19 pandemic, is one of 50 organisations in the world selected by the United Nations (UN) SDG Action Campaign for a special award.The UN SDG Action Campaign is an initiative established by the UN Secretary-General to bring people together from every part of the world, to act on sustainable development goals (SDG). Through its annual Action Awards, the UN SDG Action Campaign has recognised the most impactful initiatives undertaken and implemented in communities around the world to improve people’s lives amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Of the three recipients from India, Project Mumbai is the only one from the western region. Over the last 100 days, the organisation has launched three mental health helplines; built a network of volunteers to provide groceries and medicines to senior citizens and people with disabilities living alone, and contributed over 2 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to doctors and frontline workers. It also provided cooked meals to 45 lakh citizens — homeless and migrants across Mumbai — and grocery kits to over 20,000 families.“This recognition by the United Nations honours the spirit of every individual who has contributed to our fight against Covid-19,” said Shishir Joshi, founder of Project Mumbai.Marina Ponti, global director, UN SDG Action Campaign, said, “In the midst of the global health crisis, we see strong examples of solidarity among people everywhere. We congratulate Project Mumbai for their solidarity and determination to improve others’ lives, inspire resilience, and lift hopes in the face of this crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/non-profit-project-mumbai-to-receive-special-un-award/story-FSgAI4BkSDtywh5JdJmkVL.html
17-07-2020||City||Punjab’s mother mortality ratio declines, among bottom 3 in country||Patiala Punjab is among the three worst-performing states in improving upon the Mother Mortality Ratio (MMR) since 2015, data that the Centre has released on Thursday, in its Sample Registration System (SRS) bulletin shows. The results were based on data collected for 2016-18. The report adds that there were only five states, which failed to reduce maternal deaths and recorded increase in MMR, and Punjab stood on number three among these states.The MMR is the number of maternal deaths every 1 lakh live births. Maternal death is when a woman dies while she is pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy. As per the bulletin, the state has witnessed 5.7% worsening in MMR, while it saw an improvement of 7.3% nationally. The state has recorded a worsening of seven points from 122 maternal deaths in 2015-17 to 129 maternal deaths in 2016-18. The country’s MMR improved from 122 in 2015-17 to 113 in 2016-2018. Elaborating on the causes, Dr Daler Singh Multani, former Fazilka civil surgeon, said, “Most pregnant women suffer from anaemia, which leads to their death. The migratory population also affects the statistics of the state, as some health services do not reach them. Sometimes, they don’t approach health care services. Most women from particular sections of society also go to self-made god-men, rather then hospitals and clinics during their pregnancy period.”The last time Punjab saw an improvement in reducing maternal deaths, was in 2014-16, when it recorded an MMR of 122 from 141 in 2011-13. However after that, there has been no progress. In fact, Punjab is among those four states, which has recorded minimum improvement in 14 years. The Central report adds that Punjab has recorded an improvement of just 63 points from 192 maternal deaths during 2004-06 to 129 in 2016-18.Dr Avneet Kaur, director health and family welfare department, said, “The report was just released on Thursday. We do not know about the exact source of its information. We are verifying it with the Centre.”Bihar, UP and Haryana perform betterStates like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring Haryana performed better than Punjab in reducing maternal deaths during the time period of the study. Bihar has recorded an improvement of seven points, Uttar Pradesh 19 and Haryana seven points in mother mortality ratio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-mother-mortality-ratio-declines-among-bottom-3-in-country/story-XCtgwjQRG0HUJ1g8z12huL.html
17-07-2020||City||Covid fear looms large on Faridkot medical college as 15 doctors test +ve in 8 days||More members of the staff at the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, are at the risk of contracting infection as 15 of the doctors and three nurses at the institute have tested positive for the coronavirus in the last eight days. A nurse, who tested positive on Thursday, is a contact of some doctors found infected earlier. College principal Dr Deepak John Bhatti said all positive members of the staff are asymptomatic. “We have prepared the lists of their contacts and put them in self-isolation. Their samples have been sent for testing. The working of the orthopaedic department has been affected as most of the infected doctors are from it,” he added. Since July 11, the medical college has put 48 other doctors, junior residents and medical students under quarantine after they were suspected of having come in contact with those found infected. Samples of 30 contacts were collected on Thursday and sent for testing, it is learnt. District epidemiologist Dr Anita Chauhan said, “Most of the doctors contracted the virus through the contacts of a junior resident who had visited Jaipur in the first week of July. He was tested positive on July 9. There is a fear of more health workers having been exposed to the virus. We have advised the college administration to close the departments with cases of infection.”DIRECTORATE TEAM VISITS COLLEGEA team of the Punjab directorate of research and medical education on Thursday visited the medical college at Faridkot to check the preparedness to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak.Dr Bhatti said the college is getting samples from eight Punjab districts for Covid-19 testing. “Some change was made in the protocol for testing labs on July 1. The DRME team visited to check it. This is a routine procedure,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-virus-fear-looms-on-faridkot-medical-college-as-15-doctors-test-ve-in-8-days/story-YWMvvyctzVy0nClX1YC1XN.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Nurse among 16 fresh Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, tally goes up to 635||A nurse at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, was among the 16 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Thursday.The city now has a total of 635 confirmed cases, of which 476 have recovered, leaving 148 active cases. As many as 11 people have succumbed to the virus so far.Among the fresh cases are five members of a Manimajra family — three males, aged 24, 26 and 52, and two females, aged 21 and 27. They contracted the infection from another positive family member.Two members of another family from Sector 31 — a 42-year-old man and a two-year-old boy — were also found positive. Their source of infection is unknown, as per the health department’s media bulletin.The source of infection of a 64-year-old man and a 24-year-old woman is also unknown. They are residents of Sector 27 and Sector 46, respectively.From Sector 48 — a 45-year-old woman and a 16-year-old boy — family contacts of previously diagnosed patients, have also tested positive.A 42-year-old man from Sector 52 has picked the infection from a family member.A 26-year-old woman from Sector 45 is a community contact of a positive case from the same sector. A two-year-old boy from Dhanas is a contact of a positive family member.Similarly, the last case, a 17-year-old boy from Manimajra, is also a relative of a previously diagnosed Covid-19 case.Meanwhile, a 55-year-old Chandigarh Police inspector has also tested positive for the virus, but has not been added to the UT tally by the health department. A resident of Sector 46, he has been on leave since July 2. The cop is posted at the UT Police Headquarters in the law and order wing. “Since, he has not been on active duty for the last 15 days, no workplace contacts have been quarantined,” health officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nurse-among-16-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-tally-goes-up-to-635/story-bWiwziOhnaNTSxN1RYWknK.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Now, govt school teachers asked to receive, escort NRIs||Around 45 government school teachers from Ludhiana have a new assignment at hand to receive NRIs at the airports and escort them to the quarantine centre. The order came from the nodal officer for Covid-19, additional chief administrator, Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) Bhupinder Singh, on Wednesday.It all began on July 3 when 25 teachers were deputed on the same duty. The teachers have to maintain the record of the NRIs and brief them about the government guidelines that they will spend seven days in quarantine at a Covid-care centre and next seven days in home quarantine if there are no symptoms of the virus. President of Democratic Teachers’ Front Hardev Singh said, “Teachers are busy with bi-monthly assessment of online tests. Schools are closed but teachers are conducting online classes and have to check the answer sheets online. We are ready to perform any emergency duty but this assignment is unnecessary. The authorities must revoke this order with immediate effect.”Reacting to the move, former Punjab education minister Daljit Singh Cheema tweeted: “After distillery and checking of sand mafia, a new order for government school teachers which states that it is the responsibility of the government schoolteacher to receive the NRIs at airport and take them to the quarantine centre. Stay safe master ji (sic.).”Despite repeated attempts, GLADA additional chief administrator Bhupinder Singh couldn’t be reached for a comment.In May, government teachers in Gurdaspur district were deputed at distilleries to keep an eye on the supply in a bid to check liquor smuggling. The order was withdrawn after the authorities faced flak from different quarters. Last month, teachers in Phagwara were asked to accompany police teams to check sand mining during the night hours. That order, too, was withdrawn as there was a hue and cry. However, teachers deputed on July 3 to receive NRIs are already on the job. Baldev Singh, an ETT, said, “For the last 10 days, I am doing this. I am on my way to Mohali airport as a flight from Kuwait is reaching there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-now-govt-school-teachers-asked-to-receive-escort-nris/story-V6OPupil4QAizzp0WBRHpM.html
17-07-2020||City||No dismantling, four mega cooling towers of Bathinda plant to live on as landmark||Four mega cooling towers of the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP), Bathinda, deemed to be monuments will not be brought down as the process of dismantling of the now defunct unit has been started. As per the plan of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), e-auctioning to disassemble the power generation facility will be held on August 20 and bids for the same can be uploaded on July 20.PSPCL controller (store and disposal) Mohinder Singh Khosla said , the state government has decided to keep the towers intact since the structures had enormous heritage value. “The state government has directed to dismantle the plant that was decommissioned over two years ago. Civil structures, including chimneys and machinery used in power generation besides cables and pipes will be disposed of,” said Khosla. The government is planning to set up a mega industrial zone at the site of the thermal plant.Opposition parties like the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) besides employees of state power department and various farmer unions have been protesting against the decision to wind up the power plant that was set up in 1974. Political leaders and local residents have been demanding that the towers be not razed since they are the landmark of Bathinda, a key city in Punjab’s south Malwa region.The cooling towers of the thermal plant are often confused with smoke-emitting chimneys.Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who is local Congress MLA, earlier this week met Union minister of chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda and sought setting up of a pharmaceutical park in Bathinda.Manpreet has been claiming that 1,350 acre land at the plant site would be utilised for an industrial hub but some officials say it is to be seen how the industrial plan is conceptualised with four towers covering a sizeable area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-dismantling-four-mega-cooling-towers-of-bathinda-plant-to-live-on-as-landmark/story-KlRWo6WQZMQ5tXnqs1dsxJ.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Now, Covid patients with mild symptoms in govt facilities can order food online||The Punjab health department has allowed the patients with mild or no symptoms undergoing Covid-19 treatment in government facilities to order food online. The facility will be provided only after the approval of the doctors concerned.The move comes after reports of people avoiding testing due to fear of mismanagement and low-quality food being provided in these facilities. As per the protocol, the asymptomatic patients are kept in isolation facilities, patients with mild symptoms are treated in civil hospitals while those with full-fledged symptoms and co-morbidities are treated in government medical colleges where they are treated under supervision of specialist doctors.Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the decision was taken to encourage people to come forward for testing even if they have mild or no symptoms or if they have come in contact with an infected person.Patients can also get fruits and other essential items from home provided their family members deliver it at the main gate.A senior government official said there were complaints that food in these government facilities was not up to the mark and even asymptomatic patients were being given food meant for those with full-fledged symptomatic patients.Only 3% of people with influenza-like illness symptoms who reported at government facilities were found positive for the virus, the health department days reveals.These symptoms include fever, shivering, malaise, dry cough, loss of appetite, body ache, and nausea.As per the revised protocol, the health department has instructed the civil surgeons not to pick persons after 8pm if their report is found positive.“The move is aimed at reducing fear among the patients. The staff has been instructed to counsel the patients at their homes,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-covid-patients-with-mild-symptoms-in-govt-facilities-can-order-food-online/story-0azraKw0zBXzNMHyNnIdRN.html
17-07-2020||City||Nine deaths, 295 fresh Covid-19 cases in Punjab||Punjab on Thursday reported nine deaths and 295 fresh Covid-19 cases. With this, the state’s positive cases tally has reached 9,094 and death toll at 230, according to the media bulletin released by the government. A 55-year-old man died, while 57 people tested positive in Ludhiana. A resident of Jagirpur village on Rahon Road died in Government Rajindra Hospital,Patiala, stated civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. The positive patients include three policemen and to healthcare worker.A 19-year-old pregnant woman from Fazilka, who was tested positive Covid-19, died in Faridkot during treatment. She was married in Ferozepur but was staying with her parents at Boor Wala village in Jalalabad subdivision during pregnancy.Meanwhile, 47 people, including 14 defence personnel, tested positive in three districts of south Malwa region.Nine jawans are from Bathinda cantonment whereas five BSF personnel were tested positive in Fazilka.In Ferozepur, nine people contracted the virus. A total of 16 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Moga. Eight persons, including a nurse of Faridkot Medical College, tested positive A 65-year-old woman from Kapurthala died at civil hospital in Jalandhar while three others tested positive for covid-19 in the district.Two Covid-19 patients, one each from Amritsar Gurdaspur, died of the disease at government medical college and hospital on Thursday. The district also reported 23 fresh cases on Thursday. Nine fresh cases were reported from Gurdaspur district.A total of 34 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar and 30 in Patiala. Of the Positive patients in the district, 15 are from Patiala city, six from Samana, three from Rajpura, one from Nabha and five from villages across the district.Meanwhile, Mohali saw 16 fresh Covid cases, taking the district’s tally to 472.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-deaths-295-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-punjab/story-RD3KpK3467piyOkfUg6GNI.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gurdwara management committee gets new chief||Gurbinder Bir Singh Happy has been announced as the next president of the Chandigarh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, the largest gurdwara management body in the city.His election was announced at a meeting held at Gurdwara Kalgidhar Kheri, Sector 20, on the occasion of Sagrand.Happy was elected to the post based on a public consensus and his term will last two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-gurdwara-management-committee-gets-new-chief/story-dPkZOef06ieb54d6oKX2MJ.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Police collect Rs 1.14 crores as fine from lockdown violators, strict action on the cards||Following spike in Covid-19 cases in city and increasing incidents of lockdown violations, police have decided to initiate special drive against the violations.According to commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, the cops have already collected Rs 1.14 crore as fine from 27,700 violators since lockdown was imposed in region.He said that by July 15, a total of 25,419 challans have been issued against persons for not wearing masks and police have collected Rs 1.11crore from them as fine. “Rs 11,500 have been collected from eight people for violating home quarantine. Rs 2.25 lakh were collected from 2,195 persons for spitting in public. Similarly, Rs 1.37 lakh were collected from 78 persons for violating social distancing instructions,” he said.He added that 28,969 traffic challans have been issued and 1,872 vehicles have been impounded for not following traffic rules. He added that nine FIRs were registered on Wednesday for lockdown violations.Agrawal said that in view of increasing number of positive cases in city, the Ludhiana Police are strictly issuing challans to violators. As per the state directives, gathering of five or more people is not allowed at one place. At marriages, 30 persons are allowed, and in case of death, 20 persons are allowed to attend cremation and bhog.He warned that if any person is caught violating the instructions, strict action will be initiated. He urged the residents to follow all restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-collect-rs-1-14-crores-as-fine-from-lockdown-violators-strict-action-on-the-cards/story-365oeDONe9EJpEp7yg3nAI.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||55- year-old loses battle to virus in Ludhiana, 57 others tests positive||A 55-year-old man lost his battle to Covid-19 while 57 others tested positive for the virus in Ludhiana on Thursday. The deceased is a resident of Jagirpur village. He was undergoing treatment at the Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, where he breathed his last.Among the fresh cases are three cops and two healthcare workers. One cop, aged 35, is deployed at the police control room while the other two, aged 30 and 55, are deployed at Moti Nagar and Mullapur Dakha police stations respectively.The health department has started tracing their contacts.1,100 SAMPLES SENT FOR TESTING Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district now has 488 active cases. It’s cumulative total has now reached 1,626 while the death toll stands at 40. He said as many as 1,100 samples were sent for testing on Thursday. Till date, as many as 47,149 samples have been sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/55-year-old-loses-battle-to-virus-in-ludhiana-57-others-tests-positive/story-FNBpgSlTSdUlyXtakDY7dN.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Now, history-sheeters in Ludhiana will have to their mark attendance daily||To keep tabs on history-sheeters, Ludhiana police is making it mandatory for them to mark their attendance everyday with the munshi of the nearest police station. Those who fail to do so will be arrested under preventive measures. As per information, the munshi will be clicking their pictures with the camera attached to the attendance systems and sending it to senior officials.The Ludhiana police have already created a list of 400 persons, who are facing trial in two or more cases, including murder, attempt to murder, rape, drug peddling, robberies and snatchings. According to the police, at least 65% of the accused return to crime after getting out of jail. Such persons can be a threat to the law and order situation in the city and to keep tabs on them, it was decided to have a daily attendance system.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said the project was delayed due to Covid-19 outbreak but now police have started working on it and the attendance system will be installed in all 28 police stations within this week.He added that in case of death in the family or illness, the history-sheeters would be given exemption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-history-sheeters-in-ludhiana-will-have-to-their-mark-attendance-daily/story-JbDFjArQAIzhQqwt59NTCI.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha sees sharpest 1-day spike of 8,641 Covid cases||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded its highest single-day spike of 8,641 fresh Covid-19 cases, second in excess of 8,000, taking the tally to 284,281. The state has 114,648 active cases. Maharashtra also recorded 266 fatalities on Thursday — its second-highest jump — taking the toll to 11,194. On Thursday, 5,527 patients were discharged in the state, pushing the tally of recoveries to 158,140. The state had breached the 8,000 cases mark for the first time on July 11 with 8,139 cases.Mumbai, meanwhile, recorded 1,476 new infections, taking the city’s total to 97,950. Mumbai has 24,307 active cases. It also recorded 56 new fatalities, pushing the city’s toll due to the disease to 5,523. The case fatality rate (CFR) in Mumbai stands at 5.6%, while the recovery rate is 70%. On July 15, Mumbai conducted 7,000 Covid-19 tests, among the highest number of tests conducted in a single day. Till date, Mumbai has conducted 415,390 tests.Besides Mumbai, its surrounding areas continued to contribute a chunk of the fresh cases. Thane city and Thane district recorded 427 and 401 new cases, respectively. Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 590 new cases, taking the satellite city’s tally to 16,661. Vasai-Virar and Mira Bhayander recorded 326 and 134 new cases, respectively. Navi Mumbai recorded 285 new cases, while Ulhasnagar recorded 208 fresh infections. Pune city recorded 1,584 new cases, taking the city’s tally to 33,680, while Pune district and Pimpri-Chinchwad recorded 327 and 555 cases on Thursday.Nashik recorded 213 cases, while Jalgaon district added 198 cases. Both Nashik and Jalgaon districts have over 5,000 cases each.With the number of active cases reducing in Mumbai and new cases being added in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the region around Mumbai has emerged as the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in the state. Most of the nine municipal corporations in the MMR, excluding Mumbai, are under lockdown for the past week. There has been a slight reduction in the cases from the region. The region still contributes to about 35% of the daily increase in cases; as against around 41% till last week. Out of the 68,712 active cases in MMR, which has Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts, 44,405 active cases are from Thane, Palghar, and Raigad districts. The number of active cases in Mumbai has gone to the third position in the state after Thane district with 34,821 and Pune district with 27,389. Mumbai has 24,307 active cases.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the region saw a surge in cases after the state government planned to “unlock” curbs in the region. Maharashtra government announced gradual relaxation in curbs from June 3 as part of its Mission Begin Again. It provided relaxations for outdoor physical activities, including running, jogging, cycling, among others, from June 3. Subsequently, it opened up market areas, shops except for malls and shopping centres from June 5. It also allowed private offices to open up to 10% of its staff from June 8.According to the data of the state health department, on June 3, MMR, excluding Mumbai, had 13,302 cases of the total 74,860, while on July 15, MMR has recorded 87,426 cases of the 275,640 cases, which is a jump of over six times. Till June 3, the cases in MMR constituted 17% of the cases in the state, now it constitutes nearly 32% (31.71%).“The numbers increased in the last one month when we unlocked the state from June 3. People from MMR started traveling for work to Mumbai, and at that time Mumbai had several cases. Therefore, the numbers rose in MMR. However, they will be brought under control,” Tope said, while speaking to news channels.Since the Maharashtra government announced relaxation in lockdown in June, including in red zone areas, where cases were on the rise, the state has recorded over 75% of the cases. From June 1 to July 15, the state has recorded a whopping 207,985 cases, which 75.45% of the tally.As the cases have surged in the region, health infrastructure was found wanting. The local administrations have put municipal corporation areas under lockdown from the beginning of the month to grapple with the situation. Tope admitted that the health infrastructure in the area, except Thane city, has been weak and the government is building jumbo facilities in the region to deal with the shortage of beds.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in a meeting held last week, directed the local administrations to build jumbo facilities on the lines of the ones in Mumbai. He had also remarked that the directive to prepare for such facilities was given in April, but no such facility was erected.Tope said that small periods of lockdowns are imposed to break the chain of transmission and to ramp up the infrastructure during that time. He said, “I accept the cases are increasing as the population is very dense. The health facilities should have been taken care of by the previous government as well. At present, we are focused on increasing beds here and overall healthcare facilities.”“There is a shortage of ICU beds in MMR. Thane city is always taken care of, but besides that, other areas —Kalyan-Dombivli, Ambarnath, Badlapur, Bhiwandi, etc — the health infrastructure has not been taken care of. A multi-specialty hospital is needed in these areas. I have been speaking about this to the CM and also in the cabinet. Till then, we are planning a jumbo facility with 1,000 beds with oxygen supply and 350 ICU beds. It will be completed in a months’ time,” Tope added.The minister also said that the health department has filled up a vacant post of health officer in the region to support the local administration. The state government is also going to provide private doctors antigen test kits free of cost. Besides that, Kalyan-Dombvli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has set up a committee of corporators to engage with citizens in this battle against coronavirus. The twin cities recently overtook Thane city in the total number of cases recorded.Tope added that the state government has planned to start five new laboratories in the MMR, one of which will be operational in Kalyan-Dombivli in this week. New laboratories will be set up in Bhiwandi, Badlapur, Ulhasnagar and Mira-Bhayander. In the absence of a laboratory, these areas had to depend on facilities in Thane, Navi Mumbai or Mumbai. “We will start five new laboratories in the region. There will be no delays as they have to depend on other city’s laboratories. A laboratory will start in the next three-four days in Kalyan-Dombivli. Right now, Kalyan-Dombivli is dependent on Thane, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai for testing,” he said.Meanwhile, the state government has also asked Centre for some relaxations in the parameters for plasma therapy. Tope said that they have sought two relaxations from the Union health ministry that would lead to an increase in the number of plasma donors in the state. He said that the state government is now planning to start plasma therapy treatment in all the districts.“We are planning to start an option for plasma therapy treatment in all the districts. Yesterday, we had a meeting with the Blood Bank Association. They want relaxations in the equipment to extract the plasma. Instead of apheresis device, the blood banks can extract it by a component method. The purpose of the two methods is the same, therefore it should be allowed. The apheresis device is expensive equipment. I have spoken to union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who has assured me he will look at it and approve it,” he said.Tope added that the state has sought relaxation in parameter for a person to be an eligible donor. “Despite over 1.5 lakh recovered patients, very few donors have come forward because of the parameter for becoming an eligible donor. We have asked the union health ministry to relax the requirement of Immunoglobulin-G (IgG) and consider the recovered patients who os positive for IgG as a donor. If these two conditions are relaxation the plasma donation will get a push,” he said.According to the figures released by the state government, the number of recovered patients in the city on Thursday at 67,830 is the same as the number of recovered patients on Wednesday. The state health department clarified that “There was an issue while updating these figures on the portal. Hence these numbers could not be updated today.” According to daily covid-19 figures released by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), 707 positive patients recovered and were discharged on Thursday. Total number of patients who have been discharged so far are 68,537. According to BMC, the total positive patients in Mumbai are 97,751. State and BMC figures differ because the state government pulls these figures out of the portal at a later time than the BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-sharpest-1-day-spike-of-8-641-covid-cases/story-SpJqm3UYb7qXu8MvbzgzBL.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||HSC exams: State, Mumbai division record improved success rates||Around 88% of Class 12 students who wrote the state’s Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) exams this year passed, a jump of 4.51 percentage points from last year, even as Mumbai division slipped to the last position among the nine divisions in the state.The Mumbai division, which also consists of Thane, Raigad and Palghar, recorded a success rate of 85.83%, a jump of 5.25 percentage points from 2019, as the number of top scorers, too, went up. Konkan division stood first with a 95.74% success rate. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) declared the HSC results at 1pm on Thursday. Over 15 lakh students had appeared for the exams which were conducted in February and March. Of these, 3.38 lakh students were from Mumbai division alone. Both the city and state saw a significant jump in the number of students scoring 90% and above, thus indicating a tough competition for seats in coveted colleges of the city during the coming days. In the state, 7,344 students scored 90% and above, a jump of 64% from 2019. In the Mumbai division, 3,109 students managed to achieve the feat, thus seeing a rise of about 41% as compared to the previous year. Shakuntala Kale, chairperson of the state board said overall scores of students had risen this year. “This year, the paper pattern for science had changed with more options for physics, chemistry, mathematics and biology, and a lot of students might have benefitted from the change. It is a good sign that the results have improved,” added Kale. The Arts stream saw the biggest spike in pass percentage across all streams. It recorded a 78.35% success rate as compared to 72.75% in 2019. Science and commerce streams recorded 95.30% and 88.56%, a jump of 3-4 percentage points from last year. “Over the last few years, many high scorers even from other boards are coming to the Arts stream. Students from the other boards were earlier not used to the HSC pattern, but over the years, even colleges have realised how to train them for the format of the board exams, which might be a reason for the stream’s overall performance,” said Ashok Wadia, principal, Jai Hind college, Churchgate. At St Andrew’s College, Bandra, a 100% result was recorded for both Arts and Commerce streams. “Until a few years ago, Arts was the last choice for students, but now more students are opting for the course and faring better, which is a very good sign,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of the college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hsc-exams-state-mumbai-division-record-improved-success-rates/story-CBXrlCabpPlaM1KSjU3LNN.html
17-07-2020||Mumbai||City gets 400mm rain over 57 hours; July total goes beyond 1,170 mm||Continuous showers between Tuesday and Thursday took the city’s rain tally beyond 1,170mm for July. Mumbai recorded 417mm over 57 hours between Tuesday (8.30am) and Thursday (5.30pm), figures revealed, including its second-highest 24-hour rainfall this season and third-highest since 2015.The weather bureau downgraded its orange alert to yellow with the possibility of heavy rain between Thursday night and Friday morning, but predicted a reduction in intensity throughout Friday. Intermittent intense rain spells between Wednesday and Thursday led to waterlogging, traffic congestion, and damage to residential structures.The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 191.2 mm rain between 8.30am Wednesday and 8.30am Thursday (second-highest this season). Of this, 110 mm was recorded between 8.30pm Wednesday and 8.30am Thursday. Through the day on Thursday, between 8.30am and 8.30 pm, the weather station recorded 149.2 mm rain.This took Mumbai’s rain tally for the month to 1,172.6 mm in 16 days, which is 139% of the months’ average rain (840.7 mm). With 1,567.8 mm rain recorded through the season (June 1 to July 16), Mumbai has received 69.3% of its seasonal average rainfall (2,260.4 mm).Earlier this month, between July 4 and 5, the city had recorded 200.8 mm rain. The highest 24-hour July rain in 10 years was recorded last year with 375.2 mm rain on July 2. Prior to that, the highest was on July 3, 2014 207.2 mm and July 24, 2013, saw 215.6 mm. The all-time high continues to be the July 27, 2005 deluge of 944.2 mm rain over 24-hours.“As predicted, rain data showed scattered heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls over 24 hours in Mumbai,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, India Meteorological Department (IMD). “The break in rain activity on Wednesday afternoon owing to change in wind pattern allowed conditions to enhance for intense rain spells late Wednesday night followed by continuous downpour till Thursday early morning.”The Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 156.4 mm rain between 8.30am Wednesday and 8.30am Thursday. Of this, 116.6 mm was recorded overnight. However, a sharp dip in rainfall was witnessed on Thursday in contrast to the suburbs with 23.6 mm rain between 8.30am and 8.30pm.Over the past 24 hours, location-wise highest rain was recorded at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) with 317.4mm, followed by Dharavi and Bandra at 210 and 209 mm respectively. Worli recorded 198.4 mm. IMD classifies very heavy rain as 115.6-204.4 mm, and extremely heavy rain as over 204.5 mm.“Variations in the distribution of rain within the city are common. Scattered movement of clouds from south of Mumbai along the coast gained more moisture as it moved northwards, enhancing rain activity over the suburbs,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.Thursday’s rainfall in Mumbai exhibited an unusual north to south gradient, said Akshay Deoras, PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom. “A large difference between rainfall measured at south Mumbai and suburbs on Thursday was unusual considering the relatively uncommon movement of clouds from Colaba towards suburbs. Local factors such as lakes and terrain seem to have abruptly intensified rainfall over suburbs,” he said.Low-hanging clouds over south and central Mumbai were witnessed covering top floors of skyscrapers on Thursday afternoon. “This is a common monsoon phenomenon where constant influx of moisture from the Arabian Sea leads to the formation of nimbostratus clouds,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay.Meanwhile, owing to less rain in catchment areas that provide water supply to Mumbai, located in Thane and Nashik districts, the city’s water stock stood at 25.8% so far, against 48.8% recorded during this period last year. “Westerly winds are mainly straddling along the coast owing to the moderate strength of offshore trough (weather system). They are not penetrating towards interiors for heavy rain over catchment. The Bay of Bengal needs to produce a system to pull these winds over these areas to recharge the catchments,” said Balasubramanian.Both meteorologists said usual intermittent light to moderate showers are expected during the weekend and early next week with rain bands expected to move northwards towards Palghar, Dahanu, and south Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-gets-400mm-rain-over-57-hours-july-total-goes-beyond-1-170-mm/story-ksE71i5cAvVHVj4gVlSS5H.html
17-07-2020||City||CBSE Class-10 results: Girls outshine boys in Himachal||After outperforming boys in Class 12 examinations, girls of Himachal Pradesh have once again outshone boys in Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 10 examinations. The girls secured an overall pass percentage of 99.14% while boys secured 95.99%.As many as 15,246 students from the state appeared in the Class 10 examinations out of which 8,686 were boys and 6,560 were girls. A total of 14,776 students cleared the exams, out of which 8,338 were boys and 6,438 were girls. This year students of the state achieved 96.92% overall pass percentage which is slightly lower than last year’s 97.28%.In Loreto Convent Tara Hall, Shimla, Ojasvi Kesta ranked first with 98.8% marks, Tanvi Utreja ranked second with 97% marks and Vanshika Ahluwalia attained the third position by securing 96.6% marks.In St Edwards School, Shimla, Kanishk Chanjta secured the first position with 98.2% marks. Harshaditya Sharma and Shivansh Sharma secured 95.8% each.Vaani Parashar of Convent of Jesus and Mary School, Shimla, topped the school by scoring 98.8%. Hiya Sharma stood second with 98.4% and Shivanshi Verma secured 97.4% and ranked third.Udit Jain and Saksham Virmani of Bishop Cotton School, Shimla, topped the school with 93.6% marks. Shreeyansh Thakur got 92.8% and stood second while Madhav Kalra attained 92.4% marks and stood third.In DAV Senior Secondary Public School, Lakkar Bazar, Shimla, Nandini Chaudhary scored 98.6% and bagged the first position. Meenal Verma stood second with 97.4% while Sonakshi Dadwal and Bhavya Sharma scored 96.8% each and stood third.In Kendriya Vidyalya, Jakhu Hills, Shimla, Sonal Bhat ranked first with 96% marks. Bhargav Dhar, Prakriti, and Anshika scored 91.6% each and ranked second in the school while Bhanvi Dhar got 90% and ranked third.In DAV Senior Secondary Public School, New Shimla, Hemjha Kaul stood first with 97.8% marks followed by Shivang Nagta who got 97% marks while Palak Sharma and Garima Nepta scored 96.8% each and stood third in the school.With 98.4% marks, Noopur Sharma bagged the first position in The Lawrence School, Sanawar. Simar Singh Gabadia stood second in the school with 96.8% marks and Harshangad Singh secured third position with 96.6% marks.In Army Public School, Dagshai, Aditi Sharma bagged the first position by scoring 97% marks, Anirudh Gupta scored 96.4% marks and stood second while Shivam Kha secured 96.2% marks and stood third.Shivansh Joshi of St Lukes Senior Secondary School, Solan, got 97.6% marks and stood first. Sneha Verma and Prakriti Pal scored 97.4% each and bagged the second position while Ishita Suri secured 97% total marks and stood third.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-class-10-results-girls-outshine-boys-in-himachal/story-zlMpPVvLReKBPvsihYG3vI.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 leads to parallel modes of assessment in this university in Delhi||When the Delhi government on Saturday announced cancellation of exams for state universities, including Netaji Subhas University of Technology (NSUT), the order brought relief only to a section of students studying on the campus. The reason: the university functioned as an institute under Delhi University till 2018.This essentially means that exams were only cancelled for first-year students who were admitted to the state university after 2018. The rest — the second, third, and fourth year students — who were admitted under Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology (NSIT) will be evaluated on the basis of DU and University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines.Officials confirmed that students admitted before and during 2018-19 academic session will be under Delhi University. The rest, who were admitted in 2019-20 academic session, will appear for their first-year assessments this year, are under the state’s higher education department.So, while NSUT is conducting time-bound home assignments for its 1500 first-year students, NSIT is slated to start discussion-based online evaluation for final-year students on July 22. DU’s Faculty of Technology is responsible for conducting NSIT exams for the approximately 800 final-year students.Sachin Maheshwari, dean at DU’s Faculty of Technology, said, “The decision to evaluate final-year students was taken unanimously in a joint course committee meeting of all the departments of engineering courses. A panel of examiners will be conducting an online interaction with final-year students over video calls, or phone calls to evaluate them. The decision was taken while keeping the interest of students in mind while following UGC guidelines and existing infrastructure.”Supporting the move for final-year exams, Archit Sahni, a final-year undergraduate student at NSIT, said, “Most students of our batch just want their degrees. Many of us who have their offer letters will not be able to join for work if we don’t have our final year degrees.”Maheshwari explained that the decision was taken after consulting students, most of who were in favour of taking exams in this mode instead of pen and paper exam. Those facing internet issues on the day of the exams can also contact the committee set up by the institute requesting evaluation at another date.For second and third year students, which are under DU, students are likely to be promoted on the basis of past performance and continuous assessments which have already been conducted throughout the semester. DU’s dean (Exams) Vinay Gupta said the varsity’s Faculty of Technology and NSUT officials have discussed details on the mode of evaluation and will announce it by Friday.While NSUT had already started the process of conducting time-bound home assignments from its first year students from July 10, following deputy chief minister’s announcement of cancellation of exams and the call for “progressive modes of evaluation”, the varsity increased the time-limit of the exam from 2.5 hours to a day. Sujata Sengar, Dean Academics at NSUT, said, “Since our end-semester exams are not taking place due to the Covid-situation, evaluations are being done on the 50-mark internal component which will be used for 100% weightage. In addition to home assignments, students will also be marked on attendance, assessments and classroom quizzes that were conducted before and during the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-leads-to-parallel-modes-of-assessment-in-this-university-in-delhi/story-YSS5YnxxFbLEgBiBuG3GJI.html
17-07-2020||City||Jewar airport: UP issues notification to acquire pvt land to rehabilitate over 3,000 families||Noida: In a bid to rehabilitate and resettle over 3,000 families, which will be displaced due to the upcoming international airport in Jewar, the Uttar Pradesh government has issued a notification to acquire 48 hectares of private land.Officials said a total 3,627 families are expected to be displaced due to the construction of the Noida International Greenfield Airport in Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Jewar. The families will be settled on a 50 hectare plot, of which two hectares is government land and 48 hectare belongs to farmers. The acquisition of the land will begin soon.“The Notification u/s 19(1) of the RFCTLARR Act, 2013 for acquiring around 48 hectares of land has been issued, paving the way for rehabilitation and resettlement of the families being displaced from the land acquired for the Noida International Airport at Jewar,” Principal Secretary, UP government, S P Goyal tweeted.Officials, privy to the development, said that around Rs 240 crore is estimated to be spent for the development of the land at Jewar Bangar. The upcoming township will have developed plots along with civic amenities such as streets, lights and water facilities, post office, among others, as mandated by the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (RFCTLARR) Act, 2013.“The process of preliminary notification for land acquisition, which is Section 11 of the Land Acquisition Act 2013, was initiated on April 14. A 60 day objection time is given following the preliminary notification. Now, we will move towards Section 19 which is declaration, following which compensation will be awarded to the land owners, which will take another one month’s time,” Shailendra Bhatia, officer on special duty at the Yamuna Expressway Authority, said.For construction of the first phase of the project, nearly 1,334 hectare land has been acquired across six villages, namely Rohi, Dayanatpur, Kishorepur, Ranhera, Parohi and Banwari Bas, in the region.Officials said the airport project is likely to impact 8,971 families of these villages, while 3,627 families would have to be displaced and rehabilitated. The Jewar airport will be spread over 5,000 hectares and is estimated to cost Rs 29,560 crore. The project is being managed by Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), a special agency floated by the state government, while Swiss firm Zurich Airport International AG has been selected as the developer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jewar-airport-up-issues-notification-to-acquire-pvt-land-to-rehabilitate-over-3-000-families/story-dTC9hWrnrhrunaKDC3BhDN.html
17-07-2020||City||Pharmacy owner robbed of Rs 1 lakh||A 23-year-old pharmacy owner was allegedly injured and robbed of ₹1 lakh on Wednesday night while he was on his way home in the Dankaur area of Greater Noida. The victim was identified as Amit Sharma, a resident of the Shyam Mandi area. He runs a pharmacy shop near his house with his father. The incident was reported around 8.30 pm.In his complaint, Sharma said he was walking home with the money in a bag when two men on a motorcycle came from behind and tried to grab it. When he resisted, they fired at him with a gun, he said in the complaint, forced him to let go off the bag and fled.Police said that the house and shop were just 100 metres apart.“He was walking towards the house, while the father was closing the shop,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, zone 3.The victim then informed the police about the incident after which a team was rushed to the spot. He was taken to the local CHC for medical attention after which he was discharged.“He suffered an injury to his leg. According to the doctor, it is not a bullet wound. However, he alleged that a shot was fired. It could be a graze or a gun powder injury. We have asked for an extensive medical examination to determine what sort of injury it is. Due action is being taken,” said the DCP.Based on Sharma’s complaint, a case was registered at the Dankaur police station under section 394 (Voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code.Police said that the victim is part of the local market committee and that the money with him was of the organisation. “Nearly Rs 85,000 had come in that day while Rs 30,000 had come in the previous day. It was to be deposited in bank the next day. We are probing all angles including an insider job for now,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pharmacy-owner-robbed-of-rs-1-lakh/story-rc7XsIWMhIadspEyduCnLP.html
17-07-2020||City||Abu Salem associate nabbed by Noida STF||Noida: A 38-year-old man, allegedly a known associate of Mumbai serial blast mastermind Abu Salem, was arrested by the Noida unit of Uttar Pradesh’s Special Task Force (STF) Wednesday night from Sector 20.The suspect was identified as Gajendra Singh, a resident of Sector 20. His alleged accomplice, Sanjay Sharma, a resident of Greater Noida, was also arrested.Officers of the STF said there had been tip-off about movements of known associates of Salem and Khan Mubarak, following which teams had been deployed across the state.“We knew that Singh would invoke the names of these mafias to extort money from people on the pretext of property dealing. Following inputs, a team went to his house Wednesday around 9.30pm; Singh was found sitting in his Brezza car with a driver and Sharma. He was detained and he confessed to being associated with known criminals,” said RK Mishra, additional superintendent of police, STF.Mishra said Singh had allegedly duped a Delhi-based businessman of Rs 1.8 crore in 2014. When asked to return the money, Singh allegedly used his connections to threaten the victim and even had him shot at in Sector 18, Noida.“He had also duped a Noida-based man of Rs 52 lakh through a fake property agreement. Whenever his victims asked for their money, he threatened them with his connections and used them to extort money from people. He also had non-bailable warrants issued against him from the Surajpur court in 2018,” said the additional SP.Singh was also allegedly involved in investing funds of known criminals in properties across Delhi-NCR in an effort to launder the money. The properties were then sold at a higher profit. Officers are trying to obtain details of all such transactions done through a front for illegal money.Singh allegedly has several fake identities and bank accounts including PAN cards and other documents, the officers added.He is a class 10 drop-out who works as a property dealer, they said. His relatives are allegedly a part of the Sunder Bhati gang as well, said the police, while Ghaziabad-based gangster Azad Bansal is his brother-in-law. He allegedly came in contact with Salem and Mubarak in 2014 through Salem’s brother, Abu Jaish and offered to continue their work in Noida. They would allegedly dupe people on the pretext of offering them empty plots, officers said. The shooting of the Delhi-based businessman was done after purchasing vehicles and guns through laundered money, said the police.“In 2015, a search was on Khan Mubarak by Mumbai and UP police. He was hiding at Singh’s house in Noida. Mubarak was finally nabbed in 2017 in Mirzapur. Sharma doesn’t have ties to organised crime but works for Singh as a liaison. An illegal pistol was recovered from him,” said Mishra.Fake bank documents and mobile phones were recovered from the suspects. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abu-salem-associate-nabbed-by-noida-stf/story-1zElPefClWWV2pqvwmPiXM.html
17-07-2020||Noida||Govt nod for super specialist doctors, trauma centre at GIMS||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday gave permission to hire super specialist doctors as visiting professors at Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida. Addressing the fourth administrative body meeting of the GIMS, chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said that the super specialist doctors will not only ensure qualitative treatment for patients, but will also help train undergraduate and postgraduate students at the hospital. “It has also been decided that additional posts of senior resident doctors will be created soon. The government has also agreed to open a trauma centre in the campus of the medical college,” he said.The chief secretary also said that the college administration has been asked to provide best possible treatment to the Covid-19 patients admitted there. “We have also approved their demand to open the hospital management department and get accredited from National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) and National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH),” he said.GIMS director Dr. (Brig) Rakesh Gupta said that this decision will be proved a milestone in making GIMS, a world-class medical college.Tiwari also appreciated the efforts undertaken by the team of doctors and para-medics, in treatment of Covid-19 patients admitted there.G B Nagar casesWith two more deaths in the district recorded on Thursday, the overall death toll in Gautam Budh Nagar has now gone up to 37. District health officials did not disclose the details of the deceased.GB Nagar district acting chief medical officer (CMO) Dr. Nepal Singh said that with 143 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported in the district in the past 24 hours, the overall count has gone up to 3,869 cases.According to the daily health bulletin released by the state control room, a total of 2,878 Covid-19 positive patients have been cured and discharged, including 67 on Thursday, in the district so far. “So far, 37 Covid-19 positive patients have lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 947 active cases,” the bulletin stated.The bulletin said that in the last 24 hours, as many as 29 Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh have lost their lives and their death audit report is awaited.On the other hand, after declaring fresh list of 339 containment zones on Wednesday evening, including 305 in category-1 (with just one Covid case) and 34 in category-2 (more than one Covid case), the GB Nagar district Thursday issued orders to de-seal 30 (28 category 1 zones and two under category 2) of them. District magistrate Suhas LY said that the containment zone in urban areas will be a 250 metre radius from the residence of a patient or the entire mohalla (floor in which the patient resides in a society) in case there is a single positive case and radius of 500 metres. “If there are more than one positive cases, there will be a buffer zone of 250 metres outside the containment zone. In rural areas the village will be taken as containment zone if there is one case, if there is more than one case the adjoining area of villages will be taken as buffer zone,” he said.While a containment zone imposes strict restrictions on the movement of residence and complete sealing on the entry and exit points, while in buffer zones, movement is not restricted but services, except for essentials, are.The DM further informed that in case of multi storied residential buildings / societies the same rules will apply with regards to containment zones. “If one case in a floor situated in a multi-storey society, that particular floor where active case/ cases have been found shall be designated as containment zone. If cases are found in more than one tower in a society, all such towers where active cases have been found along with all such common facilities like park, gym swimming pool, and banquet hall shall form containment zone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/govt-nod-for-super-specialist-doctors-trauma-centre-at-gims/story-lv0crAF04DTjeTztVKsjoO.html
17-07-2020||Gurugram||100 shops sealed in Sadar Bazar, traders protest||More than 100 shops in the city’s busy Sadar Bazar area were sealed for encroachment by a team of municipal corporation Gurugram (MCG) early on Thursday morning , evoking strong protests from traders.The businessmen later sat on a dharna in the market and alleged that the civic authority had acted in haste. MCG officials, however, made it clear that the shops were sealed after the owners failed to take corrective action despite repeatedly being warned over the last three days. The shopkeepers will now have to pay a penalty of Rs 2,000 and submit an affidavit that no violations will take place in the future to get their shops de-sealed.As per MCG, the action was initiated against traders who had allowed unauthorized vendors to operate in front of their establishments, thereby leading to encroachment of the road.Officials said a team led by joint commissioner, Gaurav Antil started the drive at 5.30 am and sealed at least 100 shops that had been identified earlier by them for violations.Antil said that as per directions of the municipal commissioner, Gurugram, they had shared information through newspapers and also made public announcements in the market asking shop owners to refrain from extending their shops or allowing vendors to operate illegally. “Videography of the shops was also conducted, which were allowing vendors to operate in front of their establishments. Apart from sealing the shop, notices were also pasted which mentioned the reasons for the sealing drive. if the notices are removed then we will lodge a case against them ,” said Antil in a statement issued by the MCG.Soon after the sealing drive, the traders of the area launched a protest and sat on a dharna against the MCG action. The shop owners said that they had already suffered a lot owing to the raging coronavirus pandemic. Now, the government was further targeting them. “Why did the MCG officials take action only in Sadar Bazar and not in any other HSVP market where violations and encroachments are rampant. Also why is only Sadar Bazar forced to close shops on Sundays, when all other markets are open in the city,” asked Bablu Gupta, former president of the Sadar Bazar traders Association.Kishan Sharma, another shop owner said that the authorities should ensure a balance so that discipline remains in the market but business does not suffer.MCG officials, however, said that Sadar Bazar area is one of the most congested markets in the city and it is very important to ensure that social distancing and other measures, like wearing masks, are enforced strictly there. “Due to encroachments, the people visiting the markets were facing a lot of problems due to congestion and this can further spread Covid 19,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/100-shops-sealed-in-sadar-bazar-traders-protest/story-uReoNGZxm51YzFfpASUkCK.html
17-07-2020||Gurugram||Parents of young children withdraw admission from private schools amid financial uncertainty||A number of parents across the city are deregistering their children from nursery and pre-nursery classes of private schools amid the financial crisis and pay cuts caused by the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. While some parents are moving to cheaper online classes, others are opting for pre-schools that charge a nominal fee as compared to formal schools. Government schools also said that they have seen an uptick in students who were migrating from private to government schools.Madhu Yadav, a mother of a three-year-old boy, withdrew her child’s admission from nursery in a private school in June. Yadav said that her family decided that it was best to withdraw admission from a formal school with physical classes remaining suspended and the uncertainty prevailing due to the outbreak of Covid-19.“There are around 18-20 children in the online class on a daily basis. I feel that individual attention to students is not given in a situation like this and a personal connection with the teacher is missing. Moreover, there are worksheets that need to be submitted every day. We don’t feel the need to put so much pressure on a child at such a young age,” said Yadav.Yadav is now continuing classes with a preschool, which conducts an hour-long online class with less than 10 students. The shift to a cheaper online mode, Yadav said, was also a financially viable option. “The preschool charges a nominal fee amounting to ₹3,000 whereas continuing with the formal school would mean paying anywhere between ₹30-40,000 fee for another quarter in addition to fees for extra-curricular activities. We didn’t want to pay so much for nothing, especially in such financially uncertain times,” said Yadav, who is considering applying to a formal school either next year or at a time when the pandemic gets over.Deepika Chauhan’s three-year-old child was going to a formal school until April. However, with the school initiating online classes, Chauhan withdrew admission and is teaching the child at home. “The school started conducting online classes after the summer break. We realised that we were not able to give the time and support that was needed during these online classes. His screen-time was also increasing and we felt it was better to try for admission next year,” said Chauhan.She said that while the school had given a small discount on the tuition fees, it was charging the annual fee, due to which several parents were withdrawing admission. “We will have to pay the admission fee again when we apply for next year but for now, we don’t see any merit in paying the quarterly fee when our child is unable to get the best out of these classes,” said Chauhan, who is also a teacher in a city school. She said that parents of children in lower classes were rescinding admission more in comparison to those in senior classes, who fear that withdrawing admission would mean loss of an academic year. “In the school where I teach, withdrawals are mostly taking place at the pre-primary or the primary level. There are various reasons ranging from financial distress to the lack of attention to younger children that are influencing parent’s decision,” said Chauhan.In May, the directorate of school education had said that all students of private schools were expected to pay the monthly tuition fee regularly from June onwards, as per the normal routine followed in previous years. The Haryana government had issued orders regarding the payment of fees on April 23, according to which only monthly tuition fees could be collected during the lockdown. The department also said that parents facing financial distress could write to schools formally seeking a deferment. However, several parents have complained that with no formal monitoring, private schools are under no pressure to follow guidelines. In order facilitate the transfer of students from private to government schools, the Haryana government had said that a school-leaving certificate(SLC) was no longer mandatory to take admission in the government schools. The move had drawn flak from private schools, which had criticised the move. Gurugram block education officer Sudesh Raghav said, while the notification regarding SLC certificate had been withdrawn, government schools had been receiving applications from parents, who were switching from private to government schools. “There are parents who are opting for government schools due to financial distress. While these admissions are not happening at a large scale, government schools are nonetheless extending the maximum help to parents who might want to shift,” said Raghav.Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, Urban Estate, said added that a number of students from private schools have opted out of the school in the aftermath of the lockdown.“Many of the children who are joining our school used to study in private schools earlier. With physical classes getting suspended due to the pandemic and parents struggling to pay the fees amid financial losses, they decided to move them to government schools. Parents don’t see the point in paying fees for online classes,” said Sharma.Aparna Erry, principal of the DAV Public School in Sector 14 and chairperson of the Gurgaon Progressive Schools Council (a consortium of CBSE schools in the city) said that schools were charging monthly fee. “We are not charging the quarterly fee and in case, parents have major financial troubles, they can write to the school and request a deferment,” said Erry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/parents-of-young-children-withdraw-admission-from-private-schools-amid-financial-uncertainty/story-xrnEJUDbk1yVKXKfLHTuWL.html
17-07-2020||Gurugram||GMDA extends deadline for processing of CLU formalities||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has decided to treat the lockdown period as a ‘zero period’ for the processing of all change of land use (CLU)-related formalities. As such, developers of projects, who were unable to submit letters of intent (LOI), building plans for approval, or applications seeking occupancy certificates (OC) for their projects will now have time till July 31 to complete the necessary formalities.As per a statement shared on GMDA’s website, the ‘zero period’ will apply only to those project proponents who were to submit their respective documents after March 15. “The matter has been examined vis-à-vis the hardships faced by the project proponent in the period of lockdown, the period of lockdown shall be treated as ‘zero-period’ for the cases wherein the project proponent failed to submit application /documents for above said purposes after 15.03.2020. Therefore, all such project proponent may submit their applications up to 31.07.2020 (sic),” the statement reads. The Haryana town and country planning department, on July 6, had also decided to consider the period from March 1 to September 30 as zero period during which there will be a moratorium on compliance rules and interest payments for all realty projects. At that time, a government spokesperson had said that this moratorium would apply to CLU rules, renewal of licences, the extension of CLU, fees payment and other charges as per the Haryana Apartment Ownership Act, 1983.The move comes as a relief to realtors, who had been seeking more time to complete official and financial formalities in days following the lockdown. Parveen Jain, chairman, National Real Estate Development Corporation (Naredco), Haryana, said that the government has taken a positive step by announcing these measures. “These moratoriums will give some space to the real estate companies to survive through these tough times,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-extends-deadline-for-processing-of-clu-formalities/story-aFfbwBED6ahEI4HejF1rQL.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||‘Repeated incitement, planned rioting’: Minorities body files report on N-E riots||Repeated incitement to violence, planned and organised rioting by armed mobs, targeting of religious places, and multiple incidents of police inaction – these are some of the findings of a committee appointed by the Delhi Minorities Commission to probe the northeast Delhi riots in February. At least 53 persons died and 400 were injured in the riots that rocked the district. The committee, headed by Supreme Court advocate-on-record MR Shamshad, submitted its 130-page report to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia , other Delhi government ministers and speaker of the Delhi legislative assembly on Wednesday.The report has been based on individual victim testimonies and physical surveys of damage to religious sites.The committee said that in the Delhi election campaign between December 2019 and February 2020,multiple speeches delivered by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders such as Kapil Mishra tried to incite the people against anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protesters and called for forceful removal of protesters from the Jafrabad area.Mishra, who delivered one of his speeches on February 23, denied allegations. He told HT earlier that even legal experts said there was nothing wrong in what he said that day. “What I said is captured in video, and everyone has seen that video (on social media),” he said.Referring to local politicians, student activists and some leaders of anti-CAA protesters who were arrested, he had said: “The truth of Delhi riots is out; how long they have planned, their funding and why they especially chose the days of [US President] Donald Trump’s visit [in February-end]; everything is exposed already.” The report said the violence was not spontaneous and had been planned. It said armed mobs selectively targeted Muslim individuals and properties while shouting slogans. “The attacks were targeted to the extent that in instances where the owners were Hindus but the properties had been rented to Muslims, the buildings were spared but the moveable properties were looted or burned outside the premises,” the report said.Eleven mosques, five madrasas, one shrine and one graveyard were attacked and damaged in the violence, the report said, adding: “Non-Muslim places of worship in Muslim majority areas remained untouched and were guarded by Muslims neighbours during the riots.”“Multiple testimonies collected by the Fact-Finding Committee recount reports of police inaction even as violence unfolded before them, or of police not arriving despite repeated calls on the emergency call number. Testimonies also suggest how police were patrolling the area but when asked for help, they refused saying they had no orders to act,” the report said.Citing multiple testimonies, the committee noted that first information reports (FIRs) had either been delayed or had not been acted upon and “in some cases police were complicit and abetted the attacks” or “police merely stood as onlookers while the mobs engaged in looting, burning and violence.” Delhi Police said the department had not received a copy of the report, but had been doing a “fair and professional” investigation of all the 752 FIRs filed in connection with the communal violence.“We started a designated helpline and put advertisements on various platforms, urging people to come forward and file their complaints. As a result 752 cases were registered, mostly on the complaints of people from the minority community. Of them 372 have been solved and more than 200 have been charge sheeted. A total of 1,470 people have been arrested so far. We are still open to receive complaints related to the riots. A special court has been created and special prosecutors have been appointed to expedite the trial of the cases. A claims commissioner has also been appointed for assessing the damage to property in the riots and making rioters compensate the damages,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Anil Mittal.The report said Muslim women were attacked based on their religious identity and threats of sexual violence were also made against them. The report asked the government to form a five-member independent committee to ensure proper registration of FIRs, probe the “complicity and abdication of duty by Delhi Police”, make sure that compensation is properly distributed. “We will study this report and if there are any corrective measures that need to be taken, we will absolutely do that,” a Delhi government spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/repeated-incitement-planned-rioting-minorities-body-files-report-on-n-e-riots/story-fkuzl9hvl0vml6jU8XgGfI.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi high court reserves order on plea by Kalita against cops’ ‘leaks’||The Delhi high court on Thursday reserved its order on a plea by Devagana Kalita, a member of women’s group Pinjra Tod jailed in connection with the northeast Delhi riots, seeking to stop the city police from making “selective media leaks” related to her case. Four cases have been registered against Kalita, who was arrested on May 23.Justice Vibhu Bakhru was informed by advocate Adit S Pujari, representing Kalita, that “selective” leaks have been made to tarnish the image of his client while also claiming that the investigating agency has violated its own advisory on media and reporting.Pujari added that he was supplied a copy of the charge sheet only after media leaks. He said that in one of the pleas filed by Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Brinda Karat seeking to upload in its website the FIRs lodged in connection with Delhi violence, police had opposed it saying the cases are sensitive and FIRs cannot be put in public domain as this would disclose the names of complainants, witnesses and accused persons.“However, the police are themselves leaking out these notes,” he submitted.Police told the high court on July 9 that the press note issued to the media was not a “selective leak”, as Kalita alleged, and it was done to present correct facts before the public.Additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, along with advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair, representing the police, told the court on Wednesday that the nature of the case and allegations levelled against the woman were not revealed by the investigating agency first and it was the members of that group who disclosed the details on social media.The law officer had submitted that the issuance of press note on June 2 to the media about the case was not to harm Kalitha or tarnish her reputation but to correct the facts misreported on social media||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-reserves-order-on-plea-by-kalita-against-cops-leaks/story-LKQAt5A4ZE3Zddk5MZwLFJ.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC tells NABL, ICMR to speed up approvals for Covid-19 tests||The Delhi high court on Thursday directed National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL), a health care accreditation body, and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), to expedite the process of granting approvals to private labs and hospitals for conducting rapid antigen and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city.A bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad said the period of one month, which is currently the time taken to grant approval, is too long in the present scenario when Covid-19 cases, as on July 15, have shot up to 116,993 in the national capital.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayIt also asked the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to place before it the preliminary report on the sero surveillance carried out in the city’s 11 districts by July 27, after the NCDC counsel sought one more week to present the report.The court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, seeking directions to authorities to ramp up testing in the national capital.During the hearing, Union government standing counsel Anurag Alhuwalia, appearing for ICMR and NABL, told the court that it has received applications from 60 private labs and hospitals for testing permission. The court was also informed that the registration process takes a month.Also read: 10 cities account for half of India’s active Covid-19 infectionsThe ICMR, the apex medical research body overseeing all Covid-19 protocols in the country, said it has been granting approvals to private hospitals and labs to conduct the rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests, and that this was an ongoing process. It said all entities are given a month’s time to apply for the same after getting accredited by NABL.The bench was of the view that a month was too long as it could lead to complacency and directed the ICMR to shorten the window so that the general public is not inconvenienced in finding a lab or hospital for testing.Regarding the sero surveillance, NCDC in its affidavit said the study was done “to assess the prevalence of infection at the community level and is primarily used for evidence-based public health response”.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage NCDC said this exercise has to be done methodically and is a time-consuming process and therefore, imposing timelines for declaration of results “will lead to a compromise in the quality of the analysis and can have a detrimental impact on the evidence-based results so expected to be obtained through such studies”.It also told the court that a week more, at the minimum, would be required for the preliminary results to be ready and the bench directed that the report be filed before the next date of hearing on July 27.On Thursday, the Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Satyakam told the court that 281,555 rapid antigen tests have been conducted in Delhi between June 18 and July 15. In an affidavit, he told the court that 19,480 people were found positive for the virus infection, while the rest were negative. He submitted that the symptomatic patients (1,365), who tested negative on antigen tests, were subjected to the RT-PCR test, according to the guidelines from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), following which 243 people were found positive for Covid-19.On a specific query from the court, Satyakam said the number is “abysmally low” as the ICMR guidelines do not insist that all those testing negative should be tested again using RT-PCR.“Only those showing symptoms even after testing negative are to be followed up by the RT-PCR,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/speed-up-approvals-for-rapid-antigen-rt-pcr-testing-high-court-tells-icmr-nabl/story-NZRd7iwD8HIwKnnT1cWy8J.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Ghazipur slaughterhouse set to reopen after 100 days||After being shut for over 100 days, the city’s lone abattoir—the Ghazipur slaughterhouse—is likely to reopen in a week. The move comes after the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) agreed to the demand of a two-year extension by the company that manages the facility. EDMC on Wednesday issued an order granting two years’ extension to the company and asked them to restart the facility. The slaughterhouse was closed on March 26 at the start of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, affecting the principal supply line of meat to the Capital.Officials said the slaughterhouse could not be reopened even after the lockdown was lifted because of the “stalemate” regarding the agreement of management between EDMC and Frigorifico Allana—the company managing the facility.While poultry slaughter is allowed in several places in the city, goats, lambs and buffaloes can only be butchered at the slaughterhouse close to the Uttar Pradesh border. It supplied around 400,000 kg of meat daily to Delhi until the lockdown.The meat supply in the city has been disrupted ever since the slaughterhouse suspended its operations. Traders were forced to get their supply from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana instead, leading to a sharp increase in mutton prices. Before the lockdown, mutton was sold for around ₹500 per kg; the price has now increased to ₹1,000 per kg in Delhi.Nirmal Jain, the mayor of EDMC, confirmed the slaughterhouse would become operational in around a week as they have provided a two-year extension to the firm. “We have been getting requests to reopen the slaughterhouse as people have been procuring meat at high prices. With the festival of Bakr-Eid around the corner, the demand is expected to rise further. So we have issued an order to provide a two-year extension to the existing company to run the slaughterhouse. In the meantime, we will also float global bids for a 10-year lease to run the slaughterhouse. We have asked the firm to reopen the slaughterhouse soon. It may take around a week as they will have to arrange labour and sanitise the premises,” Jain said.According to civic officials, the contract of the company had ended in August last year and was extended twice till May this year. The civic body, in the meantime, had sent out fresh bids, which failed. As the lockdown started being lifted in a phased manner, EDMC asked the concessionaire to restart the facility and gave it an extension of another six months, but the company declined the request and demanded at least two years more. “Now the civic body has agreed to the demand. We are hoping that the slaughterhouse will reopen next week,” a senior EDMC official said.Fauzan Alavi, the director of Frigorifico Allana, said, “We wanted the stalemate to end and the slaughterhouse to reopen. We are yet to get any official communication in connection with the two-year extension to the company.”Built in 2009, the Ghazipur slaughterhouse is spread across 25 acres near NH-24. It is an automated facility where around 1,000 butchers and supervisors work, and has the capacity for 10,000 animals to be slaughtered in three shifts daily.The opposition in EDMC, however, questioned the move and said that such a long-term extension should have been given only after approval from the House. “EDMC has given a two-year extension to the company running the slaughterhouse without getting it passed from the House and the standing committee. The ruling BJP should have first discussed and passed this proposal in the House. The move reeks of corruption,” the leader of opposition in EDMC Manoj Kumar Tyagi said.Responding to the allegation, EDMC mayor Jain said that the allegations were “baseless” and the step was taken as an “emergency move” as the slaughterhouse had been closed for over three months and the survival of its workers was at stake. “It is a public welfare decision and an emergency move. The people of the city have been suffering from meat shortage and over 1000 employees, who work at the slaughterhouse, are struggling for survival. We cannot keep the facility shut for eternity; we had to end the stalemate. That’s why we decided to reopen the facility,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ghazipur-slaughterhouse-set-to-reopen-after-100-days/story-tr2jJEgKpdBzvkVYjcop9H.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Survey outside red zones to spot people at high risk of Covid-19 infection||The city’s district administrations are conducting surveys in at least 682 areas outside containment zones that house over six million people, to identify “high-risk” persons and those with symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), senior government officials said.The localities have been identified after the director-general of health services (DGHS) on July 9 issued modified guidelines for Covid-19 surveillance in the city. The 682 localities are mostly areas around containment zones, as well as those reporting isolated Covid-19 cases for 28 days or more. The localities also include areas that have seen infrequent isolated cases irrespective of the number of days.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today “The district administrations have collectively reported that a total of 6,533,724 persons reside in these 682 localities identified across Delhi. Around 40,000-50,000 persons are being screened every day across the city in these localities. The aim of this survey is to identify symptomatic and high-risk individuals, most of who are then administered rapid antigen tests,” said a senior government official.According to a Delhi government report also submitted to the MHA on July 12, of the 11 districts in Delhi, 165 localities are in southeast district — a population of roughly 1,800,000. The central district has identified 50 such localities where the aim is to cover as many as 1,843,836 people. The west district administration has identified 97 localities in which 13,198 persons reside, the lowest of all districts.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Till July 6, the government had kept its door-to-door survey restricted to the containment and buffer zones in Delhi. It was decided on July 9 survey would be expanded beyond containment zones.“The survey within the city’s 658 containment zones is a continuous process and is going simultaneously along with the survey of areas outside the hotspots. In containment zones, over 375,822 people are being covered,” said a second official from the government’s revenue department.Both surveys are continuous processes and do not have fixed deadlines, officials said.For the surveys, over 13,000 booth-level officers (BLOs), health officials and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) have been deployed. Health-related data concerning all family members in each household is fed into a mobile application linked to a dashboard maintained by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which is chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is DDMA’s vice-chairperson.High-risk individuals are defined as those who have been in contact with Covid-19 patients, people aged over 60, pregnant women, people with severe acute respiratory illnesses, people with influenza-like illnesses and individuals with comorbidities, which may include diabetes, cardiovascular ailments, hypertension and kidney-related issues, a senior government official said.“In areas with isolated cases, the district surveillance officers (DSOs) have also been asked to review localities that have been regularly reporting cases for over 14 days by mapping cases in terms of time and geographic location. Epidemiological situation analysis and tracking the transmission chains are also being done by the districts in this case,” a health department official said.Apart from the survey, district authorities are also conducting tests among ‘special surveillance groups’ (SSG) comprising rickshaw/auto, taxi, goods carriage and lorry drivers, domestic helps, daily workers (plumbers, electricians, carpenters, etc) and daily suppliers of food, general stores and delivery persons.The media advisor to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/survey-outside-red-zones-to-spot-people-at-high-risk/story-5Lnrq99cNvaMR8Rr9UrKdO.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||0001 fetches Chandigarh RLA ₹5.4 lakh in e-auction||The registration number ‘0001’ of the new series ‘CH01-CB’ fetched the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA), Chandigarh, the highest bidding price of ₹5,45,000 against a reserve price of only ₹50,000.An e-auction of fancy numbers held by the RLA concluded on Thursday, earning the body a total of ₹52,43,000.The number ‘CH01CB0007’ received the second highest bid of ₹2,89,000 against the reserve price of only ₹30,000.Numbers ‘CH01CB0008’ was e-auctioned for ₹2,23,000, ‘CH01CB0009’ went for ₹2,20,000, ‘CH01CB0003’ for ₹2,09,000 against reserve price of ₹30,000.Only those who have purchased vehicles with a Chandigarh address were allowed to participate in the e-auction after submitting the sale letter, Aadhaar card details and address proof.The successful bidders will be required to get their vehicles registered as well as deposit the bidding amount within a month from the date of auction, failing which a penalty of 10% as well as interest at the rate of 10% on the balance amount will be charged till the date of payment. The highest ever bid for ‘0001’ was received in 2012, when a resident of Sector 44 bought it for ₹26.05 lakh, to adorn his S-class Mercedes Benz that cost four times the price of the fancy number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/0001-fetches-rla-5-4-lakh-in-e-auction/story-lNdZ5pCblCjv1KePxhXZUJ.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Students who scripted victory in CBSE exams, and life||A 14-year-old who runs a shop in her house to support her family; the daughter of a street hawker who sells socks to make ends meet; and a first-generation learner from an Urdu medium school who now wants to switch her medium to English so that she can pursue engineering. Three children with three different life stories had one triumph in common -- they cleared their class 10 exams with high scores.When the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced the results Wednesday, Vaishnavi (who goes by her first name) was working in the small stationery shop she had set up at her home in north-east Delhi’s Bhajanpura to help out her family. Although she could not write two of her exams owing of the communal riots that broke out in her area in February and the Covid-19 pandemic, she managed to score 92.6% marks under the new evaluation scheme.The CBSE could not conduct the class 10 exams that were postponed in view of the communal riots in north-east Delhi. The board evaluated students on the basis of the average of marks in exams that they took before the lockdown came into effect on March 25.A student of the government girls senior secondary school in Yamuna Vihar, Vaishnavi divided her time between her studies and work at the shop throughout the year.“My father had met with an accident last year and since then, he has not been keeping well and is jobless. My mother stitches clothes at home to make ends meet. To help my family, I opened a small stationery shop in our house. I would sit there after school hours till late evening. I later started keeping some groceries, too, at my shop. I studied while manning the shop; there was no time or money for tuitions,” she said.Vaishnavi said it was difficult for her to take exams after the riots took place. “I had appeared for my mathematics, science and social science exams in the aftermath of the riots. There was so much fear in our area and it kept us awake at night. But I am glad I managed to appear for some of the exams. I wish I could have appeared for the Hindi and English papers (postponed during the riots and couldn’t be held later owing to the lockdown) as well,” she said. She now wants to opt for science stream in class 11 and go on to become an engineer.Many government school students like Vaishnavi managed to beat the odds and performed well in the class 10 exams. Bhawani Kumari, 15, whose father sells socks on a cart and mother works as a helper in an anganwadi, scored 92% marks. A student of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Vasant Kunj, Bhawani Kumari said she aspires to become a researcher in biotechnology. “My father could not continue his studies beyond class 10 due to financial limitations. That’s why he has always wanted that my siblings and I continued with our studies,” she said.When not studying, Bhawani Kumari said she looks after her two younger siblings. “Sometimes when my mother gets delayed at work, I prepare the food for them. I like helping my parents,” she said.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said students of Delhi government schools have proved that talent cannot be measured by wealth. “I have heard a lot of people saying that a poor family does not want their child to study, that they would rather have the children earning money. These results have proved this wrong. These results have proved that when conditions at government schools improve, a poor family also wants to their children to study,” he had said.Mehak Shahid, 17, the daughter of a street hawker, scored 95.1% marks in class 10 exams. Student of a Urdu medium school, Zeenat Mahal School in old Delhi’s Lal Kuan, Mehak is a first-generation learner. She now wants to switch to another government school that offers the science stream. “My father sells iron items -- locks, scissors and suchlike -- outside the Old Delhi railway station. I wanted to make him proud by scoring well in my board exams. I am the first in the entire family to have studied till class 10. I will now switch to another school, an English medium, so that I can pursue science in class 11. I want to be an engineer and no engineering college offers a degree in Urdu medium,” she said.Mohammad Sahil, 16, a student at a government school in Mehrauli, had scored 83% when the results came. Although he did not make it to the 90% league, his journey is nonetheless remarkable. He has been giving tuitions to children in his neighbourhood for the last two years, to help his mother who has to feed a family of five. “My mother has been looking after the family for the past nine years after my father fell sick. She works at a garments factory for ₹5,000 a month. I had to take up some work to help support her and my education,” he said. Sahil wants to pursue science in class 11.Educationist Meeta Sengupta said, “The Delhi government has tried to do several things that motivated and encouraged students, teachers and parents. They invested in the infrastructure and fixed basic issues. Who would not like to study sitting in a nicely done classroom? Several factors together helped the government schools to perform better this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/students-who-scripted-victory-in-exams-and-life/story-dNL9IHt8DVrvSIVxbXThxO.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||New math option helped govt school students score better in CBSE class 10 boards||The introduction of basic mathematics as an option in class 10 by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) played a major role in improving pass percentage across Delhi government schools -- recording a jump of over 11 percentage points in the board exams this year over 2019. The pass percentage of students in mathematics has gone up to 88.39% this year from 73.68% in 2019.According to the data provided by the Delhi government, of the 153,910 students from their 1005 schools who took the class 10 exams this year, 111,298 or 73% had opted for basic mathematics. The remaining 27% went for standard mathematics. As many as 94,920 (85%) passed the basic maths exam.  The CBSE had for the first time introduced the option of basic and standard mathematics in the class 10 exams this year. Basic maths was for those who do not want to pursue the subject in higher classes. Standard math was for those who want to study mathematics in class 11.Principals, teachers,and education department officials said the decision, along with repeated interventions in the form of remedial or extra classes and the revised policy of internal assessment, helped students perform better.Mary Jyotsna Minj, principal of a Delhi government school in Kondli, said , “The introduction of basic mathematics was a major reason why the pass percentage in our school jumped from 68% to 91.5% this year. Also, unlike previous years, the 20-mark internal assessment was divided into four components this year, which gave students multiple opportunities to score more marks,” she said. The school recorded 156 overall compartments last year; this year the number dropped to 33.Shailendra Sharma, senior advisor to Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, said, “A simple tweak in a policy and focused support can do wonders for students. CBSE’s decision to divide maths into basic and standard is an example. As against 73.68% students of Delhi government schools clearing mathematics in class 10 last year, we have 88.4% students passing in this subject this year. Those who wanted to study maths beyond Class 10 opted for standard mathematics this year and 96.5% passed. A small step can make such a big difference.”Sharma said those who opted for basic mathematics in class 10 but want to pursue the subject in higher classes can appear for standard mathematics paper along with compartment students.Seema (who goes by first name), students of a government girls senior secondary school in Karawal Nagar, who scored 81% this year, said basic mathematics helped her improve her marks. “Since I scored 50 out of 100 in class 9, I was scared my performance in maths would affect my aggregate in Class 10. But I scored 75 in basic maths, which shows it is a good option for students like me who do not want to study maths in future,” she said.In September last year, the Delhi government had asked all heads of government schools to counsel “low performers” to opt for basic mathematics in class 10 examination instead of standard mathematics. Following which over 73% students had opted for the basic option.Some teachers had a different view, saying math was not the sole reason behind the increase in scores. Pawan Kumar, a math teacher at a government school in Madipur, which saw a 20 percentage point increase in its results, said, “While there wasn’t much difference between the two maths papers, repeated interventions by teachers and numerous class exercises ensured students were able to secure passing or average marks in mathematics this year. They also scored more in internal assessments.”BP Dhyani, head of a government school in Trilokpuri, added, “While compartments in math reduced this year across most schools, care must be taken to ensure this trend continues next year, especially in times of Covid-19 crisis. If classes are not conducted even after October, it will be difficult to cover the syllabus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/math-syllabus-division-helped-students-score-better-in-class-10-boards/story-Jtei3xVjEsuayLYKzrH7bJ.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Two men gunned down in south Delhi, two of four killers held||Two men with criminal records were shot dead on Wednesday night allegedly by four persons known to them near Saket in south Delhi, police said.While the police have arrested two of the alleged killers, the remaining two are on the run, senior officers said. Police said the murder was a fallout of a dispute as the gang suspected one of the deceased men to be a police informer.Police identified the two dead men were Sanjay Pal and Abdul Ali, both residents of Geeta colony in east Delhi. A senior police officer who did not wish to be named said they received a call on Wednesday at 8.56pm, reporting that a man had been shot in the leg and was lying next to a drain close to a residential colony at Mehrauli-Badarpur Road in Saket.“A police team that reached the spot found that the injured man had already been rushed to AIIMS for treatment. A police team that reached the hospital found that the man had been pronounced dead,” the officer said. Meanwhile, another team thoroughly inspected the crime scene and found a blood trail. Police found the wall near the drain broken and discovered some liquor and water bottles as well as cigarette packets. “Further inspection also led to the recovery of a blood-soaked mobile phone and an abandoned white Santro car parked nearby,” the officer added.The deputy Commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said, “During the initial stage, we checked CCTV camera footage from the area and found that six men had arrived there in the white Santro car. Five separate teams were constituted and deputed to identify the deceased and trace the suspects,” Thakur said.The DCP said, on Thursday, the man declared brought dead at the hospital was identified as Abdul Alim. As part of the investigation, police traced the owner of the Santro car, Vipin Balyan, a resident of Bhajanpura.“During interrogation Balyan confessed to the crime and disclosed the details of another co-accused—one Satender Singh from Khajuri Khas. Based on his inputs, our teams raided Singh’s house and caught him too,” the DCP said. Police said the two men, along with their accomplices, had shot the two men dead. Police said one of the shooters (yet to be arrested) suspected Pal of being a police informer and then shot him. “As planned, on Wednesday night, the four men brought Pal and his friend Alim to the jungle area on the pretext of having a drink together and then shot them,” the DCP said, adding that they recovered Pal’s body from the bushes in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-men-gunned-down-in-south-delhi-two-of-four-killers-held/story-5HdZvrz3DbBmeu3i4ZHcgM.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Patient at AIIMS Delhi for surgery follow-up found hanging||A 32-year-old man allegedly hanged himself inside a bathroom at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi when he went there on Thursday for a follow-up after surgery.The hospital has reported at least three deaths, allegedly by suicide, in the past one month. Two patients and one a resident doctor in the psychiatry department have taken their own lives.Thursday’s incident took place in the old OPD block where trauma emergency cases are being currently assessed, as the hospital’s trauma centre has been converted into a full-fledged Covid-19 hospital.According to hospital sources, the man was a registered patient and had undergone a trauma surgery in July 2019. “He had come for a follow up. He was advised admission and while formalities were being done, he seemed to have disappeared and his body was found in one of the bathrooms,” the hospital source said.According to reports, the man was found hanging with a plastic pipe used for glucose drips. He was rushed to the emergency, where doctor declared him brought dead.The Hauz Khas police station was informed about the incident. The matter is being investigated.Psychiatrists have started taking rounds, especially coronavirus disease (Covid-19) isolation wards, to pick up early signs of anxiety, depression, etc., among patients and counsel them. “There is a lot of stress that patients feel, more so in Covid-19 wards, as there’s hardly any human interaction due to staff wearing personal protection gear. Even for health care workers, it is a stressful situation as many are not able to connect with their families,” said Dr Rakesh Chadda, head of psychiatry department, AIIMS.“Since last week, one senior doctor and a senior resident from the psychiatry department takes regular rounds in wards to observe patients and staff to identify signs of mental health issues,” he added.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, while formally inaugurating the out patient department block at AIIMS on Thursday, also said focus should be on ensuring the hospital functions in a “problem-free” manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patient-at-aiims-for-surgery-follow-up-found-hanging/story-3ixkn5MIuAR7tmZIfS8kyH.html
17-07-2020||Pune||Pune reports 17 deaths related to Covid-19||Pune Covid-19 positive cases crossed Mumbai for the second day in a row on Thursday, with a total of 1,812 positives reported in the last 24 hours. Mumbai reported 1,476 positive cases on Thursday. On Wednesday, Mumbai reported 1,374 positives, while Pune reported 1,416 positive cases.Out of the 1,812 cases in Pune city, 485 were reported positive under the rapid antigen tests.Thursday’s positive cases is the highest single-day figure recorded in Pune.Seventeen deaths related to Covid-19 were also reported, taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 906.The total count of progressive positive cases in Pune city is now at 31,884.The city also conducted its highest number of tests in a single day since the outbreak of the pandemic in March, a total of 6,582 tests - of which 2,969 were rapid antigen tests. As of Thursday, a total of 12,588 rapid antigen tests have conducted in Pune.The number of patients in critical care is now 536. Also, 764 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 20,334. Six deaths were reported from outside the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jurisdiction, two from the Khadki Cantonment area and four from Pune rural.According to the information given by the PMC health department, of the 17 deaths reported on Thursday, the oldest deceased patient was a 85-year-old male from Lohegaon admitted to Sassoon Hospital.While all other deceased were above the age of 40, the youngest was a 40-year-old male from Katraj admitted to Sassoon Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-17-deaths-related-to-covid-19/story-lQ1Ho8coeQLKUu4fgHqUVP.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police rescues 84-yr-old woman after she accidentally locks herself in bed box||An 84-year-old woman who accidentally locked herself in a bed box at her home in central Delhi on Thursday was rescued by the police following a distress call made by her relative, police said. Personnel from central Delhi’s Prasad Nagar police station reached the woman’s home in Dev Nagar, near Karol Bagh, within six minutes of receiving the call from the woman’s relative. It took them another two minutes to break open the iron door and rescue the elderly woman from the bed box, officials said.She remained inside the bed box for nearly 10 minutes, deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said.The woman, Swarosh Kohli, has been living alone since the death of her husband and son some years ago and is registered with the senior citizen cell of Delhi Police.The Prasad Nagar police were informed about the incident by the Kohli’s granddaughter, Nancy Kohli, who noticed the CCTV footage live streaming on her mobile phone that showed that her grandmother accidentally locked herself in the bed box while opening it, said DCP Bhatia. The call was made at 3.45 pm by the granddaughter living in south Delhi’s Alaknanda. Thank you Delhi Police for your courageous act and saving a life today @DCPCentralDelhi @DelhiPolice“The police station staff including two inspectors reached the woman’s home within 7-8 minutes Dev Nagar, Karol Bagh. They found it locked from inside. They broke open the door using a hammer and iron rod and rescued her. She was unable to come out of the bed box because of her old age and weakness,” said DCP Bhatia,Kohli’s granddaughter and her husbsnd also reached and thanked the personnel for their promt action that saved her life, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-rescues-84-yr-old-woman-after-she-accidentally-locks-herself-in-bed-box/story-3PSOPss177a8nucOybZucI.html
17-07-2020||Pune||Case registered in Pune over woman’s morphed pictures posted on social media||A case of defamation has been registered at the Pune cyber police station against unidentified persons, after a woman took to Twitter to point out videos circulated over social media platforms contained her face, morphed over the naked body of another woman.The woman posted her complaint and a screenshot of one of the morphed videos being shared.She has been receiving lewd messages on social media platform due to the videos, she said.“An offence has been registered. The video on a video sharing app was taken down. We have also written to a social media platform,” said Sambhaji Kadam, deputy commissioner of police, Cyber and Economic Offence Wing (EOW), Pune.The National Commission of Women (NCW) took note of the incident and got in touch with the Pune police.A case under Section 500 (punishment for defamation) of the Indian Penal Code; and Sections 66(e) and 67 of the Information Technology Act, have been registered at the cyber police station.Police inspector Rajkumar Waghchaure of the cyber police is investigating the case.While directing the Maharashtra cyber cell and Pune police to investigate the matter, State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has tweeted to the complainant saying, “Our cyber department is efficiently resolving numerous issues. Please be rest assured that they will address your grievance at the earliest.We deal sternly with people who harass women.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/case-registered-over-woman-s-morphed-pictures-posted-on-social-media/story-JRwk6AqH56zZQyMRF7NTSP.html
17-07-2020||Pune||Three arrested for alleged murder of money lender in Pune||PUNE Three men have been arrested by the Pune police on Thursday for the alleged murder of a money lender in Kondhwa.The plan to murder the man was allegedly hatched by Latif Abu Sheikh (43), a businessman from Kondhwa Khurd, according to senior inspector (crime) Mahadev Kumbhar of Kondhwa police station, who is investigating the case.The other two involved in the murder have been identified as Shubham Pramod Kasvekar (24) and Shubham Santosh Ubalu (22), residents of Nagpur chawl, Jail road, Yerawada, according to police.The deceased was identified as Ghanshyam alias Pappu Baban Padwal (51), a resident of Brahma County Society in Kondhwa.He was found dead in his house on July 11 by his niece, who is also the complainant in the case.“Padwal was scared of ghosts and demons. Latif, who had easy access to him, took these two [Kasvekar an Ubalu] under the pretext of bringing in a maulana to help with the demons,” said PI Kumbhar.CCTV cameras of the building have been dysfunctional for the past few weeks and the video recorder of the CCTVs in Padwal’s house were taken by the assailants.For multiple loans amounting to Rs 50 lakh, Shaikh had paid Rs 2 crore to the deceased and still owed Rs 70 lakh in interest, according to the police.Shaikh, who runs a fabrication business and deals in scrap, hired the two others to murder Padwal.According to police, Padwal had a criminal history prior to 2010.Eight people of the Andekar gang were convicted for an attempt to murder Padwal before 2010.There were over 50 marks of attack by a sickle-like sharp weapon on Padwal’s body, according to the police. The murder took place on July 9 and came to light only on July 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-held-for-alleged-murder-of-money-lender-in-kondhwa/story-jgZitDTQq7wzNt0K1SsKHJ.html
17-07-2020||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch seize 42 domestic-made weapons; 15 arrested||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch has seized 42 domestic-made weapons and arrested 15 people in an attempt to break a supply chain of weapons to the city, according to Sandeep Bishnoi, commissioner, Pimpri-Chinchwad police.Along with the weapons, 66 ‘live’ cartridges and a car have been recovered.The total recovery is estimated to be worth Rs 19,89,500, according to police.“You can guage the number of future crimes that were prevented due to this action. There is a link to Madhya Pradesh. The team worked consistently from March to July to track one of the makers of the weapons. The arms were brought to Maharashtra and sold further from various places, including Pune, Beed, Usmanabad and rural Pune areas. The weapons were used in various crimes, including one in Khadakwasla and Talegaon Dabhade,” said commissioner Bishnoi.The police team of six also arrested Manisingh Gurmukhsingh Bhatiya, allegedly the main supplier of the weapons from Singhana village in Dhar district of Madhya Pradesh.Bhatiya was found with 11 weapons and 22 ‘live’ cartridges. He worked with an unidentified partner who is currently on the run.The police recovered various kinds of weapons including pistols and single bore, hand guns. Three groups of men bought 75 weapons from the MP-based manufacturer, according to senior police inspector Mohan Shinde of Unit 4.“They bought weapons in bulk and sold it at double the amount they bought it for. They purchased weapons based on the demand,” added API Deshmukh.The police are in the process of making more arrests and expect to recover at least 19 more weapons in the coming days.BOXXUndercover to bust the over-land arms’ saleAccording to the Pimpri-Chinchwad police, the weapons from Manisingh Gurmukhsingh Bhatiya were bought in bulk by five people, identified as Kush Nandkumar Pawar from Talegaon Dabhade; Prasanna Dnyaneshwar Pawar from Godumbe, Shirgaon; Akash alias Bala Jagannath Waghmode from Kurduwadi in Solapur; Yogesh Ivtthal Kamble from Paranda in Usmanabad; and Gotu alias Gyanoba Maruti Gite from Parali in Beed.Kush and Prasanna Pawar operated as one unit while Waghmode and Kamble operated as another unit, police said.Gite operated alone and was caught by the Pimpri- Chinchwad police on March 6 with six weapons in his possession. That is when the investigation began, according to Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pimpri-Chinchwad.“When we first went there in March, we met with resistance from the Shikalgare community. Then the next time were pretended to be sellers of bedding that we purchased from Solapur. We changed our appearance,” said assistant police inspector (API) Ambrish Deshmukh, Unit 4, Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The Pawar duo had bought 29 weapons and sold them to nine people including Akash Padalghare, a resident of Mulshi who is already in jail in a case under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) registered at Paud police station. All the nine have multiple cases registered against them. The Waghmode-Kamble duo had purchased 27 weapons from MP and had sold them to 10 people, including Somnath alias Soma Ramesh Chavan, a resident of Kalgaon in Karad who is lodged in Satara jail and has a history of 13 cases. The other nine people who purchased these weapons also have an extensive history of criminal cases against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pimpri-chinchwad-police-crime-branch-seize-42-domestic-made-weapons-15-arrested/story-HoIoDxT8MpZs5psThcUCIP.html
17-07-2020||Pune||Five inmates of temporary jail on BARTI campus in Yerawada flee||Five inmates from the temporary jail set-up on the BARTI campus in Yerawada fled the facility in the early hours of Thursday.This is the third such incident recorded since the jail facility was set up, in light of the lockdown at Yerawada Central Jail in May.Three people have escaped the facility in the past have been apprehended.These five have been identified as Devgan Ajinath Chavan and Ganesh Ajinath Chavan, both residents of Boravke nagar in Daund; Akshay Kondkya Chavan, a resident of Lingani Malwadi, Daund; Ajinkya Uttam Kamble, a resident of Sahakarnagar; and Sunny Tiger Pinto, a resident of Kalewadi.The three Chavan brothers were arrested in a dacoity and MCOCA case registered at Daund police station.Kamble was arrested for an extortion and wrongful confinement case registered at Loni Kalbhor police station. Pinto was arrested in a theft case registered at Wakad police station. Pinto was released from the Yerawada Central Jail on May 27 as part of the decongestion process, but was arrested again.The five men were lodged in a room on the first floor of the hostel building.“They were all in one room and three of them were brothers. They broke two welded bars of the window and escaped through it. The search for them is on,” said police inspector (crime) Ajay Waghmare of Yerawada police station.“The security of the temporary jail is the responsibility of the local police as per the Collector’s orders. We have requested and the local police have agreed to increase the guards deployed at the facility. Now it is a hostel for school children, it cannot be expected to have bars as strong as a jail. They are taking undue advantage of that and the dark of the night to escape,” said UT Pawar, Superintendent of Yerawada Central Jail.A case under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Yerawada police station.Process initiated to shift inmates from temporary jail to Yerawada Central Jail-The jail authorities have started the process of shifting inmates who have been in the temporary jail for over a month to the Yerawada Central Jail premise. Around 200 inmates from the temporary jail have been shifted to the main facility so far, according to UT Pawar, Superintendent of Yerawada Central Jail.-”To reduce the load on this facility, we have shifted some 200 of them to the central jail. We have chosen those inmates who have been in the temporary facility for over a month and are healthy. They will be in isolation inside the central jail for 14 days before being shifted to a cell,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/quote-of-jail-sp-to-come/story-juUEHkweP0kN9ns27iAOVO.html
17-07-2020||Pune||Pune’s HSC high scorers applaud teachers, ratify hard work||Students from several junior colleges in the city scored above 90 to 95 per cent this year in the Class 12 Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) result which was declared online, on Thursday.Many prominent colleges in the city also recorded 100 per cent passing percentage.The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) did not announce a merit list given the circumstances triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic.Sera Parag Gandhi, from Fergusson College, Science stream, who scored 94.76 per cent and stood first in the college, said, “My teachers helped me throughout the year. My strategy of preparations was to solve many question papers before the exams.”“I have received a scholarship from University of Toronto, Canada so I will be pursuing congestive science and brain science further,” said Gandhi.Even the disabled students in the city scored well, despite all odds they faced during the exams.Praneetkumar M Gupta, a blind student from Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce scored 86.46 per cent and stood first amongst the Divyang students in the college.He said, “I am from Aurangabad and came to Pune last year. I am 100 per cent blind, but our reader and writers group helped me.”“I use to listen to classes for five to six hours and attended all lectures which helped me to score well. I want to become a chartered accountant,” said Gupta.Dilip Sheth, principal of Sir Parshuram Bhau College or SP College said, “In all the streams our students have achieved great success and good percentage in HSC results in this year. We have several students who have got 100 out of 100 marks in some subjects, it is a proud movement for our college.”“Also, we have many physically disabled and blind students and despite their disability, they have scored good marks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-s-hsc-high-scorers-applaud-teachers-ratify-hard-work/story-zMdvRYjPK0cXeG1R8OHkrJ.html
17-07-2020||Pune||92.50 per cent of students clear HSC exam in Pune division||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), on Thursday, declared the Class 12 Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) examination results with an overall pass percentage of 92.50 per cent for the Pune division.The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) did not announce a merit list given the circumstances triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Pune division recorded an improvement by 5.11 per cent in the passing percentage as compared to 87.39 per cent recorded in 2019.Out of the 2,40,697 students who appeared for examination from different streams, 2,22,646 students were declared passed.“There are various reasons to the increase of overall passing percentage. Every year it differs between four and five per cent. One of the reasons is that there were more objective type questions this year. Also, the science stream Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and Biology (PCMB) group format was changed due to that there might be increase in the passing percentage,” said, Shakuntala Kale, chairperson, MSBSHSE.“This year girls outperformed boys yet again in both Pune division and state,” she said.The passing percentage of girls in the Pune division is 95.11 per cent as compared to 89.82 per cent.In Pune HSC board division there are three districts – Pune, Ahmednagar and Solapur. Solapur district has the highest passing percentage with 93.74 per cent, followed by Pune district with 92.50 per cent and Ahmednagar district 91.97 per cent.A total of 973 students in Pune division scored above 90 per cent, last year 575 students had scored above 90 per cent.State’s passing percentage is 90.66 per centThis year, 90.66 percent of students in the state cleared the Class 12 exams compared to 85.88 in 2019, an overall increase of 4.78 percent. Girls outperformed boys yet again, netting a pass percent of 93.88 compared to 88.04 percent.Konkan region reported highest passing percentage at 95.89 per cent, followed by Pune region with 92.50 per cent and the lowest percentage was in Aurangabad region with 88.18 per cent.The passing percentage of the physically challenged students this year is 93.57 per cent.A total of 14,20,575 students from Arts, Science and Commerce and Higher Secondary Vocational Courses (HSVC) registered for the exams. Out of which 14,13,687 students appeared for the exams and 12,81,712 students got passed in this exam from nine regions in the state.“Despite adverse situation due to Covid-19 pandemic the results were declared well in time. I want to thank all the staff and officials of the board, principals, teachers, supervisors and all our higher officials of the state education department for helping us in this process,” said Kale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/92-50-per-cent-of-students-clear-hsc-exam-in-pune-division/story-TS0budVhSW3tXbDjc9EBNO.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Woman constable alleges harassment by senior colleagues, probe ordered by Chandigarh Police||A woman constable posted at the operation cell of the UT police, in a letter written to the DGP, alleged harassment by two senior colleagues. The letter also went viral on social media. The letter addressed to DGP Sanjay Baniwal, stated that she was being harassed by her two senior constables (names withheld) and that they were “spoiling the work environment” of the operation cell. The DGP had entrusted the inquiry to deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rashmi Sharma Yadav.The letter that did not carry a name added that the two cops would consume alcohol in the operation cell and hurl abuses at the staff. The woman constable accused one of the two senior constables of circumventing rules and “calling shots as well as assigning duties”, instead of the in-charge doing so thus leading to harassment as it is the “senior constable who assigns duties and sanctions rest days (off days) for the staff”. She even alleged that the senior constables touched her inappropriately in lieu of giving a rest day.She added that both are using official vehicles attached to the operation cell for personal use.“A complaint has been received and we are looking into the allegations,” said DSP Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-constable-alleges-harassment-by-senior-colleagues-probe-ordered/story-Uw4sYTwAjdTokqSjlZDGXP.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Pay dues or face cancellation, Chandigarh Housing Board tells allottees||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has asked its allottees to clear the outstanding dues or face cancellation of allotment. CHB chief executive officer (CEO) Yashpal Garg said details of unpaid dues can be noted by allottees on the website, www.chbonline.in. Allottees are requested to make online payments as far as possible, without any additional cost. If needed, offline payment can be made through cash/cheque/draft, after generating a challan from the CHB website, at any HDFC branch. “To encourage online payments, the board holds a computerised draw every month and awards Rs 1,000 each against 10 selected online transactions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pay-dues-to-face-cancellation-chb-to-allottees/story-X2P4capuf1K3LeHx7YpHwJ.html
17-07-2020||Pune||PMC rapid antigen test crosses 10k||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) crossed 10,000 rapid antigen tests in the city on Thursday. It daily conducted 1,000 in the last four days. The civic administration had already given permission to carry out one lakh rapid antigen tests.Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “For early detection, a rapid antigen test is useful as result can be obtained within 30 minutes. It is an easy test for early detection. PMC has increased the overall test facility and rapid antigen tests is also helping in easing the load on National Institute of Virology.”PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “The standing committee has cleared fund to conduct 1 lakh tests. The cost of each test is Rs450. If needed, PMC would release more fund to carry out more tests. PMC has also approved money for swab test and would pay private laboratory for conducting the test.”The first batch of one lakh kits arrived in the city earlier this week and have been given to civic-run Naidu hospital. Authorities would use these kits in mobile ambulances, flu clinics and door-to-door surveys to identify positive patients.The kits use nasal or saliva samples from suspects and results are made available within 20-30 minutes. The kit indicators are similar to a pregnancy kit. It helps detect the antigens that are found in the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection. The kits were ordered by the civic body after the India Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved its use on June 18.Rapid antigen tests conducted in JulyDate- tests conducted2 256 2647 3868 7779 75510 78611 88712 96213 1,43214 1,92915 1,41616 -2,969 Total - 12,588 Data released by PMC Municipal commissioner visits Covid care centresPune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Thursday visited various Covid care centres in the city. Kumar appreciated the teams for their efforts and instructed them to increase more contract tracing for early detection. He appealed to residents to contact doctors and flu clinics if they contract symptoms linked to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-rapid-antigen-test-crosses-10k/story-ncIp6kCsxIACibozrche9O.html
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Food safety team inspects Mohali shops, collects 35 samples||In order to ensure that quality food was being served to customers, a food safety team of the district health department visited various shops and departmental stores in Mohali and Kharar, and took 25 samples for testing. Led by district health officer (DHO) Dr Subhash Kumar the inspection was part of the state government’s Tandrust Punjab Mission.Quality of various food items and their expiry dates was checked and samples taken through the mobile food testing van being run by the health department.Shopkeepers were briefed on the Food Safety Act, instructed to follow the guidelines issued by the district administration and health department to curb the spread of Covid-19, ensure cleanliness of the area, stock unadulterated items and dispose of products after date of expiry.They were also asked to wear gloves and masks and not allow anyone to enter the shops without masks. The shopkeepers were also briefed on the Food Safety Act.Dr Kumar also said that the checks were not to harass people but to ensure that clean and quality food items were made available to people.The van will be available till July 31 for anyone wanting to get samples tested for quality, Dr Kumar said.The vehicle is equipped with machinery to check the quality of milk , RO water and plain water, turmeric, salt, pepper, spices, cold drinks and desi ghee. A fee of Rs50 per item is charged. Food safety officer Rajdeep Kaur can be contacted on 94644 21838 for more information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/food-safety-team-inspects-mohali-shops-collects-35-samples/story-c0QCRZ4tj2oburcHsid1oJ.html
17-07-2020||Pune||Nigdi ration card office clerk tests positive; 18 employees under home quarantine||Employees of the ration card office in Nigdi will discontinue going to office as one of its clerks tested positive on Wednesday.With the one-day lockdown in force, the office is closed for the general public, but employees were going to the office to complete pending work.Now, all 18 employees will spend the next 14 days in home quarantine.“I had advised the clerk to get a test done as he was not recovering from a fever. He had complained about not feeling well eight days earlier, and his reports came in yesterday evening. As advised by top officials, we have shut our office from today [Thursday],” said Dinesh Taware, naib tehsildar, zonal officer, ward A.Before the current lockdown, the ration card office saw a huge rush of residents seeking to make and/or update ration cards.Taware had asked for police bandobast as people were not following social distancing norms.“We were worried about the crowds and were telling people to follow social distancing norms, but most did not listen to us,” added Taware.“Other employees and myself, will get tested only if we show symptoms. Currently, all employees will follow a 14-day self-quarantine at home,” Taware said.‘Please do Covid test if you have visited Nigdi ration card office’Dinesh Taware, naib tehsildar, zonal officer, ward A, said, “Those who have visited the ration card office in the last eight days are requested to take a Covid test if you are showing any symptoms, like a fever.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nigdi-ration-card-office-clerk-tests-positive-18-employees-under-home-quarantine/story-5PTizZbzcWZ01xiaBRmZMJ.html
17-07-2020||Pune||25 pvt hospitals, nursing homes slapped with show cause notice for not updating bed status in Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday issued show cause notices to 25 private hospitals and nursing homes for not updating real-time dashboard on bed information.Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “We issued the notices as it was leading to confusion among citizens. We have received media reports and complaints from residents that critical patients are not getting beds in private hospitals.”The divisional commissionerate has set up the real-time dashboard www.divcommpunecovid.com/ccs for update on bed availability status in Pune city and the region, but authorities found negligence by private hospitals despite instruction.Agrawal said, “As the information is not regularly updated, patients rush to hospitals only to be denied medical attention citing bed shortage. Regular updating will not cause such situations.”Officer on special duty at divisional commissioner office Saurabh Rao has appointed five deputy collector-level officers to monitor bed situation in private hospitals.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Wednesday evening issued a show cause notice to a hospital at Baner that denied admission to a Covid-19 patient and suggested another hospital. The patient later died in an ambulance, according to a PMC press statement. PMC also issued notice to a hospital near Pune railway station for overcharging a Covid-19 patient.Ward officers to act against pvt hospitals PMC empowers regional ward officers to take action against private hospitals for overcharging and denying admission to patients. The officials are also asked to visit hospitals to verify bed availability status. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal said that fifteen ward officers had been empowered to take action against private hospitals not following given instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-pvt-hospitals-nursing-homes-slapped-with-show-cause-notice-for-not-updating-bed-status-in-pune/story-dzoCCGiBFklLrzh0ez3clO.html
17-07-2020||Delhi||Markaz congregation: More foreigners walk free, get bail||A Delhi court on Tuesday allowed foreign nationals from five countries who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz to walk free after they entered into a plea bargaining agreement and accepted milder charges. Another court also granted bail to 150 foreigners from Indonesia. A plea bargain is an arrangement between the prosecutor and accused, whereby the latter pleads guilty to a lesser charge in exchange for a more lenient sentence, or an agreement to drop other charges.Metropolitan Magistrate Dev Choudhary allowed foreigners from Djibouti, Mali, Kenya and 17 Sri Lankans to walk free on payment of a fine of Rs 5,000 each, said advocate Ashima Mandla, who appearing for them.Metropolitan Magistrate Akash allowed a few Myanmar nationals to walk free on payment of a fine of 5,000 each, while others claimed trial before the court, their counsel Fahim Khan said.Three Sri Lankans and other foreigners from Nigeria and Tanzania claimed trial before the court, the lawyer said.Meanwhile, another court granted bail to 150 foreign nationals from Indonesia who were charge-sheeted for attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation here, allegedly in violation of visa norms and violating government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur granted relief to the foreigners on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 10,000 each.To date, 682 foreign nationals from 35 different countries, who were charge-sheeted in the case, have been granted bail by the court.The police had in June filed 59 charge sheets, including supplementary ones, against 956 foreigners belonging to 36 different countries in the case.The accused, who was granted bail on Tuesday, will file their plea bargaining applications on Wednesday, said advocates Ashima Mandla, Mandakini Singh and Fahim Khan, appearing for them. During cognisance of the charge sheets on July 6, the court was informed by the Investigating Officer (IO) that the 956 accused were investigated for charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, and criminal conspiracy to endanger life or personal safety of others.“However, to date, no evidence has come against the foreigners for these,” the investigation officer told the court.The police had filed charge sheets against 956 foreigners from 36 countries, including 122 Mayalsians, for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and regulations regarding Epidemic diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure.They were accused of offences under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markaz-congregation-more-foreigners-walk-free-get-bail/story-LiOMzypGEVHRzXfvSjvEMP.html
