18-07-2020||City||Gurugram: RWA donates 10,000 masks to city’s municipal corporation||Gurugram: Around 10,000 masks were donated to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) by the Resident Welfare Association (RWA) of The Legend condominia in Sector 57 on Saturday, during the civic body’s plantation drive in the area.According to a statement by the MCG, the masks were handed over to MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh who also inaugurated the plantation drive. “I have a garment manufacturing company where these cloth masks are made. We just wanted to contribute in some way with the anti-Covid-19 measures and hence made the donation,” said Naveen Jain, general secretary of the RWA.From June 27-August 3, the MCG is carrying out plantation drives during each weekend with the assistance of RWAs. The MCG is aiming to plant 80,000 saplings across the city and is providing the same to RWAs free of cost, who can then plant the sapling in their respective areas.“About 280 RWAs have registered for this initiative, and the MCG has provided more than 15,000 plants from its four nurseries to around 150 RWAs so far. On Saturday and Sunday, around 100 saplings will be planted at The Legend condominia. We are undertaking the drive in several other residential areas across the city as well,” said SS Rohilla, public relation officer, MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-rwa-donates-10-000-masks-to-city-s-municipal-corporation/story-QAb5Yv8KZHmI0qZg2EPEJM.html
18-07-2020||City||Gurugram: Now, MCG making efforts to curb vector-borne diseases||Gurugram: After diverting almost all its resources towards curbing the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is now pooling all its efforts in ensuring the city does not witness another outbreak, albeit this time of vector-borne diseases.In this regard, the MCG on Wednesday initiated a six-day fogging and larvicidal drive that will cover around 540 residential areas in the city. Although the MCG had started their anti-larval operations in May, officials said that due to most resources being diverted towards fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, their daily-coverage for fogging and larvicidal activities had been far lower than in previous years, with a maximum of one or two municipal wards being covered per day instead of a large number of areas spread across the city.“Fighting coronavirus still remains our number one priority. However, given that the virus has already stretched our heavily inadequate health system, we realised that another such outbreak like malaria, dengue, or chikungunya can further complicate matters. Hence, we have now amped our anti-vector borne measures and for the next four-six weeks during which we will be undertaking extensive fumigation drives across the city,” said a senior official in MCG’s health wing, asking not to be identified.The official further said that Gurugram has already recorded its first case of a vector-borne disease, with a city resident testing positive for plasmodium malaria.Although the health department and the MCG have together formed teams compromising 171 officials, who have 49 fogging machines at their disposal, MCG officials clarified that they would be initiating their six-day drive independently.“Around 100 MCG officials, who have 31 hand-held fogging machines, will be taking part in the six-day drive. It will be a continuous process and all efforts are being undertaken by the MCG to ensure the entire city is covered,” said Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG. As per officials, for larvicidal operations, one gambusia fish hatchery has been developed in Wazirabad for the 2020 monsoon from where the MCG will be procuring and introducing the fishes into different water bodies or points of heavy water accumulation points in the city.Gambusia fishes feed on mosquito larvae.On Monday, an MCG release said that along with the district health department, 39,000 houses across the city have been surveyed from June 1 till July 12, and 90 people had been served notices for not destroying potential mosquito breeding sources.As per MCG officials privy to the matter, who asked not to be identified, since July 13, the MCG and the health department have surveyed 60,000 more houses across the city and served notices to 84 persons for violations.At least 22 cases of dengue and 15 cases of malaria were reported last year, the lowest in the city in the past four years.In 2018, however, 93 cases of dengue were recorded, 66 in 2017, 86 in 2016, and 451 in 2015. Thirty cases of malaria were recorded in the city in 2018, 48 in 2017, 36 in 2016, and 44 in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-now-mcg-making-efforts-to-curb-vector-borne-diseases/story-IwdDJkD1FGOG2CAN0L3scM.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar GMC staff swaps bodies of Covid-19 victims||The Amritsar Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) staff on Saturday interchanged bodies of two Covid-19 victims while sending them to their families in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur.On Saturday, a 37-year-old woman of Damganj area of Amritsar had died of Covid-19 at the GMCH. Soon after her death, her body was sent to mortuary and authorities were told to pack her body in the personal protection equipment (PPE) kits before handling the body to her family members.The same day, a 92-year-old man of Hoshiarpur district, who was also undergoing treatment at the GMCH, died and his body was sent to mortuary. The hospital authorities, after packing the bodies in PPE kits, put wrong labels on the caskets.“The body of Amritsar woman was packed and sent to Hoshiarpur in an ambulance and the body of Hoshiarpur man was sent to family members of the woman. Since bodies were packed in PPE kits and were kept in a box, no one checked it, unless the bodies were taken for cremation. The members of both the families were shocked when they saw during the cremations that bodies of Covid-19 patients were swapped. This happened as hospital authorities put wrong name labels on the bodies,” said a GMCH doctor, reuesting anonymity.The family members had complained to the GMCH authorities after which principal Dr Rajiv Devgan and hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Raman Sharma called a meeting with the doctors concerned.Dr Devgan was unavailable to comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amritsar-gmc-staff-swaps-bodies-of-covid-19-victims/story-pMWpkukg61w9ZgqGpegVuO.html
18-07-2020||City||Gurugram: Three-layer police security to prevent crime across district||Gurugram: The police have decided to deploy personnel in three cordons covering all roads of the district to prevent criminal activities, senior officials said. The move comes after the police department conducted the crime mapping exercise using data of the past five years and identified 150 areas/spots from where maximum cases of theft, burglary, and robberies were reported.The police officials said they have started analysing the spots through the web-based software called Crime Mapping Analytics and Predictive System (CMAPS), which accesses the real-time data from the police control room (PCR). “The outer cordon will have cops deployed at the borders connecting to other districts and states. Barricading will be done and check posts will be set up to avoid unwanted entry, and all suspicious vehicles will be checked. The inner cordon will be deployed at the vulnerable spots from where most of the street crimes such as snatching, robbery, and vehicle theft have been reported. The last cordon will keep vigil on dark spots and focus on crime against women,” KK Rao, commissioner of police, said. At least 2,500 personnel will be deployed in the three layers to maintain law and order across the district, the officials said, adding that all wings, including traffic and crime investigation agency (CIA), have been assigned duties.Rao said deputy commissioner of police (DCP), assistant commissioner of police (ACP), inspectors, sub-inspectors, constables, special police officers and home guards will be deployed throughout the day. The officials said one of the prime concerns is vehicle snatching and theft for which they have started keeping a close watch on parked vehicles. Also, the traffic police have been asked to supervise the parking lots and to ensure that no miscreants are active in the area. The police commissioner said the crime data will be updated every three minutes and will reflect in the crime mapping.“We will collect information from the police control room on the geospatial map of the city, which will enable the department to pinpoint exact location of a crime. The crime teams will study the pattern of calls coming from a particular location. Suppose if there are too many burglary calls coming from an area which has many entry and exit points and less deployment of security guards, we can match those calls with past crimes in the area and understand if laxity of security is in any way responsible for this, and whether another crime is likely to occur there soon,” said Rao.The police have also started geofencing for setting the digital boundaries of PCR vans and patrol bikes. This will help reduce response time and tackle criminal activities in the district, said the officials.Also, a centralised data bank of criminals, miscreants, and history sheeters has been prepared that will help the police nab the proclaimed offenders and bail jumpers, said the officials.The police have identified 770 proclaimed offenders, 1,800 bail jumpers and 12 most wanted criminals who are on the radar and the list have been shared with all the crime teams which have been directed to arrest them at the earliest.The officials said they have identified more than 150 spots across the district and will add or subtract the areas as per the reporting of cases.As part of the new deployment plan, 79 PCR vans and 129 patrol bikes would be deployed in the three cordons of the district, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-three-layer-police-security-to-prevent-crime-across-district/story-aruTtdUhop6efUyN8wqBBP.html
18-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Diabetes, heart ailments common comorbidities in Covid victims||Among the first 100 deaths in Gurugram due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), diabetes, hypertension and other heart-related ailments were found to be the three most common comorbidities, according to data compiled by the district health department.At least 17 of the first 100 persons died as a result of complications due to diabetes, while at least 16 had a history of coronary ailments or events, as per the data, while at least 12 had hypertension (high blood pressure). These figures form the basis of a pattern which shows that 45% of the district’s first 100 patients who died had ailments which had some impact on the heart such as diabetes, hypertension or other related ailments.The district’s Covid-19 death toll had reached the 100-mark on July 5.Another 20 of the 100 fatalities had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), district health department data shows. “However, ARDS is not a comorbidity, per se. It is a symptom brought about due to infection. The comorbidity here is impaired respiratory function, but some of those who developed ARDS were also diabetic or hypertensive, making their condition prone to aggravation,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, Gurugram, and member of the district death audit committee.Other comorbidities recorded by the death audit committee in Gurugram include cancer, or acute leukaemia (in five of the deaths), multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (in 10 deaths), and pneumonia (in six deaths). The remaining 14 deaths were attributed to a range of other underlying conditions, including intracranial haemorrhages, lower respiratory tract infections and others. Of the first 100 fatalities, men accounted for 78 deaths, while 22 were women. According to the health department’s data, of the 100, the age group of 61-70 years saw 26 fatalities (including seven women), followed by 18 deaths (including two women) in the 71-80 years age group.Dr Piyush Goel, a pulmonologist at a private hospital in the city, said, “These numbers are not surprising. Diabetes, hypertension, and cardiac problems are among the most widespread comorbidities in India. In fact, a majority of the patients requiring intensive medical care usually have one of these illnesses, or a combination of them.” He said that it is important for people with these ailments to stay at home, for now, to protect themselves from the pandemic.Gurugram’s chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav reiterated that diabetics, and those with hypertension or cardiac issues, should exercise extra precaution.  “There is more and more evidence that Covid-19 isn’t just a disease that attacks your lungs. It can lead to a variety of other complications, impacting kidneys and other organs. When the body’s immune system works overtime, it adds a lot of stress on organs other than the lungs, causing conditions like inflammation of tissue,” he said. Comorbidities also affect the body’s natural ability to produce antibodies, and bring down the level of ACE2 receptors, which are essential for a healthy immune system, he added.“A comorbidity essentially compromises a patient’s ability to withstand the added stress, which can lead to entire organ systems shutting down, causing death,” the CMO added.Between July 5 and 18, the district reported 14 more Covid-related deaths. While health officials did not provide data on comorbidities for these 14 deaths, they said a significant number of them were either diabetic or had hypertension, while at least one had suffered a coronary event in the past.Till July 18, the district had reported a total of 7,594 Covid-19 cases. With 114 deaths, the case-fatality ratio (CFR) for Gurugram now stands at 1.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-diabetes-heart-ailments-common-comorbidities-in-covid-victims/story-yRhQkwV5FN0AnsvmGnmgpK.html
18-07-2020||City||Gurugram: Health dept to distribute pulse oximeters to Covid-19 patients||Gurugram: The district health department has procured 500 pulse oximeters, which it plans to distribute to Covid-19 patients, especially elderly patients, in large outbreak regions (LORs) to facilitate early medical intervention in case of an emergency. The move is a key intervention to stave off sudden Covid-19 related deaths, health officials said, adding that there have been close to 10 such deaths in Gurugram so far.“The infection causes acute respiratory distress syndrome, which lowers the patient’s oxygen saturation level. Pulse oximeters will be given to select patients, particularly older people, so that they can monitor the level of oxygen in the blood. If the saturation level of a patient dips to below 90%, we will immediately send an ambulance and give him/her oxygen therapy,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram. The officials said that the pulse oximeter, a small device that can be clipped onto the index finger tip, can play a significant role in reducing Covid-19 deaths by early detection of reducing lung function (a telltale Covid-19 symptom). “We will instruct patients on how to use the device. All our rapid response teams, which are doing door-to-door surveys in large outbreak regions, will be carrying the oximeters. When deemed necessary, they will be provided to patients,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. With positive cases of coronavirus disease crossing the 7,000-mark, the district administration on Wednesday announced nine new LORs and put them under lockdown till July 28. As per the order issued by the administration, the newly identified LORs include Rajiv Nagar, Om Nagar (Shivaji Nagar and Shanti Nagar), Nathupur (Ravinder Nath slum, Shamshan Ghat slum), Laxman Vihar ( Dayanand Colony), Block-H Palam Vihar, Feroz Gandhi Colony (Madanpuri, Baldev Nagar) and Patel Nagar (Nai Basti and Arjun Nagar).Till Saturday, Gurugram reported a total of 7,594 Covid-19 cases while 114 people have died due to the infection so far. The district surveillance officer said that the Delhi government, too, has adopted their use in response to the epidemic. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that the national capital has been able to “minimise deaths” of Covid-19 patients in home isolation with the help of pulse oximeters. “If patients detect their oxygen is falling, they reach out to us for help. We immediately send oxygen concentrators to their home or take them to a hospital,” Kejriwal had tweeted recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-health-dept-to-distribute-pulse-oximeters-to-covid-19-patients/story-sKJbzqYnZiVmXk0TqxhieO.html
18-07-2020||City||Shopkeeper alleges assault by police||Greater Noida: An 18-year-old shopkeeper has alleged that he, along with his mother and uncle, were assaulted by the police when they refused to give money to them for running the shop. The police, however, have denied the allegations. The incident came to fore on Friday when a video of the family members started circulating on social media in which they alleged that they were framed in a false case after they refused to pay money to local police personnel. They have also said that they wrote to the UP chief minister in this regard.The shopkeeper, a resident of Alpha 2 sector, runs a paan vend with his family members in a local market under the Beta 2 police jurisdiction. In his complaint to the CM, he alleged that on July 14, a few policemen came to their shop demanding Rs 300 per day for running the shop but the family refused.“They must have been miffed at our refusal to pay the money because when I was closing the shop that night around 9.30pm, they said that I was violating rules and one constable started assaulting me with a stick. When I tried to defend myself, they alleged that I had assaulted a policeman on duty and I would be sent to jail for this,” said the shopkeeper.In a video of his mother circulating online, she has claimed that she was also beaten up and her son and brother-in-law were sent to jail for two days in a false case after the family refused to pay the extortion money.“My son had told me that two police constables had been bothering them for at least 15 days. He got hurt severely while trying to defend me as well from the sticks of the policemen,” said the woman.The police officials have, however, denied all the allegations.“They were simply asked to close their shop as it was past the curfew time, but they refused. When the elderly man was detained, the youngster assaulted the police personnel with a stick. Two of them sustained injuries and we have their medical reports. Afterwards, they were both booked for interfering with government work,” said Sujeet Kumar Upadhyay, station house officer, Beta 2 police station.A case was registered against the shopkeeper and his uncle under sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant in the execution of his duty) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code, the police said.The police officials said that a probe in the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shopkeeper-alleges-assault-by-police/story-8cuVCZ5yjHCJwbynUN12DO.html
18-07-2020||City||Forest dept plans to plant 240 tree species in an hour, achieve a first in UP||Noida: The state forest department is working on a plantation drive across eight districts, including Gautam Budh Nagar, on July 28 during which it will attempt a record by planting spalings of 240 tree species within an hour.Forest officials said at least 12 saplings each of the 240 species shall be planted during the hour. Each of the eight participating districts will be getting a minimum of 30 species in a bid to conserve the biodiversity of Uttar Pradesh. They said the aim is to make a new record and conserve some of the native species once found in abundance but are now rarely spotted.“This is the first time that such a record is being attempted. The drive will be held across eight districts and the list of species is still being finalised,” Anupam Gupta, additional chief conservator forest (CCF) and mission director of the plantation drive, said.The participating districts include Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut, Barabanki, Lucknow, Banda, Sitapur, Faizabad and Lalitpur.“Each species will be distinct, so we are aiming for species that have no subspecies. Apart from a few most of the species we shortlisted are indigenous. Only a few exotic species, such as vilayati babul (Prosopis juliflora), were included on the list as they are good at adapting. Our previous plantation drives usually targeted numbers, but this time we want to celebrate biodiversity and variety,” NK Janoo, CCF, Meerut, said.According to Janoo, some of the rare species being planted in Gautam Budh Nagar included camphor and miswak.“A number of species such as miswak, which once could be found in abundance across Rajasthan, will be planted in Noida. The rare camphor tree will also be planted in the city. There are many other species which have been lost over time, like the sal trees. They are now seen only in some forest pockets and have largely been replaced by teak trees. There are also the kadamb and tamal trees, which have become a rarity and will be accommodated in the list,” Janoo said.In Noida, the plantation drive will be led by the district forest department at a patch of land near Yamuna Expressway.“The saplings will be bought from different areas such as Saharanpur, Dhaulpur, Allahabad and Meerut. We will hold the plantation at a patch of green area in Sector 20 along Yamuna Expressway. The mock drill was held on Friday to ensure the main event goes without a glitch,” PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forest-dept-plans-to-plant-240-tree-species-in-an-hour-achieve-a-first-in-up/story-PsUGTr9nZDd1ncJGfBd2rI.html
18-07-2020||City||80% of Covid-19 beds vacant in Gautam Budh Nagar hospitals||NOIDA: Even as the Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar are on the rise, only one-fifth of the total number of beds in different Covid-dedicated hospitals in the district are occupied.According to officials, there are around 3,000 Covid beds in 12 different government and private hospitals in the district, of which only about 600 are occupied.The total strength of beds across the five L-1 category hospitals in the district is 1,530, of which around 250 are occupied, the officials said. The L1 beds include 100 in Kailash corona isolation centre (Greater Noida), 250 each in Tata hospital (Sector 125) and Noida Institute of Medical Science (Greater Noida), 900 in Bennett hospital and 30 in Community Health Centre (CHC), Bisrakh.Out of these L-1 category hospitals, Bennett hospital and CHC (Bisrakh) have been kept in reserve to accommodate patients in an emergency, said Dr Manoj Kushwaha, district surveillance officer. “In L-2 category hospitals, nearly half the number of beds at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) is occupied, while the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post-Graduate Teaching Institute, also known as Child PGI, has only 22% occupancy. Among other L-2 facilities, while Fortis has 30% occupancy, Kailash hospital (Noida) has around 25% of its bed strength occupied,” he said.In the L-3 category, the district has only one operational hospital. “While the Tata hospital (Sector 39), which has 250 beds, has not yet started, the 400-bed Sharda hospital is operational. But, only 10% of its beds are occupied as 42 patients were admitted there till Friday,” Kushwaha said.On Saturday, GB Nagar reported 90 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 4,030 in the district, according to the daily health bulletin released by the state government. The district has a total of 953 active cases, the bulletin said. As many as 3,033 patients have been discharged so far, while 38 have died of Covid-19, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the administration is all set to take care of Covid-19 patients in an effective manner. “To cope with any emergency, we have plans to raise the number of dedicated beds for Covid-19 patients in the district to at least 5,000. Also, since the state government has already announced price caps for per day treatment at private medical colleges and hospitals, many of them have already started developing exclusive facilities for Covid-19 patients,” he said.The DM also said that all private and government hospitals have been asked to ensure that all patients, coming to the emergency and other wards, must be treated without any delay. “If any hospital faces difficulties in treating patients, they can refer them to hospitals with better healthcare facilities. But, before referring those patients, that hospital will have to properly co-ordinate with the referred hospital so that the patients do not suffer. However, the standard protocol for Covid-19 will be followed at every step by all these hospitals,” he said.The DM also said that there is no dearth of doctors and paramedics in any of these Covid-19 facilities. “Since it is always better to have the maximum bench strength, particularly in a pandemic situation, some of these hospitals have also advertised for vacancies of doctors and support staff,” he said.About the projection of cases in coming months, Suhas said that despite increasing the number of tests, there is no rocketing surge in Covid-19 cases in the district. “The data analysis of July (when surveillance was accelerated in the district) so far indicates that the graph is consistent between the new positives and discharged patients. I hope the number of active cases in the district will never go beyond 2,000,” he said.The district’s acting chief medical officer Dr Nepal Singh reiterated the DM’s views, saying that the district has adequate capacity of beds to cater to Covid-19 cases. “All facilities are ready with their bench strength. Even the new facility in Sector 39 is all set to be kicked off. The process of appointment of doctors and other para-medical staff has already begun,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-of-covid-19-beds-vacant-in-gautam-budh-nagar-hospitals/story-TC8XeO41A7nzlraCPsxvRL.html
18-07-2020||Bhopal||Four illegal sand miners booked for hitting Assistant sub-inspector||Police registered a case against four illegal miners for hitting and abusing an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) in Sheopur district on Saturday while he was checking the transportation of illegally mined sand at a Morena-Sheopur border check post, said police.The miners also fled with four tractor-trolleys laden with illegally mined sand from the check post. The main accused was identified as Bunty Rawat, a resident of Morena while three others are yet to be identified, said Sampath Upadhyay, superintendent of police (SP), Sheopur. The SP also ordered an inquiry on the police personnel after a video of the incident went viral on social media in which two miners with a trolley laden with illegally mined sand are accusing police of taking money from them. “In the video, a miner can be seen hitting and abusing a police assistant sub-inspector Rajendra Jadon posted at Vijaypur police station while threatening him of dire consequences. He was also seen in the video accusing police personnel of taking money from them not for taking action but, they are heard saying, now police are stopping them. Another miner threatened the police personnel by saying that don’t call him and if he calls him it won’t be a good for him,” as seen in the video. Upadhyay said, “Bunty Rawat and three others, all residents of Morena, were coming from Morena in tractor-trolleys laden with illegally mined sand from Chambal river, where mining is prohibited since 2006. ASI Rajendra Jadon stopped them, they slapped him and also pushed him hard. Later, they threatened the police personnel and fled from the spot.”An FIR has been registered under section 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 294 (obscene act) and 506 (criminal intimidation) on the complaint of Jadon, said Upadhyay.Upadhyaya said, “An inquiry has been ordered to check the claims of illegal miners of giving money to police personnel and the relation of police personnel with sand mafia.”Locals have raised question and saying there is a nexus of police and sand mafia.A political analyst and local activist Jayant Singh said, “A few days ago, the sand mining mafia attacked a team of district administration in Vijaypur area of Sheopur and fled with the tractor-trolleys by threatening a district administration team led by a sub-divisional magistrate . The SDM had asked for police protection but police reached after an hour of the incident. This is only one example. There are audio and video clips that went viral on social media in the past in which illegal miners can be heard they have police protection in Morena, Sheopur and Bhind and that’s why hardly any strict action was taken against them. We also believe this as we have never seen any strict drive against illegal miners in Chambal.” Meanwhile, former chief minister and MP Congress Committee state president Kamal Nath said, “With the change in government, the illegal sand mining returned to MP. Sand mafia is openly beating police personnel and accusing them of illegal recovery of money. Sand mafia is attacking on a government official and the state government chose to keep mum. Who is protecting sand mafia in MP? Why state government is not taking action against them.”BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “Kamal Nath ji should first answer the allegations made by his own party leaders of flourishing sand mafia during his regime. Now, FIR is being registered by the police against sand mafia and all the measures are being taken to stop the illegal mining.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/four-illegal-sand-miners-booked-for-hitting-assistant-sub-inspector/story-qbmHY8VIMl6DJuKMHz3Y1O.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Seven deaths, 350 fresh Covid-19 cases in Punjab||Punjab on Saturday reported seven deaths and 350 cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s positive patients’ tally to 9,792 and 246 deaths.According to the media bulletin released by the state government, Amritsar reported three deaths, followed by one each in Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Kapurthala, Amritsar, and Mohali. Three residents of Amritsar died of Covid-19 at local hospitals on Saturday, health officials said. The dead include a 37-year-old woman of Damganj, a 44-year-old diabetic man of Othian village and a 51-year-old man of Bhagtanwala,” said civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh. The district also reported 31 fresh Covid cases.Seven persons, including Congress MLA from Tarn Taran constituency Dharambir Agnihotri and a medical officer of Gharyala primary health centre tested positive for the virus in Tarn Taran district. A 45-year-old resident of the Ram Nagar area of Ludhiana died while 80 people tested positive in the distric.The fresh cases include 76 residents of Ludhiana, while others belong to Jalandhar, Patiala, Hoshiarpur and Uttar Pradesh. Mohali reported one death and 21 fresh positive cases. Sixty-two persons, including Ghanaur MLA’s son, have been tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala district on Saturday. Jalandhar reported 58 fresh cases. These include 11 CRPF and ITBP personnel. In Kapurthala, Congress MLA from Phagwara Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal tested positive. Earlier, his son had found infected from the virus.A staff nurse with a private hospital and an Asha worker were among 15 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Ferozepur district. In Fazilka, seven persons contracted the infection. Two staffers of central jail tested positive in Bathinda.Meanwhile, a health worker and 10 others contracted the infection in Ferozepur. Seventeen persons tested positive in Moga and Faridkot. Meanwhile, Lehra SHO and three other cops tested positive in Sangrur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-deaths-350-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-punjab/story-XDe7pT4Q8YFgodWIduY3fP.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: For online studies limit children’s exposure to digital devices||The world today is not just grappling with the deadly Covid-19 pandemic, but its fallout too on people’s lives, their education, jobs and businesses.The student community has been hit particularly hard with schools closed for more than three months, forcing them to log into smart phones to access teachers’ lectures as classes go online.Serious concerns, therefore, arise in this scenario, about the youngsters’ health and wellness, and a pointer in this direction has come this week from the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry that Children in classes 1 to 8 should spend no more than two teaching sessions of 30 to 45 minutes each in a day. Only four such sessions have been recommended by the ministry to limit the time students spend in front of screens.A report in Hindustan Times said recently that the HRD ministry guidelines — which are not binding but are likely to be adopted by schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Kendriya Vidyalayas — are meant “to mitigate the impact of the pandemic” on the roughly 240 million children as schools stay shut to reduce the risk of infection. Schools will need to “remodel” and “re-imagine” teaching and learning methods by introducing suitable home and institutional schooling methods, reads the HRD ministry’s document.Focus should be on consolidation of learning and not attempts made to complete the syllabus quickly. “Plan the interventions keeping in mind students’ level, age, resource availability, nature of content, etc,” the guidelines suggest.Rather than relying too much on teaching in front of screens, schools have been asked to focus on the alternative academic calendar, which the National Council of Educational Research and Training is preparing for the year.Medical experts say children exposed to digital technologies or gadgets for a longer time are prone to severe health issues, underlining the need for age-appropriate schedules.HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank has said the guidelines, titled PRAGYATA, have been developed from the perspective of learners, with a focus on online, blended or digital education for students who are at present at home.The picture is very clear, it is not just teachers and schools that will now have to take the session forward this year; parents, family and peers too will need to chip in to support the youngsters. Not just studies; how children deal with everyday living; learn from experiences during this period and focus on mental health issues as well will be important.Virtual worldHow can children’s exposure to digital devices be limited? Should children be exposed for long hours to computers or smartphones while studying from home? How can blended education work in schools? Send your responses and a mugshot to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by July 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-for-online-studies-limit-children-s-exposure-to-digital-devices/story-ZnFLIDAsGljK6rJTQ6sURO.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University ready to issue online degrees through NAD||Panjab University is all set to issue degrees online from the current academic session as the varsity is ready to upload examination data on National Academic Depository (NAD) for awarding degrees.NAD is a 24x7 online store house of all academic awards including certificates, diplomas, degrees and mark-sheets, lodged by academic institutions/ boards/ eligibility assessment bodies. NAD ensures easy access to and retrieval of academic awards and validates and guarantees its authenticity and safe storage.PU controller of examination, Parvinder Singh, said, “We are ready to upload our data on NAD from where students who have registered on it can access their degrees and detailed marks certificates.”“We have already taken reasonable steps in this regard including legal agreements and registration of candidates from affiliated colleges and teaching departments,” he added.According to the university, the data of 35,000 postgraduate and PhD students of the academic sessions 2018-19 and 2019-20 has been uploaded on NAD so far .Also, more than 800 research scholars have enrolled and about 110 have already downloaded their PhD degrees from NAD. Out of the data of 35,000 students, approximately 15,000 have been verified as authentic which can also be downloaded by students of PU’s affiliated colleges and teaching departments. NAD provides students convenient access to their degrees without the risk of losing, spoiling or damaging them. PU has signed an agreement with National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL), a central security depository based in Mumbai, for uploading the degree on the NAD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-ready-to-issue-online-degrees-through-nad/story-nl5IwNo3u5545dOcCsqePN.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University likely to win MAKA trophy for second year in a row||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, there is good news for Panjab University (PU). The varsity is likely to win the prestigious Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) trophy for the best all-round performance in sports among Indian varsities for the second year in a row. PU has claimed 11,582 points for their performance at inter-university competitions, Khelo India youth and university games and international competitions for the year 2019-20. PU has claimed the highest points among universities who are in the race for the MAKA trophy.The varsity also won the inaugural Khelo India University Games organised by the Union sports ministry in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, in February this year. Last year’s first runner’s up, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, claimed 10,516 points and is likely to retain their second position. Punjabi University, Patiala, has claimed 8,145 points, while Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, has claimed 4,170 points.LPU, that has applied for the first-time, is likely to be placed fourth.The Union sports ministry has invited objections from contending universities and the last date for submitting objections are on July 23. The final announcement is likely to be made in August. “As per submission of points, we are number one and will definitely retain this position even when the calculation will be done after inviting objections,” said Panjab University sports director Parminder Singh. “But officially, we have to wait till the ministry announces the final ranking,” he added.In PU’s annual performance, shooting contributed to maximum points with 2,443, while swimming added to 1,180 points. Kayaking and canoeing (1,090), fencing (1080), boxing (582), athletics (550) and sepaktakraw (500) were the other highest point earners for the university. The running trophy was instituted in 1956-57 by the Union ministry of education. As per the precedence, the award function will be held on National Sports Day, August 29, and the President gives away the honour along with other national sporting honours, including Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratan, Arjuna and Dronacharya awards. If PU wins the coveted trophy, it will be after 1994-95 and 1995-96, when the Chandigarh-based university had won the title twice in successive years for the last time. PU has won the MAKA trophy 14 times. GNDU, Amritsar, has won the trophy maximum times 22, while Delhi University won it 14 times and Punjabi University, Patiala, has won it nine times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-likely-to-win-maka-trophy-for-second-year-in-a-row/story-dcP6VGvA4EN5THRBEBe76L.html
18-07-2020||Lucknow||Bulandshahr violence accused named PMJYA gen secy, felicitated by BJP leader||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been left red-faced following the appointment of Shikhar Agarwal as the Bulandshahr district general secretary of PM Jankalyankari Yojna Jagrukta Abhiyan (PMJYJA), purportedly run by a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that has nothing to do with the party, but which appears to enjoy the blessings of a section of Union ministers.Agarwal, the former Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) leader, is an accused in the 2018 Bulandshahr cow slaughter violence case that led to the alleged murder of inspector Subodh Kumar Singh.He was released on bail last August after spending over seven months in jail. Although local BJP leaders have distanced themselves from his appointment claiming that PMJYJA is an NGO that has nothing to do with their party, a photograph of the July 14 programme shows Bulandshahr BJP district unit chief Anil Sisodia handing out a certificate to Agarwal. The certificate carries names of several BJP leaders, including Union ministers Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank, Narendra Tomar, and Giriraj Singh, who are members of the NGO’s steering committee, or margdarshak mandal. “PMJYJA is an NGO, which has no connection with the BJP. It is an independent organisation that can take its own decisions,” said Sanjay Gurjar, general secretary, BJP Bulandshahr district unit.PMJYJA’s district president Priytam Singh Prem and western Uttar Pradesh (UP) president Dr. Yatendra Kumar Sain were unavailable for their comments.However, a BJP leader, on the condition of anonymity, said, “I was surprised when I came to know about his appointment. He was sacked from the party after his name figured among the accused in Bulandshahr violence”. Violence had erupted outside the Chingrawthi police post in Bulandshahr after an alleged incident of cow slaughter in the adjoining village of Mahav was reported in the intervening night of December 2 and 3, 2018.Sumit, a youth from Chingrawthi, was killed in alleged police firing and a mob cornered inspector Singh of Syana police station and allegedly shot him dead. Villagers also set the police post on fire and torched many vehicles. Over a dozen villagers and police personnel had sustained injuries in the clash.Agarwal and Yogesh Raj were among the 27 named accused and 60 more unnamed protesters were also included in the first information report (FIR). The cases were lodged under over a dozen sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 395 (dacoity), 333 (causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty), and 124A (sedition).A special investigation team (SIT) was formed to probe the incident and it arrested rioters by identifying them through available videos and photographs. Later, the police claimed that bail was granted to those who were booked for rioting and none of those charged for murder had got bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bulandshahr-violence-accused-named-pmjya-gen-secy-felicitated-by-bjp-leader/story-3VBEP6h15w5rZqhslDwnbL.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Playing the role of women in the life of Maharaja Ranjit Singh||For most Punjabis, and Sikhs in particular, the golden period remains the reign of Maharaja Ranjit Singh (1801-1839) when the large state was ruled by the son of the soil who is referred to as Sher-e-Punjab (Lion of the Punjab). This was a time of progress and the glory of the land stretching from the borders of Tibet and touching the capital city of Delhi. The annexation of Punjab in 1849 by the East India company just 10 years after the passing away of the Maharaja was a sad blow as, among other things, the maharaja had stood for communal harmony and is lauded in the land and even across the border in Pakistan as the only Punjabi king the Land of the Five Rivers after King Porus who was defeated by Alexander in 326 BC.Post Independence in 1947 Punjabi writers, scholars, historians and artistes have turned time and again to look into this period and rejoice in its glory as well as the sad fate that befell it and it was lost to the British colonizers. The dirge by the court poet Shah Mohammad still brings tears to the eyes of many: It spoke of the British slighting the Punjabis and taking away the Kohinoor diamond from Kunwar Dalip Singh, in whom rested the hopes of the community, to England. Interestingly, the recent times have also seen recognition and celebration of the strong women in the court of Maharaja Ranjit Singh.Women of substanceIn fact, much attention has been paid to Rani Jindan, the beautiful and somewhat scheming young queen of the ageing maharaja, and the reason for this was the resilience she showed against the British oppressors even in the worst of times. But there were others too like Rani Sada Kaur, mother-in-law of the maharaja, who played a pivotal role in the Maharaja’s rise to power. Yet another woman who showed her guts was the dancing girl of Lahore, the young and beautiful Moran of Hira Mandi who married the monarch on her own terms and remained true to Islam, the faith that she was born to, even as the consort of the Sikh ruler. This perhaps was due to the cultural panmixia of the border land in which people learned to live together in harmony even when they belonged to different faiths.It is interesting indeed to talk to two veteran actors — Chandigarh’s own Rani Balbir Kaur and Amritsar bred Neeta Mohindra who now lives in Mumbai. Both have played queens of the then Punjab with Rani giving a memorable stage performance as Rani Jindan and Neeta acting out the political acumen of Rani Sada Kaur in a tele serial. Why we mention them is because these days a 56-episode serial, Maharaja Ranjit, made in 2010-2011 at Amritsar, is being streamed again.Role to rememberFor Neeta it was a role to remember. Looking back, she says, “I was teaching those days in Amritsar and Raj Babbar asked me to help them in the local casting. In the course he asked me to do the role of Rani Sada Kaur. To be honest I had not heard of her but when I did get to know, I was amazed. The Rani mothered, trained and got her daughter married to the Maharaja because she saw that he was meant to be king. Not just that, she also marched into battlefields with him with a sword in hand, one of the rare women to do so in those times. Of course her end was somewhat tragic when she fell apart with the Maharaja and became a prisoner. But I loved her for her political acumen.”These days when people are locked in at home, Neeta is watching the serial all over again. “Of course, watching it now I feel that I could have acted her character still better!” Why not Neeta, one would love to a see a solo performance of Sada Kaur from you!Rani as Rani JindanIn the 1980s Rani Balbir Kaur gave a wonderful performance as Rani Jindan, perhaps one of her best in a play which toured abroad but was sadly banned for some reason by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) in India. Of course such bans are now over and one has seen even a Shabana Azmi play Jindan in a film in recent years. But it was Rani who looked her part with her daughter-of-the soil good looks and majestic gait. Talking about the character of Rani Jindan, she says: “I was resurrecting history not just by playing a role and my connect with Gurbani was my greatest support because never mind her follies she was a religious and pious woman.” She adds that when she played the role she wept as Jindan and as Rani too for it was a matter of faith lost to fate.Why not Moran?What comes to the mind after all of this, however, is: Why has no one dramatised the character of Moran, the bewitching dancing girl of Lahore who was deeply rooted in faith and love? Will some young Punjaban this side of the border or that be brave enough to enact the role of Moran of the Pul Kanjri fame?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-playing-the-role-of-women-in-the-life-of-maharaja-ranjit-singh/story-RzvEWg2L4wbiI9hNSzHhmK.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 to start online consultation through e-SanjeevaniOPD from tomorrow||Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, will be offering online consultation through eSanjeevaniOPD, the flagship telemedicine solution of the central government, from Monday onwards.Around 100 clinicians from different departments of GMCH-32 have already received training on using the online service.Developed by Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Mohali, eSanjeevaniOPD was nationally launched in April this year while OPDs across the country were closed due to Covid-19 pandemic.The telemedicine solution is already operational in 18 states and has logged around 31,000 consultations in just three months. Patients can consult a general physician or specialist through an android smartphone or a PC/laptop. At the end of the teleconsultation, he/she will receive an electronic prescription.C-DAC director general Dr Hemant Darbari stated that the telemedicine solution is dedicated to human life betterment and would prove to be a turning point in tele-OPD consultancy.GMCH-32 director principal Dr B S Chavan said telemedicine will help patients seek specialised healthcare services from experts from the comfort of their homes, while reducing the risk of infection. “Due to the fear of catching infection from hospitals, many patients prefer to seek medical help through telemedicine,” he said.C-DAC executive director Dr P K Khosla said the teleconsultation will offer two way audio-visual consultation and a prescription slip at the end. The centre is continuously enhancing the capabilities of eSanjeevaniOPD and it has been accepted country-wide by clinicians and patients alike, Khosla added.Presently, GMCH-32 is providing telemedicine services through the audio mode where patients calls the doctors on dedicated phone lines and seek consultation. The esanjeevani software will allow video discussion between the parties and give a feel of real in-person consultation. The feature is free of cost and saves travel time too. To begin with, the deptartments of psychiatry, ENT, skin, eye and orthopaedic will start esanjeevaniOPD from Monday for which people need to register on esanjeevaniopd.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmch-32-to-start-online-consultation-through-e-sanjeevaniopd-from-tomorrow/story-fMGDus8kpNLL1IMLLMzRMN.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Random Forays: Philosophical ruminations on a monsoon afternoon||The goings on in the interiors of the human mind are usually ceaseless and their extent is unimaginable. No space is taboo, no frontier too far to conquer. Unending are the array of thoughts that assail the human mind; all of its own creation, but with a life of their own. Almost Frankensteinesque they are, in that their creator becomes the hunted, his peace unsettled forevermore. And the thoughts generated by our minds do not even belong to us in totality. They have a trajectory of their own, a zeal of their own, and even perhaps a karma of their own.In the Autobiography of a Yogi, Paramahansa Yogananda quotes Thayumanavar, a saint of South India, who wrote this “challenging” poem:You may control a mad elephant; You may shut the mouth of the bear and tiger; Ride the lion and play with the cobra; By alchemy you may earn your livelihood; You may wander through the universe incognito; Make vassals of the gods; be ever youthful; You may walk on water and live in fire: But control of the mind is better and more difficult.Those of us who think otherwise, might want to practice silence of the mind and try to control each thought that attempts to disturb its peace. Long term practitioners of meditation will vouch for the fact that even after years of practising meditation techniques, their minds will play truant at the drop of a hat. A faint sound from the next room might remind them of an unfulfilled errand, which might lead to ruminations on the need to get the car repaired and even the necessity to visit New Delhi to meet an old friend.When the monsoon rains pelt down uninhibitedly, though they’ve been relatively sparse this year, the mind tends to become philosophical. While admiring the splash and splendour of the annual visitor, one tends to wonder at nature and its act of largesse that somehow saves the inhabitants of our land from the impact of months of relentless heat and sun.One also tends to ponder over the meaning of life at such times. Although such thoughts can come to most human beings at any time, the rains somehow encourage them to sprout a little more effervescently. The ephemeral nature of life, which has been compared to the existence of a dew drop on a leaf, becomes apparent when one tries to view its bigger picture.And as I type these lines, a mellifluous song from the 1965 classic, Waqt, emanates from a nearby device. “Aaage bhi jaane na tu, peechhe bhi jaane na tu…(you don’t know what’s going to happen in the future or what happened in the past),” croons the matchless Asha Bhonsle, her voice adding depth to the truly meaningful lines penned by the inimitable Sahir Ludhianvi, with lilting music composed by the legendary Ravi.The transient nature of life and its rocky spectrum become apparent to a writer in such settings. All the more reason for human beings to buckle down and make the most of their time on earth, one would think. While family, career and interests should clearly be priorities for each of us, why waste the human avatar on needless gossip?Books are easily a favoured pastime in such scenarios as well. The consumption of luscious mangoes doesn’t go too well with the act of reading a book, so one tries to plan one’s day in a manner that the two are mostly kept apart. And the hands of course have to be kept washed as well as dried anyway. We do live in those “twenty-seconds is a must” times!The faraway skies take on tinges and hues that seldom make their presence felt at any other time of year. Monsoon evenings can be sultry or cool, but the sky is always alive and vibrant. An amateur photographer might find even more to celebrate about the beauty of nature than a writer does. And the poet can wax lyrical with aplomb at such times.Work from home norms and webinars by the dozen notwithstanding, the monsoons of 2020 have not disappointed. There is every excuse to think more deeply. Yet, there’s every reason to try and quell those rampaging thoughts. To endeavour is human, to respond is up to Him.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/philosophical-ruminations-on-a-monsoon-afternoon/story-nSzPZQCjyQNFBjm6b3pXgP.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Star Wars over Pangong||There is no shortage of words in the exchanges between India and China over the turquoise blue Pangong lake. Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday delivered a loaded speech at the famed lake. But words fail us when it comes to the cosmic spectacle that unfurls over the lake in the dark when mere mortals sleep and the Gods slip out from the crevices of cosmic infinity.Those who have viewed that spectacle and are currently locked out of the mountains due to Covid-19 restrictions are revisiting the photographs and videos of the “good old days when Corona was nothing more than a heavenly beer”! A software engineer with Tata Consultancy, Dipyaman Santra, is a mountain addict. He drove on a motorcycle all the way from Kolkata to Pangong taking nine days in September 2018. He took a photograph of the Aakash Ganga (Milky Way galaxy) over the lake at 11.21 pm. In his own words, then, are those moments of magical glimpses that uplift the sufferance of human existence to a momentary merger with cosmic divinity. The romantic realisation dawns that we are all made of star dust. Santra recalls the Pangong night sky with a fervid pining for a return to the lake of a lost horizon. “We missed the beautiful view of Pangong lake during the day as it was already dark when we reached there. We usually love riding through the mountains during the dark but the road was not supportive. So, when we reached there (at around 8:30), we were way too exhausted. Our first concern was to find a place to stay and we were thus distracted by mundane concerns. We found some tents and we went to the lake. I glanced at the sky and it felt like I was waiting for this for a long time. The place was totally dark as most of the lights had been turned off,” Santra told this writer.“The sweet sound of the water splashing created a pure ambience. Unlike the chaotic sound of waves crashing on a beach, the sound of waves at Pangong was like the peace of a monastery, of bells tinkling in a shrine. When I looked above from the water, these stars and the Aakash Ganga view was a spiritual treat! I wondered how Nature had fabricated this infinite black canvas with lots of small glittering dots, so randomly, and yet so beautifully! I can try to search for more words to describe the view but what I felt, what I saw, I don’t think any word is enough to describe that. I can only say, even today, when I think about the day, I still see everything vividly in front of my eyes, I still hear the sound of the water splashing, I still feel the purity,’’ recalls Santra.MONITORING WEIGHTS & MEASURES We would like the weighing machine kept in our washrooms to not tell us the truth about our ballooning bellies. We would not mind being flattered if the machine under-weighs the fat layers and flashes a coy number. On the other hand, we are very particular about weight devices used by retailers selling groceries, grains and fruits in mandis and kiryana shops. Electronic weight measures used by unscrupulous retailers overestimate the weight of goods sold, thus cheating shoppers. The common swindle is realised when diligent householders check the goods purchased on a reliable weight measure kept at home in the kitchen. The truth of this came to the fore again in rather a kinky context. The tricity’s snake-rescue expert, Salim Khan, had rescued a huge Bengal Monitor lizard (Goh) from a house at Swastik Vihar, Panchkula, on Tuesday.Impressed by the size of the Goh, I asked Khan to get its weight measured to obtain an idea of the dimensions of the specimens rescued in the tricity as popular lore has it that the big ones weigh 10-12 kg. Just as big, rescued pythons (without prey ingested) are routinely estimated to weigh 100 kg with length of 20 feet by onlookers when the actual weight is less than half or a third, and length far more conservative than those fanciful estimates attached to WhatsApp forwards. That is, the mind playing optical tricks!So, Khan took the Goh in a cage to a kiryana store, which did not enjoy a good reputation in the mohallah but was located at a key junction so sales were high. That measure showed the cage weighing 4 kg. Deducting the weight of the cage, the Goh thus weighed 2.9 kg. Unconvinced by the reliability of the measure, Khan then went to another kiryana store, which carried a better reputation in the mohallah. The second measure showed up the Goh, after deducting the carrier weight, as 2.1 kgs. There was thus a difference of 800 g in the digital measures of weight thrown up by two different kiryana stores in the same mohallah!Just imagine how many poor blokes the first kiryana store must have cheated in supply of weight-inflated provisions.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-star-wars-over-pangong/story-vsMkObirz93HuSVRUl5pKL.html
18-07-2020||City||4 filmmakers dupe Zirakpur man of ₹60 lakh, booked||The police have booked four persons for duping a Ziarkpur resident of ₹60 lakh by making him invest in films on the pretext of getting huge returns.In his complaint to the Mohali SSP, Ashok Kumar alleged that the four accused, identified as Prashant Vij, Ranjit Singh, Pankaj Goyal and P S Sinha, who are owners of Zirakpur-based Blue Fox Motion Pictures, asked him to invest in their films on the promise that they would pay him double the amount within a year.Lured by the returns, Ashok along with others invested close to ₹60 lakh in the deal. However, instead of doubling the money, the four partners fled and wound up their office from Zirakpur, police said.Based on Ashok’s complaint, a case under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (Criminal breach of trust) and 120-B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the four accused at the Zirakpur police station. No arrests have been made so far as the accused are on the run, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-filmmakers-dupe-zirakpur-man-of-60-lakh-booked/story-jUfWgjmnqp1iMDcEvJbOwJ.html
18-07-2020||City||Married daughter can’t be denied compassionate appointment: HC||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled that a daughter, if otherwise eligible, can’t be denied compassionate appointment, merely because she has got married.The high court bench of justice AG Masih struck down the provisions of Punjab government’s compassionate appointments policy of 2002, which did not have ‘married daughter’, as a ‘dependent family member’ for consideration for appointment on compassionate grounds. The high court said that classification, if any, has to be based upon reasonableness, which is justifiable on the anvil and touchstone, furthering the policy for which the same had been framed. Violation of gender equality would amount to violation of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution as guaranteed to all citizens of India, which guarantee equality; protection against discrimination on the basis of caste, sex etc; and protection of life and liberty, respectively. The HC directed the Punjab DGP to issue appointment letter within one month to the woman, who was declared ineligible in 2015, citing that her marital status was a bar against consideration for appointment. Following this, the woman, Amarjit Kaur, had approached the high court, challenging the decision. Daughter of a head constable, Kashmir Singh, who died in October 2008, she now lives with her widow mother, Jasbir Kaur along with her husband and kids. An internal report upon verification of source of income had stated that they were surviving on pension benefits of the late head constable and that family was sustaining ‘with great difficulty’. “Equality cannot be achieved, unless there are equal opportunities for all. If a woman is deprived at the threshold by rendering her ineligible for consideration merely because of her marital status of being a woman, especially when the same is not true for the man, would amount to discrimination on the basis of gender identity,” the bench observed.It said that the determinative factor to ascertain eligibility for consideration for appointment is the financial status of the family. “The only reason why the petitioner has been deprived appointment under the scheme is that she is a married daughter of a deceased government servant, whereas had she been unmarried or had it been the son, despite the marital status, the claim would have been considered. If this is not discrimination, what else can it be termed?,” the bench questioned and struck down the provisions of the 2002 policy, which made a married daughter ineligible for consideration of appointment on compassionate grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/married-daughter-can-t-be-denied-compassionate-appointment-hc/story-kE8Rr7A7pqVoYlt23EedEN.html
18-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally rises to 5,110||The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand rose to 5,110 including 2,487 active cases, said State Health Department on Saturday.The total number of cases includes 2,577 recovered/discharged, and 46 deaths, informed the health department.With a spike of 34,884 cases and 671 deaths reported in India in the last 24 hours, the total number of positive cases reached 10,38,716 on Saturday, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The total number of cases include 3,58,692 active cases, 6,53,751 cured/discharged/migrated and 26,273 deaths, the Health Ministry informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-5-110/story-CNv2czLi1OR7RGU2T8wnjJ.html
18-07-2020||Patna||Bihar migrant workers set up cricket bat manufacturing unit||Bihar could be staring at a quiet cricket revolution because of reverse migration of a section of workers, who are skilled at making bats.The workers, who have come back to their native state amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, are hoping to ply their bat-making skills back home in Bihar’s West Champaran district and make a living for themselves.They have honed their skills at Jammu & Kashmir’s bat-manufacturing units in Anantnag, Awantipora and Qazigund.Around 10 migrant workers have set up a local unit at Sahodra village in West Champaran district, which is located about 280 kilometres north of Patna.“There is no place as sweet home. Nothing can be more satisfying if you get to stay at your native place and also earn a living,” said Abulesh Ansari (30), of Parasauni village, who moulds logs of Poplar tree, whose wood is used for making exquisite cricket bats. “Making a bat is all about precision, which involves judgment, adjustment, and calculation all rolled into one. It’s also an art,” said Ansari, who learned the craft at a factory in Anantnag.The homegrown factory was set up a month ago amid the pandemic and has churned out around 50 bats that have found instant buyers.“The lightness and stroke-making are the major differentiators in the available assortment of bats that cost below Rs 1,000,” said Afroz Alam, a buyer. “It’s difficult to scale up the volume because the production is still manual. We aim to sell each bat for Rs 800. West Champaran can emerge as a hub for making cricket bats because poplar tree, a basic ingredient, grows in abundance in the district,” said Dilshad Alam (29), who worked at a bat-making factory in Qazigund.Fortunately, they found big logs of poplar trees that had uprooted due to monsoon rains. The workers believe that poplar is as good as English and Kashmiri willow to make bats.However, the biggest deterrent is a lack of finance to give the fledgling unit a mechanised push.“We used to make 12 bats a day in Kashmir. However, our work is at a low key because of the lack of mechanised equipment and the unavailability of dry wood because of the rainy season. But, the sector has the potential to grow in West Champaran district,” said Naushad Alam, another migrant worker.The workers have also approached government officials for financial assistance. “We are satisfied with the bat samples. We will provide necessary financial aid to them,” said Raju Ranjan Shrivastava, circle officer (CO), Gaunaha block.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-migrant-workers-set-up-cricket-bat-manufacturing-unit/story-Iaa9yL1HC2zNMcr6olZprJ.html
18-07-2020||City||BTech course: Punjabi varsity to admit students on basis of Class 12 marks||In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Punjabi University, Patiala, has decided to admit students in tits BTech CSE (computer science and engineering) course for the 2020-2021 academic session on the basis of Class-12 marks instead of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) rankings. A university spokesperson said the department of computer science decided to change the eligibility criteria for the admission to the course for the current session. The merit list will be prepared on the basis of aggregate marks in mathematics, physics as compulsory subjects and chemistry/vocational/biology as optional subjects, he added.For the detailed admission procedure, the student can visit the admission portal https://pupadmissions.ac.in. The decision was taken over uncertainty in conducting the JEE test which is to be held in September.The last date to apply for the course is July 30.Raman Maini, head of the department of computer science, said the CBSE has declared results of senior secondary exams while other boards are also about to announce the same. “The varsity’s decision will help the students and their parents take appropriate decision on time,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/btech-course-punjabi-varsity-to-admit-students-on-basis-of-class-12-marks/story-mBwqEWwgcoyk2Now2hQJmM.html
18-07-2020||City||Days after general secy’s exit, United Akali Dal set to merge with Dhindsa-led outfit||Nearly a week after its general secretary and former Khalistan Commando Force (KCF) chief Wassan Singh Zaffarwal stepped down, the United Akali Dal (UAD), one of the splinter Akali factions, is all set to merge with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) recently formed by Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa.The UAD, floated in 2014 and headed by former Damdami Taksal spokesperson Mohkam Singh, played a key role in organising Sarbat Khalsa (grand Sikh assembly) in November 2015, during which parallel jathedars of Sikh temporal seats were appointed. It got a jolt last year when its co-founder Gurdeep Singh Bathinda and his aides parted ways with Mohkam Singh.Dhindsa floated his party on July 7 but he has remained in touch with the core leadership of the UAD. After paying obeisance at the Golden Temple on July 9, Dhindsa with his son Parminder Singh Dhindsa met Mohkam Singh and other key leaders of the group. However, the merger could not be finalised on the occasion.Sources said the presence of Zaffarwal in the UAD was the main hurdle in the way of the merger as Dhindsa and his aides did not want to court any controversy by taking the former militant into the party fold. Interestingly, Zaffarwal resigned after a few days. Mohkam Singh said, “Our merger with the party led by Dhindsa has been finalised. All kinds of doubts between us have been removed to pave the way for the merger”.“We are ready to ink a pact with anyone to expel those who played a role in committing sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib or who gave shelter to the perpetrators of the sacrilege, from the panthic scene. And we have high hopes for the Dhindsa-led party that it has potential to do this task. So, we are joining it”, he added.A formal announcement of the merger is yet to be made. Sources said efforts are also being made to take the leaders who parted ways with Mohkam Singh into the fold of the Dhindsa-led party.The majority of the UAD leaders have been supporters of the idea of Khalistan, but after floating this party, they abandoned the agenda and vowed to fight for the Anandpur Sahib resolution that was once adopted by SAD advocating more powers to the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/days-after-general-secy-s-exit-united-akali-dal-set-to-merge-with-dhindsa-led-outfit/story-YOKQrOzpL7vKXaejqRd2gI.html
18-07-2020||City||2 Amritsar men held for stoning friend to death after fight over board game||Police have arrested two Amritsar residents for stoning their friend to death after a quarrel over the board game ludo in the Mohkampura area of the city four days ago.The body of Sukhjinder Singh (30) of Mohakmpura was recovered from a pit in Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar on Friday night at the instance of the accused—Vishaldeep Singh of Jaura Fatak and Mani of Mohkampura.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the two.“My brother and the accused entered into a heated argument around 2pm on Tuesday. Sukhjinder broke the front mirror of an e-rickshaw belonging to the accused. Enraged over this, they abducted him,” said Avtar Singh, the victim’s brother.Mohkampura police station in-charge Sukhdev Singh said, “We had registered a complaint of abduction against the accused on Tuesday. After their arrest they told us that they killed the victim before throwing his body. We recovered the decomposed body on Friday night.”The victim was working as an e-rickshaw driver in the city. He is survived by his parents and a brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-amritsar-men-held-for-stoning-friend-to-death-after-fight-over-board-game/story-Q89NPwZgLVoapNmgUglBWO.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||126 Punjab urban bodies likely to go to polls in October||The elections to 126 urban local bodies (ULBs) in Punjab — nine municipal corporations and 117 municipal councils and notified area committees — are likely to be held in the second week of October even as the final decision on it will be taken keeping in view the Covid-19 situation. The state has a total of 167 urban local bodies. In a meeting chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh through video conferencing, the ministers were near unanimous on the issue. Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra is learnt to have suggested October 11 as the date of polling. The Punjab government is expected to recommend the date to the state election commission. As per the Municipal Corporation Act, 1911, the civic bodies must go to the polls within six months of expiry of their term. The terms of these urban bodies concluded between March 8 and April 26. The government has appointed administrators to run the operations of the bodies, including the Mohali, Bathinda, Moga, Batala, Hoshiarpur, Phagwara, Kapurthala and Pathankot municipal corporations. The CM pointed out that the pandemic was projected to peak in the state in September and therefore it would be better to take the developments into account before finalising the date.Sources said discussion was also held to conduct these polls in November if the Covid-19 situation worsens. In the meeting, the possibility of holding the polls in August was ruled out, given the increasing number of cases of infection. It also took note of the fact that crop procurement and the festival season will start in mid-October and thus it would not be feasible to hold the elections at that time. The ministers agreed on holding of elections at the earliest possible while taking all the factors into account.The local bodies minister said in the meeting that his department will complete all formalities related to delimitation of wards by the end of this month. This time, only women will contest from the odd-numbered wards while the even ones will remain open for candidates of both the genders. A decision to this effect was taken last month by Mohindra on the lines of a law passed in 2017 by the Congress government as per which 50% wards should be reserved for women candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/126-punjab-urban-bodies-likely-to-go-to-polls-in-october/story-UWZ7W0ED9QgGlJHGdMtTxI.html
18-07-2020||City||Teachers give thumbs up to CBSE’s decision to use deleted topics in internal assessment||Teachers across the city welcomed Central Board of Secondary Education’s decision to allow affiliated schools, which have already covered topics that are not a part of its revised academic curriculum for classes 9-12, to include them in the 20 marks internal assessment.CBSE had recently revised the curriculum for Classes 9 to 12 and had reduced the syllabus by 30% due to the closure of schools amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The principals of the affiliated schools had stated that teachers had already covered the eliminated topics, and majority of them were interlinked. The teachers had said that the board should have taken the decision in April when the new academic session had begun.The board, in a recent circular, has clarified that if any school has covered topics that are not a part of the revised curriculum for the session 2020-21, they can include them in the internal assessment and the credit to students should be given for board exams 2021.Now, the teachers have been directed to cover these topics by devoting less time and to inform students that these topics will be covered under internal assessment. In Class 12 English, out of 16 chapters and six poems, six lessons and one poem have been deleted.Anupam Baghria, post graduate teacher (PGT) in English at Nankana Sahib Public School, said, “We have already covered literature topics including ‘Poets and pancakes’, ‘The interview’; and poem ‘The roadside stand’ from Flamingo. From Vistas, ‘Journey to the end of earth’ and ‘The tiger king’ and in writing tasks, posters and speech have already been done in class. Now we will cover these topics in the internal assessment which is of 20 marks.”She said, “In Class 10, we have covered first two poems—‘How to tell wild animals and trees from first flight’ and first two chapters from Footprints without feet- ‘The midnight visitor’ and ‘A question of trust’. In grammar, preposition and passive voice topics have been covered.”In physics, the board has removed a few topics from selective chapters. Nishad, a physics teacher at BCM School, Basant Avenue, Dugri, said, “From few chapters, one or two topics have been removed. But in physics, every topic is interlinked with the other so it is very important to cover all topics, otherwise, students will not able to understand concepts. I am trying my best to cover all topics and will spend less time on those which have been removed.” Out of 14 chapters, the board has removed various topics and experiments from 10 chapters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teachers-give-thumbs-up-to-cbse-s-decision-to-use-deleted-topics-in-internal-assessment/story-dSa8obYN350eeaX2wwoglI.html
18-07-2020||City||Ludhiana industrialists slam PSERC over collection of fixed charges||Reeling under slowdown, local industrialists have slammed the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) for collecting fixed charges for two months starting from March 23, which were earlier waived off by the state government.In April, the state government had announced that no fixed charges would be levied on large and medium units for two months starting from March 23. However the PSERC, through its orders dated July 17, has announced that charges cannot be waived off and would be collected in six installments starting from September.President of All Industries and Trade Forum (AITF), Badish Jindal said that the state government has committed fraud with the industry by making fake announcements. “If the government is committed for the betterment of the industry then it should announce a subsidy equal to the fixed charges which have to be recovered from the industry,” said Jindal adding that the industry is being forced to pay fixed charges for the lockdown period. President of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), Gurmeet Singh Kular and general secretary Rajeev Jain said that the industry would not be able to bear the charges at this time of crisis when the units are being run at 30% capacity due to shortage of labour and economy slowdown. “The government should rather waive off the fixed charges for a year so that the industry could come back on track,” he said adding that PSERC should add another licensee for distribution of power as it would create competition and the charges would also be reduced.The members of the Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association have also demanded that the PSERC should be dissolved and the state government should announce relief for the industry.President of the association, Jaswinder Thukral said, “The PSERC is putting a burden of crores of rupees on the public in terms of infrastructure and salaries, but it has never provided relief to residents. The state government should dissolve the PSERC and waive off fixed charges till March next year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-industrialists-slam-pserc-over-collection-of-fixed-charges/story-pOvtAUPLimwEsRGSN1w6yM.html
18-07-2020||City||OTS policy for unauthorised construction on hold, violations continue unchecked||Patiala With the Punjab local government department holding back implementation of One-Time Settlement (OTS) of non-compoundable violations in unauthorised construction on hold for over one year now, violations continue unabated. Under the policy, illegal buildings that sprung up in the state before June 30, 2018, were to be regularised. The policy was conceptualised during the tenure of former local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, but was put in cold storage after Brahm Mohindra took charge in June 2019. Mohindra termed the policy as faulty and asked officials to revise it before re-implementing it.Mohindra says the policy was held back as it received a lukewarm response. “Around 400 applications were received under the policy. However the number of buildings expected to be covered under the policy is in lakhs,” Mohindra said.Overall, the regularisation policy was meant to ensure that existing unauthorised buildings were aligned with parking, fire and safety standards across the state, as it was no longer feasible for the government to demolish such buildings.“The policy was meant to check illegal construction and help state’s local bodies generate revenue by regularising such appointments. Over time, the policy lost sheen,” an official said, on the condition of anonymity. Mohindra added, “We are consolidating suggestions for redrafting of the policy, which is in the final stages,” he said, adding that the new policy envisages that the applicant shall have to make structural changes in the building, if required, to fulfil the requirement of fire safety and parking within a period of two months from the date of submission of details and shall also submit mandatory clearances from other departments.Building by-laws prove ineffectiveTo check the mushrooming of unauthorised buildings under Urban Local Bodies (ULB) limits, the Punjab local government department had introduced new building by-laws in December 2018. However, these by-laws have turned out to be ineffective with rampant violations being reported. The new rules state that in the case of unauthorised development, the authority shall take suitable action which may include demolition of unauthorised works, sealing of premises, prosecution and criminal proceedings against the offender. Municipal employees, who by their act of commission or omission have allowed unauthorised construction, will also be liable for similar action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ots-policy-for-unauthorised-construction-on-hold-violations-continue-unchecked/story-UY2zng3k79wlUXSuGSKn1L.html
18-07-2020||City||Online pet registration gets lukewarm response in Ludhiana||The online registration of pet dogs and cats initiated by the municipal corporation has received a lukewarm response in the city with only 155 residents getting their pet dogs registered. Of 155, only around 24 residents have collected the tokens. Any pet without a licence and MC token will be taken away by the civic body. Requesting anonymity, an MC official said, “The response is quite low due to the lack of awareness among the residents. The last date to apply for registration of pets is December 31. Due to a rise in Covid-19 cases, the residents are hesitant in visiting the MC office to collect tokens.”MC senior veterinary officer, Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “The civic body is spreading awareness among the residents through animal lovers. The residents should make sure that they collect the token from MC Zone A office and tie it around the neck of their pet. This exercise would also help the MC in finding the owner of the pet in case a pet is lost or abandoned,” said Dr Dhalla.Commencing pet registration in the city on June 25 against the annual fee of ₹400, the MC directed the residents to register their pet dogs and cats by December 31, failing to which a penalty of ₹4,000 would be imposed on the owner for each pet. The initiative was also opposed by the few NGOs and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) stating that the MC should not have levied another tax on the residents at this time of crisis.Residents can visit suvidha kendras for pets’ registration To facilitate residents, who face difficulty in the online registration process, the MC has decided to depute staff at suvidha kendras.Dr Dahlla said, “The staff, which would be deputed at suvidha kendras from Monday onwards to help residents in completing the online process. A pet owner needs to submit a copy of his Aadhaar card, self-photo, pet’s photo “ For registering the pets online, owners can visit the MC’s website (mcludhiana.gov.in).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-pet-registration-gets-lukewarm-response-in-ludhiana/story-BCRokxEsb0cJQP2KoCrXVI.html
18-07-2020||City||Head constable changes FIR for bribe of ₹50,000; held||In yet another blow to the Punjab government’s battle against drugs, a head constable was found to have changed an entire FIR to benefit a drug peddler in exchange of ₹50,000 bribe.The cop has been identified as Surinder Kumar, deputed at the Kaganwal police post. As per an inquiry, Kumar had disposed of the cannabis recovered from a peddler and showed 12 bottles of illicit liquor as the recovery. The case was thus registered under the Excise Act instead of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, allowing the accused to apply for bail. It may be mentioned that cases under the Excise Act are bailable offences while those under the NDPS Act are non-bailable.When the matter came to the knowledge of police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, he marked an inquiry to assistant commissioner of police (ACP, South) Jashandeep Singh. The inquiry revealed that the head constable had recovered 500-gm cannabis but he registered the case under the NDPS Act after receiving a bribe of ₹50,000. The cop has now been arrested under Prevention of Corruption Act and around ₹8,000 of the bribe money has been recovered from his possession. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the head constable has been suspended with immediate effect and a departmental inquiry has also been marked.The accused in the drug peddling case, Sanjay Upadhyay, is also in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/head-constable-changes-fir-for-bribe-of-50-000-held/story-r4VnZuDebLtq8h4K0BxW3N.html
18-07-2020||City||Mare owners lose their share thanks to low-key weddings||Once an integral part of the ‘baraat’, mare owners are finding themselves out of business as the social distancing requirements in view of the Covid-19 outbreak has forced people to go for low-key weddings.What’s adding to their woes is that they have to spend a huge amount on the upkeep mares even as there are no earnings. “I have 15 wedding mares and spend around Rs 2,000 a day to buy fodder. With no cash inflow, this is becoming increasingly difficult,” says Darshan Lal Pappu, who has been in the business for the last 25 years. He says that they were getting bookings until April but once the state government imposed a 30-guest limit in July, people started opting out. “People are either postponing their weddings or leaving out the brass band and mares,” he says, adding, “The months of April, November and December are crucial for us as this is when most of the weddings take place. If the restrictions continue, I am not sure how our families will survive.”One of his employees, Gulshan, says, “Each mare service provider employs at least 15-20 people. Most of us do not have any other skill. How will we provide for our families if we don’t get work?”Naresh Kumar, a mare service provider on Noorwala road, says, “There are no buyers for mares. Otherwise we could have earned at least Rs 50,000-60,000 by selling one mare.”He added that the state government should ease the curbs on wedding gatherings or else they would die of starvation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mare-owners-lose-their-share-thanks-to-low-key-weddings/story-PwsdLOkIvVrLAcQpbzuOVJ.html
18-07-2020||City||Traders suffer as contractor fails to take possession of parking lot at Feroze Gandhi market||As the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has removed its staff from the parking lot at Feroze Gandhi market after awarding the contract, the parking contractor has failed to take possession of the lot citing low footfall and scarcity of funds. Members of the market association said that as many people visit the market on a daily basis, the parking lots have been abandoned by the civic body and contractor for three weeks now. Due to this, visitors park on roadsides, leading to traffic snarls.This has also forced the market association to deploy two of their staff members at the parking lot. The members said that the two staffers are unable to manage the entire parking lot. The market association president, PS Gill, said, “The indifferent behavior of the MC authorities is taking a toll on the shopkeepers and the visitors in the market. If the contractor has failed to take possession, then the MC should continue managing it to avoid chaos. Visitors park their vehicles haphazardly which results in heated arguments.”A trader Amanjot Singh said, “Due to the ongoing pandemic, the market is witnessing minimal footfall. But the visitors still face trouble in finding space to park their vehicles. The MC should manage lots till the time the contractor takes over as it becomes the duty of the civic body.” The Finance and Contracts Committee (F and CC) of MC had approved the resolution to allot parking contracts for the Feroze Gandhi market and Sarabha Nagar block-I market on June 9 for ₹1.10 crore and ₹4.5 lakh respectively. Following this, the contractor was asked to take possession of the lot. MC to cancel firm’s contractMC Secretary, Neeraj Jain said, “The contractor has failed to take possession of the parking lots despite repeated reminders. Now a proposal has been forwarded to the F and CC of the MC to terminate the parking contracts and forfeit the earnest money submitted by the contractor. The final decision has to be taken by the F and CC. The MC cannot legally depute its staff at the lot as it has been allotted to a contractor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traders-suffer-as-contractor-fails-to-take-possession-of-parking-lot-at-feroze-gandhi-market/story-ftTst5a3NbuQHyt6XZrtqK.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||#AskCaptain session: Won’t take an inch of forest land for Mattewara industrial park: Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday made it clear that not a single tree will be uprooted and not an inch of the forest land will be taken for the development of industrial park at Mattewara in Ludhiana.During his interaction, #AskCaptain on Facebook, the CM said statements made by people suggesting that the forest will be destroyed are untrue. He added that government has taken 955 acre land of animal husbandry, horticulture department and gram panchayat. The acquired land does not include even an inch of the 2,300 acre Mattewara forest, he said.He allayed apprehensions that waste from the industrial park will be discharged into Sutlej river and said a common effluent treatment plant will be set up as per latest central government norms.The aim behind developing the industrial park here is to create a vibrant industrial estate where residents of Ludhiana and nearby areas can get jobs, he added.On covid, the CM urgd everyone to take precautions, wear mask and adhere to other safety norms to check further spread of the disease in Punjab.Responding to concerns of Amit Kumar of Rajpura, who said people in his town are not wearing masks even in crowded markets and police are only checking a few spot, the CM assured that strict action will be taken against the violators. He urged people to contact hospitals on first sign of symptoms or suspicion of covid infection.To a question from Amarjeet Singh of Anandpur Sahib, Captain said Sunday curfew is not being enforced now as many people need to leave home for work.Terming the rates for covid treatment fixed for private hospitals too high, Sewak Singh of Ludhiana, said it is beyond the reach of common man. The CM pointed out that the rates being charged by the private hospitals so far were exorbitant and that Rs 18,000 per day is for critical patients only. Government hospitals have all facilities, which they are providing at affordable costs, he added.Responding to Faridkot’s Gagandeep Singh, he said two SITs are investigating the Bargari case and he is hopeful that the probe will be completed soon. “No guilty person will be spared,” he said.The CM announced a two-month extension for the `Mission Warrior’ covid mass awareness campaign.Meanwhile, he said that his government has spent Rs 50 crore on flood management measures including cleaning of drains to check flooding during monsoon. He said cleaning of 1,400km of total 2,100km drain lines in state is complete and the rest is being done expeditiously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/askcaptain-session-won-t-take-an-inch-of-forest-land-for-mattewara-industrial-park-punjab-cm/story-mHrWoUW2eZLhC9RWiagIaL.html
18-07-2020||City||About 67% construction work on govt college building completed||About 67% of construction work on the new building of the Government College Ludhiana (East) is complete and classes will be started from December. This was stated by MLA Sanjay Talwar who visited the site situated opposite the Vardhman Mill on the Chandigarh Road here on Saturday. Talwar along with Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal of Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College, inspected the site and asked the executive engineer of the public works department to complete the pending work by December.“The construction work on the administrative block will be completed in the next four months, while that of arts and science block has completed. The contractor has been asked to complete the flooring, landscaping and proper leveling of the ground of the college,” said Talwar.On being asked why the contractor hasn’t been paid, he said that the finance department will transfer the funds soon. The construction of the building on the five-acre land started on November 3, 2018, and the construction of the project suffered owing to the unprecedented outbreak of Covid-19.“As new staff has to be appointed, I will take up the matter with the higher education minister,” said Talwar.In June, the construction work on the new building of the government college (east), came to a halt due to the paucity of funds.The foundation stone of the building was laid at the site on January 28, 2018. On April 11, 2018, a team comprising the director, public instructions (colleges), former deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal and other officers inspected a community centre at Jamalpur to start BA part 1 and part 2 classes temporarily from there. Students of these classes were supposed to be later shifted to the new college. However, the higher education department permitted SCD Government College authorities to conduct an online admission process in 2018. The college admitted 80 students each of first and second years of Bachelor of Arts (BA) and classes have been conducted in the SCD Government College for the past two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/about-67-construction-work-on-govt-college-building-completed/story-h2lRkVdlD5I9ylVMYuYgjP.html
18-07-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||WEEKEND CURFEW A SCARE, NOT REALITY, IN CHANDIGARHIt’s been a month, with every war room review meeting comes the warning that if Chandigarh residents don’t follow social distancing norms and other precautions, the UT administration will impose weekend curfew or limited time lockdown. “A threat or warning loses its scare value if it’s repeated too often without being implemented. That’s what is happening to the weekend curfew warning by the administration,” said a UT official, requesting anonymity.MOHALI DISTRICT PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICE IS SHORT OF HANDSAt a time when Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Mohali, a key government department vital for facilitating information dissemination, the district public relations office, is struggling with staff shortage. There are only two staffers manning the office, the district public relations officer (DPRO) and a photographer. The assistant PRO and a clerk have been promoted and transferred. The clerk deputed for the office is on long leave. It’s time the authorities took note.NO CONCESSION FOR UT ENGINEERING DEPT EMPLOYEESWhile the UT administration issued directions to curtail the staff strength at the secretariat to 50% due to the Covid-19 pandemic, engineering department employees, whose offices are also in the deluxe and additional deluxe buildings of the secretariat, have not got any such concession. “Engineering department employees still report for duty in full strength. The UT order came in the wake of the 11 Covid-19 cases in the education department in the additional deluxe building. The education department staffers were asked not to come to office as it was being sanitised. Some engineering department offices are housed in the same building yet there is no concession for them,” said a disappointed UT engineering employee, requesting anonymity.SET UP MEN’S COMMISSION FOR GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL, TOOA resident of Chandigarh , locked in a matrimonial dispute, wants a commission for protecting the rights of men to be set up on the lines of the women’s commission in every state. Having been married for 21 years, the couple’s relations turned sour recently. The man approached the police with a complaint against his wife for walking away with cash, jewellery and property papers. He says had there been a commission in place to listen to the grievances of men, police intervention would not be required.COMING SOON, YOUR E-CHALLAN BY SPEED POSTChandigarh Traffic Police recently signed a memorandum of understanding with the Indian Postal Service regarding their e-challaning system. Deputy inspector general of police (DIG, Traffic) Shashank Anand said, “We will be sending e-challans through speed post to the offenders. Letters were being sent out before, but speed posts will make it possible to send the challans to offenders in other states while ensuring they receive them.” The traffic police are sending SMSes to offenders as well. Traffic violators can now pay these challans online through the newly launched website of the traffic police.TOO MANY HONOURS FOR CORONA WARRIORSWhile some associations held events to honour Covid-19 warriors, including sweepers, resident welfare association (RWA) heads and policemen, for their selfless service during these challenging times, some RWA heads said this is not the time for honours. “Rather, it’s the time to stay at home as much as possible. Such honours can be delayed for a few months. It is a sombre time rather than one to congratulate each other,” a member of the Chandigarh Resident Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) said.GMCH SECURITY GUARDS CONTRIBUTE FOR COLLEAGUE’S KINColleagues of Shyam Sundar Pandey, a security guard at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, who succumbed to injuries after he was beaten up for preventing crowding at the emergency as part of the Covid-19 guidelines last week, have come forward to contribute money for the family. Nearly 300 security guards are paying Rs 300 each even as the process of compensation through government agencies is being completed. UT health secretary Arun Gupta said that the guard was hired through an outsourced agency and compensation will be provided to his family.GOOD SAMARITAN’S THOUGHTFUL GESTURE FOR NEEDY CHILDREN ON PU CAMPUSA Good Samaritan, who had heard about Panjab University students teaching children of migrant workers, had come to pay them a visit last week. A PU teacher said that last Sunday, the person was looking for the children and visited all four sites on the campus where the classes are held in the open. Though he was unable to meet the children, he left behind the stationery and other useful items for the children.(Inputs by Munieshwer A Sagar, Hillary Victor, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh Salyal and Dar Ovais)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-wWE0UfSDFVk0NbFfBQ0pEP.html
18-07-2020||Dehradun||174 fresh Covid-19 cases take Uttarakhand’s tally over 1,000||With 174 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday, Uttarakhand’s active case tally once again breached the 1000 mark with the state’s total case tally increasing to 4,276, said state health department officials.A 52-year-old man undergoing treatment at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh who tested positive for Covid-19 on July 15, died on Saturday. The health bulletin issued by the state health department stated that the cause of death was cardiac arrest due to respiratory failure.With this death, 52 Covid-19 positive people have died in the state so far. However, only seven deaths out of 52 have been attributed to Covid-19 infection by state health department officials, while in the rest of the cases, the cause is either co-morbidly or other ailments. Of 174 fresh cases reported on Saturday, maximum 50 were from Dehradun district, followed by Almora (7), Haridwar (27), Nainital (36), Pithoragarh (3), Tehri Garhwal (3) US Nagar (45) and Uttarkashi (3).With 50 fresh cases in Dehradun district, the tally of overall positive cases crossed the 1000 in the district, the maximum for any district in the state.Thirty-one cases reported on Saturday were found to be close contacts of earlier detected positive cases. Eight healthcare workers from different districts and 10 army personnel from Dehradun tested positive. Others had returned to the state from places like Delhi-NCR, West Bengal, Kerala, Punjab, Goa, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. On Saturday, 60 Covid-19 patients were also discharged from hospitals in different districts with maximum 38 patients in US Nagar district.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 25.74 days, while the infection rate is 4.09%. The state has so far tested 1.16 lakh samples of which results of over 8100 are awaited.The state currently has 97 containment zones in four districts, with maximum 61 in Haridwar district, followed by 25 in US Nagar district, 7 in Dehradun and 4 in Uttarkashi district.Meanwhile, Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) state spokesperson Prakash Rawat and Nainital party district president Pradeep Bisht tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. They have been isolated at Sushila Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani informed officials.Dr. Rashmi Pant, additional chief medical officer of Nainital said “BJP leaders Prakash Rawat and Pradeep Bisht tested covid-19 positive on Saturday. They had recently complained of fever and were tested subsequently. The leaders have been isolated at Sushila Tiwari Hospital and we have also started the process of tracing their close contacts.”Senior officials from the party are assessing the situation after which any decision on closing the Kumaon region party office will be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/174-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-uttarakhand-s-tally-over-1-000/story-RPB8Vek0SyLnncn1rRwOiI.html
18-07-2020||City||Sanitisation, cleaning intensified in Gautam Budh Nagar to prevent Covid-19 spread||The Greater Noida authority on Saturday launched two-day special drive to sanitize and clean all areas of the city, particularly containment zones, to prevent the Covid-19 spread. The authority will also take measures to ensure no waterlogging takes place during the ongoing monsoon season, officials said.“Our objective is to ensure proper cleanliness in all sectors of the city. We have also intensified the sanitization drive in all containment zones in order to prevent the spread of infection,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 preparations in Gautam Budh Nagar.The move comes after the Uttar Pradesh government’s directive that on Saturday and Sunday of every week, the local authorities in each city should intensify the sanitization and cleanliness drive to fight the coronavirus outbreak. Notably, the state government has announced the weekend lockdown across the state to contain the Covid-19 spread. The authority officials said that the state government has also asked the local authorities to continue with cleaning drive, along with sanitization, to ensure diseases like dengue and malaria can be contained during the rainy season.Bhooshan has directed the staff to carry out sanitization, fogging and cleaning in each sector and village, including containment zones, during the special drive. The officials said that two general managers of Greater Noida authority -- one each for western and eastern parts of the city -- have been asked to look after the weekly drive.“If anybody found not carrying their duties properly as per the assignment given, then the authority will take legal action as per rules,” said Bhooshan. He said that on Monday a team will carry out an inspection in all the sectors and villages to check if the sanitization, fogging and cleaning work is done properly or not.“If the work done is not found satisfactory, then action will be initiated against that particular official responsible to take care of the job,” said Bhooshan, who warned staff of action via video conferencing on Friday evening.In Greater Noida, there are around 50 containment zones, the officials said. In Noida too, the Noida authority started a special drive to clean, sanitize and conduct fogging across the city on two lockdown days. It conducted special drive in sectors 14, 15, 16, 21, 25, 26, 28, 29, 91, 92, 117, 119 and 120, among others, on Saturday. The authority is also spraying anti-larval chemicals to prevent dengue and malaria, officials said. The Noida authority additional chief executive officer who is monitoring the special drive on Saturday conducted an inspection in several areas, the officials said. “We are carrying out a two-day special drive to sanitize and clean the city. The drive will help us contain the Covid-19 infection, dengue and malaria. We are implementing the instructions of the state government properly,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of Noida authority.There are about 250 containment zones in Noida, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sanitisation-cleaning-intensified-in-gautam-budh-nagar-to-prevent-covid-19-spread/story-36jnJuMAG4O7OrV7LWaSfM.html
18-07-2020||Noida||Noida: Two rob 32-year-old man on way to hospital, one suspect nabbed in police encounter||A 32-year-old man on his way to a hospital was robbed of his phone on Saturday allegedly by two motorcycle-borne men, one of whom was later nabbed by Noida police in an encounter. The arrested suspect was injured in his leg in the exchange of fire, the police said.According to police officers, the incident took place around 6m near the sector 28-29 intersection when the victim, Yogesh Singh, was on his way to a private hospital in Sector 27 to visit an ailing relative.In his complaint to the police, Singh alleged that he was on the phone when the two suspects came from behind on a motorcycle and snatched away his iPhone. They took a u-turn and fled towards the road leading to GIP mall, Singh said in his complaint. He said he then took help from a morning walker to report the matter to the police. He also said that the vehicle’s number plate was partially obscured, and he shared the partial registration number with the police.The information was shared with the patrolling vehicles and check posts were set up, said the police.“The suspects were spotted near Sector 18 and when asked to stop, they fled towards the multi-level parking. After being cornered by our team, they fired at the police personnel. One of the suspects was injured in the retaliatory firing while the other managed to flee,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh. The police said the stolen phone was recovered from the suspect, identified as Sajid (single name),25, who is from Trilokpuri, Delhi. Another phone that had been stolen in 2019 from the Sector 20 police jurisdiction was also recovered from the suspect along with a countrymade pistol and the R15 motorcycle used in the snatching, they added.So far, the police have identified 18 cases of robbery, theft and loot against Sajid in Delhi and Noida, while a search is on for his accomplice and other gang members.Sajid was taken to the district hospital for the treatment of his bullet injury, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-two-rob-32-year-old-man-on-way-to-hospital-one-suspect-nabbed-in-police-encounter/story-mB0mzNzQfQdyxiQojwGVlN.html
18-07-2020||City||Body set on fire to cover up murder, another one found in canal in Greater Noida||The half burnt body of a man in his thirties was retrieved late Friday from a burning structure in the Badalpur area. The body has been sent for an autopsy.According to police, a call was made to the police helpline saying that there was a fire in a field in village Kodi Khera. When a team reached the spot, the half-burnt body of a man was pulled from a structure in the field that was on fire. The fire department was called in to control the fire.“Efforts are on to identify the man. But prima facie it seems that he was first killed and then the structure with the body inside set on fire to cover up the murder and the victim’s identify,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander. Police said they have identified the owner of the land and will question him. Meanwhile, efforts are on to identify the body.“The body has been sent for an autopsy and we will know more once the report comes in,” said the DCP.A second body, that of a woman in her thirties, was found in a canal in Badalpur area. Police said the body may have floated down from somewhere upstream and efforts are on to identify it. The information was shared with the police on Saturday morning when locals spotted the body. The body has been sent for an autopsy to ascertain a cause of death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-set-on-fire-to-cover-up-murder-another-one-found-in-canal-in-greater-noida/story-IiGLvhwROkdni6sqn4kAaI.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Thane Covid-19 bills audit shows Rs 27L overcharged by hospitals, refund ordered||The Thane Municipal Corporation has asked private hospitals in the city to refund patients Rs 27 lakh which was found to be excess billing in an audit conducted by the civic body amid the coronavirus outbreak.The amount is a cumulative one from 196 objectionable cases found in a preliminary audit of 1,752 bills, and there were more rounds to follow, a TMC official said on Saturday.“Of the 1,752 bills, 486 payments were probed and we found 196 to be objectionable or in excess of service rendered. The respective hospitals have been asked to refund the money,” the official informed.The audit of bills handed down to patients in 15 private hospitals was ordered by recently-appointed civic chief Vipin Sharma, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-covid-19-hospital-bill-audit-shows-overcharging-of-rs-27l-refund-ordered/story-nhB9229F7k15ZARwvn8ViJ.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dismissal of physical trainers triggers protests, social distancing goes for a toss as thousands gather in Jind||Social distancing guidelines were thrown to the wind in Jind as thousands of people, including two independent legislators - Mehram’s Balraj Kundu and Dadri’s Sombir Sangwan, protested against the sacking of 1,983 physical training instructors after a Supreme Court order on June 1. The trainers organised a statewide rally and got support from around three dozen khaps. Not only did people not mainatain social distancing, they also did not wear face masks. Independent MLA from Dadri, Sombir Sangwan, who is also head of Sangwan Khap said chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar should use his legislative powers and reinstate the services of the sacked PTIs.“ If our demands are not met. I will not hesitate to protest against the chief minister and his government for the sake of our brotherhood and society”, he said.Sarv khap national president Nafe Singh Nain said the Khap bodies had extended their support to the protesting instructors and the government cannot ignore the voice of the teachers. “If the government does not reinstate the services of PTIs , the khap bodies will launch a stir against the BJP- JJP government across the state from July 25”, he added.Meham MLA Balraj Kundu urged the protesting teachers not to demand their rights, he asked them to snatch their rights by defeating BJP-JJP candidate in the upcoming Baroda byelection.“ I urge you all to defeat BJP-JJP candidate in the Baroda byelection, the chief minister himself will come to you and ask you to rejoin services,” Kundu added.PTI union vice-president Vazir Gangoli said they had violated the social distancing protocol by organising the rally as the government had snatched their job.“If we will not protest, we will die of hunger rather than the virus. The khaps have extended support to us and they will launch a stir in our favour. The government betrayed us by taking our jobs after ten years and stopped the pension of widows,” he said.POLICE, ADMN MUTE SPECTATORSAs per information, the police and Jind district administration tried to convince teachers to not hold the rally but their appeal was ignored. The police and administration remained mute spectators as thousands of people took part in the packed rally.Jind tehsildar Manoj Ahlawat said the protesting teachers had violated social distancing norms and strict action will be taken against those who had taken part in the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dismissal-of-physical-trainers-triggers-protests-social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-as-thousands-gather-in-jind/story-sAa86gWHfVliMMsc43RS2L.html
18-07-2020||City||Punjab local govt dept to lift ban on building independent floors on plots||Chandigarh To boost real estate sector in the state and earn more revenue, the Punjab local government department is all set to lift the ban on construction of independent floors on individual plots by builders. This has been a major demand of small builders in the state. The department had banned passing maps of these buildings categorised as ‘Ground plus two floors’ and ‘stilt plus three floors’ on July 2, 2019. Stilt plus three floors mean the ground floor will be meant for parking.“The builders/ developers get plans sanctioned for a row of contagious units by showing each as a separate unit, whereas in reality they are part of a larger project,” the then director local bodies, Karunesh Sharma had said. Small builders have been resentful over this move and had given numerous representations to local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, after which the department has now decided to review the decision. According to the department’s calculations, pending maps of these floors can earn the department Rs 40-50 crore in the form of various charges“By allowing this activity, the department aims to give a push to the depressed construction sector. A boom in construction can boost economy, especially in times of covid-19. I have directed officials to make sure all rules are followed while allowing such construction. I am also holding a meeting with big builders soon to sort out all issues,” said Mohindra.A senior department functionary said these constructions had been allowed only after taking legal opinion. “Interestingly, the department’s letter last year had no mention of ban on Ground plus two floors. Now, because other categories were banned, ULBs had also banned Ground plus two floors,” a senior official claimed.This officer claimed that now the department has decided to issue a clarification to the ULBs to allow construction and has defined few new rules, with the local bodies director to issue formal orders. MANDATORY RERA REGISTRATION AMONG NEW RULESAs per the draft of the clarification, while allowing this activity, the new rules say the ULBs must ensure that there is no violation of building bylaws and every such project should be registered with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). Another guideline is that builder must obtain Change of Land Use (CLU) and licence for the purpose and there should not be any violation of RERA and the layout plan must be approved by the Competent Authority before construction of such independent floors.The builder has to pay external development charges, CLU licence and processing fee charges as applicable to the Group Housing Projects and there should be no financial loss to the local bodies and the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-local-govt-dept-to-lift-ban-on-building-independent-floors-on-plots/story-EwEw4xbYDNW0kVoDKJey0J.html
18-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka sees another record spurt with 4,537 new Covid-19 cases||Even as Covid-19 cases continued to rise in Karnataka and more so in its capital Bangalore despite a lockdown - imposed for a week since 14 July - the Karnataka government decided to replace the Commissioner of Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). Senior IAS officer N Manjunatha Prasad who was the principal secretary to the revenue department has been posted as the new Commissioner of BBMP while the incumbent B H Anil Kumar has been transferred as Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Public Enterprises.Opposition Congress party has been alleging corruption in hiring and purchase of equipment -- both medical and non-medical -- required to treat Covid patients and has repeatedly asked for the government to release a whitepaper on the whole issue. The government has denied the charges and said that the opposition leaders are welcome to look at any files relating to this and the focus right now is on fighting the spread of the virus.The government had also been heavily criticised by the opposition for the poor manner in which the pandemic was being handled in the state capital leading to a ten fold spurt in cases in the city over the last three weeks. Speaking to the media the new commissioner Prasad said “We will take steps to address any shortcomings or defects in the system which are there. We are contemplating using city transport bus drivers as ambulance drivers to ensure better availability of it.”Meanwhile Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa who met with Private Medical College Hospitals on Saturday regarding Covid management directed them to provide 50 percent of the beds for Covid care to the government as promised, with effect from Sunday itself.The CM asked the private medical college hospitals to cooperate with the government as there is a sharp rise in Covid cases in the city. He also expressed concern that some institutes are denying treatment for Covid as well as non-Covid patients and conveyed his dismay over some colleges not providing the number of beds as promised. The private colleges and hospitals had promised to provide 4,500 beds for Covid care.On Saturday, Karnataka registered 4,537 new Covid cases taking the cumulative total to 59,652 cases which includes 21,775 discharges and 1,240 deaths. Bangalore, as has been the pattern in the recent past, accounted for the bulk of the spike recording 2125 new cases taking the total active cases in the city to 22,449. The capital city of Karnataka now accounts for more than 60 percent of all active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-sees-another-record-spurt-with-4-537-new-covid-19-cases/story-vskEaYIxy1KVVAjZKYcYhO.html
18-07-2020||City||Two held for killing Dalit sarpanch in Rohtak village||Police on Saturday arrested two people for killing a 75-year-old Dalit sarpanch of Rohtak’s Chiri village at his house on Thursday night.Superintendent of police (SP) Rahul Sharma said the accused were arrested from Khranti road in the district on Saturday. Sarpanch Balkrishan was shot dead while he was having dinner with his wife. The accused Kapil and Pawan Kumar of Chiri village will be produced before the court on Monday.“During questioning, Kapil confessed that he had fired shots at the sarpanch since he was repeatedly asking him to deposit the amount of panchayat land taken on rent for sowing. We are investigating the role of other suspects in the case, the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-killing-dalit-sarpanch-in-rohtak-village/story-FP0IRZnXZp1FXMPxTAEoDL.html
18-07-2020||City||Panipat double-murder: Police clueless about culprits||Police have failed to get any clue about the accused involved in the murder of a 46-year-old woman and her 17-year-old daughter at Panipat’s Indira Vihar colony.The deceased Rani and her daughter Anjali were found dead with multiple injuries in their house on Friday. The incident took place late in the evening and the victims’ bodies were spotted in a pool of blood by some neighbours who informed the police.Model Town police station in-charge Sunil Kumar said, “As of now, there is no clue about the accused and it is a blind case. However, the investigation is on.” He said the police teams are looking at the footage from the CCTV cameras installed in the locality.As per the information, Rani’s son Ankush was in jail for his alleged involvement in the murder of one Indrish Kumar , who was said to have been in a live-in relationship with Rani. Her husband had committed suicide a few years ago and her two elders sisters were already married.“Ankush had admitted to the crime since he was against his mother’s relationship with Indrish,” the police official said.Panipat superintendent of police Manisha Chaudhary did not respond to calls and text messages. An FIR has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against unknown accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panipat-double-murder-police-clueless-about-culprits/story-JpwOsdOXuh8TGGMzuIidSM.html
18-07-2020||Patna||‘Explosive’: Bihar’s Nitish govt gets flak from LJP, Jharkhand CM over Covid-19 situation in state||The Nitish Kumar-led government in Bihar is getting it from all sides, including Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and also its Jharkhand counterpart, for alleged mismanagement of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.LJP chief Chirag Paswan tweeted on Saturday, describing the Covid-19 outbreak in Bihar as “explosive”, taking a cue from Lalu Prasad, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief and a thorn in chief minister Kumar’s flesh. “The way Covid-19 is spreading its tentacles in Bihar and turning the situation explosive is a matter of serious concern for the people of the state,” tweeted Chirag, a Member of Parliament (MP) from Jamui and son of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan.Chirag, however, lauded the Centre’s decision to dispatch a team of experts to bring the situation under control in Bihar.Bihar is in the grip of a Covid-19 crisis, as recent data showed.On Friday, 1,750 tested Covid-19 positive – the highest single-day spike to date – of the 10,273 swab samples tested. The state has reported over 23,500 Covid-19 positive cases to date.CM Kumar also got a mouthful from his Jharkhand counterpart, Hemant Soren, who blamed Bihar for the viral outbreak scourge in his home state.“The Bihar government should think as to how its residents are coming to Jharkhand, despite partial lockdown restrictions,” Soren said on the sidelines of an event at Ranchi on Saturday.Supiryo Bhattacharya, general secretary, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), too, alleged that Covid-19 positive cases were on an upswing in Ranchi and Jamshedpur that have rail connectivity with Bihar.Akhilesh Prasad Singh, a Rajya Sabha member of the Congress, also blamed the state government’s ineptness for Bihar’s Covid-19 crisis.The ruling coalition, including Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party, however, attributed the spike to aggressive testing.“Cases are rising, but nobody needs to worry much about it, as the state and the Central governments are working in tandem to control the situation,” said Rajiv Ranjan, spokesperson, JD (U).On Soren’s assertion, Ranjan said that those occupying the constitutional posts should not make any comment that could outrage sentiments of any sections of the society. “It would also be politically disastrous for the party (JMM) to disrespect the people of Bihar, where it wants to contest the polls,” said the JD(U) leader.The JMM is likely to contest the upcoming Bihar polls slated to be held in October-November.BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said that the “proxy” tweets of Prasad did not belong to him and was out of context in light of the serious effort that the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is making to rein in the pandemic.“The Centre is providing every possible help and also sending its team to Bihar, which is a welcome step. A pandemic like Covid-19 can be tackled with the collective effort of both the central and state governments,” he said while skirting any reference to the LJP chief’s tweet on the state’s “explosive” viral outbreak situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/explosive-bihar-s-nitish-govt-gets-flak-from-ljp-jharkhand-cm-over-covid-19-situation-in-state/story-TpESCOd96A0pWAGjRMhmMK.html
18-07-2020||Kolkata||Only 13% Covid-19 patients in Bengal needs hospitalization: State health department||Only 13% of the total number of active Covid-19 patients in West Bengal needs to be hospitalized, said a statement issued by the state home department urging citizens not to get panicky.At present there are 14,709 active Covid-19 patients in the state out of which only 662 are in serious category. Around 1250 patients fall in the moderate category.“That means only 1912 patients out of the 14,709 patients needs to be hospitalized. The rest 87% are asymptomatic and mild. There is no need to panic,” said a statement issued by the state home department on Saturday.The department in its statement also said that the daily testing rate in West Bengal is 144 per million population, which is above the WHO threshold of 140.Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha, while addressing media persons at the state secretariat, also ruled out the possibility of clamping a total lockdown in Kolkata or across the state, asserting that the restrictions would be enforced strictly only in containment zones.The state has 676 containment zones at present where the government is enforcing strict lockdown along with four other towns.“The situation in Bengal is under control. The death rate which was earlier very high has now come down to 2.7 per cent, which is very close to the national average of 2.5 per cent,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/only-13-covid-19-patients-in-bengal-needs-hospitalization-state-health-ministry/story-LMFOdivn0r2q8BDfRgz8hO.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman strangles drug addict husband to death, arrested||A 25-year-old woman has been arrested for strangling her drug addict husband to death on July 14, police said.The accused, identified as Harpreet Kaur, resident of Sector 41, Chandigarh, was arrested after the autopsy report confirmed that her husband died by strangulation and not falling from stairs, as claimed by her.During police questioning, Harpreet revealed that her husband, Gurdev Singh, 35, was a drug addict and used to beat her up regularly. He worked as a peon in the Accountant General’s office, Punjab, but remained absent from work due to his addiction and was under suspension.“On July 14 night, when Gurdev returned home intoxicated, the couple had a fight. She held him by the neck, which caused him to trip and fall down the stairs. As he collapsed, she went back to sleep, not realising he had died,” police said.When she found him dead the next morning, she sounded her neighbours and relatives, who suspected that he died after taking a fall off the stairs under the influence of intoxicants. However, strangulation marks were noticed on his neck before cremation and police were informed.On the complaint of Bahadur Singh, who lives on the second floor above the couple, a case of murder was registered against unidentified persons. Police have now named Harpreet in the FIR. She was produced in a court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody.This was Gurdev’s second marriage. His 14-year-old son from his first marriage had died a few days ago. The boy lived with his grandparents in Dinanagar, Gurdaspur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-woman-strangles-drug-addict-husband-to-death-arrested/story-4g3CvxBt75wu9fdYP5BWML.html
18-07-2020||City||Two Afghan trucks enter India for 1st time after Pak allows transit||Amritsar Six days after Pakistan announced the resumption of Afghan exports to India through the Attari-Wagah border to facilitate transit trade, the first consignment of goods crossed over to India in two trucks on Saturday. All covid-19 related protocols were followed. “Two trucks of licorice (mulethi) entered the Integrated Check Post (ICP), Attari, on Saturday,” said a senior Customs official in Amritsar.“We had information that seven-eight trucks of Afghan goods would enter India, and we had made arrangements accordingly,” said a senior official of the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI), which oversees the ICP’s affairs.Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association president Anil Mehra said, “Pakistan has deliberately been creating hurdles in Afghan export to India. After a two-month long hiatus, Indian authorities allowed Afghan exports in the last week of May. The Pakistan government has also not been allowing movement of goods from Pakistan’s Chaman and Torkham borders with Afghanistan. Trade is victim of cheap politics of Pakistan.” The ICP usually sees an annual trade of around Rs 7,000 crore and Rs 1,000 crore with Afghanistan and Pakistan, respectively.Mehra added that besides allowing hurdle-free entry of Afghan exports to India, Pakistan should also consider the opening of trade with India from the Wagah border. Pakistan had shut trade with India and stopped operations of the Samjhauta Express after the abrogation of Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir.India had suspended trade activities at the border on March 13 as a precautionary measure, against the covid-19 outbreak. Following this, Pakistan had also closed its border with India. Indian authorities had resumed suspended activities with covid-linked precautions on May 28, but Pakistan did not reciprocate. Two Afghan trucks, which had been stranded before the closure of the border, entered India on May 28. Truck drivers and porters hope for resumption of their livelihood. “We hear that 20-25 trucks a day will enter from Afghanistan once trade resumes fully. Thousands of porters and truck drivers hope to get back their jobs then. Trade with Pakistan must also open,” said Amarjit Singh Shinda, president, Truck Drivers’ Union, at Attari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-afghan-trucks-enter-india-for-1st-time-after-pak-allows-transit/story-2r3VGzM9KU7H6JqUtCf2ZM.html
18-07-2020||City||40 fresh Covid-19 cases in Himachal, count mounts to 1,457||Forty people, including three members of a family, tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh, taking the state’s tally to 1,457, officials said on Saturday.Sixteen cases were reported in Solan, seven each in Una and Kangra, five in Sirmaur two in Shimla and one each in Kullu, Mandi and Hamirpur.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that a 28-year-old woman and her 24-year-old brother with travel history from Chandigarh on July 9 tested positive in Noun village of Thural area were tested positive.Their 52-year-old mother who was at home and came in their direct contact has also contracted the disease.The mother having co-morbidities has been shifted to Covid Hospital Dharamshala while the brother-sister duo was admitted to Covid-care centre Baijnath.Apart from it, 52-year-old paramilitary personnel, resident of Harot village of Jaisinghpur has been detected positive. He returned from Kanker in Chhattisgarh.A 30-year-old army jawan from Baranda village in Nurpur with travel history to Jammu has tested positive. He was shifted to Military Hospital, Pathankot. Another 30-year-old army jawan from West Bengal is among the new patients. He has been admitted at Military Hospital, Yol.One person was found positive late on Friday. The 64-year-old man returned from Delhi on July 10.A migrant labourer from Bihar was tested positive in Seraj area of Mandi district.Two cases have been reported in Shimla and one in Kullu, whose details are awaited.Earlier, three cases were reported in Una on Friday late evening and four on Saturday. Two Kuwait returned men, a 25-year-old from Kuthar Kalan village of Una and another 26-year-old from Nangal Khurd of Haroli sub-division were found positive. Both of them returned on July 10 and were institutionally quarantined. The third patient is a 23-year-old from Pandoga of Haroli who travelled from Gurugram.Solan district became the second district to have crossed the 300-mark. New cases have been detected in Arki and Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial belt of the district. A woman doctor of Employees’ State Insurance Corporation Hospital, Katha, has also tested positive. She returned from West Bengal. The district’s total tally stood at 308 of which 190 are active cases.Special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said active cases stand at 401 while 1,030 patients have been cured till date.Till date, 1,13,129 samples have been tested in the state. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 329 cases, followed by Solan with 306 cases. Hamirpur has 279 cases, Una 158, Chamba 78, Shimla 71, Bilaspur 63, Sirmaur 53, Mandi 47, Kinnaur 39, Kullu 20 and Lahaul-Spiti district four.SHIMLA’S BOILEAUGANJ MARKET SEALEDThe Shimla district administration has sealed the Boileauganj Bazar in the outskirt of the capital town after four Kashmir returnees were tested positive in the area on Friday.To and fro traffic has been diverted through Chakkar area. The traffic flow towards Summerhill has been diverted through Chaura Maidan.Meanwhile, Nahan town, the administrative headquarters of Sirmaur district has also been sealed after 10 people from Govindgarh locality were tested positive for the contagion yesterday.The patients were closely related and attended a marriage where they come in contact with a Covid-positive woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-count-mounts-to-1-430/story-tDiVAR3WBKDteygSo7VrjI.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||No decision taken on promoting first and second year students:HPU||Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) officials on Saturday said no decision had been taken regarding promoting and conducting examinations of first and second year students, contrary to reported being circulated in the media.Controller of examinations Dr JS Negi said only exams of outgoing classes will be conducted as per directions of the ministry of home affairs (MHA), ministry of human resource development (MHRD), University Grants Commission (UGC) and state government. Student unions, including Students Federation of India (SFI), National Students Union of India (NSUI) and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), have been demanding that HPU and state the government to promote all UG and PG students on the basis of previous performances . They have argued that conducting exams amid the ongoing pandemic could be dangerous for the students and teaching staff’s health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-decision-taken-on-promoting-first-and-second-year-students-hpu/story-GZggqlDk9sEniU0MxfFcwO.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Inform victims about acquittal of accused, Bombay HC directs trial courts||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed all trial courts in Maharashtra to inform the victims of the outcome of the trials, whenever the accused are acquitted in a bid to ensure that the victim can effectively exercise h/his right to appeal against the verdict.“It is a common experience that in most of the cases the informants (victims of crimes) are not so well educated or come from a stratum of the society that lacks awareness and nuances involved in the legal proceedings,” said a two-member division bench, comprising Justices SS Shinde and VG Night, highlighting the importance to inform the victims in time about the acquittal of the accused.It has directed that the office of a district magistrate (DM) in Maharashtra shall ensure that a copy of the judgement is provided to the victim of crime, whenever criminal trials lead to acquittals in a bid to ensure that the victims can exercise their right to an appeal in time.The bench attached the liability on the state’s DMs.It cited Section 365 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) of trial courts, where magistrate and sessions courts are mandated to forthwith provide a copy of a judgement in a criminal trial to a DM within whose jurisdiction the trial is held.The bench said the DMs have the mechanism and manpower, which can be judiciously utilised to provide the copies of judgements to the victims.In order to ensure that the directive is scrupulously complied with, the bench has directed all trial courts across Maharashtra to maintain a register and to record in it all the relevant dates such as the delivery of the judgement, dispatch to the office of a DM, and the receipt of the copy by the victim. The directives were issued following a plea filed by Ranjana Suryavanshi (56), a Dharavi resident, seeking to condone the 717-day delay in filing an appeal against the acquittal of her son-in-law Jayprakash Gupta.Gupta was tried on charges of killing his wife and Suryavanshi’s daughter and was acquitted by a Mumbai city civil and sessions court on March 13, 2014.Last year, she belatedly moved court against the appeal.Her counsel, senior advocate Rajiv Chavan, pointed out that the 717-day delay occurred, as the applicant was illiterate and had very meagre means of sustenance. The HC accepted the submission and condoned the delay. The bench said the delay appears to be huge, but “we cannot be oblivious of applicant’s social status and financial condition”.The judges said the “cause” shown by the applicant for condoning the delay must be held to be sufficient under the circumstances of the case.The bench also accepted Chavan’s argument that no timeframe has been prescribed for the victim to prefer an appeal in terms of proviso to Section 372 of the CrPC against the acquittal of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/inform-victims-about-acquittal-of-accused-bombay-hc-directs-trial-courts/story-yVPk5lcWhFpGutAPUTOCvK.html
18-07-2020||Jaipur||Ex-CM Vasundhara Raje breaks silence on Rajasthan political crisis, targets Cong||Vasundhara Raje, former Rajasthan chief minister, on Saturday, broke her silence about the ongoing political turmoil regarding the fate of Ashok Gehlot-led government and said the people of the desert state were paying the price for discord within the ruling party’s ranks.In a signed statement shared on Twitter, Raje said the names of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders were being needlessly dragged into the controversy surrounding the ruling Congress’s factional feud and power struggle.“It is unfortunate that the people of Rajasthan are paying for the discord within the Congress.....at a time when coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has claimed more than 500 lives and over 28,000 people have tested positive, when locusts are attacking farmers’ fields, when crime against women is at an all-time high, when there is a problem of electricity across the state,” she tweeted“And I’m only naming a few of the problems being faced by our people. There is no point in trying to drag the BJP and the BJP leaders’ names through the mud,” she further tweeted.“It is the interest of our people that must remain paramount. Think of the people,” the statement added.Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said the Gehlot government is working for all sections of society and providing good governance.“Instead of making allegations, Raje should ask her party leaders to refrain from trying to pull down a democratically elected government,” she said.The ex-CM has been ensconced at her personal residence in Dholpur and her silence since the political turmoil erupted had triggered all kinds of speculations.Questions abounded, including from CM Gehlot, whether BJP in Rajasthan stood divided, as Raje neither defended her party nor attended any party meetings over the past few days since the political crisis unfolded.Nagaur Member of Parliament (MP) Hanuman Beniwal of the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), whose three lawmakers support the BJP in the Rajasthan assembly, has alleged that Raje has thrown her lot behind Congress legislators, who owe their allegiance to CM Gehlot.In a series of tweets, Beniwal has alleged that Raje has been trying her best to save the minority government, headed by Gehlot, and has even called up some Congress members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs), who are close to her, and has asked them to support the beleaguered CM.However, BJP leaders have been at pains to put to rest any speculation of friction between Raje and the leader of opposition in the Rajasthan assembly, Gulab Chand Kataria. They maintain that Kataria is in constant touch with Raje and she has expressed her willingness to come to Jaipur from Dholpur at any time.Narayan Bareth, a political analyst, said Raje, a two-time CM, and longstanding MP and MLA, still remains one of BJP’s most charismatic leaders in Rajasthan.“She still sees herself in the running for the CM’s post and would not want Pilot to join the BJP and emerge as a potential rival. She also commands the loyalty of around 40 BJP MLAs among the current strength of 72 in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly,” he said.Raje is among the few BJP leaders who have stood up to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah and attempts have been made to sideline her in Rajasthan politics and project a younger leadership in the form of state party president Satish Poonia or Jodhpur MP and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, said Bareth.“But, she could still spring a surprise,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/ex-cm-vasundhara-raje-breaks-silence-on-rajasthan-political-crisis-targets-cong/story-NKyiNdHdiqjuC0PcshvlCI.html
18-07-2020||City||₹711-crore budgetary provisions made under tribal area sub-plan: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday said development of tribal regions is the top priority of the state government and a provision of ₹711 crore has been made under the tribal area sub-plan in the budget for current financial year.He was presiding over the review meeting of the tribal development department here.Besides, the Union ministry of tribal affairs has allocated an amount of ₹34.74 crore under Section 275(1) of the Constitution for tribal areas of the state, the CM said, adding that ₹ 15.45 crore have been provided by the Union home ministry under the Border Area Development Programme.He said four Eklavya Adarsh Residential School have been started in Kinnaur, Bharmour, Lahaul and Pangi from this academic session to provide better educational facilities in tribal areas. The Union tribal affairs ministry has provided ₹33.36 crore for construction of buildings of these schools.The CM said to solve the voltage problem and ensure uninterrupted power supply in Kinnaur district, all old transmission poles and transformers will be upgraded and replaced as per requirement. He said repair work of various civil structure of 3x1.5 MW Thirot Power House and reconstruction of long defunct 2x200 KW Billing Micro Hydel Project will be taken in hand soon.He said 100% households in tribal districts of Kinnaur and Lahaul Spiti will get tapped water by December 15 this year. The CM also stressed on solving the electricity problem in Pangi and Bharmour area. He said proposal of ₹20 lakh for connecting 11 KV Gulabgarh Tyagi Line with Sansari Nallah has already been approved.Tele-medicine services have started in Regional Hospital Keylong, Community Health Centres in Kaza and Pangi to provide better health care facilities to people, he said, adding that specialist doctors and gynecologists will be available in Lahaul and Pangi areas at the earliest.“Tribal areas have immense tourism potential and the Atal Tunnel will prove a boon to the Lahaul valley. For convenience of tourists and basic facilities for people two helipads will be built on north and south portals of Atal Tunnel,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/711-crore-budgetary-provisions-made-under-tribal-area-sub-plan-jai-ram/story-BHdqxsYCFjuitapjGdNofL.html
18-07-2020||City||J&K admn approves ₹25 lakh insurance cover for panchayat members||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday approved insurance cover of ₹25 lakh to all panchayat members in the Union territory.A spokesman said the administrative council met here under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor GC Murmu and approved life insurance cover of ₹25 lakhs to all elected BDC chairperson, sarpanches, panches and elected members of municipal bodies in case of death due to militancy.The panchayat members had been demanding security and insurance cover from the last two years. “The decision aims at strengthening grassroot democracy by providing a sense of security to the elected members of local bodies who are under constant threat from terrorists. The life insurance cover will act as a guarantee for the subsistence of the family members of elected representatives who die in militancy-related incidents,” the spokesman said, adding that it will ensure that their families do not face economic distress and continue to fulfil basic needs of nutrition, education and health in adverse circumstances.In another order, the administrative council approved the amendment of Jammu and Kashmir Minor Mineral Concession, Storage, Transportation of Minerals and Prevention of Illegal Mining Rules, 2016.“The amendment will enable grant of short term permits to the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) on land up to 1 hectare, till September 30, 2021. It also exempts PRIs from payment of advance royalty to geology and mining department before commencing mining,” the spokesman said.The department of geology and mining has been allowed to apply and secure clearances like mining plans, environmental clearance and consent to operate from the competent authorities on behalf of the panchayats, the spokesman said.He added that the decision is aimed at empowering PRIs to raise funds through mining surpluses and address shortage of key construction material in local market, besides keeping a check on their prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-approves-25-lakh-insurance-cover-for-panchayat-members/story-mxix7FH1hON9Rhie1q0CAN.html
18-07-2020||Pune||Pune records 1,705 positive cases of Covid-19, more than Mumbai for third consecutive day||Pune city recorded 1,705 positive cases of Covid-19 on Friday, more than Mumbai for a third consecutive day. Mumbai recorded 1,214 cases on Friday.Out of the 1,705 cases in Pune 850 were detected using the rapid antigen test (RAT).Eleven deaths were reported in the city, taking the virus-related death toll to 917.The total count of progressive positive cases in Pune city now stands at 34,040.Also, the city conducted its highest number of tests in a 24-hour period, with 6,811 tests carried out, of which 4,011 were the regular swab tests, and 2,800 were done using the rapid antigen test.The number of patients in critical care is now 527.A total of 773 persons were discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 21,107.Six deaths were reported from outside the PMC jurisdiction: one from Khadki Cantonment and five from other districts and the Pune rural area.According to the information released by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department, of the 11 deaths reported on Friday, all were above the age of 50. Five patients were from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, three from Sassoon Hospital, two from the Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital and one patient from Symbiosis Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-records-1-705-positive-cases-of-covid-19-more-than-mumbai-for-third-consecutive-day/story-1d1lkUZNBPutIZxqAmJUuK.html
18-07-2020||Pune||34-year-old man arrested for sexual assault of minor daughter||A 34-year-old man was arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for the alleged sexual assault of his minor daughter.A complaint has been lodged by the man’s wife, according to the police. The man was produced in a court on Saturday for further custody.On the first occasion, the accused assaulted the 11-year-old girl at their house at least 10-15 days ago. Again on Thursday night around 9:30 pm, he took the girl to an empty kiosk near their house where he sexually assaulted her.“The complainant is a housewife while the man earns a living by leasing his car to various companies,” said police sub-inspector PA Kadam of Dighi police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 376, 376(2)(f) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 4, 7, 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act has been registered at the Dighi police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/34-year-old-man-arrested-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-daughter/story-MEQ8Bh0qWDQWJ3iCv4hfnK.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three arrested for mentally harassing couple who ended life in Rohru sub-division||A man, his wife and daughter have been arrested for mentally harassing a couple who died by suicide in Rohru sub-division on Friday. The couple had hung themselves from a deodar tree with the same rope in Sheel village. In the suicide note the couple said they were being harassed by the victim’s brother, his wife and daughter. The couple who had been married for one-and-a-half year used to live in a joint family in Kalgaon village in Rohru sub-division. The man, a farmer, was 42 years old while his 40-year-old wife was a homemaker. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rohru Suniel Negi confirmed the report. A case under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-arrested-for-mentally-harassing-couple-who-ended-life-in-rohru-sub-division/story-O7fkID6McAO4DLJXPB6U6L.html
18-07-2020||Pune||Hotel in Pune booked for operating during lockdown||The Crime Branch unit 5 sleuths raided the Night Cravers hotel in Kondhwa for operating during lockdown period on Thursday night.DCP (crime) Bachchan Singh said that information was received about the said hotel operating during lockdown.“The unit 5 staff verified the information and found it functional and accordingly an offence was registered against the two accused. The establishments are requested to follow the guidelines as per the lockdown order,” Singh said.The accused taken into custody have been identified as Anuj Ghanshyam Chaurasia (34) and cook identified as Prakash Tarachand Khatri (30). According to the crime branch officials, an offence under section 188, National Disaster Management Act 2005 , Maharashtra Covid-19 regulation Act and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 have been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/kondhwa-hotel-booked-for-operating-during-lockdown/story-pfJlouUQVIe5bz8cceDJrN.html
18-07-2020||Lucknow||Mayawati demands President’s rule to be imposed in Rajasthan amid political row||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has demanded the imposition of President’s rule in the Congress-ruled Rajasthan, which has plunged into a political turmoil amid an internal power struggle between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the sacked deputy CM and challenger Sachin Pilot, who enjoys the support of at least 19 rebel Congress lawmakers.While the main opposition, Bharatiya Janata Party, has demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the Gehlot-led government for ordering phone-tapping of lawmakers, Mayawati, too, described the move as illegal.“First, CM Gehlot misused the anti-defection law to get BSP lawmakers to join his party and now, by publicly ordering phone tapping, he has resorted to yet another unlawful and unconstitutional method,” Mayawati said in a series of tweets on Saturday.Last September, all six BSP MLAs in Rajasthan had joined the Gehlot government, which had infuriated Mayawati and she had accused the Rajasthan CM of indulging in horse-trading in his desperate bid to cling to power.In the three audiotapes, which had surfaced on Thursday evening and have since gone viral on social media, a Congress rebel member of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLA) can be heard purportedly speaking to some BJP leaders about toppling the Gehlot government. “The Rajasthan governor must take cognisance of the political stand-off, government instability, and the one-upmanship prevailing in the state and must recommend President’s rule there in a bid to ensure that democracy isn’t undermined any further,” she tweeted.The BSP chief has also urged the Yogi Adiyanath-led Uttar Pradesh government to look into the issue of a mother and daughter from Amethi, who had attempted to immolate themselves in front of the chief minister’s office (CMO) in Lucknow, over alleged police inaction in a property case. She has also demanded action against officials responsible for the women’s self-immolation bid.Both women have sustained burn injuries and are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Lucknow.“After failing to get justice from local (Amethi) administration in a property case, a mother and her daughter had to come to Lucknow to immolate themselves outside the CMO. The UP government must take up the issue with all seriousness,” Mayawati tweeted.“Along with ensuring justice to these women, the government must also act against officers responsible for it so that such things don’t happen again,” she further tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mayawati-demands-president-s-rule-to-be-imposed-in-rajasthan-amid-political-row/story-CPEQSOrEqD2x5dyi28oZiK.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal horticulture university extends last date for submitting online application forms for admission||Shimla: Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry (UHF), Nauni in Solan district, has extended the last dates for submitting online application forms due to delay in results of school boards and universities. Interested candidates can apply and submit application forms by visiting the university’s official website.For undergraduate programmes (normal and self-financing seats), the last date of submitting online application forms has been extended to July 31, 2020, from July 15.For master of science (MSc) and master of business administration (MBA) agribusiness (normal and self-financing seats), the last date to submit online application forms has been extended to August 5 from July 15.For MBA (general), the last date of submitting online application forms for admission has been extended up to August 5 from July 17, 2020, while the last date for submitting online application forms for admission in doctor of philosophy (PhD) has also been extended up to August 5 from July 15.ENTRANCE EXAMS PUT OFFThe university has also postponed the date of entrance examination for admission in bachelor of science (BSc), MSc and MBA (Agribusiness) till further orders.Candidates have been advised to check the university’s website for updates. They have also been advised not to send certificates through e-mail mentioned in the prospectus till the counselling schedule of degree programmes is not uploaded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-horticulture-university-extends-last-date-for-submitting-online-application-forms-for-admission/story-exA9WpMiS5ib5shrRPxSFK.html
18-07-2020||Patna||Another Bihar legislator tests positive for Covid-19; state tally over 23,000||A ruling JD(U) legislator in Bihar has tested positive for novel coronavirus which is on the rise in the state.JD(U) Legislative Council member Khalid Anwar on Saturday said that he tested positive and is now under home quarantine in Patna.“I was suffering from fever for the past 3-4 days after which I decided to undergo the coronavirus test.“I underwent a rapid test at a private hospital here on Friday and the result came within 10 minutes. I have kept myself in home quarantine on doctors’ advice,” Anwar told PTI.Covid-19 has been spreading sharply in Bihar and ministers, legislators and top-ranking officials have also fallen prey to it.Two members of Nitish Kumar cabinet, Vinod Kumar Singh and Shailesh Kumar, tested positive for it.Legislative Council Acting Chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh and his family members had earlier tested positive and they were presently in home quarantine. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi and Legislative Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary and others who attended an oath-taking function of newly elected MLCs with Singh on July 1, had given their sample for Covid-19 test which came out to be negative. One of the newly elected MLCs, Gulam Gaus of the JD(U), was also found to be infected. Earlier, MLAs Jibesh Kumar Mishra (BJP), Anand Shankar Singh (Congress) and Shahnawaz Alam (RJD) tested positive for the virus. In the state BJP headquarters, over two dozen functionaries tested positive for the virus early this week. Sanjay Jaiswal, the Lok Sabha chief whip of BJP at the Centre and also its Bihar unit president, who attended a series of interactions with party workers ahead of the polls also tested positive along with some members of his family. Former union minister and senior RJD leader Raghubansh Prasad Singh was admitted to AIIMS, Patna, after testing positive. He has been cured of the disease and discharged. A large number of senior bureaucrats including Additional Chief Secretary for Home Amir Subhani have tested positive for Covid-19.As per the latest health bulletin, Bihar’s tally of confirmed cases has risen to 23,300. A total of 174 people have died due to the virus in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/another-bihar-legislator-tests-positive-for-covid-19-state-tally-over-23-000/story-Qek2MF6Jb7tRauty1pXmLJ.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena praises Devendra Fadnavis for doing ‘good job’ as Opposition leader||The Shiv Sena on Saturday praised BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, saying that he has been effectively carrying out his role as a Leader of Opposition.The ruling party also said that as Fadnavis has expressed satisfaction over the public health machinery in the state in the fight against Covid-19, it has boosted the morale of the government and the coronavirus patients.“Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis is as much young and dynamic as he was when he was the chief minister of the state. His recent statement has come to light in which he told a close party colleague that if tests coronavirus positive he should be admitted to a government hospital for treatment,” the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece ‘Saamana’.“Although Fadnavis should be praised for this statement, he is being trolled, which is not right. We have time and again said that he has been doing a good job as a leader of opposition,” it said.The Sena said that Fadnavis has been touring the state to monitor the Covid-19 relief work and the health facilities and has expressed satisfaction over the work being carried out by the state government against coronavirus.“His statement that he should be admitted to a government hospital cannot be called a stunt. He has expressed confidence that the government health machinery will keep him safe if anything happens to him.“This confidence is a morale-booster for the government and the Covid-19 patients in the state and he should be praised for that,” the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-praises-devendra-fadnavis-for-doing-good-job-as-opposition-leader/story-n59lAtuiexKyTfJSjujNoK.html
18-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots cases: L-G asks CM to decide on police’s request for lawyers in 7 days||Citing difference of opinion with the AAP dispensation, Lt Governor Anil Baijal has written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asking him to decide within a week on the Delhi Police’s proposal to appoint six senior advocates for arguing on its behalf in cases related to riots and anti-CAA protests. Baijal, in his letter to Kejriwal, said that acting home minister Manish Sisodia did not agree to the Delhi Police proposal despite the force providing detailed justification for it.The Delhi Police has proposed to appoint six senior advocates to argue on its behalf in 85 cases of riots in Northeast Delhi and assign 24 cases of protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) to special public prosecutors, sources said. The lieutenant governor said that he had called the file pertaining to the matter for perusal on July 14 under Rule of 19 (5) of the Transaction of Business Rules (TBR), the sources said. Baijal said that he had requested the home minister to reconsider his decision and agree to the proposal of the Delhi Police. Sources said that there was a meeting between Baijal and Sisodia through video conference on Friday to settle the difference of opinion, but the matter could not be resolved. “Since the difference of opinion still persists, I would request the chief minister to expeditiously refer the matter to the Council of Ministers under Rule 49 of TBR of GNCTD, 1992 with Section 45 (c) of the Government of NCT Act, 1991. “In view of urgency and sensitivity of matter, it is requested that the decision of Cabinet be communicated expeditiously, preferably within a week,” a source quoted Baijal as having said in the letter. Sources also said that if the Delhi Cabinet doesn’t agree with the Delhi Police’s request, the L-G will have an option to invoke his special powers under the provisions of Article 239 AA(4) of the Constitution. The first round of confrontation between the AAP dispensation and the L-G’s office had emerged in June over the appointment of 11 special public prosecutors to argue cases pertaining to the communal riots in northeast Delhi in February. When the Delhi government had rejected the police’s request on the issue, the L-G had invoked the power under Article 239 AA(4) of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-cases-l-g-asks-cm-to-decide-on-police-s-request-for-lawyers-in-7-days/story-mrfZfbCgek5YQ54JdZ1nkO.html
18-07-2020||Patna||Bihar: Family of three including a minor dies in train-car collision||Three members of a family, including a minor girl, died on Saturday morning, when their sports utility vehicle (SUV), while taking a short cut via an unauthorised railway level crossing was rammed by an oncoming express train between Pothi and Nadwan railway stations on the Patna-Gaya rail route.The accident, which occurred about 20 kilometres from Patna, once again underscored the lethal consequences of disregarding safety measures and the pitfalls of using unauthorised railway level crossings.The incident has prompted the Union Ministry of Railways authorities to seek a report from the Danapur rail division under whose jurisdiction the accident occurred.The authorities of the East Central Railway (ECR) zone, which controls the Danapur division, have blamed the accident victims for trespassing and ruled out any compensation from their end. The victims, who belonged to Patna’s Boring Road, were returning from Dharhara.Government rail police (GRP) personnel said that the deceased were identified as Surendra Bihari Singh (42), wife Nilima Bihari (35) and their minor daughter. The couple was software engineers and they were working at Noida in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar district.Local villagers said that the accident occurred, when Singh was on his way to Boring Road from his in-laws’ place at Dharhara.The SUV’s rear wheel got stuck between the railway tracks and boulders.Unfortunately, the oncoming Patna-Ranchi Janshatabdi special train rammed the vehicle even before it could get off the track.The impact reduced SUV into a mass of mangled metal as the train dragged it for a kilometre, local eye-witnesses said.The accident held up rail traffic on the route for two and a half hours on Saturday morning.“The rail traffic resumed after the debris and bodies were cleared from the track around 11 am on Saturday,” said a rail official.GRP and railway officials, including Sunil Kumar, divisional railway manager (DRM), Danapur, were engaged in rescue work along with local villagers.Rajesh Kumar, chief public relations officer (CPRO), ECR, said the accident occurred because the local villagers have been turned the spot into an unauthorised level crossing and encouraged the public to use it as a short cut, but often leading to tragic consequences such as the accident on Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-family-of-three-including-a-minor-dies-in-train-car-collision/story-6vodCnXQYEX3g9fUdq5WNI.html
18-07-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak in Indore may reach its peak by early August||Health authorities have expressed fears that the Covid-19 outbreak in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore district, which has so far reported more than 5,900 cases, is likely to reach its peak by late July or early August.In view of this possibility, the authorities have started gearing up to reserve more than 10,000 beds for coronavirus patients in the district hospitals.According to officials, more than 125 Covid-19 cases were reported in the district for the last three consecutive days.Indore’s Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO), Praveen Jadia, on Saturday said that the total count of Covid-19 patients in the district has reached 5,906 after 136, 129 and 145 new cases were reported in the last three days respectively.Indore is the worst-affected district in the state.“We estimate that the coronavirus outbreak in the district may reach its peak in late July or early August. We are reviewing the medical arrangements,” he said.The CMHO said that 1,443 Covid-19 patients were being treated in the district, whereas a total of 7,000 beds were reserved for such patients in hospitals.“We are preparing to reserve more than 10,000 beds in hospitals for the coronavirus patients in hospitals considering the possibility that the outbreak may reach its peak in the coming days. We are holding discussions with the hospital management in this regard,” he said.Jadia said that in the last four months, 288 patients have succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the district, while 4,175 people have recovered after treatment.After the lifting of curbs as part of ‘Unlock 1’, people had started coming out on the streets, and started visiting public places and workplaces. However, in a bid to prevent the spread of the virus, the administration once again imposed some restrictions recently.District Collector Manish Singh said that a “left- right” system has been introduced for business establishments in Indore city as a new way to curb the spread.Under this, shops on the right side of the road will be allowed to open on one day, followed by those on the other side the next day.Singh said that the government personnel cannot be deployed everywhere to monitor the situation and people must take care to protect themselves from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-in-indore-may-reach-its-peak-by-early-august/story-rx66KdkL1Qt04SnRtjTuNK.html
18-07-2020||Kolkata||Bengal child rights body to set up new cell to rehabilitate rescued trafficking victims||The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) has decided to set up a new cell for better coordination with the administration to rehabilitate victims trafficked and rescued during the Covid- 19 outbreak, its chairperson said on Saturday.The new cell comprising representatives of non- governmental organisations (NGOs) will work towards alleviating mental agony of the rescued victims and rehabilitating them in the post-Covid world, WBCPCR chairperson Ananya Chakraborty said.“The cell will focus on addressing the problems faced by the victims during the present situation as they are much stressed now, besides thinking of their future,” she told PTI.It will work alongside the helpline number launched by the WBCPCR in June to register complaints and queries by victims of child trafficking and marriage, Chakraborty said.“We provide support to the administration by helping them identify vulnerable groups by networking with NGOs. We are a support group,” she said.Chakraborty, however, clarified the decision in this regard was not taken in the wake of the Centre issuing an advisory on July 6 asking states to evolve a coordination mechanism among departments to prevent child trafficking, besides conducting awareness drives on the issue of missing children and working with local bodies to trace and recover victims.She said the commission had constituted similar task forces earlier and those have achieved success in preventing trafficking.“We have achieved a high level of success in tracing and recovering trafficked women and children with the help of local bodies. WBCPCR has been conducting community awareness programmes on the issue of missing children during the pre- Covid days as well as now,” Chakraborty said.At least 22 cases of child marriage were registered at the commission’s help desk in June, another WBCPCR official said.The commission recorded 141 cases of child marriage in the state between March 20 and April 14 during the early stages of the lockdown, as per data shared by NGO Childline that works in synergy with WBCPCR to stop the practice, she said.Although 357 cases of attempted child marriage were reported between April 15 and May-end, almost 90 per cent of those could be prevented, the official said.The economic distress caused in the wake of Cyclone Amphan has given rise to attempts of trafficking girls to outside the state by promising them jobs or luring them with marriage proposals but most of those attempts were thwarted by the panel, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-child-rights-body-to-set-up-new-cell-to-rehabilitate-rescued-trafficking-victims/story-BME3kNll199GnoAVXXSrZJ.html
18-07-2020||Noida||Partially-burnt body found in house, woman’s body found in canal in Greater Noida||A body was found inside a house where a fire broke out in Uttar Pradesh’s Greater Noida, police said on Saturday. The matter was reported to the police on Friday night from Kudi Khera village in Badalpur area, a senior official said. “The house is located in a farmland and it was on fire. When the police team reached the spot on being alerted about it, they broke open the door and went inside the house to find a partially-burnt body there,” Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Noida, Harish Chander said. Police and forensic teams have taken up investigation in the case and are working on establishing the identity of the deceased and cause of the fire, Chander said. In a separate incident, the body of an unidentified woman was found in a canal in Badalpur area on Saturday morning, the police said. The body was found in the canal near Rajatpur drain and was sent for post-mortem, Badalpur SHO Pathneesh Kumar said. Further proceedings in both the cases were underway, Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/partially-burnt-body-found-in-house-woman-s-body-found-in-canal-in-greater-noida/story-NuGL9vtBMpulfx6r4a8xaM.html
18-07-2020||Lucknow||Coronavirus silver lining: Road accidents, deaths decline in Uttar Pradesh||The coronavirus pandemic, which is forcing many people to largely stay home, appears to have come as a blessing in disguise for road safety in Uttar Pradesh.The latest road accident data from the transport department shows a steep fall in the number of road accidents and deaths during April, May and June in the state. The 70-day national Covid-19 lockdown was in force in April and May and was implemented from March 25.Dheeraj Sahu, the transport commissioner, said the lockdown in April and May and the fact that not many people were travelling even after the lockdown was lifted in June was obviously responsible for a lower number of road accidents and deaths. Better enforcement of rules also played a key role, Sahu claimed. April saw a fall in the number of road accidents and deaths, shows data.As per the available data, 765 road accidents took place in the state in April in which 438 people were killed against 3,512 accidents and 1,967 deaths in April 2019. The drop in the accidents and deaths was found to be by 21.78% and 22.26%, respectively.The data shows there was a bigger fall in May when there were travel restrictions due to the lockdown but the number of road accidents involving migrants returning home was also reported during this month.The number of road accidents and deaths was reported to be 1,964 and 1,185 in May this year vis-à-vis 4,223 mishaps and 2,314 deaths in the same month last year.The drop in the number of accidents and deaths was as high as 53.5% and 48.8%, respectively. Shravasti district recorded only two road accidents and no death during the month.Other districts like Shamli, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Pilibhit, Moradabad, Banda, Ambedkar Nagar, Mahoba, Agra, Bhadohi, Baghpat, Jhansi, Meerut and Gonda recorded the biggest decline both in the number of road accidents and deaths in May. Road accident deaths fell by over 70% in these districts in May compared with the corresponding month in the previous year.In June, the number of road accidents and resultant deaths fell by 32.8% and 27%, respectively compared to the corresponding month of 2019. The sharpest drop was recorded in the districts of Sultanpur (69.8%), Sambhal (65.4%), Ambedkar Nagar (64%), Sonbhadra (63%) and Mathura (60%). “The number of road accidents in June this year was reported to be only 2,786 against 4,143 in June last year, registering a significant decline of 32.8% while the number of deaths also fell from 2,284 in June to 1,667 in June this year, the decline being 27%,” Sahu said.He said the declining trend had started since the beginning of 2020 well before the lockdown. “The number of road accidents and deaths between January and March was reported to have fallen by 9.59% and 6.74% respectively compared to the same period in 2019,” he said.However, much of the decline between January and March was also because of the fact that there was a complete lockdown between March 25 and 31 after a one-day ‘Janata Curfew’ on March 24. “Thus, the movement of vehicles was largely restricted, especially on highways, for eight days in March reflecting in overall lower accidents and deaths in the first quarter of the calendar year,” an official in the know of things said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/coronavirus-silver-lining-road-accidents-deaths-decline-in-uttar-pradesh/story-xo65eID0J1zMWJeRQGL2XP.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 recovery rate better than national: Data||Even as Mumbai’s Covid-19 case count is nearing the one lakh-mark, the recovery rate of the country’s financial capital is nearly 70 per cent, which is seven per cent more than the national average, official data has revealed.A release issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) on Friday said that there were 3,42,756 Covid-19 cases in the country (till Friday) and the number of of recovered patients was approximately 6.35 lakh, which was 63 per cent of the reported cases.Mumbai’s recovery rate is nearly 15 per cent more than that of Maharashtra, which is 55.62 per cent, it said.According to the data released by Maharashtra Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) on Friday, the number of active cases in Mumbai was 24,307, while 67,830 patients have recovered from the infection so far.The Covid-19 recovery rate in Mumbai stood at 50 per cent around mid-June, when the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) launched “Mission Zero” under the Rapid Action Plan to contain coronavirus transmission.The rate improved to 57 per cent on July 1 and further to around 70 per cent on July 15, the PIB statement said.According to the BMC, the number of coronavirus cases in the city on Friday rose to 98,979, while the death toll due to the pandemic reached 5,582. The city includes Dharavi, the largest slum in Asia with a population of around 6.5 lakh, which had emerged as one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the metropolis. However, it only had 102 active cases on Friday.The World Health Organisation (WHO) had last week praised the efforts taken to contain the spread of the Covid- 19 in Dharavi.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had also said last Saturday that 82 per cent of patients in Dharavi have recovered from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-better-than-national-data/story-jXzEACuSlBQkHHm3Oio8TP.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Man, brother kill wife, cousin over illicit relations in Punjab’s Bathinda district||Bathinda: A woman and her husband’s cousin were killed at Dhapali village in Bathinda by her family members early on Saturday.Phul deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Jasbir Singh said Ruby Kaur, 30, and Rajinder Singh, 32, were murdered by the woman’s husband, Baldev Singh, and his brother, Jagdev Singh, with farm implements at their house in the wee hours.Police sources said Rajinder had come to meet Ruby when family members spotted them and they were attacked.Their bodies bore multiple injuries on the head and legs and the sources said they died on the spot.The accused fled after the attack and efforts are on to catch them.The bodies were taken to the civil hospital at Rampura Phul for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-brother-kill-wife-cousin-over-illicit-relations-in-punjab-s-bathinda-district/story-kkWYItqnNZumlpwXn18YQL.html
18-07-2020||Ranchi||Cyber fraud: Jamshedpur police freeze Rs 17 lakh in 10 accounts after woman duped of Rs 75.53 lakh||The police on Friday freezed Rs 17 lakh in 10 bank accounts after a Jamshedpur-based woman was allegedly duped of Rs 75.53 lakh on the pretext of setting up mobile tower by cyber fraudsters through a Kolkata-based fake company, identified as Deal Money Security Company.“We have freezed Rs 17 lakh in 10 accounts and traced as many as 19 accused in the fraud worth Rs 75.53 lakh with a woman, a resident of Kadma. Pravati Chatterjee was allegedly duped on the pretext of setting up mobile tower at her village land in Sonamukhi village in West Midnapore district of West Bengal,” Upendra Mandal, Jamshedpur Cyber police station officer-in-charge (OC), said.“The woman has alleged in her written complaint late last evening that she and her nephew have transferred Rs 75.53 lakh to various accounts of the said company since February 21, 2019, in instalments. All the 19 accused are based in West Bengal, mostly in Kolkata. Preliminary investigation has found the company to be fake. We have sought more details of bank transactions related to these accounts,” Mandal said.As per the FIR, Pravati’s nephew Chandan Banerjee received a call and the caller introduced himself as an employee of Vodafone mobile tower company on January 29, 2019.“The caller offered Chandan a deal under which we were promised a one-time payment of Rs 30-40 lakh and monthly rent of Rs 18,000 for allowing them to set up a mobile tower on our land in Sonamukhi village under West Midnapore district,” Pravati has alleged in the FIR.Pravati gave her approval to set up the mobile tower on their said land in Sonamukhi.“Soon after, a woman named Antara Roy called her back and told that she needed to pay Rs 35,400 as registration fee by cheque at the office of Deal Money Security Company in Salt Lake, Kolkata,” Pravati has written in her complaint.Pravati went to the office of Deal Money Security Company on February 21, 2019, and submitted the cheque of Rs 35, 400.“Since then, Sagar Roy, Amit Sharma, Sanjay Chowdhary, Rajvir Sinha, Ranvir and Kaveri kept calling her from different mobile numbers and got her to transfer Rs 64.12 lakh from her Canara Bank account to various bank accounts provided by them between February 21 and June 12, 2020,” Pravati has alleged.Similarly, Rs 5.70 lakh from her sister Jayanti’s account and Rs 5.70 lakh from Chandan’s account in Punjab National Bank in Kharagpur were also transferred to their accounts during the corresponding period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-freeze-rs-17-lakh-in-10-accounts-after-woman-duped-of-rs-75-53-lakh-in-cyber-fraud/story-PVfuHUcPS1MyQYTL0xrkiL.html
18-07-2020||Delhi||Tihar jail inmate dies of suicide||A 38-year-old inmate was found dead in his cell in India’s high-security Tihar jail, informed the prison authorities.Jail officials said he died of suicide on Friday.The inmate of jail number 4 was in judicial custody in connection with his mother-in-law’s murder case. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tihar-jail-inmate-dies-of-suicide/story-xEuck10Y9csicHLZLrmteL.html
18-07-2020||Kolkata||Armed dacoits loot around 30 kg gold ornaments in West Bengal’s Bardhaman||A gang of armed dacoits on Friday looted gold ornaments weighing around 29.5 kilograms from the office of a gold loan firm in West Bengal’s Purba Bardhaman district and shot at a man who tried catching one of them, police said. The dacoits managed to flee on motorbikes while the injured man was admitted to the Bardhaman Medical College and Hospital here.Senior officials and Criminal Investigation Department (CID) personnel visited the spot and efforts are on to nab the culprits, police said. A gang of six to seven men, all carrying firearms, entered the office of the gold loan firm located on the first floor of a building on BC Road and overpowered the security guard, police said. They made the employees sit in one corner of a room and snatched the key of the vault from the manager after putting a handgun in his mouth, they said. When they were placing ornaments stored in the vault in bags, a person identified as Hiraman Mondal tried to enter the office but was stopped by one of the dacoits guarding the entrance. The duo had an altercation and during the heated exchange of words, the dacoit fired at Mondal. The bullet destroyed his mobile phone. The sound of the gunshot alerted his associates inside the office. They scrambled down the stairs and fled on their motorbikes with the looted ornaments, police said. Mondal tried to catch hold of one of the bike riders, who hit him on the head with the butt of a handgun while another fired at him. As the bullet struck him in his back, he fell down and the dacoits fled through Pilkhana Lane. It was found out later that the looted gold weighed around 29.5 kilograms. Senior police officers including Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Mukhopadhyay visited the office and talked to the employees. Mukherjee said, “Naka-checking is being conducted across the district. We hope to nab the dacoits soon.” The police collected CCTV footage from nearby areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/armed-dacoits-loot-around-30-kg-gold-ornaments-in-west-bengal-s-bardhaman/story-GFWyhQnNY2zmBCKglQFmfO.html
18-07-2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid-19 tally reaches 23,300, death toll mounts to 174||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Bihar on Friday mounted to 174 with six fresh fatalities, while the tally reached 23,300, a rise of close to 1,800 cases since the previous day.The health department said the state reported 901 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. Siwan accounted for the highest number of 122 new cases, followed by Nalanda (105), Patna (99), West Champaran (98) and Munger (58).On Thursday, the state’s Covid-19 tally stood at 21,558.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe health department said the jump in cases was due to late results of tests which were conducted earlier. Of the six fresh latest casualties, two were reported from Bhagalpur and one each from Banka, Gaya, Katihar and Patna districts, the department said in its bulletin.Patna has recorded the highest number of 28 deaths so far, followed by Bhagalpur (16), Gaya (11), Darbhanga (10), Muzaffarpur (eight), and East Champaran, Begusarai and Samastipur (seven each).Patna tops the Covid-19 tally in the state with 3,245 cases, followed by Bhagalpur (1,455), Begusarai (1,066), Siwan (1,065), Muzaffarpur (965) and Nalanda (923). The recovery rate in the state was 64.36 per cent and 896 patients recovered in the last 24 hours. Till date, 14,997 patients have recovered. The number of tests conducted in the last 24 hours was 10,273 and the total number of samples tested till date was 3.58 lakh.Meanwhile, the Centre has taken a grim view of the explosive rate at which coronavirus has spread across Bihar in the recent past. According to a statement issued by Union Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey, who hails from Bihar, a three-member team of experts will soon visit the state and take stock of the situation. The team will be headed by Luv Agarwal, joint secretary in the Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare, as per the communication to the effect issued by Directorate General of Health Services (EMR Division). The team has been directed to “undertake the visit immediately and coordinate with state health authorities to review the existing situation and provide necessary support and guidance”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-23-300-death-toll-mounts-to-174/story-dUJFhVNyUqhtIQIorMCarO.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal high court notice to state govt for allowing tourists from Delhi to stay in Circuit House, Shimla, meant for Covid warriors||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh high court has issued a notice to the state government and sought a reply within a week for its decision to allow tourists from Delhi to stay in the state-run Circuit House at Chaura Maidan, Shimla, that was earmarked for Covid warriors, particularly doctors.The orders were passed by a division bench, comprising chief justice L Narayana Swamy and justice Anoop Chitkara, on a petition filed by advocate Virender Thakur. The petitioner said that the government had made arrangements for the stay of frontline coronavirus warriors, including doctors of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGMC), Shimla, and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Shimla, at the Circuit House and some rests house.However, the government also allowed tourists coming from other states to stay at these facilities.On July 16, a family from Delhi stayed at the Circuit House at Chaura Maidan and one member tested positive for Covid-19.The petitioner requested the court to order a judicial inquiry into the circumstances under which the government allowed these tourists to stay at the Circuit House.He urged the court to pass appropriate orders, directing the government to stop the misuse of rest houses and circuit houses.The case comes up for hearing on July 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-high-court-notice-to-state-govt-for-allowing-tourists-from-delhi-to-stay-in-circuit-house-shimla-meant-for-covid-warriors/story-KLenWivZquCKMVU39z4f4J.html
18-07-2020||Patna||Araria rape victim gets bail in case of assault on court staff||A local court Friday granted bail to a rape survivor arrested earlier for creating nuisance and misbehavior with judicial magistrate and staff.The court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Anand Singh, however, denied bail to her two caregivers who were also arrested.The case was lodged by court clerk on the directive of judicial magistrate against the rape survivor and her two caregivers associated with NGO Jan Jagran Shakti Sangthan (JJSS) on July 10 when the victim of alleged gang-rape was called to the court to record her statement before the magistrate.During recording the statement, the victim and her two aides created a ruckus and also allegedly assaulted court staff and the magistrate.The woman, who was allegedly gang-raped on July 6, had lodged an FIR at women police station Araria on July 9. After her medical examination, the court had called her to record her statement on July 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rape-victim-gets-bail-in-case-of-assault-on-court-staff/story-3cMrrxCFyGn41wm972529L.html
18-07-2020||Patna||Alleged gangrape victim granted bail by court in Bihar a week after arrest||An alleged gangrape victim in north Bihar, who was sent to jail last week following a ruckus before the magistrate during recording of her statement, was on Friday granted bail, according to the social organisation which has taken up her cause.Araria-based Jan Jagrati Shakti Sangathan, (JJSS), which had been looking after the 22-year-old woman ever since the sexual assault left her rattled, said the order was passed by the Chief Judicial Magistrates court there.“We were happy that a special hearing on our bail petition was conducted,” the JJSS said here in a statement, adding that an “exception” was made in the case amid state- wide lockdown, which has affected judicial work at lower courts.The development comes two days after close to 400 lawyers from across the country, including luminaries like Indira Jaisingh, Prashant Bhushan and Vrinda Grover had written a letter addressed to the Chief Justice and other judges of the Patna High Court, drawing their attention to the matter.The girl was allegedly raped in Araria by four persons on July 6 while she was out of her home, learning how to ride a motorcycle by an acquaintance who fled the spot when the perpetrators pounced on her.She was spotted by JJSS workers who first accompanied her home, but noticing the unsympathetic attitude of family members, decided to look after her while she fought for justice.An FIR was lodged at the Mahila Thana in Araria a day later and on July 10, and the woman appeared before the magistrate for recording of statements, chaperoned by JJSS workers Kalyani and Tanmay Nivedita.The victim, in a frazzled state of mind, threw a fit before the magistrate upon being asked to sign a transcript of her statement. Shortly afterwards, the JJSS workers approached the court staff requesting that they be shown a copy of the recorded statement, which was turned down and it led to an altercation.Upset over the ruckus, the magistrate is said to have directed a court staff to lodge an FIR against the trio for contempt of court and obstructing a public servant from discharge of duty.The three were remanded to judicial custody on July 11 and dispatched to Dalsinghsarai in Samastipur district, more than 200 kms from Araria since the local prison could not admit more number of inmates as per the guidelines in force due to COVID-19, JJSS secretary Ashish Ranjan Jha said.In the statement, the JJSS, however, expressed disappointment over denial of bail to the two of its workers who had assumed the role of caregivers to the woman.“After the bail plea of Kalyani and Tanmay was rejected, we immediately tried moving a fresh application but were told that no hearing would be taking place in view of a circular whereby functioning of district courts has been suspended amid the spurt in Covid-19 cases,” it said.The JJSS said it had “full faith” in the judiciary and will “continue to pursue all remedies” for securing the release of its two members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/alleged-gangrape-victim-granted-bail-by-court-in-bihar-a-week-after-arrest/story-iVxjLqyZxHIPk33tgnUx7J.html
18-07-2020||Ranchi||CM Soren orders Godda DC to probe after dalit family forced to vacate house||Taking cognisance of alleged atrocities on a Dalit family being committed in the Godda district, Chief Minister Hemant Soren has ordered the District Commissioner to take prompt action after investigating the issue. Soren was made aware through social media of a Dalit family in Godda being allegedly forced to vacate their house by the administration through the use of force.The Chief Minister took to Twitter and issued orders to the Godda DC to immediately investigate the matter, take prompt action, and apprise the government regarding the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/cm-soren-orders-godda-dc-to-probe-after-dalit-family-forced-to-vacate-house/story-2dmsUH2q4vAQr537Jgm5LI.html
18-07-2020||Kolkata||Nigerian fraudster arrested in South Delhi for running nation-wide racket through WhatsApp||Kolkata Police has arrested a Nigerian national (34) from south Delhi’s Tigri neighbourhood on charges of running an online racket that duped unsuspecting people across the country by luring them with hefty cash rewards.John Effe alias Simon was arrested by officers of the cybercrime branch of Kolkata Police’s detective department on July 15 and brought to the city on transit remand.On Friday, he was sent to police custody till July 28 by the chief metropolitan magistrate at Bankshall Court, Kolkata.“It is a huge racket and the victims are spread across India. It will take time to find out the details,” said Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime), Kolkata Police.Effe was running the racket, which used to send fraudulent WhatsApp messages to unsuspecting people, saying their phone numbers had been selected for a reward of Rs 2.75 crore each, said Sharma.Recipients of the messages were asked to share their names, addresses and other details through an e-mail address. The information was subsequently used to cheat them.Effe has been charged under Sections 66C (identity theft) and 66D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000, and Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 511 (offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonments) the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/nigerian-fraudster-arrested-in-south-delhi-for-running-nation-wide-racket-through-whatsapp/story-YySPx8PErSmLzvoGkosZbM.html
18-07-2020||Lucknow||There is ‘jungle raj in Uttar Pradesh’, says state Congress chief||Uttar Pradesh Congress Chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Friday expressed shock over two women trying self-immolate themselves outside Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s office and alleged that there was “jungle raj in the state” and “land mafias were ruling the roost”.In a statement, he said BJP government was not doing justice even to women.“It has once again been proved that women, Dalits, OBCs and other weaker sections are not safe. The shocking incident outside the CM office in Lok Bhawan exposes Yogi Government. There is jungle raj in the state, land mafias are ruling the roost,” he alleged.The Congress leader said initial information suggests that the two women were “fed up with the government’s failure in addressing their land-related complaints”. They are said to be from Amethi.He said that the government must not only address their problems but also bear all expenses of their treatment and bring the guilty to book at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/there-is-jungle-raj-in-uttar-pradesh-says-state-congress-chief/story-GjtowDldbsjVZwEbweicfL.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab local bodies minister, IAS officers test negative for Covid-19||Punjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra along with some other IAS officers on Friday tested negative for Covid-19.Mohindra’s family, including his wife and son, were also tested negative. The samples were collected on Thursday evening. Some Punjab ministers and IAS officers have come forward for testing in the special camp organised by state health department at Punjab Bhawan on the appeal of chief minister Amarinder Singh, after one of their colleagues, Tript Bajwa, was tested positive early this week. The CM had tested negative.Even after Chief Minister’s call, only four ministers turned up for giving samples after Bajwa was tested positive. The other ministers who had tested themselves are Balbir Sidhu (health), Sukhjinder Randhawa (jails) and Aruna Chaudhary (social security, women and child development minister). Friday was the last day of the camp. The IAS officers who gave samples on Thursday and were tested negative include A Venu Prasad, K Siva Prasad, Hussan Lal, Anurag Verma, Jaspreet Talwar, Vikas Partap. Three officers, including principal secretary to CM, Tejvir Singh, gave their samples but their reports were awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-local-bodies-minister-ias-officers-test-negative-for-covid-19/story-wEPYxbaPv80UqhyhEjx0RL.html
18-07-2020||City||7 booked in fake receipt fraud worth ₹5.11 lakh in Navi Mumbai||NRI Coastal police have booked seven people in connection with a fake royalty receipt fraud worth ₹5.11 lakh. The accused are allegedly involved in making the fake receipts to illegally transport stones and minerals from an Ulwe quarry.The forgery came to light after officials at the collector’s office discovered some the royalty receipts which had discrepancies from the original ones. Following an inquiry, the collector’s office on June 25 raided an apartment in Ulwe owned by Omprakash Upadhyay and also recorded his statement.According to the police, Upadhyay said he made the receipts allegedly at the behest of some people who sell stones and minerals and named six people who were involved in using the fake receipts.“All the seven accused made fake receipt booklet in the name of JM Mhatre Infrastructure – a stone quarry operator. The accused also used fake rubber stamps of the collector’s office on the receipts to pass them off as genuine ones. Using the fake receipts, the accused managed to evade ₹5.11 lakh towards royalty duties,” said an officer from NRI coastal police.As mandated by the Indian Bureau of Mines, quarry operators are required to pay a certain amount as royalty duty for carrying out operations at mines.“We have booked the accused for cheating and forgery. Our investigation is ongoing and no one has been arrested yet,” said senior inspector Tanveer Shaikh from NRI Coastal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-booked-in-fake-receipt-fraud-worth-5-11-lakh-in-navi-mumbai/story-9hV1U8jk0fbsIyIBaFpEFP.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Cheating in HSC boards: 1 student from Mumbai division barred from 5 exams, 17 others to give retests||A day after the results of the HSC (Class 12) exams were declared, the Mumbai divisional board said that it has taken action against 18 students for cheating in the exams.One student who tried to find a dummy candidate to appear on his behalf has been barred for the next five exams, while the police had taken action against the dummy candidate.In the case of the 17 other students who were caught in different cheating cases, the board has said that they will have to re-appear for the exams in which they cheated.“Strict action has been taken against such candidates as per the board’s rule book after the internal committee found them guilty,” said Sandeep Sangave, secretary, Mumbai divisional board. While the inquiry is usually conducted in the presence of retired gazetted officers, owing to the Covid-19 situation this year and the ensuing lockdown, the board gave powers to local education inspectors to conduct the probe and students were asked to report to the for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cheating-in-hsc-boards-1-student-from-mumbai-division-barred-from-5-exams-17-others-to-give-retests/story-hzJxhcv82Ury6PgSugQzeM.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||BAMS student arrested for sexually assaulting nutritionist in Mumbai||Malwani police on Friday arrested a 26-year-old Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) student from Pune for allegedly sexually assaulting a Malad nutritionist. The case was registered on Thursday after the police received an application from the 20-year-old complainant, alleging that the accused had been sexually assaulting her from the past five years on the pretext of marrying her.The complainant later discovered that the man was in a relationship with another woman. After the nutritionist confronted him, he refused to marry her.“Following her complaint, we registered a first information report against the accused against the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, as the woman was a minor five years ago.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bams-student-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-nutritionist-in-mumbai/story-5lkDOfXyBX5HVFpkYu8pWP.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Fadnavis leads BJP delegation to Shah seeking sweet deal for Maha’s sugar industry||Former chief minister (CM) and leader of Opposition (LoP) Devendra Fadnavis led a party delegation to meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday in Delhi, to discuss various issues of the state’s sugar sector, including a better fair and remunerative price (FRP) for sugarcane farmers and a package for the sugar industry. Fadnavis was accompanied by six to seven party leaders – all sugar barons exported to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) prior to the 2019 Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha polls. These included Harshvardhan Patil, Ranjeetsinha Naik-Nimbalkar, Dhananjay Mahadik, Vinay Kore (BJP ally), and Jay Kumar Gore. These leaders all come from Western Maharashtra, which is seen as the NCP’s bastion. NCP chief Sharad Pawar is considered the undisputed leader of the state’s co-operative and sugar lobby. Fadnavis’ meeting assumes importance as it is viewed as a bid to woo the sugar lobby and keep his promises to these former Congress-NCP leaders.“We met Union home minister Amit Shahji to discuss the various issues facing the sugar sector. There is likely to be bumper crop in Maharashtra and as such, farmers should get higher FRP and factories also should run. We also sought a package for the factories that are not doing well and an expansion of the Centre’s ethanol policy,” said Fadnavis, while speaking to reporters in Delhi after the meeting.The state delegation sought restructuring of existing loans from the National Co-operative Development Corporation (NCDC) and soft loans to sugar industry. The delegation also submitted detailed proposals regarding the same to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union food and public distribution minister Ram Vilas Paswan after the meeting with Shah.“This year there will be excess production of sugar in Maharashtra as we had a very good monsoon so far. If all 225 sugar factories have to run, then they will need assistance. Many of the factories need their loans to be restructured with lower interest. We also proposed adding the sugar industry under the Centre’s ‘atmanirbhar’ policy, as the sugar sector is central to the state economy. This can help us get soft loans worth ₹12,000 crore-₹1,5000 crore,” said Patil.Ahead of the assembly polls in 2019, the Fadnavis government had taken a cabinet decision to provide a conditional government guarantee to the state’s co-operative sugar mills seeking to raise loans from NCDC. Many of the beneficiaries of this decision were leaders who had recently joined the BJP.The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, however, revoked the decision when it came to power in December 2019.The state’s sugar industry, led by political heavyweights, is in trouble, with several factories in the red due to mismanagement. Many of its leaders, including those who were poached from Congress and NCP to join BJP, chose to switch parties in the hope of keeping their factories afloat by getting loans from the government or NCDC. The sugar factories in several constituencies help political leaders to shore up their vote base. No Operation Lotus in Maharashtra, says FadnavisFadnavis reiterated that BJP did not have any political agenda in Maharashtra, and the party was focused on addressing the Covid-19 pandemic.“We are not making any attempt to bring this government down. There is no Operation Lotus or anything from our end. I have said earlier, too, that this government contradicts itself and will fall on its own,” said Fadnavis.He also said that besides the sugar industry’s issues, he also discussed the overall Covid-19 scenario in Maharashtra with the Union home minister.Fadnavis briefs PM on Covid-19 ground reality in MaharashtraLeader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday evening in Delhi and briefed him about the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra. Fadnavis said that he presented the ground reality of the outbreak in the state to the PM, based on his travel across Maharashtra. He said that the meeting was not to make a state specific demand but to present the PM about his assessment. “PM asked me about the specific situation in Mumbai, Pune, Vidarbha and Marathwada. He also asked if I had any suggestions on the situation, which I shared with him. This was not a political meeting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fadnavis-leads-bjp-delegation-to-amit-shah-seeking-sweet-deal-for-maharashtra-s-sugar-industry/story-avEdDc4aiLDXYmHHpgHLVP.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra BJP transferred ₹500 crore to topple Rajasthan government: Congress||State Congress alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Maharashtra unit transferred ₹500 crore through hawala for horse trading in Rajasthan to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. While the Maharashtra BJP rubbished the allegations, the Congress requested state home minister Anil Deshmukh to get the alleged hawala transfer probed by the police.Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that the party received specific information on the transfer of the funds.“There are leaked tapes of conversation between a BJP leader and the suspended Rajasthan MLAs [Members of Legislative Assembly] over the exchange of money to topple the Gehlot government. This proves that a huge amount was amassed for horse trading in Rajasthan. We received specific information from our internal sources in Maharashtra that leaders from the state unit of the BJP transferred ₹500 crore crore through hawala,” Sawant said.He also said that he spoke to state home minister Anil Deshmukh over the illegal transaction of money and demanded action.“Deshmukhsaheb told me that even he has similar information received by his department. He has agreed to conduct a probe in the transfer of the funds. The BJP masterminds in Maharashtra involved in such an unethical act need to be exposed,” said Sawant.According to Sawant, the money for the alleged hawala transaction was collected from builders and traders in Maharashtra.“The Centre is misusing central agencies such as the CBI [Central Bureau of Investigation] and the Enforcement Directorate along with money power to topple the non-BJP governments in several states. Likewise, the Maharashtra unit also contributed in bringing down the Janata Dal (S)-Congress government in Karnataka last year. Rebel legislators from Karnataka were put up at a Mumbai hotel and meetings were held at the residence of state unit chief Chandrakant Patil,” Sawant alleged.Hitting back at the Congress, Maharashtra BJP vice-president Madhav Bhandari said if the allegations were true, why did the state government fail to stop the alleged transaction when one of the parties in the government was in know of it.“Congress is a part of the government which taps phones and keeps information of such transactions. If the party had specific information on such a money transfer, the government should have stopped it. The question that arises here is if Maharashtra Congress itself was interested in toppling the Gehlot government and thus did not intervene. It is Maharashtra Congress’s old habit to level allegations without any proof or substance,” said Bhandari.Party spokesperson Keshav Upadhye also termed the allegations as “baseless and false”. “Sachin Sawant is known for such meaningless accusations and has no credibility even in his own party,” said Upadhye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-transferred-500-crore-to-topple-rajasthan-government-congress/story-z034WRvz1UBEsckpD51vfP.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s 71% rain target met in 47 days||After three days of heavy to very heavy rain, the rain intensity in the city reduced marginally on Friday.With the heavy spells of rainfall throughout most of the month, the city received 71% of its seasonal rain target in 47 days.From June 1 to July 17 (5.30pm), Mumbai recorded 1,609.4mm rainfall against the average for the season (2,260.4mm). South Mumbai recorded 1394.6mm rainfall against its seasonal average of 2066mm or 67.5%.Among all the districts in Konkan, Mumbai suburbs recorded the maximum excess rainfall at 62% between June 1 and July 17 against the normal rainfall received during this period, followed by Sindhudurg at 54%, Mumbai city at 43% and Ratnagiri at 26%. Thane and Raigad recorded 1% excess rain while Palghar received 14% less rainfall. Overall, the state recorded excess seasonal rainfall of 18% so far.On Friday, moderate showers were recorded in the suburbs and south Mumbai with a few occasional intense spells. Between 8.30am and 5.30pm, Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 35.8mm rainfall, while Colaba – representative of south Mumbai – recorded 22.8mm rain. Over the past 24 hours (Thursday 8.30am to Friday 8.30am), the suburbs and south Mumbai recorded 155.4mm and 24.2mm rainfall, respectively. Worli recorded the highest rainfall (210mm) during this period, followed by Malad (200mm), Borivli recorded (160mm) and Bandra-Kurla Complex (145mm).On Friday at 7pm, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a Nowcast Warning for intense rain spells in the Konkan coast, including Mumbai from 10pm onwards.The weather bureau predicted that Mumbai will receive light to moderate showers over the weekend, with occasional intense rain spells.“Rain intensity is likely to be lesser in the coming days than what has been recorded between Tuesday and Thursday, as active monsoon conditions are shifting towards northern and northeastern parts of the country,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-71-rain-target-met-in-47-days/story-5jT7OvXtMSwuiPwxvcFAqI.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Realty boost: Godrej leases 2 lakh sq ft space in Mumbai’s Vikhroli area to Danish logistics firm||In one of the biggest commercial realty deals in recent times, Godrej Fund Management, the real estate arm of Godrej Group, has leased two lakh square feet office space at Vikhroli for five years to Denmark-based logistics firm A P Moller-Maersk.The deal is worth Rs13.09 crore, which is the rent mentioned in the lease agreement, a copy of which is with HT. However, the document does not mention the period for which the amount is to be paid.The deal assumes significance as the real estate sector has been hit hard by the lockdown enforced to curb spread of Covid-19. A P Moller-Maersk is likely to move into the space with 1,100 employees in December 2020, when the project, Godrej Two, is expected to be ready. The Danish company will initially occupy 1.40 lakh square feet area, with an option to take additional space in future.“With our shift to Godrej Two, we are moving our office space closer to our employees and at the same time, offering them the premium and modern office space to work out of,” said Manish Bhasin, managing director, Maersk Procurement.Karan Bolaria, managing director and CEO, Godrej Fund Management, said, “We are confident that our product is future ready and caters to the ever changing needs of multinational corporations operating in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/realty-boost-godrej-leases-2-lakh-sq-ft-space-in-mumbai-s-vikhroli-area-to-danish-logistics-firm/story-bs7nxx2xtWQMTCelUF4SyJ.html
18-07-2020||City||Maharashtra farm loan waiver fraud: ₹92 lakh given to 141 fake beneficiaries||Even though half the beneficiaries are yet to get the farm loan waiver, a fraud in loan waiver transfer to 141 fake bank accounts has come to light in Sangli district of western Maharashtra. The district administration has registered complaints against these accounts and the process of recovering ₹92.43 lakh has begun. After the state received complaints about the bogus beneficiaries of the farm loan waiver announced by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, Sangli district collector ordered a probe. The cooperation department scrutinised more than 3,100 accounts with a landholding of less than 10 gunthas and found the disbursement of the amount to 141 ineligible farmers. Police have registered a first information report (FIR) against 12 such fraudulent beneficiaries and arrested two of them two days ago. The cooperation department is conducting a probe into the role of the bank officials, as the department suspects their involvement for financial considerations. Officials suspect a major role of banking officers, who were part of the rackets operational at local level. Eyebrows are raised as many of these accounts are from nationalised and commercial banks.“During our scrutiny, we realised that the farm loans were given to farmers who do not own any land, while in some cases, the waiver was given to farmers against their loans taken to purchase livestock and other farm-related requirements. The documents related to the 7x12 extract were forged in some cases. Agriculture officers at the banks, be it nationalised, commercial or cooperative, are expected to scrutinise the veracity of the documents before disbursing the loans,” said Nilkanth Kare, district deputy registrar. While 60 of these beneficiaries had no landholding, 52 had taken loans for other purposes, seven farmers forged the 7x12 extract, seven had already sold their land against which the loans were taken, while in three cases, excess loan was disbursed than eligibility. The Corporation Bank in Karad in Sangli had disbursed loans to 30 farmers without valid documents.The scam came to light after Maharashtra Navnirman Sena’s general secretary Kirtikumar Shinde complained about instances from Gotkhindi village. “The government has scrutinised the loan account of the farmers with the holding of less than 10 guntha. If all accounts are verified, they may come across frauds of greater amounts. We are now demanding similar scrutiny in all districts,” Shinde said.Cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil said, “Taking a cue from the Sangli episode, we will put a mechanism in place in all districts to check such irregularities. We do not want the scheme and the government to be defamed due to such incidents.”Soon after taking over, the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government announced the loan waiver to more than 30 lakh farmers. After the beginning of disbursement in the last week of February, the state disbursed ₹12,000 crore in loan accounts of 19 lakh farmers. The scheme has been temporarily suspended due to pandemic, although 11.12 lakh more farmers are eligible for loan waiver worth ₹8,100 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-farm-loan-waiver-fraud-92-lakh-given-to-141-fake-beneficiaries/story-dktdS5Y4e8ZfV0vnG9auDM.html
18-07-2020||City||13 families evacuated in Thane after 20-year-old building develops cracks||Thirteen families were evacuated after a four-storied building at Thane’s Kopat area developed cracks on Thursday night.Eight of the evacuated families are those residing at the 20-year-old Sai Anand Apartment, while five families live in the adjacent chawls. The families from the two chawls were shifted to a civic school. The building which house nine flats and three shops has been sealed now.Police officers from Rabodi, the Thane regional disaster management cell and fire brigade rushed to the site for evacuation after residents alerted them about the cracks. “Late on Thursday night, the building’s wall that was adjacent to Salunkhe and Bhoir chawls emerged huge cracks. So we evacuated 13 families from the building as well as the two chawls and sealed the area,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, regional disaster management cell, Thane.The building was issued a notice five years ago, the civic body said.“Apart from those evacuated, there were three more families who are currently at their villages. This building was given a notice in 2015, stating it was in a dangerous condition. However, some repair work was undertaken after which residents continued to stay. We will conduct a structural audit of the building soon,” said SR Patole, assistant municipal commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-families-evacuated-in-thane-after-20-year-old-building-develops-cracks/story-7uotxM9O61WSrqNTXYJMnO.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Sector 48 govt hospital equipped with 15 ventilators for critical Covid patients||With the number of Covid-19 infections witnessing a spike, the extension building of the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 48 has been put on a trial mode to admit critically-ill patients with the installation of 15 ventilators.Currently, two patients have been admitted here and authorities are making arrangements to plug any loopholes so that the 100-bed facility can be used once the resources at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) are nearly exhausted.Similarly, around 85 beds will be earmarked for high-risk Covid patients who might be suffering from other diseases (comorbidity). UT health secretary Arun Gupta said that they have received 20 ventilators from the central government, which have been equally distributed among the two tertiary care hospitals—PGIMER and GMCH, Sector 32.“Preparations are on for activating the facility, which shall be pressed into service if the need arises. The strategy of the health department is to utilise around 80 to 90% resources in PGIMER and then move to Sector 48 hospital. The workforce will be made available from the resources currently available with the department,” Arun Gupta said.According to the UT’s contingency plan on Covid-19, it is estimated that 10% of patients with confirmed diagnosis may develop severe symptoms and may, therefore, need utmost and specialised care. However, only a few such patients may require to be shifted to the intensive care units (ICU) or put on ventilator support. Nevertheless, the provision of adequate number of ICU beds and ventilators was mandatory, added Gupta.Around 360 such severe patients need to be accommodated in dedicated Covid hospitals on a peak day out of which 40 to 50 may need ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-sector-48-govt-hospital-equipped-with-15-ventilators-for-critical-covid-patients/story-pXrYGRQVNCfCEvX7rqWtsN.html
18-07-2020||City||3 more deaths in Mumbai’s Fort building collapse||A day after the century-old Bhanushali building at Fort in south Mumbai collapsed, the toll reached 10, with a 17-year-old boy succumbing to his injuries at Sir JJ Hospital on Friday and three more bodies being recovered from the rubble. Twenty-seven people were safely rescued, while two people are being treated for serious injuries.Among the victims are Padmalal Gupta, 50, Jyotsna Gupta, 70, Kusum Gupta, 45, Kalpesh, 22, Rinku Chaurasiya, 25, Lalit Chaurasiya, 35, Manishaben Fareya, 65 and Shailesh Kanno, 17. Three of them are from one family. Two of the deceased have not been identified yet.On Thursday, a large portion of the rear corner of the ground-plus-six storey structure collapsed in Fort. There were 27 residential and 31 non-residential apartments in the building, with 30 people staying in the building at the time of the incident. The incident took place at 4.43pm. Termed “one of the riskiest operations” by the fire brigade, several people were feared to be trapped under the debris and some were stranded inside the building, as the staircase was blocked after the collapse.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had vacated the building before the monsoon. As it is a cessed building, the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) had issued a no-objection certificate to the tenants for repairs at their own cost.In a press statement issued on Friday, Mhada said, “All necessary permissions required were given to the tenants by BMC in June 2019. The building was 100 years old and the tenants wanted to repair the building at their own cost without using the cess amount.”Tenants of the building said they were prepared to repair the building with the required permissions, however, the plan got delayed due to the pandemic. Rakesh Jain, one of the shop owners, said, “The building needed urgent repairs and we were very scared as it had rained in the past couple of days. We were going to start the repairs in March, as all tenants had collected money and deposited it in the bank. However, the work got delayed owing the lockdown and after that there were no labourers in the city.”Jain’s father nearly escaped death as he saw the building shake and rushed out. He said, “My father was closing our shop when he noticed that something had fallen inside the shop. When he went to check, locals asked him to rush out.”Mhada has now offered alternative accommodation to the residents. Vinod Ghosalkar, chairman, Mhada (repair board), said, “We expressed our readiness to provide them transit accommodation which are available in Borivli and Magathane. However, no one has come forward to claim the accommodation till now.”He said Mhada will investigate this case and decide the next step. The fire brigade said the search operation was still on.Bhanushali building (above) is opposite Kothari Mansion, a portion of which collapsed in June 2018 after a fire. The structure was then demolished as it was dilapidated. The locality has many such dilapidated buildings that are due for repairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-more-deaths-in-mumbai-s-fort-building-collapse/story-dwlYpEYoUxY0ETgJI0GmLI.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: New MC cess on vehicle, property registration||City residents may now have to shell out more on the purchase of vehicles and registration of property.The seven-member committee set up by the mayor to suggest ways to improve the financial condition of MC on Friday deliberated upon imposing a new cess at the General House meeting. If the cess is proposed and approved by the House, purchasing a property or car will become costlier for city residents.The panel also discussed that the MC may be given the rights of revenue such as transfer of registration and stamp duty to strengthen its financial position.The committee also examined the proposal for allowing dhabas and eating joints to put tables and chairs outside their premises, and charging them on a per square feet basis.The panel also discussed the need to rent out or dispose of constructed properties falling under the jurisdiction of the MC. Full transfer of the project of bus queue shelters to the MC including licence fee and advertising fee also came up for discussion. Ways to earn additional revenue through outdoor advertisements was also discussed.Settlement of water bill arrears on a one-time basis to recover the long-pending dues also came up for deliberation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-new-mc-cess-on-vehicle-property-registration/story-qZNJJ5RzTeyefeX2iMsSQM.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn to provide monthly aid; MC to lose another ₹10 crore in interest||With the UT administration deciding to release grant-in-aid to the municipal corporation on a monthly, rather than quarterly, basis, the financially struggling civic body is set to lose around Rs 10 crore in annual interest income.For the 2020-2021 fiscal, the UT administration had allocated ₹425 crore for the civic body. But, the aid was cut by 20% and revised to Rs 340 crore in June. The 20% cut was mandated by the central government in the wake of revenue loss on account of the Covid-19 lockdown.MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “The MC used to get a grant every three months. All of these funds were not spent in the month when these were received. Most of the aid would be deposited in the MC bank accounts, and we would earn an interest on it. In a year, MC earns around Rs 10 crore from such an interest.”Now, the MC will lose that option, too. “With monthly instalments, we will lose the opportunity to earn an interest on the deposited amount. Most of it will be spent on our monthly expenses,” Yadav said.UT finance department in a recent order levied cuts on the monthly spending of departments and corporations including the MC. It has also directed that amounts that remain unspent in a month/quarter will not be carried forward to the next month/quarter.The MC has been struggling with revenue generation, particularly in the wake of the pandemic. The civic body had even revised its revenue estimates and brought it down to Rs 321 crore, but effectively has only receipts of Rs 241 crore for this fiscal. Against the total committed liabilities of Rs 597 crore, the MC has only Rs 581 crore, a shortfall of Rs 16 crore. Even the routine maintenance works are going to suffer.The MC has to pay Rs 402 crore to its employees as salary and Rs 50 crore as employee pensions. In addition, around Rs 120 crore is reserved for the MC’s electricity bill and Rs 25 crore as payments for petrol/diesel. Consequently, the civic body is left with a shortfall of Rs 16 crore.In the latest monthly instalment of the aid, after the stipulated cuts in allocation, the MC has received Rs 30 crore instead of the Rs 35 crore it was supposed to get as per original allocations before the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-to-provide-monthly-aid-mc-to-lose-another-10-crore-in-interest/story-wcjQPxYXAVwB0xv2gWbTKM.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Expect seamless power supply, prepaid bills in Chandigarh by 2022||With the UT administration beginning the implementation of the pan-city Smart Grid project, city residents can expect a disruption-free power supply, prepaid services, more accurate bills and better customer services.The Rs 241 crore project is expected to be completed by the end of 2021-2022 fiscal.The project entails full automation of the process—from power distribution to bill generation. All ordinary electricity meters in the city will be replaced with around 2.25 lakh smart meters; the existing grid sub-stations will be renovated and modernised with equipment compatible with the SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) centre; upgradation of power lines and transformers.The department on July 16 invited firms to provide consultancy for the project. The project design and management agency will be appointed for the implementation stage, and 24 months for post-implementation hand-holding, capacity-building and vendor management support.The project has been approved by the National Smart Grid Mission (NSGM) and is part of the power sector reforms, funded by the central government. In march this year, the Centre had approved the UT’s proposal for the Rs 241-crore project.Currently, the UT electricity department is undertaking a pilot Smart Grid project covering 30 square km in the city. The department in October last year had allotted the work for installing 30,000 smart meters in four sectors (29, 31, 47 and 48), six villages (Faida, Ram Darbar, Hallo Majra, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra and Daria), and the Industrial Area.BENEFIT TO CONSUMERS, DEPTRight now, the city residents only have the option of post-paid electricity bills, but with the smart grid they will be able to opt for prepaid connections. “The prepaid electricity connection will work like a mobile phone prepaid connection. As per their consumption and requirement, they will pay to the department and get only that much supply,” said an official.“The project will allow the electricity department to monitor, gather and process real-time electricity data, directly interact with devices such as sensors, through human-machine interface software. It will help department employees sitting at the centre to access live information on power cuts, outages and manage emergent power needs of a locality. Billing will also be generated from this centre,” said a senior UT official privy to the development.Installation of smart meters is key to the project. “The smart meters will send tamper alerts immediately to the SCADA centre, and allow the department to keep a track of load, voltage, outages, peak demand and consumption across the city,” said the official. The SCADA building has already been constructed in Sector 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/expect-disruption-free-power-supply-prepaid-bills-by-2022-with-chandigarh-smart-grid-project/story-rI95cbFxP9JtARXG2VLlsL.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fake Sri Lankan T20 league: Kharar court grants six-week bail to kingpin||The Kharar court on Friday granted six-week bail to Ravinder Singh Dandiwal, who is allegedly involved in the international tennis match-fixing scandal, and two others, for recently hosting a fake Sri Lankan T20 league in Sawara village in Mohali district.On Thursday, a Punjab trial court had sent Dandiwal along with another accused Durgesh, to judicial custody in Ludhiana jail.Durgesh, who was arrested last week from Delhi, was also granted six-week bail.Ranjodh Singh Sarao, counsel for Dandiwal, while seeking bail from the court of judicial magistrate Ankita Gupta, argued that neither does Dandiwal’s name figure in the first information report (FIR) and the police hasn’t recovered circumstantial evidence either. He further argued that the two accused named in the FIR, Pankaj Kumar Arora and Rajesh Garg, have also been released on bail, and there was no direct complaint against Dandiwal for his involvement in the crime. Pertinently, Dandiwal and Durgesh had filed the bail application on Thursday through their counsels after they were sent to judicial custody. Durgesh allegedly supplied high-resolution cameras for live streaming of the matches of the fake Sri Lanka T-20 league. Dandiwal, who is on the radar of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), is facing charges of hosting a cricket match of the Uva T20 league on June 29 that was aired in Sri Lanka through YouTube. The BCCI team reached Mohali last week to question Dandiwal.The police have identified 22 players who had played in fake cricket league and questioned them. Earlier, the police had arrested Raju and Pankaj, who had booked the cricket ground of the Strokers Cricket Association for Rs 33,000 from June 29 to July 5 and had formed four teams for the league.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fake-sri-lankan-t20-league-kharar-court-grants-six-week-bail-to-kingpin/story-FpNIccxi5478ix8uDR3VZL.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity sees highest jump of 88 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours||With 88 new cases, tricity recorded the highest-ever jump in Covid-19 infections on Friday. These include 11 ITBP personnel in Panchkula, two bankers in Mohali, a Kharar civil hospital staffer and a policeman in Chandigarh. Panchkula saw the most cases at 43, while Chandigarh confirmed 25 cases and Mohali 20.Since the very first case on March 18, the tricity’s Covid count has soared to 1,392 in four months. It was on July 23 last when 66 cases, the highest till then, including 31 in Mohali, 29 in Chandigarh and six in Panchkula, were reported. July 23 also saw Mohali and Chandigarh recording the highest-ever cases at 31 and 29, respectively. HIGHEST ACTIVE CASES IN CHANDIGARHWith 25 new Covid-19 infections on Friday, the number of active cases in Chandigarh, at 169, climbed to the highest since the outbreak of the novel virus. Just two weeks ago on July 2, the city had only 53 active cases. UT had last recorded the most active cases, at 153, on May 13. In all, the city has reported 660 cases so far, of which 480 have recovered and 11 have succumbed to the infection. SPIKE OF 43 CASES IN PANCHKULAPanchkula district saw the most number of Covid-19 cases within 24 hours with 43 fresh infections, taking the tally to 240.This comes after 24 cases on Wednesday and 19 on Thursday, a sudden spurt in cases.“Some ITBP and CRPF people are quarantined after coming back from home and are being found positive,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.Friday also saw 12 more ITBP personnel contracting the infection, among the total 43 cases. The district now has 108 active cases, with 131 patients recovering and one succumbing to the virus.KHARAR CIVIL HOSPITAL SEALED AS RECEPTIONIST TESTS POSITIVE The Kharar civil hospital was sealed on Friday after a 52-year-old female receptionist tested positive for Covid-19. She was among the 20 fresh cases confirmed in Mohali district, where the total cases now stand at 492.A private bank in Dera Bassi and a public bank in Zirakpur were also sealed after their two staffers were found positive. The 25-year-old woman works as a cashier with the private bank, while the 43-year-old old is a manager at the latter.Also, 16 patients were discharged from hospital on Friday, bringing down the active patients in the district to 173.Of the total 492 cases in the district, 310 have recovered and nine have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tricity-sees-highest-jump-of-88-cases-in-24-hours/story-ZbdSQXvgcdRTI24jJcZroL.html
18-07-2020||City||‘Leave without pay’ scheme a win-win situation for employees and airline, says Air India||Defending its decision to send its employees on leave without pay (LWP) in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, national carrier Air India on Friday said that the policy is a “win-win situation” for the airline as well as its staffers.The airline stated that the while the scheme gives “freedom” to its employees to engage themselves with another employer for a stipulated period, the airline also gets to save its cash flow.“The LWP scheme is a win-win situation for the management as well as the employees as it provides flexibility to employees and simultaneously reduces the wage bill for the company. Covid-19 outbreak has severely impacted the airline sector, and currently, the airline operations of the company are a small fraction of the operations that used to take place before pandemic,” said a senior official from the airline.The airline’s clarification comes after the national carrier was flooded with letters of criticism from employees across all sections.Air India said that in a challenging financial situation, it is taking recourse to several initiatives to ensure that its operations continue.The LWP scheme, which was introduced on Tuesday, enables employees to avail the benefits of proceeding on leave without pay on voluntary basis, said the airline.“It has been introduced for grant of leave without pay and allowances for permanent employees for a period of six months/two years, which is extendable upto five years,” the airline said.Air India said its employees had previously, too, availed the LWP scheme in September 1998, June and August 2009. However, unlike on the previous occasions, this time the airline management can pass an order requiring employees to go on compulsory leave for a period of six months to two years, that is extendable upto five years.“In the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, there may be employees who are unable to attend their office duties in person on account of personal reasons. The LWP scheme enables employees to take a break from their office responsibility for a defined period of time with the approval of the management, while retaining their employment with the company. They will continue to avail facilities such as passage, medical and housing at specified rates,” an airline spokesperson said.However, a senior employee of the airline, disagreeing with the management, said, “LWP scheme is to save money for the company and not a weapon to settle scores with employees. This scheme will affect the livelihood of many. Why doesn’t the airline make every employee take LWP for a few days every month? This way the burden can be shared. The motive of the top management is to save their own salaries by snatching money from the lower-level employees.”The airline, however, assured to use the scheme sparingly and with complete fairness, and said that the names of employees for the LWP scheme will be decided after assessing their performances.As on April, Air India had over 14,000 employees, including 1,800 pilots and around 4,000 cabin crew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leave-without-pay-scheme-a-win-win-situation-for-employees-and-airline-says-air-india/story-RvpoZyvbo80Car0vqR15hN.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest outside Mohali school for charging fee||Several parents on Friday held a protest outside Lawerance Public Senior Secondary School in Sector 51 against the school’s decision to charge fees despite classes being suspended amid the Covid-19 lockdown.The parents raised slogans against the school management for demanding fee for the last four months. They said that the matter was in the high court and the school management was unduly harassing parents by threatening to remove their wards from the school rolls.The school management had asked protestors to send a delegation of four members so that talks can be held in this regard but protestors refused. The school management had also informed the police who arrived at the spot.One of the parents, Gagandeep Singh, said the school principal had sent them a notice to either deposit the fee or their children would be removed from the school rolls. He added they are already stressed due to not receiving salaries during the lockdown period while some parents had even lost their jobs.Principal Veena Malhotra said the Punjab and Haryana high court has already made the decision that schools can charge fees. She said schools have to pay salaries to teachers and other employees and if parents don’t pay the fee, they will be forced to close down the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-outside-mohali-school-for-charging-fee/story-hFmRUUP3clnoWCuDQBPzRI.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Brawl breaks out after Covid patient dies at Chandigarh govt hospital||A minor brawl erupted at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 on Thursday night after a Covid positive patient from Punjab died here, officials said. Although the police reached the spot, no case was registered.Medical superintendent of the hospital Dr Ravi Gupta said there was an outburst from the family members of the patient who died in the hospital, but no one was injured. “We have informed the police and they will take necessary action,” he said.On July 13 a security guard at GMCH-32 had succumbed to injuries after he was beaten up for preventing crowding at the Emergency as part of Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/brawl-breaks-out-after-covid-patient-dies-at-chandigarh-govt-hospital/story-GfDAcISfZixseB34enQkfI.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||₹40,000, jewellery stolen from Sector-13 house in Chandigarh||Unidentified person (s) were booked for stealing Rs 40,000, jewellery and two mobile phones from a house in Sector 13 (Manimajra) on Friday. Kusum, a resident of NIC, Manimajra, reported a theft at her home on the intervening night of July 13 and July 14. She told police that she works at PGIMER and stays with her children. She said that on July 14, she woke up and found her wardrobe open and room ransacked. A case has been registered under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of Indian Penal Code at IT Park police station.Two minor thefts also reportedA woman living in Sector 22, Chandigarh, reported an inverter stolen from her backyard on July 16. A case has been registered under Section 379 (theft) of IPC at Sector 17 police station.Another theft was reported by Gulzar Ahmed, a resident of Behlolpur village, Mohali. He said a commercial gas cylinder, an Indane gas cylinder and two aluminum pots were stolen from his tea stall in Sector 26 grain market. A case of theft was registered at Sector 26 police station, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/40k-jewellery-stolen-from-house-in-chandigarh/story-XGBBmCruSKXb4OftEElcEI.html
18-07-2020||City||44 extremely dangerous structures still occupied in Thane||The death of seven people in three different building collapses in Mumbai has brought the issue of dangerous buildings in Thane to the fore. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has vacated only 35 of the 79 extremely dangerous buildings in the city while 44 buildings are still partly or completely occupied.Naupada-Kopri ward has the maximum of 37 dangerous buildings of which only 13 have been evacuated. As most of the transit camps and civic properties have been converted to quarantine centres in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the civic body is also facing dearth of shelter homes for those residing in dangerous buildings.A civic official said, “There are 79 buildings in the extremely dangerous category, of which we have evacuated 35 buildings. While 44 buildings are yet to be evacuated, only 10 to 15 buildings are completely occupied and the remaining are partially occupied with merely two to three families residing here. The process of evacuation is in progress to ensure none of the extremely dangerous buildings are occupied.”According to the survey of dangerous buildings conducted by TMC, there are total 4,300 dangerous buildings in the city, of which 79 are in extremely dangerous category (C1) and 113 are in C2-A category which means dangerous parts of the said buildings need to be demolished, for which the residents need to be evacuated. These C-1 and C2-A buildings currently have more than 150 families residing in them.The official said, “We have sent notices to all these families residing in dangerous structures. However, most people are not vacating the buildings due to the Covid-19 situation in the city. We are trying to provide accommodation in rental buildings to as many as possible. We are also looking at alternative accommodations for these families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/44-extremely-dangerous-structures-still-occupied-in-thane/story-1RlCjZKQUAXFwISitieBhM.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents can now pay traffic challans online||City residents can finally pay their traffic challans online, as the e-challan system, which was being developed and tested out by the traffic police, was launched by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore at a virtual conference on Friday.E-challaning will include compoundable traffic offences for which traffic police are authorised to collect the payment. Challans for which fines are collected by the court, including drunken driving, dangerous driving or juvenile driving, won’t be covered in this. Besides, challans where the driving licence is seized are also not included. The payment can be made on-the-spot through one of the 200 handheld devices provided by Axis bank to the UT traffic police for free or online through the central government’s e-challan portal. On-the-spot payment can be made through debit or credit card, while online payment offers multiple channels and involves no additional costs.“The UT traffic police have modified the central e-challaning system. Rather than risk their lives by stopping vehicles, cops have been asked to take down the registration numbers of offending vehicles, based on which warning letters are sent to their registered addresses. The driving licence of habitual offenders can also be suspended online, and the e-challaning system will be digitally linked to courts,” said Shashank Anand, deputy inspector general of police (DIG, traffic).The traffic police have sent a bulk SMS to over 60,000 offenders with traffic violation information slip (TVIS), informing them how to pay their challans. Speaking about the benefits of e-challaning, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic east) Charanjit Singh Virk said the process will be more transparent and will allow the authorities to take action against habitual offenders. DSP Kewal Krishan said for some offences like not wearing helmet, where the driving licence was suspended, spot payment can be made, but the traffic police will seize the driving licence of the offender and forward it to the Registering and Licensing authority. The offender will be given a form on the spot.New traffic police website goes liveTo aid the payment of e-challans, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore also inaugurated traffic police’s new website https://chandigarhtrafficpolice.gov.in. This is the first official website to be hosted on National Informatics Center (NIC)’s Chandigarh State Cloud.Along with being able to pay their challans, residents can also use the website for getting their driving record history (useful for those migrating out of India) and no-entry permission (permission for heavy vehicles to enter the city outside permitted hours). The website also provides details of how to check pending challans against your vehicle and how to use the police’s towed vehicle app. The governor also released the annual Road Safety Report. As earlier covered by the Hindustan Times, there have been 104 fatalities in 100 fatal accidents in 2019, a slight increase over 98 fatalities in 97 fatal accidents in 2018. This report also presents various traffic management initiatives taken by the traffic police to manage traffic congestion in the city. E-challaning available for:Violation of lane drivingUsing mobile while drivingDriving without seat beltWrong parkingParking on zebra crossing at red lightDangerous U-turnDriving without documentsUse of black film.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-can-now-pay-traffic-challans-online/story-ZJuvWkKdgN1pyARur1qibO.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Give report on Varavara Rao’s health in 2 weeks’||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday issued a notice to the chief secretary and director general of prisons of Maharashtra, seeking a report on the health of 81-year-old Telugu poet and Elgar Parishad case accused P Varavara Rao, who tested positive for Covid-19, within two weeks. SN Pandey, director general of prisons (Maharashtra), denied receiving any notice from NHRC.Rao was first taken to Sir JJ Hospital on May 28 after he fell unconscious, but was discharged on June 1. His family had alleged that Rao was discharged in a hurried manner to obstruct his bail plea. “He was not normal at the time of discharge. While sodium normal range was 134-145, he attained only 133 and potassium normal range was 3.5 to 5.0, he attained only 3.55, according to the hospital’s own discharge summary. But, later on June 2, it was proved that all this – admission in hospital, getting a normal report, getting him discharged – was part of conspiracy by police. June 2 was the date of hearing on his bail application on health grounds in NIA special sessions court and police argued against his bail showing this hospital’s “normal” report. The judge accepted that and refused bail on June 26,” read a statement from the family.Later, Rao continued to show signs of delirium and after voices were raised from various quarters, Rao was admitted to Sir JJ Hospital on July 13. On Thursday, Rao tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to St George Hospital. Rao’s bail plea in the Bombay high court will be heard on Friday.NHRC acted on a complaint from the special monitor of the commission, Maja Daruwala, who said Rao was suffering from many ailments due to which his health condition was deteriorating.Taking cognisance of the matter, the commission observed the right to life and medical care is one of the basic human rights and the state is duty-bound to provide a prisoner who is in its custody, appropriate medical care, so there should be no danger to his life. The commission has also directed the state to constitute a medical board to examine the health condition of Rao, and to see whether the treatment being provided to him is appropriate. The commission has mentioned the board is expected to decide on which hospital, government or private, will be best for Rao’s treatment.BAIL PLEA NOT HEARD OWING TO PAUCITY OF TIMEThe bail plea moved by Rao was not heard by the Bombay high court due to paucity of time. His lawyer, R Sathyanarayanan, said they will be moving a praecipe for an urgent hearing to be scheduled on Monday. Rao had appealed against a special NIA court rejecting his application for interim bail. Rao was admitted to the neurological ward of Sir JJ Hospital on Monday after his health deteriorated and was shifted to St George Hospital on Thursday. Hours later, Rao’s family issued a statement, alleging criminal negligence on part of the jail authorities. “The Covid finding highlights the criminal negligence of the state jail authorities, who have been repeatedly warned about the danger of Covid in Taloja Jail, and the fragile condition of the Hyderabad-based poet-writer,” the statement added.The statement had said that his wife, Hemlata, his two daughters and nephew Venugopal had met Rao at Sir JJ Hospital on Wednesday and “came to see him in pathetic condition with the patient having to lie in urine-soaked clothes for hours, and with very little nursing aid available at the hospital”.“The only way Rao stands a good chance is if the Bombay high court gives him medical bail, and is shifted to decent private speciality hospital,” read the statement.The statement had said the neglect had put the life of another accused in the case, Vernon Gonsalves, who was looking after Rao in jail, at grave risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/give-report-on-varavara-rao-s-health-in-2-weeks/story-g4VYZk88ZklJNZ497abDPP.html
18-07-2020||City||Mohali municipal corporation to take over maintenance of Industrial Area Phase 8A, B||Finally, after two decades, the Mohali municipal corporation will be undertaking maintenance work of Industrialist Area Phase-8A and B, which has around 400 industrial units. Under the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) till now, the area requires urgent attention because of its damaged roads and poor upkeep, in spite of the fact that MC collects property tax of around Rs 16 crore but has so far only released Rs 1 crore for development work.The decision to let MC take charge of the area was taken at a recent meeting chaired by additional chief secretary, local bodies department, Punjab, which was attended by PSIEC officials and Mohali MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg.Though PSIEC has already undertaken patchwork of roads, laying paver blocks and building boundary walls at a cost of Rs 1.83 crore, it will now deposit the balance of Rs 2.20 crore with MC for work on water supply, sewerage, storm, drainage and waste disposal.Since the past four years, industrialists and workers have been complaining about badly maintained infrastructure here, because of which even crossing waterlogged roads is a feat during the monsoon. Garg said the MC was starting maintenance work in both the areas and it would be completed in a week’s time.It was high time things improved, said Vivek Kapoor, vice president, Mohali Industries Association (MIA). “Every year Rs 4 crore is collected as property tax from industrial units, but the MC has spent only Rs 1 crore on development in the past four years. Even the Central government scheme of depositing all funds under a special purpose vehicle to be used for improving infrastructure remains on paper. The tragic part is that it has been almost two decades now and we are still asking for basic amenities.”Expecting the “bone jolting experience” of driving on the roads to end soon, Yogesh Sagar, president, MIA, said“heavy trucks carrying raw material and finished products have to manoeuvre potholes. Only a few street lights work, while inadequate parking spaces make traffic management a horror story. Choked drains cause waterlogging at the merest excuse of rain,” he added.Heaps of garbage, due to lack of a regular clearing system in place, dot the landscape, attracting stray dogs and cattle in the area, Kapoor and Sagar added.More about industrial area Industry in Mohali began in 1978 with just 10 units, but today, it boasts about 10,000 units, including the manufacturing and IT/ service industry. These industrial units fall under three heads – Phase 1 to 4 are under Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), Phase 7, 8-A and 8-B are under PSIEC and Phase 9 industrial area falls under Punjab Infotech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-mc-to-take-over-maintenance-of-industrialarea-phase-8a-b/story-pyLSoS4LJENATeHYOU8p3L.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Test us for Covid-19, say Gonsalves, Teltumbde||Activists Vernon Gonsalves and Dr Anand Teltumbde, who are currently lodged in Taloja jail in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, moved a petition in the Bombay high court on Friday, seeking directions to the authorities to test them for Covid-19. The petition was prompted after another activist P Varavara Rao, also arrested in the same case and lodged at Taloja jail, tested positive on Thursday.According to the petition, since Rao was discharged from Sir JJ Hospital in May, his health was fragile and Gonsalves acted as his aid. Teltumbde was in the same jail hospital facility where Rao was kept. The plea said Gonsalves suffers from hypertension, blood pressure and has bleeding piles, while Teltumbde suffers from chronic bronchitis asthma, chronic cervical spondylitis, postrtomegaly and supraspinatus tendinosis, and both are on oral drugs and medication.The petition said the court should decide on whether the two should be shifted to a hospital and tested for Covid-19 and kept in isolation for safety of the public and whether they should be physically isolated to ensure social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-test-us-for-covid-19-say-gonsalves-teltumbde/story-NAjZtEiUsy3zAsheqd4aSP.html
18-07-2020||City||Multani disappearance case: Punjab moves courts seeking cancellation of bail of accused cops||The Punjab Police have approached a Mohali court seeking cancellation of the anticipatory bail of the two accused cops, Jagir Singh and Anokh Singh, in the case involving the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991. A petition has also been filed in the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking cancellation of the bail granted by a Mohali court in May to former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini. The case was registered in Mohali on May 6 this year.Also, Palwinder Singh Multani, brother of Balwant Multani, filed an application in Mohali court seeking transfer of the case against Jagir and Anokh Singh from the court of additional district and session judge Monika Goyal. The Mohali courts have issued notices to the parties concerned on the different petitions. But the case in the high court involving the former DGP is yet to be taken up. Multani was allegedly picked up by two officers in 1991 after a terrorist attack on Saini, who then was Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP), in which four policemen in his security were killed. The police later claimed that Multani escaped from the custody of the Qadian police. Former DSP Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Satvir Singh, sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anokh Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh were also named in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multani-disappearance-case-punjab-moves-courts-seeking-cancellation-of-bail-of-accused-cops/story-iL2sX3K2DZHm9LeJHiqusJ.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud: Wadhawans move special CBI court for bail||Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, accused in the Yes Bank fraud case, have approached the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court for bail, claiming the agency has not filed the charge sheet in the case. The court has transferred the case to magistrate court for further proceedings under charges of cheating and conspiracy of the Indian Penal Code and refused to accept the case under Prevention of Corruption Act as the CBI had failed to initiate the process to obtain sanction to prosecute Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor.The CBI had filed a charge sheet on June 25 against Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL), its promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, Belief Realtors Pvt. Ltd, RKW Developers Pvt. Ltd, DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt. Ltd, Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor and his daughter Roshni Kapoor.When the court questioned the agency about the sanction order, the CBI prosecutor admitted that the agency is yet to initiate the process with the government for the sanction order to the prosecution of Rana Kapoor under Prevention of Corruption act. As per the act, the sanction order to prosecute a public servant under the Prevention of Corruption Act is a must.The court held that in absence of sanction order, the case cannot be put on hold, and the charges applicable are of cheating and conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code. The court held that these charges will be tried by the magistrate court.As per the CBI case, Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL between April and June 2018. In return, Kapoor was allegedly paid “kickbacks” amounting to ₹600 crore by DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan. DHFL sanctioned a loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises, in which Kapoor’s wife Bindu is a director and 100% shareholder, alleged the CBI. Kapoor’s daughters, Rakhee Kapoor Tandon, Roshni Kapoor and Radha Kapoor, are also 100% shareholders in DoIT Urban Ventures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-wadhawans-move-special-cbi-court-for-bail/story-tVZefyscVoODRi0IeXmHMK.html
18-07-2020||City||Secessionist feelings among Sikhs a result of Congress’ wrongdoings: SGPC to Jakhar||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Friday said it was the Congress’ atrocities against Sikhs that gave rise to secessionist feelings and the idea of Referendum-2020 among some members of the community.The gurdwara committee said this while reacting to Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar’s remark on Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh. Jakhar had said, “If minorities are insecure in the Modi regime, then the Akal Takht jathedar should ask the Shriromani Akali Dal (SAD) to quit the Union government”.In a press statement, SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta said, “If any feeling of alienation is prevailing among the Sikhs, the Congress is guilty of it. Ever since the country attained independence, the Congress worked against the interests of Punjab and the Sikhs.”“No Congress leader has the moral right to talk about the Panth or the Akal Takht. They should look into what their party did. For a decade, your party played Holi with the blood of the Sikhs in Punjab,” he said.Mehta said, “It was your party which carried out carnage of Sikhs in Delhi, Kanpur, Bokaro, etc and attacked the Golden Temple and the Akal Takht in June 1984. The Akal Takht jathedar knows well how to lead the community and give a befitting reply to the attacks launched by anti-Panthic forces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/secessionist-feelings-among-sikhs-result-of-cong-s-wrongs-sgpc-to-jakhar/story-G1EDI44QAbolgOjtivDwSI.html
18-07-2020||City||6 passengers smuggling 10kg gold in appliances held at Amritsar airport||A team of the customs (preventive) department arrested six passengers at the Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport and claimed to have recovered 10.22 kilogram gold they had concealed in household appliances. The six flew from Dubai in two Air Arabia flights under the Vande Bharat mission. In a press statement, customs commissioner (Amritsar) Deepak Kumar Gupta said, “Our team of officers at the airport intercepted five passengers on Thursday and one passenger on Friday. The passengers adopted a unique modus operandi by trying to smuggle gold worth Rs 5 crore in home appliances like iron, drill machines and mixer grinder etc.” “The five arrived in the flight IX–192 while one came onboard the flight G9275 of Air Arabia,” he added. He, however, did not divulge details of the accused. “The officers noticed something suspicious in their baggage during the targeted search and examination that also involves the use of X-Ray. During the further checking, the gold was found concealed in the appliances. All the passengers used the same modus operandi. The gold is of 24 carat purity,” the customs commissioner added. “We have heightened vigil in the wake of recent seizures of gold at different international airports across India. We also had some specific inputs about the smuggling bid,” Gupta said. The items were seized under the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962, and further investigation is under progress, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-passengers-smuggling-10kg-gold-in-appliances-held-at-amritsar-airport/story-rsdaXGfRUY5S776R98c18K.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||No need to conduct CBI probe into Rajput’s suicide: Deshmukh||A day after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s friend-actor Rhea Chakraborty demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into his suicide, state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said there was no need for a probe by any central agency as the Mumbai Police’s investigation is going in the right direction and no foul play was found. Deshmukh said the police are also investigating the angle of professional rivalry.Chakraborty had on Thursday posted a tweet tagging Union home minister Amit Shah, requesting him for a CBI probe in the case.“Respected @AmitShah sir, I’m Sushant Singh Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty. It is now over a month since his sudden demise. I have complete faith in the government, however, in the interest of justice, I request you with folded hands to initiate a CBI enquiry,” she tweeted. Reacting to the tweet, Deshmukh on Friday said, “Mumbai Police are capable of conducting the probe and are doing it in the right way. They are probing every possible angle related to the case and have not come across any foul play. All details will be shared once the probe is completed.”After Rajput’s death, Deshmukh had tweeted that the police were investigating the alleged cause of “clinical depression owing to the professional rivalry” behind the death.“While the post-mortem report says actor @itsSSR committed suicide by hanging himself, there are media reports that he allegedly suffered from clinical depression because of professional rivalry. @MumbaiPolice will probe this angle too,” Deshmukh tweeted on June 15, a day after Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-need-to-conduct-cbi-probe-into-rajput-s-suicide-deshmukh/story-pvBvFedNSnd1tnGYIx9MoI.html
18-07-2020||City||Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli cross 15K cases amid strict lockdown||The number of Covid-19 cases in Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli crossed 15,000 on Friday. Thane reported 342 new cases and 14 deaths while Kalyan-Dombivli saw six deaths and 407 new cases.On Friday, Navi Mumbai recorded 240 new cases of Covid-19 and eight deaths. The total number of Covid cases in Navi Mumbai is 10,786 and death toll is 330. The doubling rate in Navi Mumbai and Thane is 24 days while Kalyan-Dombivli’s doubling rate is 17 days. The extended lockdown in Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli will end on July 19.So far, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has recorded 15,174 cases of Covid-19 and 537 deaths. The recovery rate is 56% and 8,368 have been discharged as of Friday. In June, TMC had an average daily case load of 150. July has seen more than 400 new cases reported on most days. However, Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “We have come a long way from doubling in 10 days in the first week of June to 24 days now.”In Kalyan-Dombivli, there have been a total of 15,005 cases and 231 deaths. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recently finished surveying 69,000 people after which 1,077 suspected patients were given antigen tests and 328 tested positive. All of them are mildly symptomatic and 30 were allowed home isolation.“Those who were found to have proper facilities at home were allowed home isolation. Others were sent to the quarantine centre. The survey will continue in all wards,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.Panvel, like Kalyan-Dombivli, has a doubling rate of 17 days. On Friday, the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) recorded 145 new cases, taking the total to 4,614. The death toll is at 108 with one death reported on Friday. The lockdown in Panvel will continue till July 24, but some restrictions have been eased.PCMC commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said, “Counter delivery will be allowed from 9am to 9pm. Counter sales of grains, vegetables, eggs, fruits, bakery items, fish, chicken, meat and groceries will be allowed. Flour mills will be allowed to open. Non-essential shops like general stores, hardware shops will only provide home delivery.”The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation saw 237 new cases on Friday, bringing its total to 5,238 of which 2,080 are active. Three deaths also were reported, raising the death toll to 77. Ambernath recorded 16 new cases — the lowest daily count — and the least number of active cases (473) in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The total number of Covid-19 cases in Ambernath is 2,966 and the death toll is at 112. Badlapur recorded 64 new cases on Friday, bringing its total to 1,767 with 693 active cases, while the death toll is 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-kalyan-dombivli-cross-15k-cases-amid-strict-lockdown/story-H0SmJVZ9cXAfRhsoClLS1J.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||No final-year tests, have urged apex bodies to give degrees, state government informs HC||The Maharashtra government on Friday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that it has appealed to the apex bodies of professional or non-professional courses to overlook the conduction of final-year exams in the state and permit degrees to be issued by the respective universities.The government reiterated that it would not allow final-year examinations to be conducted in light of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. The state’s submission was made to the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Anuja Prabhudessai, which was hearing multiple petitions seeking cancellation as well as conduction of exams.One of the petitioners, represented by advocate Dr Uday Warunjikar, submitted that as the future of many students was compromised by the cancellation of exams, appropriate directions should be issued to ensure that the interests of the students are safeguarded. Advocate Rajshekhar Govilkar for Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), on the other hand, submitted that post-graduate examinations had to be conducted as students required to be assessed physically to ascertain their skills and comprehension. He said that MUHS planned to conduct the exams from August 25. Govilkar submitted that a decision regarding undergraduate exams was yet to be taken.Advocate Kuldeep Nikam, appearing for one of the petitioners, sought interim reliefs with regards to dental exams scheduled to start on August 3. Nikam submitted that as per the directions by the concerned authority, students had to reach the exam centres and also undergo quarantine. However, as Bombay Dental College had conveyed that it did not have sufficient facilities to provide quarantine to the students, the exams should be cancelled. In light of this, Nikam sought that the exams be held online rather than making students appear in person.As there were multiple petitions, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted that to avoid confusion, a compilation of all petitions, public interest litigations (PIL), and intervention applications pertaining to the final-year exams should be submitted so that the hearings could be expedited. After hearing the submissions, the court accepted the suggestion of the state, and directed all parties to submit their affidavits and replies by July 21, and posted all matters for hearing on July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-final-year-tests-have-urged-apex-bodies-to-give-degrees-state-government-informs-hc/story-q1frvoVQ4XmQ27wothU32I.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||After Vistara, IndiGo allows single passenger to book two seats||Starting July 24, low-cost airline IndiGo, through its newly introduced ‘6E double booking’ scheme, will allow fliers to book air tickets for twin seats from the airline’s website. With this, IndiGo became the second airline to provide the facility to passengers.Earlier this month, full-service carrier Vistara had announced the same scheme without any extra charges other than the ticket cost of the second seat.The facility is meant to target passengers who are worried about their safety during air travel owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and would prefer to have additional space between themselves and other fliers.IndiGo clarified that the scheme will not be available through travel portals, IndiGo call centre, airport counters, or as an option after booking a single seat.The budget airline will charge an airline component and Goods and Service Tax with no additional airport charges. According to airline officials, the second seat will be priced at a lower rate than the total fare paid for the primary seat.“The charges for the extra seat will be effective up to 25% of the original booking cost,” IndiGo stated. Seat selection charges under this scheme will be applicable for both seats.Sanjay Kumar, chief strategy and revenue officer, IndiGo, said, “Even though air travel is the safest mode of travel at this point, we understand the customers’ emotional need for safety. We had been receiving such requests and are happy to introduce the option to book two seats for a single passenger, to ensure additional safety. 6E double seat will provide a stress-free flying experience to our customers.” The airline said that any changes and cancellation charges (based on the type of fare) will apply to the extra seat.“The extra seat booking will not entitle customers to additional baggage allowance. The extra seat can also be used by passengers travelling with a large musical instrument, a child’s car seat, or for special seating needs due to personal comfort, size or disability,” stated the airline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-vistara-indigo-allows-single-passenger-to-book-two-seats/story-EKl4RkWGaTb5OutnnDL10N.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||8,308 fresh cases as Maha tally nears 3L||Maharashtra recorded more than 8,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day on Friday, as the state’s coronavirus tally neared the three-lakh mark. The state reported 8,308 infections, pushing up its count to 292,589, according to the state health department bulletin, which said active cases stood at 120,480. On Thursday, the state had recorded its sharpest single-day spike of 8,641 cases. The state’s toll rose to 11,452, after 258 deaths were reported in 24 hours.Maharashtra is likely to cross the three-lakh cases mark over the weekend, which would mean the state has reported its last one lakh cases in 14 or 15 days. The virus tally crossed the two-lakh mark on July 4, 22 days after the state had breached the one-lakh mark on June 12. The first lakh cases were reported in 96 days. Mumbai, meanwhile, inched closer to the one-lakh cases mark, with a rise of 1,214 cases on Friday. The city’s tally stands at 99,164, of which 23,948 are active cases. Mumbai’s death toll rose by 62 to 5,585.A study published in Lancet, a global health journal, has placed Maharashtra, among the nine states that have high vulnerability to the Covid-19 pandemic. The study has found Maharashtra as the seventh-most vulnerable state across India in the vulnerability index. Madhya Pradesh tops the list, followed by Bihar and Telangana.The study has rated the vulnerabilities of the states to the pandemic on a scale of zero to one, measured using 15 indicators across five domains — socio-economic vulnerability, demographic vulnerability, housing and hygiene conditions, availability of health care and epidemiological factors.Although social, demographic, economic, health, and epidemiological data is available in India, district-level data is not available yet. So the researchers have used National Family Health Survey 2015-16, Census of India 2011, Rural Health Statistics 2018 and National Health Profile 2019 data.“Our index aims to help planners and policy makers effectively prioritise regions for resource allocation and adopt risk mitigation strategies for better preparedness and responses to the Covid-19 epidemic,” Rajib Acharya and Akash Porwal from Population Council, New Delhi, have said in the study.Meanwhile, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the health infrastructure needs to be augmented only in cities of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), as in the rest of the state there is no shortage of beds. “We have built field hospitals in Mumbai and are building more in MMR cities as there is a shortage of ICU beds. Thane city has been taken care of, but the situation is different in Kalyan-Dombivli, Ambernath, Badlapur and Bhiwandi as the health infrastructure there is still not sufficient,” he said. “A multi-speciality hospital is needed in these areas. I have been speaking about this to the chief minister [Uddhav Thackeray] and in the cabinet. We are planning a jumbo facility with 1,000 beds with oxygen supply and 350 ICU beds. It will be completed in a months’ time.”Nine cities of MMR, including Mumbai, have recorded 174,715 cases, which contribute to 59.71% of the state’s tally. In Mumbai, however, the rise of cases has plateaued. The highest single-day spike this month has been 1,552 on July 2. Mumbai had reported its sharpest 24-hour spike of 2,077 cases on June 27.“Everybody agrees that Mumbai is on a plateau. Cases are not coming down, but they are not rising either… We have kept our finger crossed,” said a senior BMC official, requesting anonymity.The rise in cases in the other cities of MMR is massive, with most civic bodies re-imposing lockdown restrictions in a bid to flatten the case curve. Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Bhiwandi-Nizampur and Navi Mumbai have extended lockdown restrictions until July 19, while Ulhasnagar and Panvel have curbs till July 22 and July 24 respectively. Along with spike in cases, the state is also recording rise in fatalities on a daily basis. In the past 17 days, the state has recorded 3,446 Covid-19 deaths.With 11,452 deaths, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stands at 3.91%. It is the second highest in India after Gujarat, where the CFR is 4.59% with 2089 deaths (45,481 cases) till Thursday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.Maharashtra, however, has highest number of deaths in the country.To bring down Covid deaths, the government has started conducting rapid antigen tests in containment zones. These tests provide report in around 30 minutes. “If test report comes negative and the patient has Covid symptoms, then we also conduct RT-PCR test to confirm whether the patient is free from Covid. This helps in providing early treatment to patients, ultimately reducing Covid deaths,” said Tope.The number of recovered patients in Maharashtra has also risen to 160,357, after 2,217 recovered and discharged from various hospitals across the state on Friday. The recovery rate of the state has improved to 54.81%. The national recovery rate stands at 63.33%.The state has so far tested 1,484,630 people and has a positive rate of 19.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/8-308-fresh-cases-as-maha-tally-nears-3l/story-Nc7A456srCCl0YpVgImF6M.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Check blood sugar, BMI at Central Railway’s ‘medical ATMs’||Passengers travelling on Central Railway (CR) will soon be able to get their blood pressure, body mass index (BMI), blood sugar, weight, oxygen saturation, and body hydration levels checked at health kiosks at suburban railway stations. The kiosks will initially be introduced at Kalyan, Thane, and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus(LTT), railway stations.They will later in phases be introduced at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT), Vadala, Chembur, Panvel, Dadar, Kurla, Ghatkopar, Mulund, Badlapur, Bhandup, and Dombivli railway stations.The kiosks will have two modes – invasive and non-invasive mode and will be managed by a paramedic. The invasive mode will involve samples of blood being collected to check blood sugar levels, while the non-invasive mode will be used to check oxygen saturation, BMI, and weight. The machines can test 16 non-invasive nutritional parameters.Passengers will have to hold the handles of the kiosk and step on a platform to get checked. The machines will then provide the health parameters within three minutes on a paper slip.“The machines will check multiple health parameters of passengers within minutes,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway.The charges will be ₹50 for 16 basic parameters and ₹100 for glucose and haemoglobin checks.The kiosks have been in use at Nagpur, Bhopal and Lucknow railway stations since earlier this year.Termed health ATMs by the railways, the machines are being installed as an additional source of income under non-fare revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/check-blood-sugar-bmi-at-cr-s-medical-atms/story-aN9G7jMAkCjhuYD01AEgiN.html
18-07-2020||City||Man rapes woman at quarantine facility||A 25-year-old man has been booked for sexually assaulting a 40-year-old homemaker at a Covid-19 quarantine facility in Panvel, where both were admitted. The accused posed as a doctor. The incident took place on Thursday evening and is the first instance of rape reported from a quarantine facility in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).The accused, a resident of Panvel, used to work at a mall but has been unemployed since the lockdown. The homemaker lives in Kharghar with her husband and two children.The woman was admitted to the Indiabulls quarantine facility in Kongaon on Wednesday and the accused was admitted on Thursday. “On Thursday evening, hours after arriving, he [the accused] went to the woman’s room. During their conversation, she told her she was having leg pain. He claimed he is a doctor and offered to give her a leg massage. He then sexually assaulted her and left,” said an officer from Panvel rural police station.The woman later reported the assault to a staff member and the police was informed.“We have booked the accused under sections 376 (rape) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman) of the Indian Penal Code. He is currently not under arrest as he has tested positive and is getting treatment for Covid-19,” said Ashok Rajput, senior inspector, Panvel rural police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-rapes-woman-at-quarantine-facility/story-jsZbbzlV3CaTkrHwLpiyMJ.html
18-07-2020||City||Woman alleges report mix-up, KDMC says she tested positive||A 27-year-old Kalyan resident has alleged that the civic body took her along with her two children to a quarantine centre, only to release them the next day citing mix-up with her Covid-19 test report. The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), however, denied the claims of mix-up and said she had tested positive according to the test report. Akshata Patil, a resident of Ambivli, Kalyan (West), is now worried that she and her children might have contracted the virus while at the quarantine facility.“Last month, my husband had fever and got tested for Covid-19 on June 13. His report came positive on June 17, following which he was taken to Tata Amantra quarantine centre. A day later, I decided to test myself and went to Bai Rukminibai Hospital. The hospital had said I would get the report by June 21, so I sent my children to my uncle’s place to keep them safe. Eight days after the test, I received a call from the primary health centre of KDMC saying my report was negative.”“However, on July 9, I got a call from the primary health care centre saying my test report was positive. They also said they were sending ambulance to take me to the quarantine centre. When I told them I had tested negative according to the civic body, they didn’t pay any heed,” Patil said.Patil and her two children, six-year-old daughter and eight-year-old son, were then taken to a quarantine centre in an ambulance, which was also carrying three other positive patients, she claimed. She also said they had to wait for four hours before beds were arranged for them.The next day she was asked to get her children tested at the centre. However, later she got another call from KDMC saying that her report was negative and that there was a mistake from the civic body’s part, she claimed. The three were then discharged. However, KDMC epidemic officer Pratibha Panpatil said, “The woman’s name was in the daily list that we receive from the Indian Council of Medical Research, so she was positive as per the report. She got tested in a private laboratory set up at the civic hospital, so they might have delayed updating her report online. The woman was sent home after the concerned medical officer came to know she was tested 21 days ago and that she did not have any symptoms. The claim that she was informed her report was negative is false.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-alleges-report-mix-up-kdmc-says-she-tested-positive/story-r8HzT4G19NYR3NaevcrWaO.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||State’s longest leopard cub reunion attempt fails, 4 cubs relocated to Nagpur centre||The Maharashtra forest department’s longest ever reunion attempt of four leopard cubs with their mother over 16 days failed at Akola. The department on Thursday relocated the abandoned 45-day-old cubs to Gorewada rescue centre in Nagpur.On June 30, local villagers at the Pastul village adjacent to the Patur forest reserve in Akola district came across three cubs abandoned at a forest patch and immediately informed the forest department. A day later, another cub was found at the same spot.“Since all four cubs were identified from the same area, we were sure that the mother would return, and commenced efforts for the reunion,” said Vijay Mane, divisional forest officer, Akola. With camera traps already in place to document the movement of the mother, the forest department installed a CCTV camera atop an electric pole near the forest patch where the cubs were found. The cubs were placed in a crate as the forest officers awaited the mother’s return on the night of July 1.“The CCTV camera does not give out a flash when there is movement close to it as opposed to the camera trap which could have scared the mother away,” said Mane, adding that he was glad the mother returned the same night. “We thought this could be the fastest reunion carried out by the department.”However, after sniffing her cubs for a while, the mother leaped back into the forest without collecting any of her cubs. This pattern continued for the next eight days, with forest officers keeping the four cubs around 8pm and waited through the night monitoring the area. “After the first attempt, we spotted the mother moving in this zone but did not come close to the crate even after loud cries made by her cub,” said one of the forest guards.Mane added that the team decided to dispatch a surveillance drone in the area to follow the mother’s movements. “We wanted to check whether she was tending to other cubs or there was another male leopard in the area. Though we identified a male leopard approximately 2 km, it seemed the mother was disinterested in taking back her cubs,” he said.The department waited another few days. “While there is no written rule or directives that the reunion should happen within a specific time frame, it needs to be done as early as possible. Generally, reunion attempts are made for a maximum of eight to 10 days. After that, cubs are relocated to captivity,” said Bilal Habib, scientist, Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun. “We lost all hope when a mating call of one of the male leopard’s in the area was answered by the mother,” said Mane adding, “A decision, based on the approval from the chief wildlife warden, was taken to transport the cubs to the rescue centre in Nagpur, putting an end to our efforts.”Nandkishore Kale, divisional manager, Gorewada project said, “A health examination of all four cubs showed they were healthy and had no external injuries. All efforts are being made to ensure they have a stress-free environment and no separation anxiety from the mother.”A female leopard refusing to respond to persistent reunion attempts could have multiple reasons, said senior veterinarian Dr Shailesh Pethe from the Sanjay Gandhi National Park in Mumbai. “A primary reason could be early age pregnancy where she is not ready to accept the cubs. Another reason could be the mother realising that the cubs would not survive in the wild, and in such cases the cubs die within a couple of days. Lastly, the mother avoids taking her cubs back if she senses the presence of humans in the area or human scent off the cubs,” he said. “Nurturing abandoned leopard cubs from the wild in captivity alters the natural course of life that these cats would have lived. However, what is important is to save the animal when there is no other alternative,” said Dr KD Batwe, former veterinarian, SGNP.Why is reuniting them important?A variety of factors including deforestation, habitat encroachment and poaching, leopards are continuously forced to leave their forested homes and move out into buffer areas. “The reunion plays a significant role in avoiding man-animal conflict cases within the forest division. When leopards are unable to locate their cubs, it is natural for them to turn hostile, aggressive and defensive on seeing humans in close proximity to that area and this poses an immediate threat to farmers in the area. The harvest season witnesses highest instances of conflict because the farmers move into the fields to cut down the long sugarcane stalks,” said Dr Ajay Deshmukh, wildlife veterinarian, who had successfully reunited 50 leopard cubs with their mothers over 10 years in Junnar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-s-longest-leopard-cub-reunion-attempt-fails-4-cubs-relocated-to-nagpur-centre/story-tfQfzSSqJdiH6COp7fdTUM.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray meets Shiv Sena MPs to discuss Covid strategy||Shiv Sena president and chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with Sena members of Parliament (MPs) on Friday over the rising cases of Covid-19 in their constituencies and directed them to take measures to tackle the outbreak by involving citizen groups and NGOs. The meeting with MPs comes after Thackeray held similar meetings with party ministers, Mumbai MLAs, and vibhag pramukh (division heads) last week.Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut said that there was no political discussion during the meeting, which was held at the CM’s official residence Varsha bungalow. Former Union minister and south Mumbai MP Arvind Sawant said, “The party chief regularly meets his MPs, but due to the coronavirus, the meeting could not be held in the last three months. Measures to be adopted to fight Covid-19 were discussed.”Raut said, “Several MPs spoke about issues [from their region], and the CM and minister Aaditya Thackeray heard them. What stand to take on the celebration of the Ganpati festival in Konkan was also discussed.” Senior party leaders said that there is a lot of opposition from locals in Sindhudurg district on allowing people from Mumbai, Thane, and Pune to visit their villages for Ganeshotsav this year, fearing the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-meets-shiv-sena-mps-to-discuss-covid-strategy/story-AsdPd7B8G1r2v15DgsLvqM.html
18-07-2020||City||Lockdown after June surge helps Bhiwandi control cases||After its newly appointed civic commissioner ramped up contact tracing, testing and institutional quarantine, Bhiwandi has slowed down the spread of Covid-19. Since July, the city in Thane district has been reporting less than 100 cases daily. The fatality rate has come down to 5.7% from 10.22% recorded on June 21. On Friday, Bhiwandi reported 39 new cases and five deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city is now 3,006, of which 644 are active. The death toll is at 173.On June 18, the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) imposed a 15-day lockdown as the number of Covid-positive cases reported daily was consistently above 100. On June 20, when Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer Pankaj Ashiya was appointed commissioner of BNCMC, 170 new cases of Covid-19 were recorded. A doctor by training, Ashiya had previously been in charge of the Malegaon Emergency Operation Centre set up to tackle Covid-19.Under Ashiya, BNCMC is following a four-step model of house-to-house surveys, contact tracing, containment and facility management. Ashiya has 414 teams conducting surveys in Bhiwandi and tracing 150 suspected cases daily. The number of contacts traced for each Covid patient has gone up to 16 from 1.5.“Close contacts are compulsorily in institutional quarantine and only well-to-do families in the city are allowed home quarantine. Earlier, institutional quarantine was just 10%, which we have increased to 50%,” said Ashiya. Swab tests (which have to be sent to Mumbai since there is no testing facility in Bhiwandi) have increased from 50 to at least 400 daily. Ashiya said Bhiwandi was the first to start antigen tests in MMR (from July 1).BNCMC has also started mohalla clinics across the city. Khan Fakhre Alam, 55, who runs a gift shop at Gulzar Nagar, volunteered his shop to set up a mohalla clinic. “We want the city to be safe and decided to help the civic body,” said Alam.Bhiwandi-based activist Javed Ashfaq Farooqi, 42, said, “We could see lot of activities in the city since the new commissioner joined... The cases have reduced which is a good sign and people are feeling positive.”At present, there are three dedicated Covid hospitals (two of them privately-run) with approximately 2,500 beds in Bhiwandi. At the state-run Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital, BNCMC has increased the number of beds from 27 to 100. The civic body has organised 270 beds in two community halls. BNCMC aims to add another 600 beds soon.Bhiwandi mayor Pratibha Patil said, “In the coming days, the cases will reduce more and we are focusing on zero deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-after-june-surge-helps-bhiwandi-control-cases/story-RxeaxcVchcMQz7mWCqB8tM.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||South Mumbai’s rise in Covid cases a cause for worry||D ward, which covers some of the city’s most affluent areas such as Malabar Hill, Peddar Road, Breach Candy, Cumballa Hill, Kemps Corner, Tardeo and Girgaum, is emerging the new cause for concern for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in the fight against Covid-19. Reason: the growth rate of cases in these areas is 2%, higher than the city’s average of 1.34%, and doubling rate is 35 days, lower than the city’s average of 52 days, according to the figures as of July 16.The total number of cases in the ward is 3,464, with a recovery rate of 28% and a fatality rate of 4.3%. Its active cases are 2,341, mostly from high-rises, 288 of which are sealed. Mumbai’s recovery rate stands at 69.9%, and fatality rate at 5.6%.The city on Friday added 1,214 new cases, and 62 deaths, taking the count to 99,164 and toll to 5,585. There are 23,948 active cases in the city.Prashant Gaikwad, assistant commissioner of D ward, said, “During the lockdown, residents of these high-rises did not venture out. Now that restrictions have eased, some residents have started going to work. Most importantly, house helps have returned to work in these high-rises. The rate of infection in house helps and other staff is very high.”Gaikwad said, “In other areas, if a person or a house help tests positive, the entire family does not test immediately, until BMC recommends it. In D ward, entire families get tested right away. This is why many cases have emerged among high-risk contacts. In a family of five, at least three members test positive if a house help is discovered to have the virus.”D ward is among the three wards with a growth rate exceeding 2%, and is the only ward from south Mumbai on the list. The other two wards with a similar growth rate are R Central ward covering Borivli West, with the highest growth rate of 2.7%, and T ward of Mulund, with a growth rate of 2.1%. C ward, comprising Marine Lines, Kalbadevi, Chandanwadi and Chira Bazar, which is adjoining the D ward, has a growth rate of 1.4%. G-South ward comprising areas of Mahalaxmi, Worli, Prabhadevi, which were former Covid-19 hot spots, have a growth rate of 1.2%. A ward, which is yet another affluent south Mumbai locality comprising Marine Drive, Churchgate, Nariman Point, has a growth rate of 1.7%.R Central ward has a doubling rate of 27 days, T ward 33 days, A ward 41 days, C ward 49 days, and G South ward 71 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/south-mumbai-s-rise-in-covid-cases-a-cause-for-worry/story-Dz3Z7QuuK28gJT7dWbXk1J.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||HC questions delay in investigation into death of a 22-year-old because of alleged police brutality||The Bombay high court on Friday questioned the inordinate delay in the investigation into the death of a 22-year-old, who according to police was lynched by a mob when he went to commit robbery.However, the family members of the deceased Raju Velu Devendra have alleged that he was beaten to death by the police.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Anuja Prabhudessai questioned as to why the investigation remained pending so long when it commenced on March 31, a day after the incident. The judges also questioned as to why the culprits were not identified when police claimed to have collected the CCTV footage of the lynching.The bench has now sought a report disclosing the status of the investigation into the death of Devendra.Human rights activist, advocate Firdous Irani has brought two lockdown deaths, including that of Devendra, to the notice of the court through his public interest litigation highlighting police brutality during enforcement of the lockdown imposed for containing the spread of Covid-19.Irani has pointed out that he too was a victim of police brutality, as he along with his family were beaten up by a few policemen and civic officials on April 16, 2020, for no apparent reason. He submitted that several individuals in Mumbai have faced police high-handedness during the ensuing lockdown. He also pointed out a report of a human rights organisation disclosing that at least 15 persons have died across the country due to police brutality during the lockdown, and two of them are from Mumbai.One of them, according to the report, is Devendra, whose kin allege that on March 30, 2020, when they were headed to visit a relative, a police team chased them and caught the deceased. The policemen, according to the report, informed the relatives that they were taking Devendra to Juhu police station. In the morning, police informed the family that Raju was lying at Nehru Nagar Chowk and when they took him to a hospital, he was declared dead.While the family alleged that he died due police brutalities, police maintain that 22-year-old Raju was badly beaten by locals when went to commit robbery and succumbed to the injuries, and a case has been registered against eight persons.The second case pertained to the death of a porter, Sagir Jamal Khan, who was allegedly caught by police on April 18, when he was driving a handcart to deliver a refrigerator in Null Bazaar locality. Policemen hit him on head, hand and back. Later in the day, Khan suddenly collapsed while having dinner, and was declared dead by the hospital.His post-mortem report has, however, revealed that he died due to enlargement of the heart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-questions-delay-in-investigation-into-death-of-a-22-year-old-because-of-alleged-police-brutality/story-P4QLsjErzoRDLh55RulxpK.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||State directs essential workers to apply for QR-coded e-passes for local train travel||The Maharashtra government on Friday issued a circular for QR-based e-passes for essential workers travelling by local trains.Citing that the passes will be mandatory from July 30, for workers to commute by local trains, the state government has asked commuters to approach the human resources department of their organisations to apply for them.A list of employees permitted by the organisation will be prepared by the HR and submitted to the Mumbai Police commissioner’s office. A nodal officer will be in charge of the passes and authorise them.A link to download the QR-based e-pass will be sent to the employee’s phone through SMS along with a password.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-directs-essential-workers-to-apply-for-qr-coded-e-passes-for-local-train-travel/story-ssMqKaxQaYZU4NbqaO24uN.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||‘14-year-old was mature enough’: HC grants bail to Pocso accused||The concept of consent is irrelevant under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, but the high court is empowered to pass orders necessary to secure the ends of justice, the Bombay high court (HC) said on Monday while granting bail to a city resident arrested for raping a minor.Justice Sandeep Shinde granted bail to the rape accused primarily on the grounds that apparently the 14-year-old survivor was mature enough and the acts were consensual. “Looking into the case of the prosecution, prima facie I am of the view that the victim possessed the mental capacity to actively understand the nature, circumstances and consequences of the act to which she had consented,” said justice Shinde.The accused was arrested by Nehru Nagar police in Kurla on July 10, 2019, following statement given by the survivor to police that she was raped by the married man and three others. The survivor’s stepmother had lodged a missing complaint on June 14, 2019 after the minor left her house as she was purportedly fed up of the harassment meted out by the complainant. After leaving home, she travelled to Chennai and then returned to Mumbai. She was raped by the four accused separately at different places during this time.Justice Shinde noted that the 14-year-old left her house voluntarily and accompanied more than one person to different places. She met a stranger in Chennai and returned to Mumbai with him and his friend.Her statement further revealed that after returning to Mumbai she met one Hussain and had consensual relationship with him. Thereafter, somebody handed her over to Mulund police station, but she introduced a stranger as her family member and went with him.In addition, the minor, born to a Muslim couple, had changed both her name and religion and got it declared by Gazette publication. All these revelations prompted HC to believe that the 14-year-old was capable of understanding the nature and consequences of the acts that she consented to.HC has, thus, ordered Navghare to be released on submitting personal bond of ₹30,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/14-year-old-was-mature-enough-hc-grants-bail-to-pocso-accused/story-bYDcJQjOztlZiT29MWUSoO.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||State expands ESZ to protect 10.59sqkm more forests around Thane sanctuary||The state forest department has revised its proposal for a buffer zone around the Thane creek flamingo sanctuary (TCFS) in Mumbai suburban and Thane districts. To declare an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) around the 16.90 sq km sanctuary, the forest officials have revised the originally proposed buffer area from 0 to 3.5km to 3.89km thereby offering protection towards the eastern end of the sanctuary covering the strip of mangrove forests towards Navi Mumbai.If the revised ESZ proposal is accepted, TCFS will span across 44.64 sq km - including 0.3 sq. km mangroves belonging to government agencies - which is an addition of 10.59 sq. km from the previous draft. The additional area is one-tenth the size of 105 sq kms Sanjay Gandhi National Park. HT had reported on May 16, 2019, that the originally designated ESZ did not protect mangroves, mudflats and salt pans towards certain portions of the sanctuary.An ESZ is a buffer area to reduce developmental pressures around a wildlife sanctuary or national park. TCFS is home to 12 true mangrove species, 39 mangrove associates, 167 species of birds including flamingos, 45 fish species, 59 species of butterflies, 67 insect species among other mammals like jackals.The revised proposal was recently approved by the principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF wildlife). Once approved by the state government, it will be sent to the Centre’s ESZ committee and the union environment ministry. Based on their approval, a draft proposal will be published again for suggestions and objections over the next two months.“The expanded area was an already notified reserved forest, which garnered protection under the Forest Conservation (FC) Act, 1980. Now, these areas will have an added advantage of attracting provisions under the Environment Protection Act, 1986 as well,” said Nitin Kakodkar, PCCF wildlife.The decision was taken after the Centre’s ESZ committee in February directed the state to include adjoining reserved forests, home to mangroves and mudflats, towards Airoli and Vashi for ‘better protection and fortification from a legal standpoint’, as per the minutes of the meeting reviewed by HT.“Since it is a creek, we found that mangroves on only one side were marked in the buffer zone. The intent was to safeguard the creek from all sides,” said a senior Union environment ministry official part of the ESZ committee. “We have called for the early submission of the proposal as per the Supreme Court (SC) directives. It is likely to be cleared by the Centre during our next meeting.” Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove cell) said, “As advised by the Centre, we have included mangrove areas on the eastern side of TCFS. It was left out as they were already protected under coastal regulation zone (CRZ) norms, a Bombay high court order, and FC Act. The entire process for the ESZ declaration will take five to six months.”The original ESZ extended on the eastern and western boundaries of the sanctuary and included nine villages. Inclusion of mangrove forests in the buffer zone (in the latest proposal) will cover an additional nine villages towards Navi Mumbai.The total ESZ area, as per the revised draft, comprises 18.48 sq. km reserved forest area, 9.13 sq. km private mangrove forests, and 17.02sq.km includes private land and creek area.In May 2018, the Maharashtra government had declared 1690.5 hectares in Mumbai suburban district as the flamingo sanctuary stretching across Mulund, Vikhroli, Bhandup and Kanjur and parts of Mandale village.Environmentalists said the decision should be taken with caution. “We must ensure that regulated activities in the ESZ that include construction, small scale industries, and establishment of hotels and resorts are monitored carefully but enhanced protection for Navi Mumbai mangroves is welcome,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-expands-esz-to-protect-10-59sqkm-more-forests-around-thane-sanctuary/story-RrX4R6cJDzoaZOc7y5lbQO.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, daughter taken to Nanavati Hospital||Actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and her daughter Aaradhya, 8, were admitted to Nanavati Hospital on Friday, after they complained of breathlessness. Both had tested positive for Covid last Sunday. They were in home quarantine as they were asymptomatic.Aishwarya’s husband, actor Abhishek, and father-in-law, Amitabh, too, are admitted to the same hospital and are getting treated for Covid-19. “They [Aishwarya and Aaradhya] were kept under observation at home quarantine. But on Friday, both started showing mild symptoms like breathlessness. So, around 9pm, they were taken to the hospital,” said a senior health department official, on condition of anonymity. Dr Abdul Ansari, head of the critical care at Nanavati hospital, didn’t respond to calls and text messages from HT for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aishwarya-rai-bachchan-daughter-taken-to-nanavati-hospital/story-2V898QdyavozzomgUkupNI.html
18-07-2020||Mumbai||Rapid antigen testing reveals 90% of Covid-positive patients as asymptomatic||After testing 6,000 people at Covid care centres (CCC) with rapid antigen kits, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has found that of the 600 people who tested positive for Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, close to 90% were asymptomatic, making them silent carriers of the infection. The 6,000 people tested had earlier been identified as high-risk contacts and were brought to CCCs. They were primarily from parts of north Mumbai like Andheri, Goregaon, Malad, Kandivli, Borivli, and Dahisar, “We have found that 10% of those who tested positive are symptomatic and they are getting treated at CCC in their respective civic wards,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.The civic body started testing high-risk contacts and suspected patients with rapid antigen kits, which, unlike the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, that takes almost eight hours to provide results, gives reports within 30 minutes.According to ICMR protocol, every positive report from the testing group will be treated as a ‘true positive’, while negative samples will have to be mandatorily re-tested by the RT-PCR process.BMC’s findings have led organisations like Jan Aarogya Abhiyan (JAA) to reiterate their claim that the civic body should have been using the kit much earlier, to control the spread of the virus. Dr Abhijit More, co-convenor, JAA, said, “This is the reason why we have been demanding for more number of Covid-19 tests which could have helped us in faster diagnosis and to control its spread.”Dr Ravikant Singh, a health activist said that the antigen test should have been used while sending migrants back to their home states. “These kits give results in 30 minutes. So, before allowing migrants to board the trains, the government should have tested them and quarantined the infected ones. This could have stopped the spread of the virus to other parts of the state,” he said.On July 2, BMC procured 1 lakh rapid testing kits from South Korean firm SD Biosensors – the only company approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to supply the kits.Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert, said, “Asymptomatic patients are silent carriers of the virus. Though their chances of spreading the infection are less, they are still infectious. So, in a pandemic, identifying such patients is essential, to break the chain of reaction. Thus, the civic body should have started with the rapid antigen tests earlier.”Sero survey completed, second comparative survey to be conducted in AugAfter much delay due to the ongoing monsoon, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has finally concluded the national serological survey by collecting 10,000 samples on Thursday. Next month again, the corporation will run a consecutive survey of the same wards for a comparative study.The survey is being conducted by BMC, along with NITI-Aayog, and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research.“Data collection was completed on Thursday. On Friday, we retook samples of some individuals due to technical errors,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “A comparative study with a month’s gap will help us to know how many are exposed to the virus and its pattern of infection.”On June 29, the civic body under the direction of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), started taking blood samples in Tilaknagar, Chembur, Matunga, Sion, Wadala, Dahisar, and Mandapeshwar. In a serological survey, a group of individuals undergoes blood tests to detect the presence of IgG antibodies that the body produces against the novel coronavirus. The tests aim to identify individuals who were previously infected with the virus and have now recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rapid-antigen-testing-reveals-90-of-covid-positive-patients-as-asymptomatic/story-8Aw7nsXHg2wnGVsuG2pthN.html
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Readers’ take: Lessons from Covid, chart a new course for students with care||With uncertainty prevailing over the Covid-19 crisis, one does not know when the colleges will reopen, authorities need to cut down the syllabus to more than 30% and make efforts to open the institutes by September this year when sufficient time will be left to complete the syllabus till the end of the academic year. Safety and social distancing measures should of course be in place. If that does not happen then the government has to take a decision to promote the students without any examination.SK KhoslaIn order to help the students study effectively without pressure, emphasis should be laid on the methodology of teaching, content being taught and also the accessibility to education. Efforts should be made to ensure that children don’t strain their eyes because of hours spent before computers for online classes. The government should provide free internet access and study oriented devices (ideally tablets) to poor children (most of them studying in government schools) so that every child has access to education at this time. Some unimportant topics in the curriculum can be skipped for this year to reduce the workload on students. Parents, who are ideally the child’s first teachers, should take command. They should be in regular touch with their ward and their teachers, and should try to devote some time to their children’s studies to help them. We need to be optimistic and believe that the day will come when we will have lived past this nightmare, when everything will finally come back on track.Krrish Madaan, Ambala‘One child, one teacher, one pen and one laptop with high speed internet can certainly change the world’, is the new quote of our era. Taking online classes is the only way forward for students in these turbulent times and for this, the schools must impart due training to their teachers. Avik Seth, Zirakpur, MohaliTeachers should make their best efforts to ensure their students take as much advantage of online classes as they can, even if the syllabus is reduced. Teachers should also be in touch with parents, be approachable to children, and be as innovative and interesting as they can be. The schools must also help poor parents whose children are handicapped as they cannot afford smart phones or internet costs. The mental and physical health of children should be factored in when lesson plans are made. They should not be exposed to too much screen time and be fruitfully employed in creative activities to avert anxiety.Madhu R D Singh, AmbalaLessons should be made fun and short so that the curriculum can be completed quickly and children enjoy the learning. Students should be promoted automatically though regular assignments should be given to them using various methods. This will ward off stress and tensions students are likely to be feeling at this time. Creativity in education is the need of the hour. Besides, skill development training should be given and students taught different household tasks that will enable them to take care of themselves and their families in emergent situations. We also need to adapt to online methods in pandemic times as we should make the best use of technology. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhThe purpose of school classes and tests is to add to and assess the grasp a student has on studies. Promoting students automatically to the next class is tantamount to a reward given for no effort made by a student. CBSE should frame question papers involving comprehensive coverage of course contents on quarterly basis and students should submit the answers after open-book self-study and consultation of peers and teachers directly/physically and virtually. Annual results can be compiled by the school concerned. This will encourage self-study and keep students busy .Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaGive us our provisional degree, we expect nothing from our college, which has the worst placement scenario. I am a student of mechanical engineering. What about my expectations and my parents’ hopes if our institutes cannot help us get a job? I don’t know how institutes such as University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Panjab University, have reported no impact on placements this year. If we don’t get jobs what other benefit can we expect from universities or colleges?Rohit Singh RathorePromoting the students automatically will set an unhealthy precedent. One option is to grade students on the basis of internal tests. Pruning of syllabus is not a permanent solution as it may lead to complacency among all the stakeholders.Usha Verma, ChandigarhParents will not want to send their children to schools when the Covid-19 pandemic rages. If this academic year is cancelled students should utilise the time in polishing their skills and developing their knowledge with the help of digital platforms such as YouTube or other online apps for easier passage through the next class and year. Ishita NaraThe students have to be promoted to the next classes as there is no other alternative. However, they should be made to clear an online test such as general awareness on health and wellness apart from other subjects. Parents can also help in grading them on the basis of how efficiently they are handling their life during the lockdown at home and helping out with household chores etc.Suman Kansal, PanchkulaAs we all are going through the Covid-19 pandemic and things aren’t looking good yet, many students are worried about their future. The government should allow promotion of students without exams and colleges immediately start classes for the next semester. It will be good for students to make a timetable and start studying for the next academic session.Sam Randhawa, LudhianaLife has been disrupted across India and the world because of the Covid-led lockdowns. Even if some institutes in urban India manage online classes, India doesn’t have the technology for interactive learning across the country, especially in rural India where resources are limited. Every student doesn’t possess a smartphone or a laptop for online studies. The Indian government should be more generous this year and promote all students to the next class without any examination. No one should be unfair towards students and should not initiate any such step which will ruin an entire year for them.Gurpreet S Malhotra, KansalIn these unprecedented times neither the students nor teachers feel comfortable about attending classes. However, online coaching for students can hardly substitute for classroom teaching, more so when practicals are an integral part of the prescribed course. Wisdom therefore lies in giving a go by to the session instead of putting the safety of children in jeopardy. The education departments must take a bold and firm stand.SC Luthra, ChandigarhEveryone knows that India is a poor and developing country. Students/ children are the future of the nation. A majority of poor students cannot spend money on digital gadgets. Secondly, primary school students can’t get the benefit of online education without support or help from parents and teachers. So, this method of online teaching is not suitable for the poor, especially those in rural and slum areas. The students cannot attend the schools due to Covid-19 and neither are their parents willing to send them. Prevention is better than cure. Long-term breaks can be declared for primary school students. Examinations should be based on the syllabus covered through online classes and other assessments. Senior students should be made to come in shifts and only one-third students should attend classes for two days a week after observing social distancing and wearing face masks. Online education should be provided to them alongside regular classes. The syllabus should be reduced. In the end, the annual examination should be held in two shifts (morning and evening ) in small groups with rules and regulations. All the extra activities and sports should be banned as long as the threat of Covid-19 remains. The UT administration should ensure that special attention is given by schools and teachers to the care of students.Sumesh Kumar BadhwarStudents have been the worst sufferers during the Covid-19 pandemic as they haven’t attended classes in the last four months. Syllabus should be reduced and exams must be taken to judge the students’ grasping power. In case exams are held by any chance, the pattern of question papers has to be changed. There should be more emphasis on multiple choice questions, one line questions and very short questions to quickly assess their grasp on a subject. Questions requiring long answers should not be included in exams . In order to keep students engaged, they should be made to do different interesting activities . Competitions can be held online. Storytelling, recitation sessions can be held for pre-primary classes. Students should also be given projects which enable them to apply practical as well as theoretical knowledge to what they have learnt. Marks based on such assignments and co-curricular activities should be included for assessment.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliThe decision of the CBSE to reduce syllabus by up to 30% clearly illustrates that policymaking around education in India is taking retrograde steps. The trivialisation of knowledge is symptomatic of an outlook that regards textbooks as assemblages of facts, which need to be memorised and regurgitated in examinations. The curriculum is designed only to enable students to pass examinations to be elevated to a higher class. This thinking has led to mushrooming of coaching institutes and the brisk business of sale of guidebooks, past year examination questions and their model answers. No attention is paid to the creativity of the student. CBSE desires that students should graduate without learning about citizenship, nationalism, secularism, algebra basics, binomial theorems, democracy and diversity, magnetic effects of electric currents and mathematical reasonings. The curriculum rationalisation will lead to knocking down of the building blocks of knowledge. The ideal way should have been to have condensed versions on critical themes, to ensure that students pick up the basics, without getting overburdened and stressed.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, Zirakpur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/readers-take-lessons-from-covid-chart-a-new-course-for-students-with-care/story-Hvg3hpofQtLvMMCkvdP4PN.html
18-07-2020||Delhi||Man held for posing as secretary of Union minister to seek favour||The Delhi Police on Friday said they had arrested a 27-year-old man from Madhya Pradesh’s Indore for allegedly impersonating the private secretary (PS) of Union home minister Amit Shah, and calling a personal staff of Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari, seeking cancellation of the transfer of a transport department official in Gwalior.The alleged impersonator, identified as Abhishek Dwivedi, was arrested on Thursday by a crime branch team, which had been trailing him and camping in Mumbai, Bangalore, Rewa and Indore for his arrest after case of impersonation and cheating was registered on July 5.A statement issued by Delhi Police said a complaint was received on July 3 from the Union Home Minister’s office, alleging that someone misused the minister’s personal secretary’s name and position to seek favour from the personal staff of the Union transport minister regarding cancellation of the transfer of a motor licensing officer. A case was registered and investigation was taken up by the crime branch, the statement read.The MLO had been transferred, an officer related to the case said, requesting anonymity. “Gadkari’s office received three calls on July 3. The officials became doubtful because the job was not so important that it required the intervention of a senior bureaucrat in the home minister’s office. The matter was communicated to the HM’s PS, who denied making such calls and filed a police complaint,” said the officer.The ministries of home affairs as well as transport and highways did not comment despite separate queries sent regarding the incident, case and arrest of the impersonator.During the probe, the police statement read, it was learnt that the suspect, Abhishek Dwivedi, is a resident of Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa, and is involved in criminal activities. Through technical investigation, the investigating team tracked the suspect’s location to Navi Mumbai and raided the rented flat, where he had been living with his wife. However, Dwivedi managed to give the police a slip by the time they reached his flat, said another crime branch officer, who asked not to be named.“Dwivedi’s next location was traced to Bangalore but he fled from there as well before the raiding team could reach. He later moved to Indore and was caught from a hotel with the help of the local police. The mobile phone and SIM card used in making calls has been recovered. Dwivedi is found to be previously involved in 13 cases of cheating, robbery and dacoity. He was also wanted by the Rewa police,” the officer added.The investigating team produced Dwivedi before a court in Indore and secured his transit remand custody. He is being brought to Delhi via road and is expected to reach the city by Saturday morning. Dwivedi’s father is employed in the electricity department in Rewa..“His wife told us that he holds a Bachelor in Civil Engineering degree . We are verifying it. Dwivedi’s association with Gwalior’s transport department officials will be probed. If needed, the official will be asked to join the investigation. So far, we have learnt that he committed the crime on the directions of his friend Vinay Singh Baghel, who is yet to be caught,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-posing-as-secretary-of-union-minister-to-seek-favour/story-9ispCHO4LCbgc9catJzVvK.html
18-07-2020||City||Nine deaths, 348 fresh Covid-19 cases in Punjab||Punjab on Friday reported nine deaths and 348 fresh Covid-19 cases. With this, the state’s positive patients’ tally has reached 9,442 and death toll 239. Deaths reported include one each from Ferozepur, SBS Nagar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran and Amritsar, and two each from Ludhiana and Patiala, according to the media bulletin released by the state government.Two persons – a 50-year-old man from Jatpura village in Raikot, who was undergoing treatment at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, and a 70-year-old resident of Uttam Nagar in Khanna -- succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana district. Besides, 68 others tested positive for the virus in the district. Patiala reported two deaths and 60 fresh cases. Of these, 44 are from Patiala, three from Nabha, five from Rajpura, six from Samana and two from other villages.Thirty-one Border Security Force (BSF) personnel among 105 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in three Doaba districts including Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. In Hoshiarpur, 31 BSF personnel tested positive at Kharka BSF training camp. In Jalandhar, 66 persons contracted the virus.Forty-three more people from Amritsar tested positive for Covid-19, health officials said. Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said: “27 are fresh community transmission cases and most of them are symptomatic. The other 16 patients are the close contacts of the Covid-19 patients.”Ten more people were found infected with Covid-19 in Muktsar district, four in Fazilka and two each in Ferozepur and Bathinda districts. Meanwhile, 20 fresh cases were reported in Mohali, taking the district’s count to 492. Moga reported 17 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-deaths-348-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-state/story-4qgSaRGmN4jNq3wD5RY47N.html
18-07-2020||Delhi||Rework Metrolite line in phase 4 to suit new housing areas, DDA tells DMRC||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has written to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to rework the alignment for its Phase 4’s Rithala-Narela line—one of the two Metrolite projects in Delhi—to sync it with the development proposed under the ambitious land pooling policy. The land pooling policy, which was re-notified in 2018, is aimed at meeting the growing housing requirement by providing 17 lakh dwelling units through planned developed on the outskirts of the city.A senior DDA official said that the current alignment either does not touch or just passes by the periphery of the existing crucial development areas and the ones that are yet to be developed under the land pooling policy.A sizable portion of the population where large-scale development is proposed will not benefit from the ₹2,900 crore Metrolite project as per the current alignment, a senior DDA official said, requesting anonymity.DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “We have requested DMRC to rework the alignment for the Rithala-Narela line so that planned development can take place. It is crossing areas where the land pooling policy will be implemented. We have given our suggestions to DMRC regarding the alignment. Through a coordinated approach, the alignment can be reworked to optimise its benefits to citizens and the city.”Under the policy, individuals or groups of owners will pool their land for planned development. DDA will prepare a development plan under which, 60% of the pooled land in each sector will be returned to the land-owners for the development of residential, commercial and semi-public facilities while using the remaining to provide basic infrastructure roads, sewer, hospitals, schools, etc. When contacted, Anuj Dayal, the executive director of corporate communications, DMRC, said, “We decided the alignment for this section in consultation with all stakeholders concerned, including DDA. However, we have received this letter, and the same is being examined and reviewed.”The Rithala-Narela line—the other Metrolite project is between Kirti Nagar and Bamnoli—is one of six corridors proposed as part of the Metro’s Phase-4 network expansion. The Metro network is currently spread over 389km in the Delhi-National Capital Region. The proposed 21.7km-long Metrolite line will have 19 stations—five at grade and the rest elevated—and will pass through sectors 25, 26, 31, 32 and 36 in Rohini, Barwala, Poothkalan, Bawana industrial areas 1 and 2, Narela, etc.These areas are part of DDA’s ‘N zone’, which is the first of the five zones to be developed under the land pooling policy. Re-notified in 2018, the policy—it was initially notified in 2013—is aimed at meeting the growing housing requirement in the Capital by providing 17 lakh dwelling units on the outskirts of the city. The fresh development will come up on vacant land in 95 urbanised villages.DMRC had sent the alignment proposal to DDA last year. Last month, DDA wrote to DMRC asking for the alignment to be reworked. According to a senior DDA official, the current proposed alignment will disturb the sector-wise planning in land pooling areas, as it cuts across sectors such as Sector 20 in the N zone.“The current Metro alignment is cutting across a sector. In each sector, we have to return 60% of the land to the original owners. The alignment will disturb the development planned under this policy. The line should pass between two sectors so that a large population can benefit from it,” a senior DDA official said. The DDA official said the alignment is passing through one end of the Bawana industrial area. “If the alignment crosses the middle, then it will benefit many people because those working there can use the Metro. In Narela, the line crosses the green belt and does not touch the areas where residential and commercial development is planned,” an official said.Urban planning expert Sabyasachi Das, the former commissioner of planning at DDA, said that the lack of public transport has been one of the major reasons for the slow-paced development of Narela and the large number of housing units constructed by DDA lying vacant.Das said, “Transport infrastructure should be developed along with other infrastructure. This is greenfield development—which is planned development on large parcels of vacant land—therefore there is scope for better planning. In Dwarka, for instance, development in commercial and residential areas picked up only after Metro started its operations. Even today, Narela is not well-connected to the rest of the city. There is no proper public transport system. This is one reason DDA is facing problems in selling its housing project in Narela.”A senior DDA official said, “DDA and DMRC officials are to hold a meeting to discuss the issue, but it is yet to be planned. The DDA has not referred the issue to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rework-metrolite-line-in-phase-4-to-suit-new-housing-areas-dda-tells-dmrc/story-TWSvxDoFUV3IqbvWD3Ro5L.html
18-07-2020||Delhi||DMRC begins constructing underground section of Krishna Park Extension station||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Friday started the work of the underground section of Krishna Park Extension station on Janakpuri-RK Ashram Marg corridor—a part of Metro Phase-4.The Metro started the construction of diaphragm walls—concrete walls used in deep excavation-based projects, especially in congested areas. The diaphragm walls will be used during the tunnelling of a 1.4 kilometre stretch between Janakpuri West and Keshopur with tunnel boring machines.“We will secure the excavated area with these walls and then commence the construction of the underground station. This technology has been used for Delhi Metro’s underground stations since we constructed Phase 1,” Anuj Dayal, the executive director of corporate communications, DMRC, said.Of the 28.92 km-long Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor, the underground segment between Janakpuri West and Keshopur is 7.74km-long. The corridor is an extension of Magenta Line and will comprise 22 stations. Construction work on this particular section had started in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dmrc-begins-constructing-underground-section-of-krishna-park-extension-station/story-I8ZMIaqwa6FXLbeU5pQqXO.html
18-07-2020||Delhi||Residents of two south Delhi localities on a mission to bring back native trees to parks||Native trees may soon populate the avenues and parks of the national capital with more and more people taking up the planting of indigenous plant species, the latest being the efforts of residents from the south Delhi neighbourhoods of Sarvodaya Enclave and Vasant Vihar, who are planting these saplings in public parks with the help from civic bodies. Monsoon is the season for plantation when millions of saplings are planted across the city by various agencies. The Delhi government targets the plantation of 31 lakh saplings this year. It has been encouraging citizens to plant more trees through free distribution of saplings to increase the overall green cover of the city.The residents, along with environmentalists, have taken it upon themselves to enrich the biodiversity of Delhi-NCR and have tied up with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). The civic body, which is the custodian of parks, will help with the watering of all saplings while residents will engage their own labour and resources for the plantation drive. The saplings are being sourced from different organisations, including the Aravalli Biodiversity Park, Gurugram, and various NGOs, said Padmavati Dwivedi, a resident of Sarvodaya Enclave, who is leading the initiative. The residents in Vasant Vihar have planted nearly 100 native trees, such as such as bel, arjun, dhak, doodhi, khejri, and bargad, among others, in a 1.8 acre park along the Munirka Marg last week. “We took permission from the civic body and they were happy to help us. We have planted around 100 native saplings at the Murika Marg park. The park mostly has kikar (an invasive species), which we are trying to replace with native varieties. Also, we have roped in an agency to help set up a mini forest inside the park. We also plan to have a herbal and native plants nursery, a bamboo grove and a butterfly garden,” said Keshav Garg, president, Vasant Vihar, Block D RWA.A chartered accountant by profession, Garg is a nature enthusiast and has been working on this project for almost a year. “We have been making manure using kitchen waste from 200 households at one of the parks here. The manure is used in the plantation. Also, I have taken permission from the Delhi Jal Board and have installed a sewage treatment plant for the park. We are yet to get approval from the SDMC to operate the STP, “ Garg said. A senior SDMC official, who did not wish to be named, said, “We had received a request from residents for the plantation drive. The horticulture department decides where the pits will be dug for plantation while residents will carry out the plantation.” Sohail Madan, an ecologist and centre manager of the Conservation Education Centre at Asola Bhati sanctuary, who is helping residents with the butterfly garden said it is crucial for public parks to have a rich biodiversity to support local organisms. “I will hold a webinar to educate residents on the basics of how to make a habitat for butterflies and what plants are required. I will also assist them with the plantation. Wild and native varieties such as peela vajradanti, citrus plants and patharchatta, among others, are required for butterflies to lay eggs on. The life cycle of a butterfly will go on, which will attract other predators such as lizards, spiders and bees, adding to the biodiversity of the area. Mostly, public parks only have trees that do not have any biodiversity value, which is why this initiative is so heartening,” Madan said. Mona Jugran, a resident of Sarvodaya Enclave, has helped plant around 30 native shrubs in two corporation parks in her neighbourhood. “I have my own kitchen garden and have been participating in tree walks. I hope that the plants grow well,” she said. The native varieties being grown by residents include dhau, goya khair, goondi, bistendu, gangeti, jhinjeri, khejri, dhak, doodhi, kaim, Harbor, peela vajradanti,chamrod, papdi and vallaris, among others. “The interest is catching on. Residents from neighbourhoods such as Gulmohar Park have asked me for native plants to grow in pots. We hope that this trend becomes a full-fledged movement to support the city’s green cover,” Dwivedi said. She added that native plants are best for biodiversity and require less maintenance, making them a perfect choice for a dry and hot capital. A senior forest department official said every year, they keep saplings for free distribution, all of which are of native varieties. “This year, we have kept around five lakh saplings for free distribution, and 99% of them are natives. Besides, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, we have also got medicinal plants such as giloy, tulsi and amla, among others.” Vijay Dhasmana, curator, Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Gurugram, said they have a huge citizen volunteering programme and they distribute plants for such community initiatives(as otherwise they do take monetary contributions) free of cost. “Mostly public parks have exotic or ornamental trees, which doesn’t support the biodiversity. Through such initiatives, people become aware of native plants and what is important for a natural habitat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/residents-of-two-south-delhi-localities-on-a-mission-to-bring-back-native-trees-to-parks/story-bglJ0064e8ehf8dEixzF5H.html
18-07-2020||Delhi||Woman, minor girl found dead at home, daughter-in-law found hanging the next day||A 40-year-old woman and her minor daughter were found dead at their house in outer Delhi’s Shahbad Dairy on Wednesday evening, while the woman’s daughter-in-law was found hanging at her parent’s house nearby on Thursday morning, the police said.The series of deaths, all within the span of a few hours, prompted some of their relatives to claim that this was a case of double murder and suicide, but the police neither confirmed nor denied this. Police said they would await the autopsy report to determine how each of them had died.On Wednesday, the 40-year-old woman and her 14-year-old daughter were found dead by her 23-year-old son when he returned home from work around 4.30pm, said Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north). Police did not identify the deceased as they are yet to determine the cause of death and one of the deceased was a minor. Police, however, said the family dealt in scrap and lived in Shahbad Daulatpur village. A relative later told HT, on condition of anonymity, that the son of the 40-year-old woman got married to the 22-year-old woman in April, during the lockdown period. “His mother and wife would frequently quarrel over domestic issues,” the relative alleged, even as the police said that they were still investigating whether there were any relationship issues.The relative said on Wednesday afternoon, the woman’s son returned home from work and found his mother and sister lying dead. “His wife told him that both of them had died of an electric shock from the air-cooler,” the relative claimed.He alerted neighbours and relatives who lived nearby and they, in turn, called the police.“When a few neighbours and family looked around the house, they found a bloodstained steam iron lying near the bodies. There were blunt injuries to the elder woman while the 14-year-old had strangulation marks,” the relative quoted above said, adding that the family suspected that the mother and daughter were killed by the daughter-in-law.But DCP Sharma said there were no visible injuries on the bodies and that it was too early to say how they died. He also did not comment on whether any steam iron was found near the bodies. “We would know how they died only when the autopsy report arrives early next week,” Sharma said.Sharma said inquest proceedings were initiated in the two deaths, but more were to follow over the next few hours.Around 11pm Wednesday, a massive fire engulfed the neighbourhood, gutting around 70 houses. The house where the two bodies were found was also gutted. While the DCP said that this was a mere coincidence, a lot of the evidence at the scene of the deaths was destroyed in the fire.A fire department officer, on condition of anonymity, said it took 32 fire tenders nearly three hours to douse the flames. “A total of 67 jhuggis were gutted in the blaze,” the officer said. He said while the trigger for the fire is yet to be known, it is suspected to have begun at the scrapyard in the area.Meanwhile, after police questioning, the daughter-in-law had returned to her parents’ home nearby, while her husband stayed with his relatives. “Around 9am Thursday, her parents found her hanging from the ceiling fan in her room,” DCP Sharma said.The police have initiated inquest proceedings in her death as well even though no FIR has been registered in the three deaths as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-minor-girl-found-dead-at-home-daughter-in-law-found-hanging-the-next-day/story-G5OBHD92sCSHh90QR7sJ7K.html
18-07-2020||Delhi||BJP protests power bills, AAP says petty politics||The Bharatiya Janata party’s Delhi unit on Friday launched demonstrations in the capital against the Aam Aadmi Party government over “inflated” electricity bills, prompting the ruling party to accuse it of indulging in petty politics.Senior party leaders and MPs protested in different parts of Delhi as part of its ‘Bijli Jan Andolan’. Accusing the state government of colluding with discoms, they said they would not allow electricity connections of consumers to be disconnected over unpaid bills.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and senior party leaders and MPs, including Meenakshi Lekhi, held a demonstration at the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) headquarters. Other leaders held a similar protest in 70 assembly constituencies. Demanding relief for people, the BJP submitted a memorandum to the DERC chairman about the problems faced by people.AAP spokesperson and MLA from Greater Kailash, Saurabh Bharadwaj, said BJP leaders were living up to their reputation of indulging in petty politics when the city has come together to fight Corona under the “Delhi Model”.“As for the issue of electricity bills for commercial establishments in lockdown period, the Delhi government stands with traders and businesses of Delhi. We have already ensured a three-month moratorium on payment of fixed charges without any penalty so that businesses get time to recover from the impact of lockdown. We ensured that the annual review of sanctioned load is deferred and we have also ensured provisional electricity bills that show energy consumption as NIL until manual reading of metering is resumed. What has the BJP done for the traders of Delhi in this lockdown period?” Bharadwaj said.Training his guns at the BJP, which rules all three municipal corporations, Bharadwaj said, “The Delhi government has singularly focused on ensuring adequate health care facilities are in place to fight corona, while BJP refuses to even pay salaries of doctors and nurses in MCD hospitals. This shows how much they care for the people of Delhi.” Targeting chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who had in 2013 criticised the then Congress government over high electricity bills, Gupta said, “He used to protest against the Sheila Dikshit government for high electricity bills. But today when he is in power in Delhi, he is letting the discoms send exorbitantly high bills by imposing surcharges such as power purchase charge, pension surcharge, fixed charge, etc. These are being sent to commercial establishments that were closed during lockdown.”“Even domestic consumers are being sent bills without subsidy,” Gupta said. A few resident and traders’ associations joined the protest.The principal opposition party in the Delhi assembly alleged the AAP-led Delhi government had allowed discoms to send disconnection notices to people.Leader of the opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said AAP had promised it would recover Rs8,000 crore from the power companies and use it for Delhi’s development. “But to date, not even eight paisa have been recovered. Instead, the government and power companies are collectively charging arbitrary electricity bills,” Bidhuri said.Demanding an immediate waiver of fixed charges, Bidhuri said, “Other state governments provided relief to residents in electricity bills but the Kejriwal government is adding to people’s problems. Fixed charges should be waived.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-protests-power-bills-aap-says-petty-politics/story-X3QBkCet7jJPy1Y7zIvj5O.html
18-07-2020||Noida||After Supreme Court’s relief for builders, homebuyers say they want their share||With the Supreme Court’s July 10 order directing the Noida and Greater Noida authorities to reduce interest rates on land dues levied on developers to 8.5% from 20% (or even higher, on case to case basis) will benefit developers, homebuyers are now demanding that they too be given a slice of the pie.On July 10, 2020 the Supreme Court, while hearing petitions in a matter regarding the Amrapali Group, directed the two authorities to only charge an interest rate of 8.5%, as per the marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) on land cost, fixed by the reserve bank of India, on land dues of developers.The Amrapali Group, a realty major with projects in Noida and Greater Noida, has failed to finish and deliver around 42,000 units. Its buyers petitioned the apex court in September 2017. In its July 10 order, the apex court clubbed the plea in the Amrapali case as a plea regarding the ACE Group, on high rates of interest in Noida.According to the two authorities, the move would benefit around 500 developers.A homebuyers’ association has now demanded that the financial benefit the developers would receive should be passed onto them as well.“If developers are going to benefit and they need not pay penal interest on financial dues in a group housing project, then we, the homebuyers, should also get a part of that financial gain. The developers have imposed a penalty calculated on 18% interest on buyers if they fail to make payments on time. Thousands of homebuyers have paid the penalty to developers in the past,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension flat owners’ welfare association (NEFOWA), which is also a petitioner in the Amrapali case in the apex court.The Supreme Court has said that developers should immediately start making payments to the authorities as per the new reduced rates, and deposit 25% of total dues in three months. Also, total land dues are to be paid within one year, from the date of the order, if they want to avail benefits of the apex court’s order. If they fail to pay the 25% in three months and total dues in one year from July 10, then they will not be able to avail of the benefits, as per SC order delivered on July 10.“We are planning to approach the Supreme Court for justice and if need be, we will stage protests in Delhi in the future,” Kumar added.The order is effective on dues from January 1, 2010.The order came after Noida-based developer ACE Group, through a plea, demanded that the “unreasonable” interest rate on group housing land should be looked into. ACE Group’s plea was clubbed with the Amrapali case.The two authorities have a policy to charge 11% interest rate from developers, who pay for housing land in instalments. On defaulting on instalments, the authorities impose a penal interest.The interest keeps increasing with each non-payment, depending upon the number of times the payment was not made. The Noida authority has around Rs 25,000 crore land dues to recover while the Greater Noida authority has around Rs 7,000 crore land dues to recover from developers, as per the old interest rates. However, now these amounts will be reduced as the interest is reduced, said officials.“We have formed a committee consisting of additional CEO, financial controller, legal officer and officer on special duty to study the court order and furnish a report so that we can take an appropriate decision. We may also need guidance from the UP government on this,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The Noida authority’s CEO Ritu Maheshwari said, “We are examining the Supreme court order to take appropriate action. We may adjust the amount of a developer if the dues are reduced due to the new interest.”The developers, meanwhile, said they hoped the move will benefit homebuyers as well.“The two authorities were charging unreasonable interest rates. As a result, housing projects had become economically unviable. This was also affecting the homebuyers’ interests as many developers were not able to deliver flats. Now many developers will be able to exit the ‘defaulter’ list, arrange funds and deliver flats to buyers, thus benefiting them. Buyers should welcome this order because it will bring positivity in the sector and the projects will be delivered,” said Prashant Tiwari, president of the west UP chapter of the confederation of real estate developers association of India (CREDAI), a developers’ body.On homebuyers’ demand, Tiwari said: “Homebuyers will indirectly be benefited from this July 10 order as developers will be able to deliver housing projects with reduced financial dues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-supreme-court-s-relief-for-builders-homebuyers-say-they-want-their-share/story-C1PGR9wAMZm2hkRiHKqgZO.html
18-07-2020||Noida||Six-month-old female foetus found in Bhangel||A six-month-old female foetus was found in an empty plot in Bhangel Wednesday evening. According to the police, a passerby spotted the foetus and informed them following which a criminal case has been registered at the Phase 2 police station.According to police officers, on Wednesday evening a passerby called the police helpline (112) informing them about a foetus lying in an empty plot in Bhangel following which a team was rushed to the spot. “The female foetus was sent for DNA sampling. Meanwhile, a case has also been registered at the Phase 2 police station under section 318 (concealment of the birth of an identified newborn child) of the Indian Penal Code,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.The police said they are working on identifying the parents of the foetus. So far, there aren’t any leads, however, locals are being questioned to find out if anyone saw anything suspicious in the area, they added.Experts feel that such cases may be hiding a more serious problem in Gautam Budh Nagar.“The abandonment of a female foetus may suggest that a sex determination centre might be operating in the district. The focus of the authorities should be on identifying such establishments if they are running in the district. There is also a possibility of some negligence on the behalf of primary health service centres or those responsible for prenatal care of pregnant women. If these issues are persistent here then they need to be addressed,” said Satya Prakash, programme manager, FXB India Suraksha, the NGO that manages the district childline.When contacted, a senior health department official denied any knowledge about the incident.On May 17, the body of a newborn baby boy, who was just a few days old, was found floating in Barola drain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/six-month-old-female-foetus-found-in-bhangel/story-xZ4HYKD5rwmuld4M59b5kO.html
18-07-2020||Pune||PCMC to set up 2,000-bed Covid centre at Annasaheb Magar Stadium||The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has issued a tender for establishing a 2,000-bed Covid care centre at the Annasaheb Magar stadium.After the demolition of the stadium in January, the five-acre ground is lying vacant for seven months, barring a corner where confiscated vegetable carts have been placed which were collected during encroachments drives.“We have issued a tender regarding Covid care centre. Since cases are increasing we have taken this decision for the future,” said Santosh Londe, standing committee chairman.The standing committee has appointed an adviser for the project who will plan for electricity, generator, water supply, water heater, water purifier, and closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras.“The ground will be cleared completely before the start of the work which will begin soon,” added Londe.Currently, there are 11 Covid centres functional in PCMC. As of Friday, PCMC reported a total 9,790 Covid-19 positive cases, 162 deaths and 5,900 patients have been cured.Highest single-day spike686 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday which is the highest single-day spike number in PCMC so far. Total 1,380 were hospitalised out of which 173 were negative cases. Six deaths were also reported in the city. Working Covid Centres in PCMCPimpri Chinchwad College of Engineering, Akurdi; Regional Telecom Centre, Sahunagar; Symbiosis College, Kiwale; DY Patil Girls Hostel, Akurdi; DY Patil Medical College, Pimpri; Adivasi Department boys and girls hostel, Moshi; Law College, Balaji University; Indira College, Tathawade; Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex in Balewadi; Boys/Girls hostel in Social Justice Department, Moshi; Mhada Society, Mahalunge, Chakan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-to-set-up-2-000-bed-covid-centre-at-annasaheb-magar-stadium/story-1jie0jZeRMiKMV15M2ItfM.html
18-07-2020||Pune||PCMC police register 30,504 cases against lockdown violators||Launching one of its biggest exercises, the Pimpri-Chinchwad Police have lodged a record of 30,504 cases and arrested 125 persons in connection with lockdown violations until Friday evening. Meanwhile, the Pune police have lodged 1,613 cases against violators since Monday midnight ever since the 10-day lockdown was announced by the district administration. Collectively, the twin commissionerates have lodged 32,117 cases against lockdown violators.PCMC police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi issued orders that strict action must be taken against those violating lockdown rules taking into account the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases.Bishnoi said “ Action was taken under section 188 and we have advised the residents to stay indoors during the lockdown period. Strict enforcement is being done and we have received tremendous co-operation from citizens in our drive to break the chain of virus infection.”The PCMC police also recovered a fine of Rs 1.38 lakh and seized 2,611 vehicles till date.The Pune city police have seized 397 two-wheelers, served notices under section 144 to 320 persons and 102 persons have been booked for not wearing mandatory face masks. DCP ( crime ) Bachchan Singh said that strict action was aimed at making life safe for the citizens.“We have received good co-operation from citizens and appeal to all that they must not step out of their residence except in cases of medical and other emergencies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-police-register-30-504-cases-against-lockdown-violators/story-lR1EZJsGXSez62wKAUy5GO.html
18-07-2020||Pune||YCMH counselling centre provides a healing touch to mental health during pandemic||The Covid-19 infection comes packaged with fear and myth that often puts the immediate family, relatives of a positive patient at a high risk of mental stress.The Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) has established a counselling centre for the relatives of positive patients to help them recover from the fear of the infection. The YCMH counsels 50 to 60 people every day, the centre is run by Real Life Real People – an NGO which has been associated with the hospital for the past 10 years.According to Dr Manjeet Santre, head of the department of psychiatry at YCMH, a lot of people believe in misconceptions.“Covid is equal to death, this is the mentality of most people when their family member is hospitalised. This is a totally wrong assumption of Covid and with our interaction, we try to change this assumption,” Santre said.Santre informed that more than motivational counselling, people are in need of proper guidance.“In the current scenario people don’t need motivation, they require guidance as there are several myths about the Covid disease,” he added.A team of 25 people is tasked with counselling people every day at the hospital.“Most of the people started to fear coronavirus after their family member is admitted to the hospital. Giving them confidence that the patient will recover and nothing will happen is the duty of the counselling centre,” said MA Hussain, administrator of the counselling centre.According to Hussain, the NGO also provides updates about patients’ health over the phone.“Since a large number of people are not allowed at the hospital, the health status of patients is explained to family members over the phone,” added Hussain.One of the important aspects of the counselling centre is safeguarding the mental health of its patients. “First I thought, it will be waste of time to get in contact with the patient’s relative counselling centre but consultation with one of the psychiatrist is keeping me mentally strong and developing confidence about my relative’s recovery,” said Bismil Shaikh whose uncle is getting treated for Covid at YCMH. Real Life Real People also works in other departments at YCMH to help patients who don’t have immediate family to take care of them.BoxWarriors on DutyDr Mahadev Bhotre, Dr Kundlik Amle, Dr Prakash Junkatwar, Dr Ravindra Dhawle, Dr Kisan Gaikwad, Dr Lata Sonkar – Three of them are always present at the patient’s relative counselling centre. They can be contacted on 020 67332297.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ycmh-counselling-centre-provides-a-healing-touch-to-mental-health-during-pandemic/story-bInYko39SHE04DYlaNfBrL.html
18-07-2020||Pune||Principal secretary orders audit of Covid-19 treatment charges at Pune hospitals||In a bid to check overcharging by private hospitals, Ajoy Mehta, principal secretary to chief minister has instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and district collector to carry out an audit of charges levied by private hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients.Mehta has also instructed the officials to take strict action against such hospitals.The directions were issued during a recently held meeting under the chairmanship of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, at Vidhan Bhavan where the top bureaucrat and other government officials took a review of Covid-19 situation in the city.The state government has already issued billing-related directions to the hospital.Mehta said, “Some hospitals who have enrolled themselves under Mahatma Phule Janarogya Abhiyan are overcharging patients. Strict action should be taken against such hospitals.”Ramesh Krishnamurthy Iyer, general secretary, Congress, said, “There are cases reported where the hospitals are overcharging and delaying medical treatment leading to patient’s death. Strict action should be taken against such hospitals.”Iyer also demanded clarity on the billing process and said, “All necessary guidelines including notice boards must be put up on the notice boards in the hospitals to make the patients and their relatives aware of the billing process before they get admitted into any hospital.”“The order must be properly implemented as it would provide relief to the patients,” he said.Mehta has also directed the district administration to commission the facility of oxygen tanks wherein industrial oxygen cylinders can be converted into oxygen cylinders for medical usage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/principal-secretary-orders-audit-of-covid-19-treatment-charges-at-pune-hospitals/story-xXR6nYhL2zI3C185VkkdJJ.html
18-07-2020||Pune||No asymptomatic patients to be admitted, PMC orders hospitals||Amidst an increase in Covid-19 positive cases and the shortage of beds in the city hospitals the district administration, on Friday, demanded private hospitals to direct asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients to home quarantine.Naval Kishore Ram, district collector and president, district disaster management, issued the order to private hospitals on Friday.Ram said, “Private hospitals should counsel asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients and send them for home quarantine.”“If the patients are not willing for home quarantine and insist to get themselves admitted, the hospitals should inform the administration who will direct them to a municipal corporation-run Covid care centre,” said Ram.“We have formed a vigilance team to keep a check on private hospitals. If they are found flouting the rule strict action will be taken against them under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897,” said Ram.A PMC official said, “PMC has enough vacant beds at its Covid care centres, but patients are rushing to private hospitals after they test positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus due to fear.”“Asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients have to isolate themselves, they do not require help from medical staff or medical equipment. These facilities are available in the temporary Covid care centres erected by the civic body,” said the official.”This will help the civic body to provide beds for critical patients at private hospitals,” said the official.According to the PMC, at least 2,000 asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients have preferred home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-asymptomatic-patients-to-be-admitted-pmc-orders-hospitals/story-hR6scfBz1YY8RZlUajQRGP.html
18-07-2020||Pune||Pawar tells BMC civic chief to share Covid prevention steps with Pune||With Pune reporting more Covid-19 positive cases than Mumbai for the past two days, Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister, on Friday asked Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal to guide the Pune administration to take steps to contain the virus spread. Pawar on Friday invited Iqbal to Pune.The minister took the meeting at the VIP circuit house attended by Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, officer on special duty at Pune division Saurabh Rao, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, PCMC commissioner Sharavan Hardikar and other IAS officers.Pawar instructed Iqbal to share the Mumbai coronavirus prevention measures with the Pune administration.Iqbal underlined the need for contact tracing, testing, infrastructure improvement, bed management and containment zone policy implemented in Mumbai.After the meeting, Pawar said, “Mumbai has been successful in controlling the spread of Covid-19. Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad need to follow and execute the capital’s good practices. Steps need to be taken to ensure critical patients get timely medical attention. As finance minister, I would ensure that fund does not become a hindrance for treatment.”The deputy chief minister instructed officials to take care of institutional quarantine facilities in the city.Contact tracing is the keyBrihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said that the civic body ramped up contact tracing, especially in slums, and municipal wards after the first few cases were reported in Mumbai in March. “We mainly concentrated on testing, ambulance management, bed management and medical and para medical staff management. It helped to bring down Covid cases in the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pawar-tells-bmc-civic-chief-to-share-covid-prevention-steps-with-pune/story-BRKsCtEWc3Z2jmdOQmo7gN.html
18-07-2020||Pune||FY admissions in Pune are now online to enable easy student sign-ups||Following the declaration of Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) Class 12 results on Thursday, colleges in and around Pune have started the admission process for first year graduation courses. Many prominent colleges are going online and have received good response from students.Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar said, “The HSC results were declared online at 1 pm and we uploaded the admission process notice for various graduation courses on college website at 12.30 pm itself. We have set July 30 as the last date to fill form and the process is online and soft copy of state board result will be accepted. We have decided to conduct the whole admission process online, from form filling, verification of documents to fee payment, because of the coronavirus situation.”Modern College and others have formed an “admission committee” as per the guidelines given by Savitribai Phule Pune University [SPPU] for smooth conduct of admission process. A post of admission coordinator is created to ensure effective coordination between colleges and students.Dilip Sheth, principal, Sir Parshuram Bhau College [SP College] said, “We have started the admission process and students will be filling the merit form. We will conduct the entire admission process online for the first time, after July 25. Earlier, we used to accept forms online and students had to physically submit documents for verification and fee payment. We have conducted Class 12, second and third year graduation admissions totally online in the past.”Students are finding online admission process easy and safe. Aaditya Sanap, who passed HSC from Science stream said, “I am seeking admission to Fergusson or Symbiosis. The online admission process is the best way in the light of virus situation and lockdown. I have applied online to several colleges.”The procedure Student applicant should visit the college website and search for new admissions for “First Year Graduation”Applicant needs to first apply for “Merit List form”Student is selected for admission as per marks/percentage Student should upload soft copy of marksheet and other documents demanded by collegeOnce selected, student should pay college fees online through netbanking, NEFT or debit/credit card and admission is confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-situation-changing-colleges-to-fully-go-online-for-fy-admissions/story-VRD3esE3BqGbcDooir5lwK.html
18-07-2020||City||History-sheeter, aide nabbed with arms in Mohali||Police claim to have arrested a history-sheeter and his aide, who were planning to commit a robbery at a factory at Industrial Area, Phase-8-B. The suspects, identified as Rajiv Kumar, 30, a resident of Kaithal in Haryana, and Ravi Kumar, 25, a native of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, were nabbed from the dumping ground in Industrial Area, Phase 8-B, on Thursday evening.Police have recovered a country made .32-bore revolver, along with three live cartridges, from their possession.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Avtar Singh, in-charge of the Industrial Area Police Post, said, “The duo was arrested following a tip-off. During preliminary investigation, it was established that Rajiv has a criminal background.”He said Rajiv was facing nine cases, including two of murder, at various police stations of Haryana. He was also involved in kidnapping and extorting Rs 10 lakh from a doctor in Kaithal in the past. The suspects were produced in a local court, which sent them to two-day police remand.Phase 1 station house officer (SHO) inspector Manphul Singh said the duo will be interrogated for more details.A case under Sections 393 (attempt to commit robbery) and 401 (punishment for belonging to gang of thieves) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act was registered at the Phase 1 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/history-sheeter-aide-nabbed-with-arms-in-mohali/story-5jXZC6LHBtitZjDkMLvoBP.html
18-07-2020||Lifestyle||Is that sanitiser bottle safe for you to carry?||Sanitiser is a necessity today. But, how safe is it to have a sanitiser in say a car that’s parked in a high temperature zone or in a luggage that will be checked in during air travel? Isn’t the alcohol content in sanitisers high enough to be a cause of accidents such as fire hazards? So then, can that little bottle of liquid, which you believe is potent to save you from coronavirus, can be dangerous to carry? “It’s a recent habit to hoard sanitisers because of the on-going pandemic. I have bought four sanitisers and put them in various places, among which one is my car. The initial thought behind that was the convenience to use it as soon as I enter the car. However, recently when I had parked my car under the sun to go for grocery shopping, I came back and upon touching the sanitiser bottle realised that it was super hot! It then struck me that had I left it in for a few more minutes under the scorching sun, it might have even inflated or bursted... after all there’s alcohol in it,” says Vaishwi Khanna, a resident of DLF Phase 2, Gurugram.Confirming that it isn’t a safe practice to keep sanitisers in car, Joginder Singh, professor at a Haryana-based engineering college, Head Research and Development Gateway Institute of Engineering and Technology says, “Sanitising chemicals consist of 70% isopropyl alcohol. The temperature needed to reach the flash point of this chemical (the point at which a substance ignites) is 21 degree Celsius. When the car is locked, with the bottle kept inside it for long, the temperature of the car increases and the chemical in the sanitiser forms vapour upon coming in contact with heat. In such a situation if anyone happens to light a cigarette, it can lead to an explosion! It’s therefore advisable to refrain from keeping sanitisers in cars.The safety of carrying sanitisers on aircraft is also a concern. “According to the rules, passengers can carry only 100 ml sanitiser on-board. They are allowed to use it only on their skin, and not on any surface inside the aircraft. The quantity of the sanitisers is limited because of security reasons, as they can lead to a fire hazard because of the alcohol content in them,” informs Pretty Loryn, a flight attendant with a private airline. All said and agreed, but in times like these when sanitiser is a necessity, is there an alternative to alcohol-based sanitisers that can be kept in cars without inviting any danger? Indeed there is. Vidit Arora, who is working with a company that is manufacturing non-alcoholic virus disinfectant spray, says, “We have provided an Antivirus Disinfectant Spray to a cab aggregator. This spray creates an ultra thin layer over the surface on which it is used, and it stays there for an entire day thereby helping to avoid any further settlement of virus. At present, it’s being used in cabs to sanitise the seats and surfaces between taking in passengers. This spray can be used for disinfecting multiple surfaces, and can also be used on the skin as an alternative to alcohol based sanitisers. In fact, it’s also pet-friendly! Since it’s alcohol-free, so there’s no harm to store it in the car.” Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/is-that-sanitiser-bottle-safe-for-you-to-carry/story-1prYSDs7mmZsqxRxNFkXZP.html
18-07-2020||City||Kharar civil hospital sealed as receptionist tests positive for Covid-19||The Kharar civil hospital was sealed on Friday after a 52-year-old female receptionist tested positive for Covid-19.She was among the 20 fresh cases confirmed in Mohali district, where the total cases now stand at 492.Health authorities said her contacts will be traced and tested.A private bank in Dera Bassi and a public bank in Zirakpur were also sealed after their two staffers were found positive. The 25-year-old woman works as a cashier with the private bank, while the 43-year-old old is a manager at the latter.Two 36 years old women and a 75-year-old woman, besides a 16-year-old boy have contracted the infection in Kharar. Two female patients, aged 37 and 33, are from Sector 80.Four women, aged 54, 37, 28 and 18, are from Sector 71, Phase 10, Phase 1 and Phase 3, respectively. A 24-year-old man in Phase 5 was also found positive.In the city’s periphery, a 28-year-old female tested positive in Banur; a 23-year-old woman in Lalru; and a 65-year-old woman in Zirakpur. Two men aged 64 and 61, are from Baltana, while a 29-year-old man tested positive in Aerocity. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all patients had been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Also, 16 patients were discharged from the hospital on Friday, bringing down the active patients in the district to 173.Of the total 492 cases in the district, 310 have recovered and nine have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-civil-hospital-sealed-as-receptionist-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-ZHxjv6vtbf57SVuDAPTFAO.html
18-07-2020||Pune||YCMH’s ‘child care’ corona ward ensures the young get Covid-free||The “Child care corona ward” set up at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) has helped PCMC health department achieve the commendable feat of successfully treating 175 serious cases (5 days to 12 years).PCMC health department has reported zero death of children affected by Covid-19 and admitted at the hospital.The civic-run hospital started the “Child care corona ward” on April 26 this year to take care of serious paediatric cases. Of the 808 children admitted to the hospital till date, 798 have been cured and discharged, and 10 are undergoing treatment.The hospital has made two wards for children — one for infants and another for children aged 1-12 years.“We allow breastfeeding mothers to stay with children at the ward as along with medicines, breast milk plays a very important role in helping the baby develop immunity,” said Deepali Ambike, head of paediatrics department, YCMH.“Providing quick medical diagnosis and treatment is one of the reasons we have been successful in curing children,” said Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.The mother of a recovered 2-year-old child said, “Staying in the ward with my baby helped me to remain calm and observe the treatment. In the beginning I was worried, but was sure that my baby will recover.” The Pimpri resident said that her child contracted the virus from his aunt who was tested Covid-19 positive. Later, the mother also underwent test and was declared negative. The recovery period for the child was 10 days.PCMC tweeted: “Pimpri-Chinchwad is the only city in the state with a ‘zero percent’ infant mortality rate among the COVID19 affected cities. Expert doctors and excellent healthcare facilities have made it possible to successfully treat COVID19 positive children admitted since April 2020.”The mortality rate recorded at YCMH is 1.42 per cent as compared to Pune (3.52%) and Maharashtra (3.96%).As of Friday, PCMC reported a total 9,790 Covid positive cases, 162 deaths and 5,900 patients have been cured.Saving young livesIn Pune: 4 deaths recorded in age group 0-20 yearsIn Maharashtra: 67 deaths recorded in age group 0-20Numbers of cured children (serious cases)April: 13May: 17June: 102July: 4310 patients undergoing treatment at YCMH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ycmh-child-care-corona-ward-cures-175-serious-cases/story-JNElRaMxS6aJFwHbJjntKI.html
