19-07-2020||Gurugram||Haryana: OP Dhankar appointed new chief of BJP state unit||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday appointed O P Dhankar as the party chief of the state unit. Dhankar, a senior party leader, was a cabinet minister in the previous BJP government in the state. Dhankar replaces Subash Barala.The appointment of Dhankar is being viewed as a move to give adequate representation to the Jat community in the state leadership as it is the dominant caste in the state, said sources within the party. The previous state unit chief, Barala, is also from the Jat community.The party in a statement on Sunday said that Dhankar’s appointment was made by BJP chief JP Nadda.Although Barala has completed tenure eight months earlier, the appointment of a new BJP state chief was delayed as the party was searching for a suitable candidate. Senior leaders such as Captain Abhimanyu, Krishan Pal Gurjar, Sandeep Joshi and others were also in the fray for the position, said sources in the party. However, Dhankar’s experience, work as a ground-level farmer leader and his caste identity tilted scales in his favour, they added. Raman Malik, BJP spokesperson, Haryana, said that the appointment of Dhankar will galvanize the party’s rank and file as he has vast experience as a leader of the youth and the farmers. “He is an aggressive leader who knows the state’s politics and issues of the people deeply. This will help the organisation ,” said Malik. Notably, both Dhankar and Barala had lost their seats in the assembly polls held in October 2019. A party leader, who wished to remain anonymous, said that Dhankar had recently been appointed as the national coordinator for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Statue of Unity project in Gujarat. A former teacher who is from Jhajjar district, Dhankar started his career as a political worker in 1978. Between 1980 and 1996, he worked with the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad and honed his skills in student politics. In 1996, he joined the BJP formally and was appointed as the national secretary. He was given the charge of head of BJP Kissan Morcha between 2011 and 2015. He also served as a cabinet minister in the BJP government in Haryana from 2014 to 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-op-dhankar-appointed-new-chief-of-bjp-state-unit/story-tE57HSV6wBWlcuQJzChePO.html
19-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram reports 154 new cases; tally inches towards 8,000||The district reported 154 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total tally of known infections to 7,748. Just a week ago, on July 12, the count was 6,860 cases, indicating an average growth of at least 126 new cases per day, over the past week. At the beginning of the month, on July 1, the district had a total of 5,463 cases.Of the current tally, 1,029 patients are classified as active cases as on Sunday, slightly up from Saturday’s tally of 1,012. While 13 of them are currently hospitalised, the majority — 883 people — are under home isolation. The remaining 141 patients are under observation at various district Covid centres and dedicated Covid healthcare centres.Gurugram on Sunday also recorded 135 new recoveries, taking the district’s cumulative recovery rate to 85.22%. The district also recorded two new deaths on Sunday, both of whom had underlying medical conditions. The total tally of Covid-related deaths has reached 116. The mortality rate in the district stands at 1.5%.Gurugram on Sunday also collected 2,294 new samples for testing, down from 2,562 samples collected on Saturday. Of these, 372 samples were taken by private labs for RT-PCR tests, while the majority of remaining samples are those of RT-PCR and antigen tests by the health department. The district’s test-positivity rate(TPR) on Sunday was about 8% and has been fluctuating between 7 and 9% for close to two weeks now.Gurugram’s daily growth rate of new cases, on Sunday, was 1.8%, and has been fluctuating between 2.2% and 1.6% for the last two weeks. The doubling rate stands at 40 days, while active cases make up only 13% of the reported case load — down from 21% two weeks ago.Meanwhile, the total cases in Haryana reached 26,164 with 617 cases being reported on Sunday. Total deaths in the state is currently 349. The number of active cases in the state is 6022. Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, DSO, said, “We are faring well on all counts. We have come down from one peak, and if there is a second peak coming, we are well equipped to deal with that one too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-reports-154-new-cases-tally-inches-towards-8-000/story-PFVNtZNTIYn2wvFfmJ76fN.html
19-07-2020||Gurugram||Backlog of samples increases, but officials say they are sufficiently equipped to test||Despite an uptick in testing capacity, the district’s daily epidemic bulletin has been showing an increase in the backlog of samples that are yet to be tested via the RT PCR method. Authorities said this was due to the slightly delayed reporting of results from the lab, due to which there is a day’s lag in reporting. While health department data shows that the backlog of samples has increased by more than five times in the past three weeks, officials clarified that this was not really the case.As of July 19, the results for at least 1,103 samples were awaited (from government facilities), up from 220 samples on July 1, as per the district health department’s daily epidemic bulletin. Officials, however, said that the delay was not cause of a dearth of testing facilities in Gurugram.“We are testing up to 800 samples per day via RT-PCR, which is more than what even private labs are testing. The private labs are testing around 300 to 400 samples per day. In early June, a backlog was building up because we weren’t able to test enough.Around 400 tests were being done daily then with a backlog of 700 cases. On the contrary, we are now collecting more samples after increasing our testing capacity, so naturally the bulletin is showing a larger number,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer (DSO) in Gurugram. Unlike earlier, when results sometimes took as long as 48 hours to arrive, samples from government labs in Gurugram are now being tested within 24 hours, Sharma added. “This isn’t reflected in the bulletin because we receive the results at night, after the bulletin is issued. Results for most of Sunday’s 1108 pending samples will be updated in Monday’s bulletin,” he said, while results for about 1,300 samples collected on Sunday will appear in Tuesday’s bulletin.While health department officials said that shortfalls in testing do happen on some days, it isn’t a worrying trend. A doctor with the IDSP in Gurugram, said, “Earlier, the backlog was growing incrementally each day and the infrastructure we had was stretched quite thin. Now, even if there is a shortfall on one day, it is made up for the next day.”A total of 79576 samples from the district have been tested for Covid-19 so far, via both RT PCR and antigen methods. With the opening of a testing lab in Gurugram last month, and a second RT PCR machine being installed at Civil Hospital (inaugurated by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar last week), officials said that they are sufficiently equipped for the time being.The SGT Medical College Hospital and Research Institute in Chandu Budhera, located on the outskirts of Gurugram, will also soon initiate reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests on its campus. The college was awaiting approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which was granted earlier this month. At the time, Dr Mukesh Sharma, microbiologist at SGT College, had said that they would be able to test up to 300-400 samples every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/backlog-of-samples-increases-but-officials-say-they-are-sufficiently-equipped-to-test/story-H2d3H1Nfwv9UZuHQ8jzznJ.html
19-07-2020||Gurugram||Motorcyclist killed after truck overturns near Kherki Daula toll plaza||A 36-year-old motorcycle rider was killed after a truck allegedly overturned and hit at least four vehicles near the Kherki Daula toll on Saturday afternoon. Police said the mishap also triggered an hour long traffic congestion on national highway-48. According to the police, the incident took place when the victim — identified as Manoj Sharma, 36, who worked as an interior decorator — was on his way back home in Bhondsi from sector 84. Investigators say the accident took place around 3.30pm when a truck laden with lemons tried making a U-Turn underneath a flyover, a few metres from the toll plaza.A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, that while negotiating the turn, the truck lost balance and overturned. “In the process, it collided with a motorcycle and three cars. The motorcyclist was killed on the spot while the cars were heavily damaged. No other person was injured,” said the police official. The mishap triggered an immediate traffic jam, which was cleared in the next hour, he said.The truck driver escaped from the spot after the accident and efforts were on to arrest him, the police said, adding that a case had been registered against the driver under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304-A (death by negligence) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Kherki Daula police station on Saturday. Last week, a 25-year-old police constable, who was deputed in the security branch at the office of deputy commissioner of police in Manesar, was killed after an unidentified vehicle had allegedly hit his motorcycle when he was returning home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/motorcyclist-killed-after-truck-overturns-near-kherki-daula-toll-plaza/story-Bxs3tMLtwLgQwrQcfxqd9N.html
19-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram police compiling a list of 770 proclaimed offenders, to arrest them in three months||Officials of the Gurugram Police are working on compiling a list of 770 proclaimed offenders in the district who are yet to be arrested. The police said they have formed teams and duties have been assigned to each of them to ensure they all the offenders are behind bars within the next three months.The teams are conducting investigation based on technical surveillance and keeping close watch on their close contacts and their movement. A weekly report will also be sent to the commissioner of police.KK Rao, who recently became the commissioner of police, said that the criminals, since end of March, have been mostly staying at home, thereby making it easier for the police to track them. “Other Indian states too have arrested a large number of most-wanted criminals, gangsters, bootleggers and gamblers during a massive campaign launched by their respective state police forces. These criminals were evading an arrest for a very long time. Even our state and the district have arrested 12 most-wanted and more than 300 proclaimed offenders and bail jumpers during the period of the lockdown,” he said.The Gurugam Police is working on a crime pattern assessment with the help of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). The police said they are evaluating the movement of those criminals who were arrested in the last five years and a mapping is being conducted. Based on this mapping, raids will be planned.The police said after the lockdown was announced, there was extra deployment of forces across the district and a large number of checkpoints were set up. “Most of the criminals keep changing their hideouts but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they are not moving much due to the fear of the infection. They are hiding in either in their own villages or in the places of their close aides. We are keeping an eye on suspected locations to ensure that they do not get chance to move out of their hideouts,” said Rao.“We have also intensified night patrolling and our informers have also been alerted. We have asked crime teams to activate their sources and to take inputs regarding these criminals on a daily basis. The cyber crime cell have also been asked to focus on technical surveillance,” said Rao.A list of hideouts will be prepared within the next seven days by all the crime teams and inputs will be taken from other investigation agencies. Once the mapping of the suspected hideouts is complete, raids will be conducted.Additionally, vehicles are being randomly checked at the borders. Any vehicle found to be suspicious is being scanned immediately, said Rao, adding that during lockdown, the maximum number of bootleggers were arrested.The police commissioner said they have decided to increase patrolling, vigilance and set up additional checkpoints to control petty crimes at the dark spots, following the crime-mapping exercise. The major crimes identified in the district were snatching , car-jacking, and robbing people on the pretext of offering them a lift.A total of 41 station house officers (SHOs) of various police stations across the city will submit their weekly report to the commissioner of police, highlighting the petty crimes in their areas and crime-prone spots in their jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-compiling-a-list-of-770-proclaimed-offenders-to-arrest-them-in-three-months/story-dVZGeLqShnBoGqq9jPipzJ.html
19-07-2020||Gurugram||Caught dumping sewage, men assault civic body officials in Sector 70A||Three officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) were allegedly beaten by a group of people in Sector 70A on Saturday. The incident took place when the civic body officials had gone to take action against the group of men, who were allegedly illegally dumping sewage waste out in the open, said MCG officials on Sunday.MCG officials said the accused include a father-son duo. The son, who has been identified as Rahul, was caught dumping sewage waste from two tractors.Officials said that while the MCG team was apprising him of the violation and the penalties for illegal dumping of waste, he slapped one of the civic body’s junior engineers and subsequently called around 30 more men, including his father, who arrived at the spot and started attacking the MCG team with bricks and sticks. They even held the officials captive for a short duration but soon fled the spot with their tractors., said officials. The three MCG junior engineers suffered minor injuries in the incident, confirmed Amit Sandilya, executive engineer of MCG, who filed a police complaint at the Badshahpur police station on Saturday. “We received information from local residents that a few men were illegally dumping sewage waste in the open. An MCG team visited the spot and found some people engaging in the illegal activity. When we tried to argue with them, they turned violent and started attacking our team members. We have registered a case in the matter and the police have initiated their investigation,” said Sandilya.Inspector Deepak Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Badshahpur police station said that the “MCG officials have identified two or three people among the group while the rest remain unidentified. Our investigation is underway. We are yet to make any arrest in the matter.”Two weeks ago, following a National Green Tribunal (NGT) direction, the directorate of urban local bodies (ULB) directed MCG to appoint teams and conduct on-spot surveys for checking illegal dumping of sewage by private tankers in residential areas. Subsequently, the civic body created teams and started sending them to different parts of the city for inspection.Earlier this week, the MCG had revised its fine for illegal sewage dumping, increasing it by as much as ten times. As per the MCG’s revised fine amount, a first-time violation would invite a penalty of ₹25,000 and if the same person is found repeating the violation, then he will have to pay a fine of ₹50,000. Prior to this revision, the fine for illegal sewage dumping was ₹5,000.If a person is unable to pay fine, then the civic body will impound the vehicles and the machinery of the violator used in the activity.According to MCG officials, illegal dumping of sewage is very common in the city, especially in the new sectors — 58-115 — where many residential areas are yet to be connected to the master sewerage lines of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). In January, last year, a Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) report stated that at least 80 million litres of untreated sewage is being dumped in stormwater drains across the city, choking up water bodies and drains, polluting the underground water table, and leading to waterlogging during the monsoon season. Incidentally, last month, two MCG officials were also beaten up by some locals during a stray animal capture drive in Sector 52.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/caught-dumping-sewage-men-assault-civic-body-officials-in-sector-70a/story-cmh67D8iNAlxTRFXwa9zBL.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||‘Action against dera chief by Akali govt in 2007 would have averted sacrilege’||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar on Sunday said that had the Akali-BJP government acted sternly against the dera chief for dressing like Guru Gobind Singh in 2007, then neither the sacrilege of 2015 nor the Behbal Kalan firing would have taken place.In a media briefing, Jakhar said that the then deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, who also held the charge of the home minister, always supported the dera chief, thereby backstabbing the panth.“After the 2007 incident, an FIR was lodged against the dera head, however, before the police could present the challan in the court, the Akali-BJP government filed two affidavits in the court stating that action would incite religious feelings besides giving a free hand to the dera head’s henchmen for assaulting his critics,” said the Congress leader. He further stated that in 2008, the Punjab and Haryana high court had allowed the filing of challan but the matter was kept in limbo for four years as after fresh delimitation, Bathinda Lok Sabha seat was de-reserved and the Badal family was eyeing the seat for 2009 general elections. They therefore started trading started with dera chief, said Jakhar.“Just three days before the 2012 assembly polls, the Akali-BJP government filed a fresh affidavit stating that the dera chief neither came to Salabatpura in May 2007 (where he dressed like the tenth master) nor participated in any function,” said the PPCC chief.He further said, “Sukhbir stage-managed the release of the dera head’s movie in 2015 and implemented his divisive agenda of 2007. Now on the directions of Sukhbir Badal, the dera chief has been pardoned by the temporal seat of Sikhs, to be withdrawn later.”JAKHAR’S COMMENTS, A BUNDLE OF LIES: CHEEMAReacting to the charges by Jakhar, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) called it a bundle of lies. Former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said that Jakhar was in such a hurry to mouth malicious lies against the SAD that he forgot to mention that it was the SAD- BJP government which sanctioned the prosecution of the dera head in the Salabatpura case for hurting the sentiments of the Sikh community.Cheema said not only was a case registered against the Dera head under Section 295 (A) and 298 for hurting religious sentiments but also under Section 153 (a) for provocation with intent to riot. “The case went up to the sessions court and is still pending in the Punjab and Haryana high court,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/action-against-dera-chief-by-akali-govt-in-2007-would-have-averted-sacrilege/story-rd27fmZaPrnyGKCIAUFi2H.html
19-07-2020||City||Organised crime, women’s safety priorities in Noida police review||Noida: The Noida police commissionerate is focusing on controlling organised crime in the district while also looking out for the safety of women and children. They have also revised their list of major criminals active in the area.The decisions were taken during a review of the department by nodal police officer, Sanjay Sighal, additional director general, Railways.“The review is being done for all 75 districts in the state. We were required to evaluate them and share the findings with the state government. Apart from that, I interacted with the public as well; the response and perception to the commissionerate has been quite positive,” said Singhal.He said that the department will continue to take action against known criminals, gangsters and organised crime.“Top 10 criminals of the district have been identified, along with top 10 criminals in each police station’s jurisdiction. I visited Knowledge Park and Badalpur stations to review the process as well and to analyse if there are any short comings and whether proper procedures were being followed or not,” said Singhal.To combat organised crime, the department has been attaching the assets of known criminals.The nodal officer said that they were also focused on ensuring that there is proper enforcement of guidelines during the pandemic, especially in containment zones, as the police work to ensure that regulations related to wearing masks, social distancing, and thorough implementation of night curfew.“We are also focusing on women and children safety and working on improving prosecution. There have been certain delays in the past three months and the slack will now be picked up gradually,” said the nodal officer.He reviewed the progress of ongoing cases, their investigations and trial progress, etc.A senior police officer said there was a specific agenda to the two-day meeting but in addition, there was focus on postings of police personnel in the district along with public sensitisation.“Going forward, we will also crack down on mafias and organised crime while improving women safety and the prosecution dealings, while ensuring that there is thorough policing in containment zones,” said the senior officer, asking not to be named.The officer quoted above also said that the top criminals in the district have been identified and with action against them, the list will keep revising. However, the department is not revealing the names of the top criminals just yet.According to Sriparna Gangoulee, joint commissioner of police, crime, “We have identified these criminals who are a mix of mafia and regular crime. But we will not reveal their names. The work done against organised crime has been appreciated and we will continue to do so. The dispute resolution centre in Knowledge Park has also been appreciated. Other than that, no specific inputs have been given.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/organised-crime-women-s-safety-priorities-in-noida-police-review/story-NuS3kRr20CvEHgc1jW5paM.html
19-07-2020||City||GB Nagar achieves over 100% of Covid samples target for three consecutive days||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar achieved over 100% of its target of collecting 3,000 samples for Covid-19 test a day for the third consecutive day on Sunday during the four-day surveillance drive. Aimed to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the district administration has started camps for testing of general public through rapid antigen kits at five different locations every day in the district from Friday.During the three-day period, a total of 9,585 samples were tested through rapid antigen kits, of which 145 were found positive for the virus, district administration officials said. “On the first day of this drive, the district achieved over 100% of its target as 3,020 persons were tested through rapid antigen kits, of which 46 were reported positive. Similarly, on Saturday, 3,365 persons were tested, of which 57 were found positive. And, on Sunday, samples of over 3,200 people were taken, of which 42 have tested positive,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.Enthused with the active participation of the general people in the drive, Suhas said that it is being considered to continue the drive in the other localities also. “Now, it is open for the general public. Even those who don’t have any specific symptom of Covid-19 can also be tested at these public camps,” he said.The DM further said that apart from testing through rapid antigen kits, over 1,600 persons have been tested through lab-based reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Of 1,600 people, 513 were tested on Friday, 793 on Saturday and 345 on Sunday. “Their results will come in a day or two,” he said.Suhas said that a requisition of 100,000 rapid antigen kits for the month of July had been sent to the state government. “We have so far received around 25,000 kits. Since there is no dearth of testing kits and beds in the district, all the officials have been asked to intensify the testing across the district. Now, the trend indicates that the rise of cases in the district is going on a consistent graph, which is a very encouraging sign,” he said.Experts feel that intensified surveillance has brought many positive indications for the residents of GB Nagar. Dr Gyanendra Kumar, officer on special duty (OSD) to state government and professor at Jhansi medical college, said that the results of these camps have made clear that positivity rate in the district is low. “The number of active cases is almost the same for the past 15 days and even the casualty is not only due to Covid-19. Almost all the deceased were also suffering from some other chronic diseases,” Kumar said.On Sunday, GB Nagar reported 125 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of positive cases to 4,155 in the district, according to the daily health bulletin released by the state control room. With one more death due to the infection, the toll reached 39 on Sunday, the bulletin stated. The district now has 973 active cases, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-nagar-achieves-over-100-of-covid-samples-target-for-three-consecutive-days/story-nLSHgoL2OyMXhQv7TjeZdO.html
19-07-2020||City||Noida likely to receive more rains in next three days||Noida: Noida city, in one of the most rain deprived districts of Uttar Pradesh – Gautam Budh Nagar – saw moderate rains Sunday morning, with an estimated rainfall of 50.7mm, which the weather department expects to continue for the next three to four days.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), between 5.30am and 8.30am, Greater Noida experienced an estimated 21.2mm rainfall while Ghaziabad experienced 6.3mm rainfall. Weather analysts predict light rains on Monday as well.Rainfall below 15mm is considered light, between 15-64.5mm moderate, and above 64.5mm is considered heavy.Weather analysts have asserted that the monsoon line of trough – a low-pressure line that oscillates around Delhi and brings rains to the region – is now passing through the national capital and is expected to remain here for the next three to four days, leading to moderate to heavy rains across the NCR, including Noida and Ghaziabad.“For the next four days, the monsoon trough line will oscillate around NCR so we can expect light to moderate rainfall for the next three to four days over large pockets of the region. There are chances of moderate to heavy rainfall late Monday night to Tuesday morning,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.Meanwhile, certain parts of the city saw water logging due to the rains, however, no major snarls were seen as the district was under the weekend lockdown, imposed by the state to curb the spread of Covid-19. Photos, however, were circulated on social media of a water-logged police post in Dadri on Sunday afternoon, wherein a policeman was seen removing water from within the structure using a bucket.“We have instructed the Dadri police station to review the situation and put in a request for any necessary requirement to improve infrastructure,” said additional deputy commissioner, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.According to IMD records, Gautam Budh Nagar is one of the most rainfall deprived districts of the state. So far, since June 1, Noida has seen about 94% and Ghaziabad has seen 73% deficit, while western Uttar Pradesh saw only 36% deficit till date. The records state that while Gautam Budh Nagar district should have received 160.1mm rainfall, it has only received 10mm so far and while Ghaziabad should have received 160.1mm seasonal rains, it received 43.3mm as of July 19. Uttar Pradesh has however seen an overall surplus rainfall of 7%, with actual 274.5mm rainfall received till date against expected 257.2 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-likely-to-receive-more-rains-in-next-three-days/story-FUJq1FTpX5489a1LxIZDzI.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi reports 36 new Covid-19 cases||A total of 36 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Dharavi area here on Sunday, said Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).This takes the total number of cases in Asia’s biggest slum to 2,480.As per the BMC, Dharavi currently has 143 active cases and 2,088 people have been cured/discharged.According to the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry, Maharashtra is the worst affected state by the Covid-19 pandemic, with 3,00,937 cases reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-reports-36-new-covid-19-cases/story-gQLlTvqHi4hgoDwQuuHSGP.html
19-07-2020||City||Noida: Woman attempts to end life at police commissioner’s office||Noida: A 33-year-old woman allegedly tried to take her own life outside the police commissioner’s officer in Sector 108 on Saturday. She is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital, the police said.The incident was reported around 2pm when the woman tried to get inside the office to meet senior police officials when a review meeting was going on. However, she was refused entry and then she tried to take her own life by hanging from the grille of a window outside the building, the police said. But police personnel at the spot intervened and she was taken to Yatharth hospital in Sector 110.“She is doing fine now, though she has some anxiety,” said Dr Ankur Dass, medical superintendent, Yatharth hospital.A family member said that the woman was under pressure after she had been booked by the Phase 3 police allegedly in a false case.“Our property has been grabbed by a man and we are fighting that case in the court. In February this year, she was sent to jail in a shooting case for no fault of hers. She was just trying to meet police officers yesterday. But she was not allowed to plead her case and took this step in frustration,” said the relative on Sunday.Police officials said that the property dispute case is going on in the Allahabad High Court.“The man, Satish Mittal, had been shot at a day after he had returned from Allahabad. He had identified the woman and her family in the shooting after which they had been arrested. However, we have called for an investigation in the case once more,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2.The officials said that the woman had also attempted to take her life earlier this year outside the district magistrate’s office.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in Delhi are 9582208181 (SNEHI) and 011-23389090 (SUMAITRI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-woman-attempts-to-end-life-at-police-commissioner-s-office/story-FoVnN8ItLOO4jYM09ozF3O.html
19-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Amid rising cases, administration moots micro-level containment plan||For the first time, the number of category-2 containment zones with two or more Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad has exceeded that of category-1 containment zones that have just one case, a fallout of the surge in cases. The Ghaziabad administration has directed officials to chalk out ‘micro level management plan’ for containment exercise under which all the aspects of strict containment, surveillance and testing will be taken up in certain residential pockets in order to break the chain of infection.According to Uttar Pradesh government guidelines, category-1 containment zones are created in pockets with only one Covid-19 case, and the sealed areas are spread over a radius of 250 metres. On the other hand, the category-2 zones are created where more than one case is reported from a pocket, and an area spread over a 500-metre radius is sealed with a buffer area going up to a 250-metre radius.According to the official figures on July 19, the district at present has 330 containment zones which include 162 under category-1 and 168 under category-2. According to officials, there are certain residential segments which are running high on number of Covid-19 cases and regular cases have emerged.“This is why we are chalking out the micro plan through which there will be strict containment exercises which will be taken up in containment zones where cases have figured regularly. Before implementing the plan in residential pockets, we have designated a nodal officer who will supervise the timely sealing and de-sealing of containment zones,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “We have already improved systems with respect to testing, contact tracing, speedier referral and treatment. Now, we are going to deal with containment zones in strict manner.”The officials said that under the micro plan, identified residential pockets will be subjected to strict containment exercise like previously done in Khoda, Loni and Vaishali.“We have planned that once the area gets contained we will take up 100% surveillance exercise of every household and also get 100% testing done in the residential pocket. We will also make available private vendors for sanitization purpose and these can be hired by residents for household sanitization. Our teams will take up outer santisation and may also sanitize common areas in highrises. Along with these exercises, we will also rope in the district supplies department for door to door delivery of food items,” Pandey said.According to the official list of 330 containment zones, the Sihani Gate police station area has 65 zones (33 under category-1 and 32 under category-2) and followed by Indirapuram police station area having 53 zones (18 under category-1 and 35 under category-2) while the Vijay Nagar police station area is third highest on the list with presence of 47 zones (29 under category-1 and 18 under category-2).The micro plan would means that residential pockets in police station areas of Sihani Gate, Vijay Nagar, Indirapuram, Sahibabad and Kavi Nagar, etc. may be subjected to rigourous containment exercise in order to control further spread of infection.Along with the containment exercises, the administration has also planned that recommendations of the Ministry of AYUSH will also be publicised widely so that residents can take help of immunity boosters to prevent against the infection.Box:Total category-1 containment zones: 162Total category-2 containment zones: 168Top five of 18 police station areas with containment zonesPolice station category-1 category-2Sihani Gate 33 32Indirapuram 18 35Vijay Nagar 29 18Sahibabad 08 25Kavi Nagar 16 18||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-amid-rising-cases-administration-moots-micro-level-containment-plan/story-mzr9lqQUdEun2X8bj2C5DO.html
19-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: In 23 days, antigen kits account for half of Covid-19 tests||In just 23 days, more tests have been conducted using the antigen test kits than the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered to be the gold standard in testing for the Sars-CoV-2 virus, in Ghaziabad. According to the official records, the Ghaziabad district till July 18 has performed 64,755 tests, of which 32,325 (49.91%) were under antigen tests, 31,436 under RT-PCR (48.54%) and 994 (1.53%) through TrueNat machines. With total cases at 3,902 in the district, the total positivity rate (TPR, the total number of positives per test expressed as a percentage) was 6.02%. With 848 people testing positive under antigen tests, their share is just over a fifth of all positive cases.Antigen tests are inherently unreliable with very poor sensitivity, which means its ability to detect true positives is low and could result in many negative tests turning positive under an RT-PCR test. Despite this, its share is high because of two advantages: point of care testing and no need of taking it to a laboratory, and that it gives a result within 30 minutes, as compared to the two days it would take an RT-PCR test.“It is vital that if a person tests negative under antigen testing, their supplementary test should be conducted through RT-PCR which has higher sensitivity,” said Dr. Lalit Kant, former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “The antigen tests should be conducted ideally from the fifth to eighth day of a person developing symptoms. Any earlier, then there are chances that test may miss it and the person may spread the infection.”According to ICMR guidelines, only those who show symptoms after their antigen test need be tested again.Officially, of the 31,477 people who tested negative under the antigen test, 5086 were re-tested under RT-PCR tests and 405 samples came positive, a TPR of nearly 8%. Since its first introduction in the district on June 26, a fresh lot of 24,000 antigen kits will now be deployed in different areas, including the containment zones, for speedy tests.“The antigen kits will now be used widely in containment zones and also in other areas having high risk groups. Its use has lead to speedy results which have helped us in immediate identification, faster referral of patients and even speedier contact tracing of positive cases. We have planned that more focus will be on use of antigen kits and planning to conduct about 3000-3500 tests per day,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.In Ghaziabad, July 18 marked 136 days since the positive Covid-19 case was reported. In March, the case positivity rate stood at 3.36% out of total 149 samples and five positive patients. By April 30, the positivity rate stood at 2.29% with total 2878 samples and 66 positive cases. The rate went up to 3.05% with total 9984 samples and 305 total positive cases on May 31.By June 30, the total sampling went up to about 20690 with total 1615 cases and positivity rate of about 7.8%. The present positivity rate is about 6.07% with 3902 cases out of total sampling of 64,755 till July 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-in-23-days-antigen-kits-account-for-half-of-covid-19-tests/story-xOx72emOcQn9OpsHzfslgL.html
19-07-2020||City||BJP workers stage protest after Ludhiana police thrash BJP councillor’s son||A day after an advocate, the son of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor, was thrashed for roaming around the street at night in Ghati Valmiki, a protest was staged outside the Division number 4 police station on Sunday.Councillor from Ward Number 8, Chaudhary Yashpal, also filed a written complaint against errant cops and said that if action was not taken against them till 4pm on Monday, they will initiate more protests. He will also meet mayor Balkar Sidhu in this regard.Takash Chaudhary, councillor’s son, alleged that when he had come out the house for a walk with his two cousins at around 9pm, a patrolling party comprising additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 1) Deepak Pareek, three SHOs and others, had started abusing him. “I was wearing a mask and maintained social distance. Moreover, I was out during permissible hours, but the police started beating me with sticks.”When contacted, ADCP Pareek said that there was some misunderstanding from both sides, but the matter had been resolved. The police have received the complaint and will take appropriate action, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-workers-stage-protest-after-ludhiana-police-thrash-bjp-councillor-s-son/story-E4ahIdyeFv0bCAsRD9dLTL.html
19-07-2020||Noida||NMRC to soon finalise agency for construction of Aqua Line extension||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Sunday said it will finalise a private agency for the construction of the first phase of the extension corridor of its Aqua Line, which will take Metro connectivity deeper into Noida and neighbouring Greater Noida, in a month and a half.The Noida and Greater Noida authorities, with the support of the state and central government, together want to build a new Metro Link that will branch out from the existing Aqua Line’s Sector 51 Metro station and end at Greater Noida’s Sector Knowledge Park 5.“We have opened the tenders and found three private agencies have submitted their respective bids. It will take us a month and a half to finalise a successful bidder. The work will start after we get the requisite approvals from the Union government once an agency is finalised,” said managing director of NMRC, Ritu Maheshwari, who is also the chief executive officer of Noida authority.The NMRC had started the process of inviting the bids for this elevated 14.95-km long Metro link on June 9, 2020. The corporation had said it did not want the coronavirus disease pandemic to delay the work on this ambitious project that will provide connectivity to newly built housing societies of Noida and Greater Noida West (also known as Noida Extension).The first phase of the corridor which will be 9.15-km long will have five Metro stations—Sector 122, Sector 123, Greater Noida Sector 4, Ecotech-12, and Greater Noida Sector 2. This phase is scheduled to be completed in 2022. The second phase, which will be 5.8km long, will have four Metro stations—Greater Noida Sector 3, Greater Noida Sector 10, Greater Noida Sector 12, and Knowledge Park 5.The NMRC wants to start working the construction of Metro stations under the first phase and the via-duct of this portion and has laid down a budget of ₹430 crore for the same.Earlier this year in January, the NMRC had started the survey for testing of soil, topography and geography for the Metro Link which is set to branch out from the existing 29.707km Aqua Line, which started running in January 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nmrc-to-soon-finalise-agency-for-construction-of-aqua-line-extension/story-JWVysm05ZSHCYecyjtrCEK.html
19-07-2020||City||Ludhiana: Brothers, relatives of ‘kidnapped’ woman held for falsely implicating estranged kin||The police on Sunday claimed to have solved the ‘kidnapping’ of a 25-year-old woman with the arrest of her two brothers and two distant relatives.The ‘kidnapped’ woman, Kia, was found in a house in Bajra village. The police have arrested Mohammad Sipahia of Kutbewal village, his brother Mohammad Mashoor, their sister Kia, two distant relatives Jabbu and Fakardeen of Phillaur.On July 16, Mohammad Sipahia had lodged a complaint against Makhan of Bilaspur village, Jagraon, his son Shareef and brother Dulla for thrashing him and kidnapping his sister Kia from near Qadian crossing on GT Road.Sipahia had told the police that Makhan’s daughter Sakoora was married to his brother Mashoor for the last 10 years and the couple had three children. The couple had, however, been estranged and Sakoora had been living with her parents for the last three years. Sakoora had taken one of their children along and was seeking custody of the other two, police were told.Sipahia had said that his sister Kia had been unwell that day and when he was taking her to the hospital, a Bolero car had intercepted them, and Kia was kidnapped.Inspector Gopal Krishan said that upon investigation, it was found that Sipahia had lodged a false complaint. Kia was traced to Bajra village. When the police reached there, Kia tried to escape but was nabbed after a chase. Based on information provided by her, her two brothers and relatives were arrested.The accused confessed that they wanted to implicate Makhan and his family as they were pressuring them to hand over the custody of Mashoor’s children.A case under Sections 182 (false statement), 191 (giving false evidence), 192 (fabricating false evidence), 193 (punishment for false evidence) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-brothers-relatives-of-kidnapped-woman-held-for-falsely-implicating-estranged-kin/story-cevDVoeZO6m0xOi1cCK7MK.html
19-07-2020||City||Police constable held for duping gas agency employee in Ludhiana||In major embarrassment for the police department, a police constable was held for duping a delivery man of an LPG gas cylinder.This is the second such incident in two days where police personnel have been arrested for their involvement in crime.Constable Gursharan Singh, 47, posted at Police Lines, told police that he had needed a gas cylinder at his home, but had no money left for buying one. During investigation, the police found that the constable had been absent from duty for the past six months.Delivery man Lal Bahadur at KC Gas Company said that on Saturday afternoon, he was loading empty cylinders in a vehicle when the accused turned up in police uniform.The constable then exchanged an empty cylinder with a filled one, and when asked to pay, told the delivery man to come find him at Jagraon Bridge halt for the money.When Lal Bahadur talked to the police personnel deputed at Jagraon Bridge, they told him that they had not sent anyone for refilling a cylinder, adding that they didn’t know any Gursharan Singh.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Central) Waryam Singh said that a case under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code was lodged against the accused.On Friday, head constable Surinder Kumar deputed at Kanganwal police post was arrested on graft charges. The accused had changed the entire FIR for a bribe of ₹50,000 to save a drug peddler arrested with drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-constable-held-for-duping-gas-agency-employee-in-ludhiana/story-gkZh2kbj7jqsOBxRbSA0EP.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Covid count crosses 10,000 mark in 132 days||With 254 new cases, Punjab’s coronavirus cases crossed the 10,000 mark on Sunday. The state also reported eight deaths, taking the fatalities due to the virus to 254, according to the media bulletin released by the state government. Four Covid-19 patients died while 69 tested positive for the virus in Ludhiana. Two patients, a 72-year-old woman of the Janakpuri and a 55-year-old man from Islam Ganj, who were referred from Mohandai Oswal Hospital and DMC&H, respectively, to civil hospital Ludhiana were declared dead on arrival. The other fatalities include a 41-year-old man from Lohara, and a 55-year-old man from Bhamia village. A 60-year-old man from the Sham Nagar area of Majitha tested positive for Covid-19 after his death on Sunday. Besides, 28 fresh cases were reported in Amritsar district. Meanwhile, Gurdaspur reported two fresh cases. In yet another major spike, 80 people contracted the virus in Patiala district on Sunday. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said of total cases, 51 are from Patiala city, 11 from Samana, nine from Rajpura, three from Nabha, one from Patran and five from villages across the district.Fifty persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar. The district has reported 1,654 cases so far, including 1,041 recoveries and 32 deaths. Besides, two employees of deputy commissioner office among three persons tested positive in Kapurthala district. Twelve persons, including three police personnel, contracted infection in Ferozepur, six, including two BSF constables, in Fazilka, two in Muktsar, 19 in Sangrur and 18 in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-covid-count-crosses-10-000-mark-in-132-days/story-s0gE7wMtwIQpsOE6iUJCnJ.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||With all eyes on Dharavi, BMC forgot about K-East ward: Locals||With the entire focus on Dharavi and Sion-Koliwada, Andheri (East), Marol, Vile Parle (East) and Jogeshwari (East) have not got the required attention to curb the spread of Covid-19, which is to blame for the surge, residents have alleged.The K-East ward, which has 70% slums, tops the list of civic wards in terms of cumulative Covid-19 cases and deaths in the city. Since the outbreak in March till July 18, the ward has recorded 6,543 cases and 416 deaths. During the same period, the total number of cases in G-North ward comprising Dharavi and Dadar is 5,954, while it is 3,988 in Sion-Koliwada.From the start of the outbreak until May, the civic ward did not figure among the top 10 Covid-19 hot spots. On June 1, the ward had reported 2,402 cases, but by June-end, it surpassed the accumulated number of Covid-19 cases reported at G-North ward that covers Dadar and Dharavi. On June 30, K-East ward recorded 5,301 cases, as against 4,913 cases in G-North. The infection rate at the ward is growing at 1.1% and a doubling rate of 62 days to become the only ward to cross the 6,500 mark. The slum pockets in the ward have become a hotbed of the pandemic. “All attention was paid to Dharavi and Koliwada, but the civic body took the slums in Andheri East and Govandi for granted,” said activist and lawyer Godfrey Pimenta, a Marol resident. “Despite the lockdown, people were roaming freely and didn’t maintain social distancing. I had written to the civic body, but nobody paid heed.”The ward has 41 containment zones with 716 sealed buildings. Some areas in the ward that have reported the highest number of cases include Marol Pipeline, Mograpada, Indira Nagar, Hanuman Nagar, Meghwadi, Shiv Tekdi, Saraswati Chawl, Malpadongri, Kondivita and Shastri Nagar. “The ward not only has the highest number of cases, but also fatality rate. Considering almost 70% of the area comprises slums, the civic body should have been more cautious. It’s only due to early detection that Dharavi is reporting the least number of daily cases,” said Dr Mohan Desai, a local general physician. Despite repeated calls, Prashant Sapkale, assistant municipal commissioner of K-E ward, didn’t respond. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said the civic body has started ‘Saving Lives’ strategy to reduce the fatality rate. “We have been able to control the doubling rate. At present, the ward has around 1,400 active cases. The situation will improve in one to two weeks,” he said. While G-North has 1,488 active cases, Sion-Koliwada has 675.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-all-eyes-on-dharavi-bmc-forgot-about-k-east-ward-locals/story-bIj4ZwY8YvMZ4QKwAYhJzO.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Redevelopment projects derailed by Covid-19?||The Covid-19 pandemic is likely to have derailed the redevelopment process of old and dilapidated buildings in the city. There are nearly 40,000 such buildings in the city housing lakhs of citizens.Builders are wary of taking up these projects due to a range of reasons including liquidity crises, high premiums, lack of manpower as well as negative sentiments in the realty sector.“Forget new ones, we are worried about executing our existing ongoing projects. We are facing acute shortage of funds and also don’t have labour to carry out work at construction sites,” said Harrish Jain, vice-president of Brihanmumbai Developers Association.He added, “Builders are not in a position to take up any new projects; many may even exit current negotiations which have been going on since before Covid-19 lockdown.”Ashok Mohanani, chairman of Ekta World, a group specialising in redevelopment projects for affordable and luxury segment in Mumbai, said it is unviable to take up new projects in the current circumstances. “It is impossible to take up projects if the government continues to charge us such high premiums and taxes,” said Mohanani. “Even the banks are not supporting us in these difficult times. In such circumstances, how can we execute any project,” he said.For years, builders used to secure developmental rights of old buildings, wherein they would construct new building in the plot have and give existing tenants bigger apartments for free, while selling the other apartments at market price.Even tenants who have given developmental rights to builders are in a fix. “There is fear among residents that they may end up on streets if builders fail to execute the project. Hence, many are deferring redevelopment plans,” said Ramesh Prabhu, chairman of Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association. State housing minister Jitendra Awhad agrees that these are hard times but added that the government is committed to ease the solution. “We are planning to reduce premiums in the coming days. To speed up projects, we will now fix deadlines where permissions have to be given within a fixed period,” said Awhad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/redevelopment-projects-derailed-by-covid-19/story-J73rLVkhHp7nB9CyD0Ok0M.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Testing times for lecturers as e-classes used for trolling||Online classes are posing as much of a challenge to teachers as students, with many educators complaining that they are unable to have disciplined classes.Weeks after the management of St Xavier’s College in Dhobi Talao suspended three Class 12 students for sharing their online class IDs with outsiders, who, in turn, abused the teacher during a class, a large number of teachers are complaining about similar problems.A handful of colleges have already started lectures for Class 12 as well as second and third-year degree courses, and teachers are finding it difficult to handle students, most of whom keep their videos and audios off during class, leaving the teacher unsure of their presence during the lecture.“The rule is that only the teacher gets to talk during the class, while students can ask questions in a chat window, or at the end of the class. The problem is that at any given point, I’m unsure of the students’ presence because the screens are mostly blank. There’s no way of finding out if the students are present or not,” said Archana Sachdeva, a visiting faculty at a host of suburban colleges.Several colleges are using free video chat apps to conduct lectures, and many teachers believe it is the reason security cannot be upgraded for online classes.“The paid apps are for around 90-100 people per class, but our junior college classes have anywhere between 100-120 students, so we will end up paying for two classes per lecture, which is not feasible. At present, we are trying to plug the loopholes with the help of our information technology team,” said Rajendra Shinde, principal of St Xavier’s College. He added that while a first information report (FIR) has not been registered against the perpetrators, the incident has been shared with the deputy commissioner of police, cyber crime cell.Recently, a senior professor from a Delhi-based university took to social media to share his experience of conducting an online class, in which he faced constant abuse and was made fun of by some users. His post went viral within hours, and teachers affiliated with Mumbai colleges shared similar problems faced by them during online classes.While regular lectures as per a timetable are yet to begin, many colleges have started conducting classes online to ease teachers and students into the process. This insistence on starting online classes, however, has not gone down well with many teachers.“None of the colleges have thought things through, and have dived into the online class bandwagon without considering security protocols and precautions for teachers as well as students. In some cases, the colleges have not even bothered to check if teachers or students have access to good internet, and still, classes have started,” said a lecturer of a prominent south Mumbai college, on condition of anonymity.As of now, the Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO) has not received official complaints from their members, but the problem is real, said the spokesperson. “Classes have commenced due to the compulsion laid down by colleges, and teachers are bearing the brunt. To date, not a single notification to start classes has been released by the University of Mumbai (MU) or state government. On what basis then, have classes begun,” asked Tapati Mukhopadhyay, president, MFUCTO.She added that amidst confusion on the status of exams for final-year students, no notification has been released by universities to the colleges. “What’s worse is that colleges have started lectures without waiting to find out about the syllabus. Since the 2020-21 academic year is being reduced to seven months instead of nine or 10, the University Grants Commission (UGC) has clarified that the curriculum will have to be compressed. Yet, some colleges have started lectures,” she added.As of now, state universities have asked their affiliated colleges to promote all students, except those in the final year, but no clarity on commencement of regular academics has been shared yet.“We still request colleges to call off classes until further clarity from the government,” added Mukhopadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/testing-times-for-lecturers-as-e-classes-used-for-trolling/story-jAp4OYgnjCZgHs7x1cibcN.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B develops ultra-thin optical sensor for wearable electronics||A team of researchers from Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) developed an ultra-thin next-generation optical sensor prototype that can be used for applications such as bioimaging, wearable electronics, environmental monitoring, defence and telecommunications.Optical sensors, such as photodetectors, can convert rays of light into electronic signals. These sensors are used as optical switches in telecommunication, for capturing images in defence and biomedical equipment, as toxic gas monitors for pollution control, as well as photovoltaic cells for renewable power generation. However, conventional optical sensors currently in use are made from thick silicon or III-V compound semiconductors which make them power hungry. Hence, they are difficult to use in emerging applications such as wearable devices, flexible electronics, and multi-sensor networks for the internet-of-things (IoT). The researchers at IIT-B, led by Saurabh Lodha, professor, department of electrical engineering, designed a prototype of ultra-thin optical sensors using graphene-like two-dimensional (2D) materials that has high optical sensitivity and can also generate power. The prototype overcomes the limitations of conventional optical sensors owing to the exceptional electronic, mechanical, and optical properties of these 2D materials. Their study was published in the American Chemical Society’s monthly peer-reviewed journal Nano Letters in February. “We conductedseveral rounds of theoretical calculations before we started work on the prototype. The thickness of the materials was critical. We found that two specific materials from the graphene family, when stacked on top of each other with the right thicknesses, form a heterojunction that results in excellent optoelectronic performance and enables broadband light detection from visible to infra-red, which is not possible with the individual materials,” said Lodha, the principal investigator of the project.“The recent work from IIT-B is of great interest to the device community; it is expected to give a new direction to this field because it exploits the light sensing and energy harvesting potential at the junction of two dissimilar 2D materials which are just a few atomic layers thin. We call it “interlayer band gap” and, to my knowledge, no one has investigated or reported it earlier to show promising solar cell behaviour and ultrafast photodetectors,” said Digbijoy Nath, assistant professor, Centre for Nano Science and Engineering (CeNSE) at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, who was not a part of the research. The theoretical calculations were conducted at IIT-B with inputs from Monash University, Australia, and the prototype was fabricated at IIT-B’s Nanofabrication Facility. Key theoretical predictions of the sensors were experimentally verified in collaboration with the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, said Abin Varghese, PhD student and first author of the study.“Most of the research on photodetection using low-dimensional materials focusses on enhancing one or two performance parameters, typically at the expense of other metrics. However, it is the multi-functional excellence of this heterostructure platform that makes it promising and brings us a step closer to the real-world technologies”, said Lodha. “In the future, we plan to take this work forward from lab-to-fab using wafer-scale material growth techniques. Then, we plan to integrate optical, gas and thermal sensors to build an energy-efficient IoT sensor network,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-develops-ultra-thin-optical-sensor-for-wearable-electronics/story-t91EabeaS902wOPypU1lqI.html
19-07-2020||City||DU runs out of paper to print degrees, student moves HC||New Delhi: A psychology student who graduated from Delhi University in 2017 approached Delhi High Court on July 6, citing that the university was yet to issue him his postgraduate degree due to which he could not pursue a degree in King’s College, London.Dhritiman Ray, 25, a freelance mental health practitioner, said, “The institute wanted a degree with conferral date — the date on which the degree is officially awarded. It was not there on the special certificate which was given to me by DU in December 2019 when I approached the officials to get my degree. The degrees are never awarded in the same year and often take around two years to come,” he said.Ray said response submitted by the varsity in the court left many surprised. As per court documents, DU submitted “that the reason for non-issuance of the degree certificate is lack of proper quality paper and that the contract with the printer has also expired”.“The contract with the printer engaged by Delhi University came to an end and the same had to be re-tendered. Owing to the lockdown situation, there were very few bids received for the tender which delayed the process. However, the tender for the printer is being finalized shortly,” the university had submitted in the court on July 7.Dean (Exams) Vinay Gupta said the finalisation of tender is in final phase and the university expects to wrap up the work before July 31 – when the next hearing is scheduled. “Besides, data from the colleges came in late in around December 2019 and we got further delayed due to the lockdown. We expect the matter to get resolved in a couple of weeks,” he said.“The non-availability of paper and printing facilities cannot be a justifiable cause especially when the careers and educational prospects of students are at stake,” the high court had noted on July 7, asking the varsity to streamline the process of issuing degree certificates and file an affidavit in the matter in four weeks.Ray, pursued postgraduate degree in Psychology from Zakir Hussain’s college, is now hoping to pursue his higher education from University of Glasgow in Scotland.“Following the court’s intervention, the university on July 9 gave me a degree certificate wherein my name and other details are handwritten. While Glasgow might make some exceptions owing to the pandemic, I might not be able to use the same in later stages of life. So I have asked the varsity to present me a formal degree with the regular security features as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/student-moves-hc-against-du-seeking-pg-degree/story-4SQSVCGr6j2qHPAblJDQaP.html
19-07-2020||City||This year, Ludhiana residents prefer ‘desi’ rakhis over Chinese ones||After the traders’ body Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) issued an appeal to boycott Chinese rakhis, ahead of the Raksha Bandhan festival next month, local residents are preferring Made in India rakhis over Chinese ones. From the past many years, rakhi imported from China has been ruling the market due to its looks, varieties and cheap cost. It is considered to be the biggest wholesale and retail market for festive items.A wholesale trader in Gurmandi Sumit Jain said that even traders are not interested in selling any Chinese products. “Buyers are looking for India-made rakhi even though they are sold at a much higher price. Many people are coming to stores and asking for Indian rakhis,” said Sumit.Mainly, rakhis are manufactured in Kolkata and Ambala, but over the years Chinese rakhis, particularly the ones with cartoon characters and electronic bands, had swept the market.The estimated business of China-made rakhis was over ₹1 crore.“This year, there is no demand for Chinese rakhis. This inclination towards local rakhi may be due to the ongoing stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops at the Galwan Valley. After so many years, we have witnessed that people are preferring to buy local rakhis. If such sentiment prevails in other festivals as well then it would be boon for the local industry,” said Rajinder Singh, a local dealer.Divya Jain, a resident of Sunder Nagar said that earlier she used to purchase Chinese rakhi but this time she decided to boycott Made in China products.Sanjiv Sharma, a resident of Sarabha Nagar, said, “After witnessing the India-China tensions at the border we have decided not to buy Chinese products. Further, Raksha Bandhan is purely a ‘Hindustani festival’ so at no point in buying Chinese products for the occasion. We are encouraging our children to buy Indian products as much as possible.”Recently, the Confederation of All India Traders had issued an appeal to boycott Chinese rakhis. The CAIT, which has 40,000 trade associations has called for the boycott of Chinese products, the move which may cause a dent to China’s estimated ₹4,000 crore of trade during the festival, said Badish Jindal, president of Federation of Punjab Small Industries Associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/this-year-ludhiana-residents-prefer-desi-rakhis-over-chinese-ones/story-kc8XHcjpIlRZKa4HJj5FNJ.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||20-year-old Sec 33 firing accused is named in 7 criminal cases||Nitin Nahar, the main accused in the Sector 33 shooting case of May 31 targeting liquor baron Arvind Singla’s house is only 20 years old but has seven criminal cases against him.Nahar, incarcerated at Amritsar’s Central Jail from June 18, was brought by Chandigarh police on production warrant on July 16 to appear at the court of district magistrate Meenakshi Gupta in connection with the Sector 33 case.Police said Nahar was an accused in seven cases in Amritsar, including three shootings, all occurring between August 2019 and June 2020.Officials privy to the matter said, “Nahar had used the .32 bore gun for the shooting in Sector 33. He is ambidextrous and can fire a gun with both hands and he did this on the day of the firing as well.” They also revealed that Nahar had come in contact with gangster Lawrence Bishnoi through gangster Bobby Malhotra, who is currently lodged in Ferozepur Jail.Nahar has revealed the names of two other co-accused in the Singla case, inluding Balbir Cheema alias Mani Cheema and Rahul Bhiwani alias Bacchi Bhiwani.Five men were involved in the shooting of which only two, including Nitin Nahar and Karan Sharma, a hotel management student, have been arrested.On May 31, five shooters had opened fire at hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla’s house in an attempt to target his brother Arvind Singla. Police are tracing the whereabouts of the three other suspects, who are all on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-year-old-sec-33-firing-accused-is-named-in-7-criminal-cases/story-4gnOvUFdVI8DHgUZfp7rYN.html
19-07-2020||City||Basmati growers expect turnaround as exporters flush with orders||Chandigarh The cultivation of premium-quality basmati in Punjab has touched 14 lakh acre this season, surpassing last year’s 13 lakh acre. The turnaround has been possible as basmati exporters are flush with orders from North America, European Union (EU) and the West Asia. The order book is full as importing countries from North America, EU and the West Asia want to stock up, in view of the covid-19 pandemic, and also because the state’s farmers have learnt from 2018, after the EU and Saudi Arabia rejected their basmati produce, following detection of traces of a fungicide, tricyclazole.This season, however, both the industry as well as government is optimistic. “Due to the covid19 pandemic, the importing countries are building (basmati) stocks. Our farmers have also checked use of pesticides and fungicides which has made our crop acceptable worldwide. Farmers will fetch a good price for their crop,” said Ashok Sethi, director, Basmati Exporters Association, Punjab. Top officials in state agricultural directorate say the total area under basmati would cross 18 lakh acre as the last date for sowing is July 31.EXPORTS BANKING ON 10% HIKEBasmati exporters target a total sale of Rs 36,000 crore, post-harvest that will begin in October-November, expecting an increase of 10-12% over the previous year. “India exports 40 lakh tonne annually. From Punjab, at least 20 lakh tonne is exported as rice from the border belt in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur is preferred in importing countries,” said Sethi, adding that 23-24 lakh tonne could be exported this year from the state. Till 2018, Iran was a major importer seeking at least 14 lakh tonne annually. Last year, however, India became party to trade sanctions imposed by the US on Iran, leading to stopping of basmati imports. Now, there is no direct trade, with Iran expected to buy from traders based in Dubai who get imports from India.“Basmati growers in Punjab are expected to make good profits this kharif season as prices of produce are expected to touch Rs 3,500,” said Punjab agriculture secretary, Kahan Singh Pannu. The orders are for 1121 and 1718 basmati varieties. Basmati is grown in all 22 districts with Amritsar topping the chart with the crop grown over 3.5 lakh acre; Tarn Taran (2.2 lakh acre); Muktsar (1.7 lakh acre), Sangrur (1.3 lakh acres) and Fazilka (1.2 lakh acre). Cultivation of aromatic variety rice in Gurdaspur is slow, with only half an acre under it by Saturday; the district generally grows basmati on large tracts. This year, the cultivation of aromatic grain is expected is expected to touch a high of five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/basmati-growers-expect-turnaround-as-exporters-flush-with-orders/story-fmVK122ovgRbpuuU2MewZP.html
19-07-2020||City||Important to pay attention to quality of masks that you wear||With Covid-19 showing no signs of abating, our cloth masks are here to stay. These masks have in fact now become part of our daily wear and we are constrained to purchase more of them or make them at home in order to protect ourselves.That’s not all. Given the rapid spread of the disease, we also need to pay much more attention to the quality of these cloth masks and their design and fit, so as to ensure maximum protection from the deadly virus. Fortunately , several recent studies have measured the filtration efficiencies of different kinds of fabrics for use in masks and we need to take note of them to wear what is in our best interest.I would like to quote in this context, a study published in April this year in the American Chemical Society Journal (ACS Nano), that gives good advice on how to improve the filtration efficiency of your cloth mask. Titled “Aerosol filtration efficiency of common fabrics used in respiratory cloth masks” the study has looked at 15 different kinds of fabrics and made some extremely important recommendations for improving the effectiveness of cloth face masks. For example, the study points out that the filtration efficiency of a fabric varies on the basis of its thread count. Cotton, for example, performs much better as a material for mask, at higher weave densities or thread count. A 600 TPI (threads per inch) cotton, for example, was found to be far more effective than 80 TPI cotton. So the study recommends that fabrics that are porous should be avoided and those with tight weaves and low porosity, such as those found in cotton sheets with high thread count, should be used for making the mask.Secondly, the study points out that more layers of fabric provide better protection than a single layer. For example, while two layers of natural silk offered 65 per cent filtration efficiency, four layers gave 86 per cent efficiency. Similarly one layer of chiffon gave 67 per cent filtration efficiency, while two layers gave, 83 per cent. The efficiency of one layer of 600 TPI cotton was 79 per cent, while that of two layers , 82 per cent.Third, the study found that by combining different kinds of fabrics and leveraging their mechanical and electrostatic filtering properties, the mask could be made even more effective. For example, a hybrid cloth mask made of one layer of high thread count cotton and two layers of natural silk or chiffon , could be very effective. While such hybrids of cotton and chiffon showed a filtration efficiency of as much as 97 per cent, that with cotton and silk, 94 per cent.The study also emphasized the importance of ensuring that the mask is so designed as to fit the consumer snugly, particularly around the nose and the mouth. In fact the study showed that improper fit and leakages could well reduce the filtration efficiency of masks by over 50- 60 per cent. So consumers would do well to keep these things in mind when they purchase or make their own mask and wear them..We are all aware that N-99 and N-95 masks offer the best protection (the numbers 95 and 99 represent the percentage of filtration efficiency of the mask) and most of them are also so designed as to fit snugly around the nose and the mouth, but they are reserved for those in the health sector. On the other hand, several studies evaluating different kinds of masks have ranked the home-made single layer mask that most of us wear, as the poor cousin. And if the fit is not good, then the protection that they offer is even lower. But that need not be so. With the use of right material and design, the fabric masks can be as good as the best, and consumers must make the effort to ensure that.--||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/important-to-pay-attention-to-details-of-masks-that-you-wear/story-EeZp5t2vVbrWiDVPCVdxJJ.html
19-07-2020||Dehradun||In biggest single-day spike, Uttarakhand reports 239 fresh Covid-19 cases||In the biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand till now, 239 cases were reported from the state on Sunday, taking the state tally of total cases to 4515 in the Himalayan state. In the past five days, Uttarakhand has reported 834 cases.The state health bulletin mentioned that maximum 150 cases were reported from Haridwar district on Sunday, of which 139 cases were contacts of earlier detected positive patients. In the past four days most cases reported from Haridwar are reported to be employees of a multinational industrial unit situated in the State Industrial Development Corporation of Uttarakhand (SIDCUL) complex in the district. Over 200 employees from the same industrial unit have tested positive this week.According to Haridwar chief medical officer (CMO) Shambhu Kumar Jha, the test samples are being done on priority basis an employee tested positive a week ago.C Ravi Shankar, district magistrate Haridwar has ordered for closure of the factory plant and sanitising of entire factory.Taking cognizance of the development district magistrate has sought a detailed report from CMO and company officials in this regard.After Haridwar, the highest cases were reported from Dehradun (58) on Sunday. The other districts reported; Almora (1), Chamoli (1), Nainital (7), Pauri(4), US Nagar (13) and Uttarkashi (5). Total 167 cases reported on Sunday were found to be contacts of earlier detected positive cases. Two CISF personnel, 13 army personnel and three healthcare workers also tested positive.The others had returned to the state from places like Delhi-NCR, Sikkim, Hyderabad, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Bokaro, Gujarat, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir.Thirty-five patients were also discharged from hospitals on Sunday with maximum 25 patients from Dehradun.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 22.37 days, while the infection rate is 4.22%. The state has so far tested 1.19 lakh samples of which results of over 8100 are awaited.Meanwhile, six ASHA workers tested positive in Rudrapur area of US Nagar district on Sunday and eight new containment zones were declared in Nainital district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/in-biggest-single-day-spike-uttarakhand-reports-239-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-zamGuFXp10z2N7jcWAJHNO.html
19-07-2020||Lucknow||IOA’s treasurer wants Batra to give financial support to NSFs, SOAs||The National Sports Federations and State Olympic Associations are in financial crisis due to the pandemic and Indian Olympic Association should provide them a grant of Rs 10 lakh each, IOA treasurer Anandeshwar Pandey has written to president Narinder Batra.Pandey said IOA should take a cue from the International Olympic Committee’s move to give US 150 million dollars to NOCs during this difficult period by raising sponsorship.“I request both president and secretary general that instead of wasting money on expensive lawyers, IOA should give one time additional financial grant to all the NSFs, SOAs..,” Pandey said in his letter to Batra, adding that the affiliates don’t have money even to pay salaries. “I formally propose that IOA should give an additional grant of Rs 10 lacs to each of its affiliated members. I request you to approach sponsors and raise more money for the members,” Pandey said. “Instead, you (Batra) are writing so many emails against IOA itself and pushing away even the existing sponsors.”Raising objections over Batra’s directives that the internal audit report of IOA should be submitted directly to him, Pandey said as the treasurer of IOAit was his duty to look after finance and audit function and give necessary instructions. ...”In case the internal auditor does not follow this procedure, I will have to recommend his removal to the executive council.”“IOA has to ask for his membership number of chartered accountants institute and UDIN number before we accept his report. I am aware that the internal auditor is also auditor of Hockey India and you appointed him as he was known to you personally,” he said. “I request you that IOA has a very good procedure for making payments and is absolutely a good and clean organization. Your letters are giving the wrong impression and are against the interest of IOA. Please be responsible. Otherwise, IOA will be in serious trouble only because the president is writing against IOA,” Pandey said, levelling the allegation of payment of Rs 13 crore without Batra’s approval as baseless. “Each and every payment of IOA has been made in transparent manner as per the constitution and well established procedures of IOA. “I never objected to your spending more than Rs 1.2 crore on the visit of IOC president to India. This amount included huge payment of more than 50 lacs to Lalit Hotel where you are a director without any tender.”“Our public relation exercise was good and you as IOA president were successful after this function to become IOC member. Now that you are IOC member please be helpful to the members rather than behaving like a ‘Big Boss’ with no sympathy or feelings for the difficulties of members.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ioa-s-treasurer-wants-batra-to-give-financial-support-to-nsfs-soas/story-8karfr3Wn5R1qyVeHd0PBM.html
19-07-2020||City||FIR against groom, father after 100 attend marriage function in Ludhiana’s micro-containment zone||Defying the Covid norms, more than 100 people gathered at a marriage function at a community centre in Islamgunj, prompting the police to arrest the groom, his father and 12 attendees.The Punjab government had recently issued revised guidelines restricting marriage gatherings to 30. Islamgunj has been declared as a micro-containment zone by the authorities. According to the police, the attendees were not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing.An FIR has been lodged against Gurjant Singh, his father Sukhwinder Singh of Islamgunj area, attendees Nirmal Singh of Manjeet Nagar, Gurpreet Singh and Iqbal Singh of Islamgunj, Lucky, Gurwinder Singh, Ravinder Singh, Ranjeet Singh, Dharminder Singh, Sham Singh, Raju Singh, Gurdev Singh, Gurjant Singh of unidentified areas, besides Bheem Singh, Manpreet Singh and Sukhwinder Singh, members of the managing committee of the community centre.The case was registered under Sections of 188 (disobedience of orders duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act.Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP, Central) Waryam Singh said that the police received information that more than 100 people have gathered at a marriage function at Gurdwara Bhat Singh Sabha Sahib, Islamgunj. A police party reached the spot and found that many guests were not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms. The accused were arrested on Sunday but were later bailed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-groom-father-after-100-attend-marriage-function-in-ludhiana-s-micro-containment-zone/story-gUdDK5InwDdhqRVcXXzLSK.html
19-07-2020||City||Misconduct row: Balkar Sandhu reaches compromise with deputy mayor||Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has reached a compromise with deputy mayor Sarabjeet Kaur who had submitted a complaint against him with Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for misbehaving with her husband. Confirming this, Sandhu said that there was some misunderstanding that has been solved. Deputy major Sarabjeet Kaur also said the same.Kaur had accused Sandhu of misbehaving with her husband. Seeking action against the mayor at the party level, Kaur stated that she would not attend any meeting of the municipal corporation, till the time a satisfactory action is not taken against the mayor.Sources said that the patch-up was done following the intervention of senior party leaders.In her complaint, deputy mayor stated that her husband, Jarnail Singh Shimlapur, who is also block president (Ludhiana south-2), had called up the mayor on July 3 asking him to approve a file regarding the extension to contractual junior engineers (JE) and sub-divisional officers (SDO) working in bridges and roads department of the MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/misconduct-row-balkar-sandhu-reaches-compromise-with-deputy-mayor/story-WHpHaUeB9zy8sjE8JDhXBL.html
19-07-2020||City||Patiala’s covid patients spike from 200 to 900 over past month||Patiala Around 80% of the district’s 901 patients to date have been reported over the past month starting June 19, data with the district health department shows. On June 19, the district had 200 patients, a number that is now over four times. This means that of 901 patients now, 701 (78%) have been added since. The district recorded its first covid-19 patient on March 29. There are 510 active cases in the district, while 376 have been cured. The district has seen 15 deaths, with 34,887 samples tested and 32,138 coming out negative. Over 1,700 reports are pending.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “People’s lack of cooperation is the main reason behind surge in positive cases. They are hiding their travel history and not reporting contacts accurately. Still, we are doing our best to trace contacts and also conducting house-to-house surveys.” He, however, added, “There are 5% cases, where the source of infection is clear.” Another doctor, who is the in-charge of a containment zone, said, “We are struggling to get cooperation of people. There are 3,500 persons in this area. Around 500 are not letting us do their screening.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-s-covid-patients-spike-from-200-to-900-over-past-month/story-zIxuN5Xjfc8xSR1VDFdy9I.html
19-07-2020||City||Shrimp farmers want transport from govt to stay afloat||Bathinda In an uncertain market environment for shrimp, aquaculturists in the state want the state government to help ensure transport of their export-oriented crop to key shipping destinations in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra, amid the pandemic to set-off some of the losses. This year, the output is expected to come down to half of the 800 tonne that the state produced from 350 acre, due to issues with seed availability etc. The crop is harvested up to October and is sown April onwards. Lakhwinder Singh, a farmer from Ratta Khera village in Muktsar, said, “I have seven-acre land under aquaculture, but this time it is a poor production season. Farmers will struggle to recover even the cost of Rs 4 lakh invested in one acre. As there is no respite in covid-19, it is also doubtful if buyers from coastal regions will send their trucks to Punjab. As the aqua-crop will be harvested in October, an assurance by the state government of transportation to processing units will save from financial disaster,” he said.He added to minimise losses, he has scaled down his five-year-old year initiative of shrimp farming by putting 1 lakh seeds in a 1.5-acre area that was half in comparison to 2019.Dr Meera D Ansal, department of Aquaculture College of Fisheries, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, said shrimp farming was a risky venture in today’s times. “Root stocking of shrimp is imported from the US. Due to the pandemic, international consignments got delayed. Due to non-availability of seeds in Punjab and Haryana, shrimp cultivation began after June 15, a delay of over three months. US and China are main importers of Indian shrimp and farmers have doubts over smooth exports this year, shrimp should be promoted for consumption in the Indian market,” she said, adding the situation could give good return if the situation improved. Experts say the aquaculture has turned a boon for the farmers of south Malwa region since it was introduced in 2016 in the area where land was not usable for conventional crops due to high salinity level and water-logging.About 4,000 kg of shrimps can be produced from a pond excavated on an acre of land, which can fetch a price of Rs 350-400 per kg. After excluding costs, the net profit may be up to Rs 3 lakh per acre, which is more than any other conventional crop.An enterprising farmer from Bathinda’s Kot Guru village Harpal Singh said he reduced land under shrimp to two acre from four acre last year. Shrimp farmers is treated as small-scale industry and charged Rs 9-unit for electricity. The tariff should be lowered as a relief measure to make sustainable, he added. Similarly, Jagmohan Singh from Arniwala village in Fazilka said government subsidy will help them stay afloat in shrimp farming during the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shrimp-farmers-want-transport-from-govt-to-stay-afloat/story-tNbrSdqeQVoXmT3w71t94M.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||BJP to launch state wide milk protest on Monday||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) along with its allies will hold a token protest to demand ₹10 per litre payment by the government to state’s dairy farmers on Monday. The protest will be held at all district collector and tehsildar offices, said BJP state chief Chandrakant Patil. Patil said that all BJP allies will also participate in this protest, which will take a serious turn from August 1 if the government continues to ignore their demands.“The plight of dairy farmers is terrible as prices have fallen as low as ₹16 to ₹18 per litre. Due to Covid-19 milk collection is not happening and they had faced severe losses. To express their plight, all allies of Mahayuti will come together and protest,” said Patil.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant, however termed this protest as “opportunistic politics”. “They have nothing to do with farmers. First, they had announced a protest on August 1, but when it came to light that the dairy development minister Sunil Kedar has announced a meeting to address this issue on Tuesday, they preponed their so-called protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-to-launch-state-wide-milk-protest-on-monday/story-suB4cKjbpXPTNymSkrnYWK.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Remove posts defaming suspended IAS officer: Delhi HC to Google, FB, Twitter||The Delhi High Court has directed US-based Google LLC, Facebook and Twitter to take down or disable certain objectionable posts and tweets on their platforms, which level allegations against a suspended civil servant by a woman.The court has also restrained the woman from publishing or disseminating any news relating to the man in any manner on any website/ newspaper/ TV channels including YouTube/ Facebook/ Instagram till further orders.“Considering the averments made in the plaint (by the man) and the application as also the documents filed therewith, this court finds that the plaintiff (man) has made out a prima facie case in his favour and in case no ad-interim ex parte injunction is granted, the plaintiff would suffer an irreparable loss. The balance of convenience also lies in favour of the plaintiff,” Justice Mukta Gupta said in an order passed on July 15.The court also issued summons to the woman, social media giants Google, Facebook and Twitter Plaint in the suit and listed the matter for further hearing on August 31.“Issue summons in the suit and notice in the application to the defendants,” the order said.The suspended IAS officer, in his plaint, has sought damages from the woman for defaming him, besides permanent and mandatory injunction.According to the man, he came in contact with the woman, who was already married, through Facebook in 2017 when he was in Mexico as a part of the Indian Government’s delegation and thereafter, she sent him a number of friend requests which he finally accepted.The man claimed that he informed the woman that he was married, however, at her instance, he met her at a hotel where he was staying and alleged that since February 2018, she started asking money from him.The plaint claimed that the man gave her the money with the sole intention of bailing out a friend in trouble. However, the woman used verbal abuse, physical assault and threatened to commit suicide, the plaint claimed.It alleged that the woman also demanded Rs 20 crore, asked him to buy a flat in Delhi for her and transfer his home in Ahmedabad in her name.The man said the woman has filed a complaint with the Crime against Women Cell and National Human Rights Commission which were all investigated into and nothing was found against him.In view of the online campaign conducted by the woman, different articles and posts on social media platforms have been published and the man sought directions from the court to take down those posts and articles.The court, in its order, said, “Considering the nature of posts put against the plaintiff, defendant No. 2-Google LLC is directed to take down/ disable the posts/ links from the country domain.” Regarding the tweets mentioned in the documents placed by the man, the court directed Twitter Inc. to take down/ disable the tweets from the country domain.The court asked the man to provide the necessary URLs to Twitter which would then take down the eight tweets mentioned in the documents.“The defendant No. 4-Facebook Inc. in the meantime, is also directed to take down the posts from Facebook as mentioned in... the plaint within one week from the date of intimation of the order,” it said. The counsel for Google submitted that the articles and posts are all newspapers’ articles or news channels’ reports which have been uploaded and the authenticity thereof would be only known to the news channels and sought that they may be impleaded as parties in the suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-directs-google-fb-twitter-to-take-down-posts-tweets-defaming-suspended-ias-officer/story-pTtGGAbkWTrDilYiTz6tUJ.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Wellness tourism discussed during webinar at Panjab University||Panjab University’s University Institute of Hotel and Tourism Management (UIHTM) organised a national webinar on wellness tourism on Sunday.During the webinar, HR Nagendra, Padma Shri awardee and chancellor, S-VYASA University, Bengaluru, suggested working on the immune system.“Everyone needs to focus on four principles of a healthy life – ahar, vihar, achar, vichar and one has to work on all these aspects to stay fit. Yoga and ayurveda are India’s contribution to the world and everyone must spread a holistic vision.”As many as 40 people registered for the webinar and UIHTM will donate the fee collected to PM-CARES fund.Chef Ram Babu, keynote speaker, said, “A chef must be kind and prepare food as one does meditation. One must be happy, and cooking must be taken as God’s blessing.”He insisted on eating local and seasonal food. He said millets are full of protein, energy and are gluten free. He said everyone must replace wheat and rice in their daily diet with millets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wellness-tourism-discussed-during-webinar-at-panjab-university/story-NNdoybr94xKioSyNv8AW3M.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula man duped of ₹7 lakh on pretext of getting job in Singapore||A resident of Sector 8, Panchkula, was duped of Rs 7 lakh on the pretext of getting job in Singapore. As per Davinder Singh’s complaint, Sachin Sharma, a resident of Penta Homes, VIP Road, Zirakpur, who runs an immigration business told him that he’s part owner of a hotel in Singapore, and they could work together. Singh met Sharma’s associates, Kiran Geotra and Aarti Sharma, with whom he struck a deal for Rs 7 lakh. He paid Rs 1 lakh in advance and arranged the remaining amount by borrowing from his friends and taking a loan from the bank.However the visa never arrived, and Singh went to meet Sharma at a hookah bar he owned in Sector 21, Panchkula, but he refused to meet him. Singh later found out that Sharma had cheated another person, Sanjeev Garg, in the same way following which he lodged a complaint.A case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 24 of the Immigration Act against Sachin Sharma and his associates. The accused are yet to be arrested, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-man-duped-of-7-lakh-on-pretext-of-getting-job-in-singapore/story-ZZg69YPAA6wvQ94lQdkYOK.html
19-07-2020||City||Ganpati at your doorstep: e-booking opens amidst Covid pandemic in Pune||The Ganesh festival is now a month away and Pune is readying for a Ganesh Utsav like has been never experienced in living memory.The first day of the 10-day Ganpati festival is on August 22, celebrated as Ganesh Chathurthi, and the Ganesh festival 2020 is going to be “Bappa at home” in Pune.The public outpouring of faith and festivity has been put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic, with the number of progressive positive cases in Pune having crossed 30,000 cases and currently growing at the rate of 1,500-plus cases per day.Mandaps, elaborate décor for public viewing, and the public sale of Ganpati idols are all on hold, and unlikely to happen this season.Idol makers who have had to come up with new of business strategies to ensure the city’s “Vignaharta” makes it to every home, as is the tradition.“In a bid to reach the maximum number of people and provide them Ganpati idols at their doorsteps we started a concept called ‘Bappa Aplya Dari’ (Ganpati at your doorstep). People should not come out of their society or area to the market to purchase the idols this year. So we have three vans in which we have displayed the different types of Ganpati idols. In each van there are 70 to 80 varieties - at least 215 varieties on display. This includes idols with diamonds, and idols made from plaster of paris (POP), clay, red clay, and the eco-friendly idols. These idols are one-to-two feet in height and we have not increased the rates this year,” said Abhijeet Suresh Abnwae, owner of Abhijeet Arts, a firm that has been in the idol-making business for the last 30 years.“Initially, we contact the chairman of a residential society, and they give us a date and a time slot to take our vehicle to the society. With proper social distancing, society members see the idols, make a booking and before the Ganpati festival begins, we will do home deliveries,” said Abnwae, adding, “The daily rent of one van is Rs 3,500, and to make the racks inside the van to display the idols Rs 30,000 has been spent per van. Staff, including drivers and helpers, are paid salaries. We have a sales target of 10,000 idols this year, but it might increase looking at the response,” added Abnwae.The Ganesh Kala Kendra, popular for its “shadhu mati” Ganpati idols, is also reaching out to customers.Amol Mehta, one of the co-owners of the kendra said, “This year, due to corona, the entire business model has changed. Earlier, we use to install a tent, or rent a shop on Tilak toad where customers would come, select their Ganpati idols and then take it home before the festival. This year, we have gone online with a website for booking of idols. We already have customer data from the previous years and are contacting them via email for orders. We also send idol photos out on WhatsApp to our regular customers. People are ready to pay more this year to get the idols home delivered,” says Mehta.Another senior Ganapti idol maker from Pune, 62-year-old Ganesh Lanjekar, owner of Lanjekar Ganpati Idols in Kasba peth said, “We have hundreds of fixed customers. This year, all manufacturers are worried about the business. Our work starts from January, but due to lockdown, the work stopped. We were not able to get raw materials and paints. The number of idols we produced, which was earlier 2,500, has now come down to half this year. There are many challenges to reach out to the public safely. We are sending the photos to our regular customers on WhatsApp and then they book their choices. We are losing customers, though.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ganpati-at-your-doorstep-e-booking-opens-amidst-covid-pandemic-in-pune/story-uXXhyzKMTNR8HLiwzhwzMK.html
19-07-2020||City||Three cops, staff nurse among 18 test positive for Covid-19 in Mohali||Three policemen and a staff nurse were among the 18 fresh Covid-19 cases that surfaced in Mohali on Sunday, taking the district’s count to 531.The three cops, including two sub-inspectors – a 30-year-old woman and a 29-year-old man, and a male head constable, aged 52, are posted at the Gharuan police post in Kharar. Authorities have suspended public dealing at the police post, while the health department has collected samples of 12 more policemen, who reported mild fever.The 46-year-old female staff nurse works at the Mohali civil hospital.Three male patients, aged 59, 41 and 31, are from Phase 3-A, Sector 80 and Phase 9, respectively. A 50-year-old woman was found positive in Sector 127. Zirakpur reported three cases – two women, aged 63 and 47, and a 40-year-old man.Similarly, three cases cropped up in Dera Bassi – two men, aged 36 and 29, and a 36-year-old woman.A 38-year-old man and a 38-year-old woman were found positive in Sunny Enclave, Kharar. A 40-year-old woman is from Sante Majra, while the remaining two patients are two females, aged 22 and 2, from Kharar. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all patients were admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. “We have sanitised the Gharuan police post and collected 12 samples. Reports are awaited,” he added.Of the total 531 cases in Mohali, 318 patients have recovered and 11 have died. A total of 202 cases are still active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-cops-staff-nurse-among-18-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mohali/story-McEGcfNNGDUDKbh8RECgVL.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Commercial industries body backs Punjab CM, recommends setting up industrial park in Mattewara||A day after Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said that not an inch of forest land will be used to set-up the 1,000-acre industrial park in Mattewara, the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings’ (CICU) executive committee unanimously recommended its establishment.Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, and Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, CICU, jointly mentioned that setting up of the industrial park will help in job creation as the Covid-19 pandemic has rendered many youngsters unemployed.The industrial body has backed the government at a time when it is facing flak from environmental activists for ruining the eco-system of Mattewara forest area by setting up the industrial park.Ahuja slammed the environmentalists’ claims that setting up the industrial park will cause water pollution. “The Punjab Pollution Control Board’s guidelines are very strict for industrial units. Those that flout guidelines are sealed and power connection is disconnected. During the lockdown, when factories were shut, polluted water continued to flow into Buddha Nullah. This shows that factories are not releasing pollutants,” Ahuja said.He said a letter has been sent to Punjab CM and industry and finance minister to use panchayat Land and other additional land available for setting up industry.He said Dhanansu hi-tech valley is good model of converting panchayat land, which was bought by Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) for Rs 94 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/commercial-industries-body-backs-punjab-cm-recommends-setting-up-industrial-park-in-mattewara/story-F3KPwNE0f0Au7vQsEtJl6K.html
19-07-2020||City||Renovation of three major chowks on Satara road underway amid lockdown||PUNE Amid the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has undertaken renovation work of three major chowks on Pune-Satara road.These three chowks include Padmavati chowk, Balajinagar chowk and one unnamed chowk on the same route. According to civic officials, the area in the chowks have been dug up and work like concretisation, underground wiring and drainage pipeline and alignment is underway. Also, diversions have been made for vehicular movement.“We have started work on the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) route as the lockdown is implemented there is no vehicular traffic,” said Vijay Kulkarni, head, chief engineer, PMC road department. “We are redesigning and renovating the chowks. For utility purposes ducts have been made and stormwater line and drainage pipelines will be installed at each of the chowks. All the work related to the BRT project will be undertaken as we want to restart the BRT service on the route,” said Kulkarni.Amita Mhaske, a nearby resident of Padmavati chowk, said, “Before the lockdown was implemented we use to daily pass-through this chowk and it definitely needed a renovation”“The chowk is large, but there are no proper zebra crossing signs, traffic signals do not work many times and most importantly the public transport buses pass speedily. If now the PMC is redesigning it I am sure they must have considered all these things to make the route safer,” said Mhaske.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/renovation-of-three-major-chowks-on-satara-road-underway-amid-lockdown/story-fTgrSJ93soDN54gq66IxnO.html
19-07-2020||City||Lockdown phase 2: Hustle and flow as Pune shops, markets reopen... for a day||PUNE Huge crowds thronged chicken, mutton, vegetable and grocery shops and petrol pumps flouting the social distancing norms as essential commodities shops were open from 8 am to 6 pm on Sunday.In the second phase of the ten-day lockdown, starting from July 19, essential commodities shops were allowed to remain open on Sunday. From Monday, essential commodities shops would remain open only till noon, till July 23.On the even of Shravan chicken and mutton shops witnessed huge crowds. During Shravan, as per the Marathi calendar, people of Hindu community refrain from eating meat. Rahul Dambale, a resident of Yerawada , said, “There was a long queue when I went to buy chicken at a nearby shop. I had to wait for an hour in the hot sun.”Manzoor Shaikh, proprietor Diamond Chicken, Camp, said, “There was a heavy rush as many people turned up to buy chicken. We made them stand in a queue to avoid crowding and ensured that social distancing was maintained. Also, sanitizers were used extensively as precautionary measure to prevent the Sars-Cov-2 virus infection.”“The huge rush was due to Gatari Amavasya which will be followed up by Ganpati and other festivals. We are hopeful that the crowds will lessen in the next few days. However, we kept the highest standards of cleaning and hygiene for our customers as per the directions of the health department,” he said.Meanwhile, the rise in prices of vegetables by at least 40 to 50 per cent did not stop the residents from purchasing it. Rohini Badade, a homemaker, said, “After five days of strict lockdown, I stepped out to purchase vegetables and fruits. “The prices of vegetable and fruits were higher as compared to normal. But I had to purchase it as all family members are at home, we need to manage the next week,” she said.Raju Waghmare, a vegetable seller, said, “The Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) market located at Gultekdi is closed. I have stock of garlic, potato, onion and I procured the vegetables directly from farmers.”“Indeed, vegetable prices are up by almost 30 to 40 per cent, but I need to go 50 km away from the city to bring these vegetables,” he said.“I am appealing to the customers to wear the mask and maintain social distance, maximum customers are taking care, but some are neglecting it,” he said.Though the administration had announced that only those working in essential services would be able to commute, a huge rush was seen at petrol pumps.Vishwas Jadhav, a senior citizen, said, “As the Covid-19 positive cases are increasing in the city, there is fear among the residents that the administration might extend the lockdown. People are involved in panic purchasing and are stocking food and grocery items in huge quantity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-phase-2-hustle-and-flow-as-pune-shops-markets-reopen-for-a-day/story-f7crC2HWwDiaXMsIp3gfcP.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||DEOs, school heads of Ludhiana dist to recommend names of teachers for state awards by July 30||To acknowledge the contribution of teachers towards improving the quality of education, the Punjab education department has opened the webportal, epunjabschool.gov.in, where teachers can be nominated for state awards. The last date to send entries on the website is July 30.The teachers are not allowed to nominate themselves and will be recommended by district education officers or school heads. The teachers must have 10-year experience in the field of education and names of teachers of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan and Punjab Information and Communication Technology Education Society (PICTES) can also be nominated. District education officer (secondary), Swaranjit Kaur, said, “We have started the process and principals have been informed to recommend the names of the teachers for the state award. The heads have also been asked to send a 250-word write up on the nominees.”The principals have been directed to only suggest the names of the teachers who do not have any case registered against them.The names will be finalised by the selection team of the state education department and district education officers have been asked to upload all names and required information and achievements of the teachers. The awards will be conferred to the selected teachers on the Teacher’s Day, September 5. Last year, no teacher from the district received a state award. Names of seven teachers were recommended by the selection committee for their outstanding services in the field of education. In 2018, six teachers from Ludhiana were among 51 teachers in Punjab who received the Raj Adhyapak award during the state-level Teacher’s Day function held in Jalandhar on September 5. Three more government school teachers from Ludhiana also received special awards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/deos-school-heads-of-ludhiana-dist-to-recommend-names-of-teachers-for-state-awards-by-july-30/story-LWCk2ABjVT7nAjDvnhwPKI.html
19-07-2020||City||Stalker booked for trying to kidnap 22-year-old Ludhiana woman||A Bhamiyan resident has been booked for trying to kidnap a 22-year-old woman, who he had been stalking, from her house at Sector 39, Chandigarh Road, on Saturday. Besides the main accused, Jaswinder Singh, police have also booked his mother, Balwinder Kaur, and sister Sarbjit Kaur, all residents of Green City, Bhamiyan, for helping him in the crime.The victim’s father told the police that Jaswinder had been stalking his daughter for a long time and also proposed her for marriage. He had threatened to post her morphed pictures on social media if she didn’t marry him.“After my daughter shared this with me, I approached his mother and sister. While Jaswinder apologised then, a few days later he started demanding Rs 5 lakh to leave my daughter alone,” the father alleged.When the complainant refused to pay anything, Jaswinder barged into their house and tried to kidnap the woman, while she was alone at home. As the victim raised the alarm, Jaswinder fled the scene.ASI Sunita Kaur of Moti Nagar police, who is investigating the case, said they had booked Jaswinder, his mother and sister under Sections 364, 511, 354-D, 294, 511, 506, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code. Police are working to arrest the trio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stalker-booked-for-trying-to-kidnap-22-year-old-ludhiana-woman/story-sqNTmqt8hlPn4Ecx1Gv54I.html
19-07-2020||City||Higher edu dept seeks report from Punjabi University over financial ‘anomalies’||Taking serious note of a report submitted by Punjab accountant general regarding the glaring financial anomalies unearthed during Punjabi University audit, the department of higher education has directed ‘beleaguered’ varsity to submit a detailed report by July 31.The department has sent a communiqué to the varsity management.Punjab’s accountant general submitted the compliance report with the higher education department on June 30 after conducting a thorough audit of the university finances last month.“On the basis of the audit report, the university has been asked to submit an action taken report so far. Moreover, the varsity is also directed to submit a detailed action plan report, so that these financial irregularities would not happen in near future,” the communiqué stated.The varsity is presently reeling under acute financial crisis as it is unable to meet even its committed expenditure, including payment of salaries and pensions.One of the officials said the audit team went through varsity’s financial data regarding its income and expenditure in the past 10 years.“The audit report carries details of the financial mess, including incorrect pay fixation, flaws in deciding pensions, and increase in salary of contractual teaching staff from ₹21,600 to ₹44,000, without taking approval from the state finance department,” an official said.“The report prominently mentioned about the delay on the part of varsity in deciding inquiry reports related to bungling of funds in making certain purchases between 2009 and 2016, and financial burden on the varsity due to illegal recruitment of 65 assistant professors in the same period,” it added.University registrar Prof Yograj said the authorities are yet to go through the department’s communiqué.“The content of the letter will be discussed in detail with vice-chancellor Prof B S Ghuman. The varsity will respond accordingly,” he said.Higher education secretary Rahul Bhandari said “The report has been sought for the betterment of the institution and to boost it financially in the near future.”Meanwhile, the department has also asked the university to submit its blueprint to increase its income from its own resources.As per budgetary proposals for this fiscal, the varsity expects an income of ₹380 crore, while the expenditure is pegged at ₹676 crore, leaving a massive ₹296-crore deficit. The university also has an overdraft of ₹140 crore, which is expected to touch ₹150 crore by the end of the year.OTHER INSTRUCTIONSThe department has also asked varsity to submit a report regarding declaration of results of intermediate classes within three days, besides joining of retired IAS officer Manjit Singh Narang as honourary advisor to vice-chancellor and duties assigned to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/higher-edu-dept-seeks-report-from-punjabi-university-over-financial-anomalies/story-NIrLLNZyk61fNfHTBZITuK.html
19-07-2020||City||Ludhiana police’s WhatsApp number flooded with posts about lockdown violations||The WhatsApp number of the Ludhiana police is getting flooded with pictures and video clips of lockdown violations.Witnessing the immense response, the police have started monitoring the WhatsApp number from the police control room and deputed a separate staff for checking the messages and sending it to the police stations concerned.The city police have released a WhatsApp number 9115601159 where people can inform about the curfew violations and quick action would be taken against the violators. In two days, the police have received more than 300 videos and pictures of violations from different parts of the city. Following state directives over stern action against lockdown violators, the police swung into action and launched the number seeking help from the people. The police have also launched an e-mail id cpludhianacovid@gmail.com for people to report such violations. The police have asked people to report large gatherings in social, religious and political functions, as only five persons are allowed to gather at such functions, violation of home quarantine guidelines and night curfew.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP, city-1) Deepak Pareek said that the WhatsApp number has proved to be of great help for the police in curbing violations. The police verify videos and pictures before taking any action. Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal said that most people have smartphones and they are willing to help the police. Earlier, they use to receive such complaints on the phone, now they have started receiving such information with proof on their WhatsApp number.The police have already collected a fine of ₹1.14 crore from 27,700 violators since the lockdown was imposed in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-s-whatsapp-number-flooded-with-posts-about-lockdown-violations/story-K7mhLmGwDc4ZKNnh7B75iL.html
19-07-2020||Patna||Lightning kills 10 in Bihar; CM announces Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia||At least 10 people were killed in lightning in seven districts of Bihar, as very heavy rain accompanied with thunderstorms lashed several parts of Bihar on Sunday.According to the state disaster management department, three deaths were reported in Purnia, two in Begusarai while Saharsha, Patna, East Champaran, Darbhanga and Madhepura registered one death each.Chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over the loss of lives. He has announced ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh to each of the victim’s families. The CM has also appealed to the people to remain vigilant and follow the guidelines issued by the disaster management department and stay indoors during the inclement weather.According to the reports from Purnia, all three persons of a family were killed when lightning struck them on Sunday. The deceased were in their house when lightning struck them.Deceased have been identified as Kailash Mandal, 50 and his son and daughter-in-law Dilkhush Kumar, 30, Nibha Devi, 25 respectively. They were residents of Singharapatti village under Dhamdaha police station of Purnia district 360 km from Patna.In another incident about 40-year-old Arhula Devi died when lightning struck at her house at Ward number 7 of Chausa western panchayat of Madhepura district. Her house was also damaged. Another man identified as Raj Kumar Sharma, 40, son of Upendra Sharma, a native of Akbarpur Benk village in Biraul block of Darbhanga died due to thunderbolts.In East Champaran, a 25-year-old man, identified as Umesh Paswan, a resident of Gaira village under Kotwa police station was critical and died in the course of treatment at sadar hospital in Motihari as the lightning “struck him, while he was catching fish. He was brought here in critical condition and succumbed to the burn injuries,” said Vijay Chand Jha, manager of sadar hospital.On July 4, 21 persons were killed due to lightening strikes during heavy rains across the state even as several deaths have occurred last month during monsoon rains.Meanwhile,weathermen at Patna Meteorological Centre said that heavy to very heavy rainfall occurred at few places of northwest and northeast parts while light to moderate rain lashed south-east and north east parts of Bihar.Gaunaha in West Champaran received the maximum amount of 120 mm rain followed by Udai Kishanganj and Bagaha (West Champaran) which received 90 mm rain each, Triveniganj in Supaul recorded 80 mm rain,Gopalganj 60 mm, Bahadurganj , Purnia, and Dhengraghat (Sitamarhi) 50mm rain each during the past 24 hours. The capital city Patna recorded 20.4 mm rain till 5.30pm.Meteorologist Ravindra Kumar said, “A monsoon trough at mean sea level is passing through Ganganagar, Rohtak , Fursatganj, Patna and thence towards the foothills of Himalayas. Under the influence, several north Bihar regions are likely to receive heavy rain coupled with thunderstorm and lightning while other districts may experience light to moderate rain.”In the state capital, several localities witnessed heavy waterlogging today after heavy rains in the day.(With inputs from Aditya Nath Jha, Bishnu K Jha and Sandeep Bhaskar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/lightning-kills-10-in-bihar-cm-announces-rs-4-lakh-ex-gratia/story-jGyf4OJWKU7RGJHJsiELgL.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||20-year-old arrested for molesting minor||A 20-year-old man was arrested by Sakinaka police for allegedly molesting a 13-year-old girl who lived in his neighbourhood. According to police the incident occurred on July 16 at around 8pm when she was alone at home.In her statement the victim told the police that the accused on the day of the alleged incident he had come to their house and requested her for water. However, while taking the bottle the man grabbed the victim’s hand and molested her.Victim later narrated the ordeal to her mother after which they lodged a complaint against the accused with Sakinaka police.Kishor Sawant senior inspector from Sakinaka police station said,” Following her complaint we registered the offence and have arrested the accused. The investigation is on,”Police booked the accused under sections 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and section 8 (Punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (Punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-year-old-arrested-for-molesting-minor/story-gGoerFGt9jQwy0LW8EvzZM.html
19-07-2020||City||64 fresh Covid-19 cases in Himachal, tally rises to 1,521||Himachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded 64 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally to 1521.Twenty-six cases each were reported in Sirmaur and Solan, five in Kangra, four in Una, two in Hamirpur and one in Mandi.It is the second steepest spike in the virus cases this month. Earlier, 78 cases were reported in Himachal on July 13.DOCTOR AMONG 26 TEST POSITIVE IN SOLANA doctor was among the 26 people who tested positive in Solan district. Deputy commissioner KC Chaman said a 42-year-old man in Nalagarh and a 25-year-old from Karuana have tested positive in random sampling for influenza-like-illness symptoms.Four patients, including a 56-year-old doctor, are direct contacts of a Covid-19 patient from Karuana. Seven primary contacts of another patient have also contracted the disease.Two people have travel history from the other states while remaining ten patients were in institutional quarantine. One case was reported in the district late evening.Solan district, particularly the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial belt emerged as the new Covid-19 hotspot in the state earlier this month. Of the total 555 cases reported in the state this month as many as 221 are from Solan, mostly from BBN area. The district also has the maximum 212 active cases.Meanwhile, spurt in the Covid-19 cases in Nahan town, the administrative headquarters of Sirmaur district, has set alarm bells ringing for the authorities. The Govindgarh locality of the town has emerged new hotspot in the state. Twenty-people have tested positive for the virus in the locality on Sunday. Among the patients are 15 women, nine men and two children. The patients are in the age group of 2 to 57.Earlier, 10 people were found infected in the same area. They had attended a marriage. A 23-year-old woman was first to test positive on July 15 and believed to be source of the spread.FIVE CASES IN KANGRAFive people, including an Indian Army soldier, have tested positive in Kangra. Three patients including a woman have travel history to Delhi and one patient had returned from Surat in Gujarat. They were institutionally quarantined. The army jawan had returned from Hyderabad.1,500 CASES IN 122 DAYSHimachal breached the 1500-mark on 122nd day of reporting its first case on March 20. The 1400-mark was crossed on July 17.Special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said active cases have climbed to 436 while 1,059 patients have been cured so far. Till date, 1,15,298 samples have been tested in the state.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 334 cases, followed by Solan with 332 cases. Hamirpur has 281 cases, Una 162, Chamba 78, Shimla 71, Sirmaur 89, Bilaspur 63, Mandi 48, Kinnaur 39, Kullu 20 and Lahaul-Spiti district four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/56-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-1-513/story-95h9W7vyICde9jUppz4H9J.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ready to lead delegation if MSP clarification needed, says SAD chief||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday offered to lead a delegation of farmer organisations to seek any clarification needed by them on the farming produce trade and commerce ordinance 2020 from Union agricultural minister N S Tomar, adding that his party would always stand for the farmers and never allow tinkering with the system of MSP and assured marketing of food grains.“I am also committed to take an assurance in parliament that MSP and assured marketing would continue unhindered,” he said.Sukhbir said the Union minister had already assured that MSP would continue to be offered to farmers, however, he was ready to take a delegation of farmer organisations to the minister to seek any clarification if needed on this issue.The SAD chief asked the Punjab chief minister to tell Punjabis why they had amended the APMC Act to allow creation of private markets, direct marketing, electronic agricultural marketing and single unified licence for entire state in 2017.“The Congress government in state also participated in the consultative process which led to the framing of the Agriculture Ordinance. It is unfortunate that now the Congress was trying to deceive farmers by indulging in mischievous propaganda which has been launched for the purpose of diverting attention from failures of the Congress government,” added Sukhbir.The former deputy CM added that even now multi-nationals and flour mills did not pay any tax to purchase food grains. “Then why resort to scare tactics by claiming they will capture the entire market when the Union agriculture minister has already clarified that the entire government procurement will take place from mandis. This means there will not be any difference in revenue collection of around ₹4,000 crore,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ready-to-lead-delegation-if-msp-clarification-needed-says-sad-chief/story-ZAKKPcZcXMB7bOfl6i6JxL.html
19-07-2020||Bangalore||No extension of lockdown in Bengaluru: BBMP Commissioner||There was no question of extending the ongoing week-long lockdown here set to end on July 22, newly appointed commissioner of the city civic body N Manjunatha Prasad said on Sunday, amid speculations it may be continued for another fortnight in view of rising cases. The government has imposed complete lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts among a few others since 8 pm of July 14 till 5 am on July 22. “The Chief Minister has made it clear that the lockdown will not be extended for any reason, after Tuesday there will not be any lockdown. We will follow the government’s orders.There is no question of lockdown,” Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad told reporters here. His clarification comes as speculations were rife that the lockdown may be extended for 15 days, despite Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s statement to the contrary. Yediyurappa had on Friday said lockdown was not the solution for controlling Covid-19 and made it clear that there was no proposal before the government to extend it. Prasad took over as the commissioner of the city civic body on Saturday evening. His predecessor B H Anil Kumar, along with city Mayor M Goutham Kumar, however, had favoured extension of lockdown. Ahead of the Chief Minister’s statement, they had said that in their personal opinion lockdown for 15 days would be good, as that much time is required to break the chain. As of July 18 evening, cumulatively 59,652 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 1,240 deaths and 21,775 discharges. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 29,621 infections. Out of 4,537 fresh cases reported on Saturday in the state, the district alone accounted for 2,125.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/no-extension-of-lockdown-in-bengaluru-bbmp-commissioner/story-pjBskp8KU7SBWRw5lZShCP.html
19-07-2020||Jaipur||We’ll be kingmakers, says BTP as Rajasthan crisis unfolds||As the Ashok Gehlot government struggles to retain power in Rajasthan, the Bharatiya Tribal Party says it is now in a position to punch way above its weight despite its minuscule presence in the state assembly. “We have two MLAs in a House of 200, yet we are in the position of kingmakers,” party president Maheshbhai C Vasava told PTI on Sunday. At a joint press conference with the Congress on Saturday, BTP legislators Rajkumar Roat and Ramprasad Dindor made it clear that they are with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. This ended days of uncertainty over where the Gujarat-based party’s loyalties lie. The two MLAs supported the ruling Congress in the state in last month’s Rajya Sabha polls. But when the power tussle between Gehlot and his now sacked deputy Sachin Pilot re-surfaced recently, the BTP said it will remain neutral. Vasava said the party is now extending support to Gehlot after an assurance that its demands related to the development of tribal areas will be met. “We have fought against the Congress and the BJP on tribal issues but if the government now assures full support on the issues raised by us, why shouldn’t we support it? After all it is fulfilling the agenda of tribal welfare and development,” he said. When the crisis began last week, Vasava issued a whip directing both Roat and Dindor not to support any leader or party in case there is a floor test in the assembly. However, Sagwara MLA Ramprasad Dindor expressed defiance of the whip, saying both of them will support the state government. Later, party office-bearers and the MLAs held discussions with the chief minister on their demands. “We had supported the Congress government in the Rajya Sabha elections last month after an assurance by the chief minister on our demands,” Chorasi MLA Roat said. “But the demands were not fulfilled. Some of them could have been met in just one day,” he complained. The party then thought of not extending support to him, the MLA said. Last week, Roat appeared in two video clips, alleging that he was being stopped by Rajasthan police from travelling to his constituency in Dungarpur district. He claimed that police personnel had come in two vans and taken away his car keys. He also alleged that some people were forcing him to come with them. The videos were circulated by the Sachin Pilot camp and the BJP had questioned the state government over them. But Raut later dismissed the episode as a “misunderstanding” with police. He said the party’s agenda is development of tribal areas and they have raised 17 demands before the CM. Some of the demands are related to reservation in jobs and the utilisation of funds for tribal areas. The BTP came into being in 2017 in Gujarat, and expanded into Rajasthan the next year. In the December 2018 assembly elections, it fielded 11 candidates in the tribal belt in southern Rajasthan. Raot was 26 when he won and most other candidates too were young. “The youth are our power. Today’s youth is educated, understands issues and understands how the tribal people were deprived of their rights. We fielded many young candidates and the party’s performance was very good,” BTP state president Velaram Ghoghra said. The crisis in Rajasthan Congress has been brewing since the party picked Gehlot over Pilot for the chief minister’s post. Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and the party’s state unit president when he and 18 other MLAs stayed away from two Congress Legislature Party meetings. The rebel MLAs were served notices by Speaker C P Joshi after the Congress sought their disqualification from the assembly. The Rajasthan High Court will on Monday resume hearing their petition challenging the notices. Including the dissidents, the Congress has 107 MLAs in the 200-member assembly and the BJP 72. If the 19 Congress dissidents are disqualified, the current strength of the state assembly will reduce to 181, slashing the half-way mark to 91 and making it easier for Gehlot to retain majority support. In the past, the ruling party has claimed the support of 13 independents, two MLAs each from the CPM and the BTP), and one from the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/we-ll-be-kingmakers-says-btp-as-rajasthan-crisis-unfolds/story-9pJVyTUyHisdkO5U4yuNtO.html
19-07-2020||City||Amritsar village sarpanch booked for abetment to suicide||A sarpanch of the Congress party has been booked for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 45-year-old man in Daburji village of Majitha sub-division, police said on Sunday.According to the police, the deceased, Sardool Singh, had consumed some poisonous substance on Friday and died at Guru Nanak Dev hospital on Saturday. They said Sardool had taken the extreme step after allegedly being humiliated and thrashed by the village’s sarpanch, Baljinder Singh.Baljinder has been booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the victim’s son’s complaint.The victim’s son, Mandhir Singh, 24, told the police that around 11 am on Friday, he saw the sarpanch thrashing Sardool. On seeing Mandhir, the accused started hurling abuses and then left the spot.Later, Sardool went home and locked himself in a room and consumed poison.Mandhir said the accused was irked as he thought Sardool was creating hurdles in the digging work of the village pond. Investigation officer, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurnam Singh of Mehta police station, said, “Raids are being conducted to nab the accused, who is the village’s sitting sarpanch and owes allegiance to the ruling Congress party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-sarpanch-booked-for-abetting-suicide-of-45-year-old-in-amritsar-village/story-HrudIXL2Y2jg8rJLDcKvzI.html
19-07-2020||City||HP wants its cops to be trained in Andhra to learn better pilgrimage management||Himachal Pradesh Police is planning to send police personnel on training for finer nuances of security arrangements, involving the use of technology, at Tirumala Tirupati Devsthanams (TTD), Andhra Pradesh. “We intend to replicate some of techniques deployed at the TTD to make pilgrimage experience of devotees visiting the state pleasant, safe and comfortable,” said Himachal Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu, adding that the aim was to enhance security systems and to ensure safety and security of devotees as well as temples during pilgrimage in the state. The DGP added that after the covid-19 pandemic was over, the state would like to send a five-member team headed by a SP-ranked officer to observe and gain first hand experience in managing large crowds, as done at the TTD.Kundu added that he had also requested Andhra Pradesh DGP make arrangements of a week-long training module for HP police officers and to share systems and technologies that TTD uses. “The state police would like to learn from the TTD about security systems, protocols and technologies so that we may benefit from it. TTD is one of the biggest Hindu temple conglomerates in the world and handles large numbers of pilgrims daily and the number becomes larger on special occasions like Bramhotsavam,” the DGP says, that biometric scans, online registrations and an extensive network of surveillance cameras (CCTV) would all work well in the state as well. In a letter written to DGP AP, Kundu mentions all the religious places of historical importance and temples that are massively thronged during festivals and the need for cooperation between the two police forces. Kundu mentions that Himachal is also home to this Holiness Dalai Lama and several Buddhists monasteries, temples and shrines, the key amongst them being His Holiness Dalai Lama’s main temple Key Gompa, Key monastery, Buddha Temple, Rewalsar and Kardang monastery. Therefore, HP police also make arrangements for not only for devotees but also for the safety and security of our temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-wants-its-cops-to-be-trained-in-andhra-pradesh-to-learn-new-techniques/story-Z52HYJcb8sbLT9Sd7K2HmJ.html
19-07-2020||City||Himachal govt promotes pig farming to boost farmers’ income||The Himachal Pradesh government is promoting pig farming among farmers to boost their income, state animal husbandry and rural development minister Virender Kanwar said on Sunday.The minister said the government has launched a scheme under which the farmers adopting pig farming will be provided 2,000 pigs—three sows and one boar each. The market price of these animals is around ₹17,000.He said, “In addition, each beneficiary will get medicines, feed and equipments worth ₹4,000 for pig rearing. Thus, the total cost of per unit comes around ₹ 21,000 of which each beneficiary has to bear only 5% of the total expenditure while 90% subsidy is being given by the Centre and five 5% subsidy by the state government.”Kanwar said as per experts many breeds of pigs are available for commercial rearing including White Yorkshire, Landres and Middle White Yorkshire.He said the maximum age of a pig is five years. A sow can conceive twice a year from the age of one year and can give birth to a maximum of 12 piglets each time. Kanwar said Himachal Pradesh has 5,033 pigs at present. There are immense possibilities for the farmers to adopt the business. “Under the present scheme, the beneficiaries will be selected on first-come-first-served basis, but there are some conditions for availing the benefits of the scheme,” he said.He said landless and marginal farmers can avail the benefits and priority will be given to women and persons belonging to BPL and reserved categories.Families without any member in government job will be given priority under the scheme, he said, adding that piggery training will also be provided by the department to the beneficiaries.“Any interested person can contact the concerned veterinary officer or deputy director to avail the benefits of this scheme,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-promotes-pig-farming-to-boost-farmers-income/story-XGxNwihzyUBpN4fefwWUsN.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||‘Vanished as if never existed’: House collapses in seconds amid heavy Delhi rains||A house in the slum area of Anna Nagar near ITO in Delhi collapsed on Sunday following heavy rainfall, but no one was present in it at the time of the mishap. Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) and fire engines were deployed at the spot.“The flow of water in the nullah was intense. Running water entered a pit which was dug to construct a parking facility causing severe erosion which led to the collapse of nearby houses. My house vanished as if it never existed,” Pushpa, a resident of the slum said. Watch: House washed away in Anna Nagar after heavy rainfall in Delhi Aam Aadmi Party MLA Praveen Kumar told ANI, “A big accident happened here. Fortunately no one was killed. The Delhi government is providing every help. Emergency relief work is going on here. A goat has been injured and was taken to hospital with the help of an NDRF team.”Also read: Kejriwal says not the time for blame game over Delhi waterlogging death“Houses that are prone to danger are being vacated. This accident is not small. I have talked to the government. The matter will be investigated and those who are responsible will be punished,” added Kumar.Delhi Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia told ANI that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is monitoring the situation personally.“All agencies including the Public Works Department, Delhi Jal Board, Delhi Municipal Corporation and Flood Department are working on a flood plan. They are in the process of implementation. Some of our staff was busy with COVID-19, but we are doing the needful,” Sisodia told ANI.On the other hand, Delhi Congress Committee president Anil Chaudhary who was present at the site slammed the government and said that it had not made arrangements for the monsoon that resulted in the house collapse.Also read: ‘Where’s the ad, chief minister?’ Gautam Gambhir attacks CM over waterlogged Delhi roads“The situation is very bad. This is an almost 50-year-old colony, Anna Nagar, where poor people live. Torrential rain for half an hour brought about this situation in Delhi. The houses of people collapsed. There is water-logging everywhere, so failure of the government is visible. Arrangements should be made before monsoon. The government has failed this time. Kejriwal saab has left Delhi’s fate in the hands of God,” Chaudhary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/house-in-delhi-collapses-in-seconds-as-drain-overflows-due-to-heavy-rain-watch/story-kavJJJKbcW6DGZERyJoXvN.html
19-07-2020||City||HPU extends last date for online registration to July 31||SHIMLA Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, has extended the last date for submission of online registrations application forms for Postgraduate (PG) and Undergraduate (UG) courses for academic session 2019-20 to July 31, due to the ongoing covid-19 pandemic. An HPU notification states that all colleges have been directed to only approve student’s registration application form from their college ID and principal ID, and only then issue a registration card to students. In case of query, students can contact on 0177-2833599, 0177-2833598 or email at rmehpu@gmail.com.ENTRY OF OUTSIDERS BANNED IN VARSITYWith four covid-19 cases reported in Boileauganj locality of Shimla, 2km from the university, HPU has prohibited entry of outsiders in the university and only teaching and non-teaching staff and other university officials will be allowed in the campus. HPU vice-chancellor Sikander Kumar said safety of their staff was their priority. Boileauganj area has been sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hpu-extends-last-date-for-online-registration-to-july-31/story-riqnXN5ZPEzepRsksFYqMK.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers can apply for ₹5 lakh health insurance till July 24||The Punjab government has appealed to the farmers of the state to submit applications till July 24 for the cashless insurance scheme, Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana Punjab for 2020-21.Every beneficiary family under the scheme will get cashless treatment of up to ₹5 lakh.Disclosing this, Mohali deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said farmers who had filled up ‘J’ forms and had the ‘Sugarcane Weighment Slip’, were eligible for the scheme. They had to submit certain declarations with other documents to the office of market committee concerned or their commission agent (Arhtiya) by July 24. The DC also added that the insurance premium would be free for the farmers and instead be paid by the Punjab Mandi Board.Giving details, Dayalan said beneficiaries under the scheme can avail of treatment of up to ₹5lakh for 1,396 ailments, including heart surgery, cancer treatment, joint replacement and the surgery for accidents at 546 listed hospitals and 208 government hospitals.During 2020-21, about 8.70 lakh ‘J’ form holder farmers and 80,000 sugarcane producers of the entire state including the district were expected to benefit from the scheme as compared to five lakh farmers in 2019-20.Market committees have also been directed to ensure that farmers don’t face hurdles when claiming benefits.The self-declaration form was available with the market committee and commission agent and could also be downloaded from the website www.mandiboard.nic.in. Applications received from the farmers would be uploaded on the insurance scheme and those eligible would be given special insurance cards. All ailments requiring hospitalisation for more than 24 hours or listed under the day care treatment scheme will be covered under the scheme.Those covered in the farmer’s household will include husband/wife, father/mother, unmarried children, divorced daughter and her minor children, widowed daughter-in-law with her minor offspring. Contact can be established at the toll free number 104 for any further information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-can-apply-for-5-lakh-health-insurance-till-july-24/story-wobn4agKf1CdWWUbN9PDrL.html
19-07-2020||City||Fruit plant saplings to be planted on 170 hectare under HP SHIVA pilot project: Minister||The horticulture department will be implementing ₹100 crores Himachal Pradesh Sub-tropical Horticulture, Irrigation and Value Addition (HP SHIVA) pilot project in four districts of the state.The Asian Development Bank (ADB)-funded project is being implemented in Bilaspur, Mandi, Kangra and Hamirpur districts. The department has formed 17 clusters comprising 170 hectare area in these districts where fruit trees will be planted. Each group consists of 10 hectares of land.State horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur said under the HP SHIVA pilot project, ₹100 crore will be spent in the identified villages and about 500 families will be connected with the horticultural activities for two years.“A target of planting 2.50 lakh fruit bearing sapling has been fixed under the project. Fruit trees like orange, litchi, pomegranate, and guava will be planted,” he said, adding that the priority will be given for development of those areas where production of fruit is minimal.Horticulture activities will also be promoted in areas where farmers have stopped farming due to the menace of wild animals.“The main project will begin after the success of the pilot project from 2021-22, with an expenditure of proposed ₹ 1,000 crore,” the minister said. About 25,000 families will be linked to horticultural activities in the first phase of the project, he added.Thakur said the main objective of the project is to develop Himachal Pradesh as fruit state to strengthen the economy. So far horticulture activities were being practiced in 25% area of the state, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fruit-plant-saplings-to-be-planted-on-170-hectare-under-hp-shiva-pilot-project-minister/story-bWC8bdFPq67bHJZWFWDrCP.html
19-07-2020||City||Jai Ram reviews construction work of Sanjauli heliport, Bantony Castle||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday visited the heliport site at Sanjauli area of Shimla to review the progress in the construction work.The CM directed officials to ensure time-bound completion of the heliport, which will help facilitate tourists visiting Shimla town.He said the heliport will facilitate landing of helicopters under UDAN-II scheme instead of Jubbarhatti airport. The heliport will have all modern facilities including a VIP lounge and utility area.The CM said three more heliports are also coming up at Mandi, Rampur and Baddi. Heliports will be developed at all district headquarters, in the later stages, he added.Later, the CM visited the Bantony Castle, near Kalibari and reviewed the conservation and restoration work. The restoration of the iconic British era Castle is being executed at an amount of ₹ 25.45 crore.He said the ADB funded project will have three Blocks ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’. “Block ‘A’ will have a primary museum based on Himachali theme, Block ‘B’ will have a food court that will serve Himachali cuisine and a gallery of Himachali art and craft. Common amenities and an open air theatre will be in Block ‘C’, the CM said. He said the light and sound show in the castle will be an added attraction.He directed officials to ensure quality construction and renovation of the project, besides, ensuring that the original architecture is maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-reviews-construction-work-of-sanjauli-heliport-bantony-castle/story-3I0EN66tVHA2WwF8kDSdDN.html
19-07-2020||Pune||PMC okays meat shops to remain open till 6pm on eve of Shravan||The municipal commissioner allowed chicken and mutton shops to operate business on Sunday, ahead of the commencement of Shravan month.During Shravan, as per the Marathi calendar, people of Hindu community refrain from eating meat. Shravan month commences on Monday.The Hindu Khatik association had demanded from deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to allow chicken and mutton shops to remain open on Sunday to avoid crowd in front of these shops if allowed to continue business only till noon.Ashok Pendhari, president, Chicken, Mutton Association Maharashtra, and executive president Vyankt Bendre had written a letter to Pawar in this regard.Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar gave the instruction that chicken, fish and mutton sellers can keep their shops open from 8am to 6pm.Thakur Pardeshi, a fish seller, said, “Last Sunday of Ashad is important for traders as the demand and sale is high on this day. Traders have started preparation since last two weeks and the livestock is ready for sale.”Shivaji Market Traders Association president Manzoor Shaikh said. “There are two different timings for opening of chicken and mutton shops. For Pune Cantonment area, the timing is between 8 am and 12 pm, while PMC has given it from 8 am till 6 pm. We have appealed for an increase in timings as the PCB is following the PMC lockdown pattern.”Mujib Khan, a chicken vendor in Kondhwa, said, “We are open tomorrow [Sunday] from 8 am to 6 pm, but we want support from the police in running our business. We will follow the social distancing norms and wear masks while conducting our business,” he said.(Inputs from Nadeem Inamdar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-okays-meat-shops-to-remain-open-till-6pm-on-eve-of-shravan/story-qdzvfVcNXEwTnRDJveQB4I.html
19-07-2020||Pune||Two meat shop owners booked for violating lockdown restrictions||The city police on Saturday booked two meat shop owners, one in Pimpri and another in Sahakarnagar, for keeping their shops open and violating the lockdown norms.Between July 14 and July 18, all shops, including essential commodities retailers, were ordered to remain shut as per the authorities’ directives on lockdown.A chicken shop was found open at Nehrunagar in Pimpri at 10:30 am on Friday. A police patrol found the shop open and registered a case for lockdown violation. The shop has been identified as New Bismilla Chicken Shop and the owner has been identified as Sameer Saleem Kureshi (21).A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 is registered at Pimpri police station.In the second case, a meat shop was found open in Sahakarnagar on Friday morning.A case under similar sections is registered at Sahakarnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-meat-shop-owners-booked-for-violating-lockdown-restrictions/story-2B2tTEhvnP02bhyisN0rVO.html
19-07-2020||Pune||Hesitant donors impact use of plasma therapy||The life of a 72-year-old resident of Pimpri-Chinchwad, Covid-19 positive, could have been saved if he received plasma from a virus cured person with O+ve blood group. As the family failed to find a suitable donor, the man breathed his last at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital on Saturday early morning.The deceased who tested positive on July 16 needed plasma therapy, said the doctors at the hospital.A relative of the deceased said, “We have no idea how he got infected, but we got to know that plasma could cure him and hospital was not finding any donors. We also tried our best, but failed.”In Pune, plasma therapy is carried out at Sassoon General Hospital and Poona Hospital. A senior doctor from Sassoon said, “We contacted at least 1,000 people who have been discharged, but only close to 40 people have come forward and 21 were eligible. Most of the people we contacted do not respond positively, they are always reluctant to show up and give excuses. It takes only two hours to test and complete the process.”A man whose wife is admitted at YCM is also looking for a donor with AB+ve blood group to come forward. After much labour, he found a donor.He said, “We live in Ambedkar Colony and my wife lost both her parents to Covid-19. After she tested positive, we admitted her to YCM as there was no ventilator available in any private hospital.”“Here the doctors said they needed a donor with AB+ve blood group who has been recovered in the last one month. We got one donor on Saturday and now he is being tested for eligibility and if approved the process would start,” he said.Another 56-year-old woman admitted at Command hospital needs an O+ve blood group donor who has been undergoing treatment since June 30. However, even after much search, the family has not been able to find any donor.Her son said, “We did try to contact a few blood banks, but it was of no help. The administration must at least set up a toll-free number for the same so that people like me can be guided.”The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra chapter, even wrote a letter to the state government on July 14 that the state government must make it compulsory for those recovered to donate plasma under the ‘Epidemic Act 1897 or a new Ordinance.District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “If the IMA has such a proposal we can discuss it with them and are trying to counsel people even during discharge and after discharge too, but not many are coming forward.”“We are working on getting more donors. If need be, we can get it in writing from those cured to donate during discharge,” he said.In its letter, the IMA wrote, “IMA Maharashtra State suggests that the Government of Maharashtra must make it mandatory for all the patients who got cured of the deadly disease, to donate blood for the plasma therapy. To facilitate this procedure, a mandatory undertaking can be taken from all the patients to report on the 15th day after the discharge or recovery. Thereafter they will be tested for fitness for the Blood Donation. A separate plasma bank may be formed for the procedure at every place with the help of the blood banks in the public as well as the private sector”.Who can donate plasmaThe donor must be 18-60 years of age.The donor would be thoroughly checked before the plasma is retrieved from the blood and retransferred into the person’s body.The entire process takes about 2-3 hours and the person does not experience any weakness.As of July 15, close to 6,500 people were discharged after being declared as cured only in PMC jurisdiction. All those, who have no comorbidity and have not reported any symptoms in the past month within the age group of 18-60 are eligible to donate plasma therapy.Plasma therapy has proven to be a successful treatment method for patients who are critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hesitant-donors-impact-use-of-plasma-therapy/story-yTsZ8brLQ9u4wgmH8p8OJN.html
19-07-2020||Bangalore||HAL establishes 160-bed Covid-19 care centre in Bengaluru||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has prepared a 160-bed Covid care centre at one of its facilities on Old Airport Road of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike here. The centre was handed over to municipal authorities on Sunday.In a statement, HAL said that it had converted its Ghatage Convention Centre into Covid care centre with the complete supporting infrastructure like washrooms, bathrooms. HAL Establishes COVID-19 Care Centre in 16 Days, Hands it Over to State Administration @drajaykumar_ias @DefProdnIndia @SpokespersonMoD @PTI_News @gopalsutar pic.twitter.com/X5bBUZqvLMNotably, HAL has pledged Rs 20 crore from its CSR fund to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund while its employees have pledged their one day salary amounting to Rs 6.25 crore. Cumulatively it works out to Rs 26.25 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/hal-establishes-160-bed-covid-19-care-centre-in-bengaluru/story-Blg2EzPAc2QasockPYQgjI.html
19-07-2020||Pune||Second phase of lockdown begins with more relaxations||The second phase of the ten-day lockdown, from July 19 to July 23, will see essential commodities shops open from 8 am to 6 pm on Sunday. There will be more relaxations from Monday, according to the new guidelines issued by the Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, on Saturday.As per the instructions by Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune’s guardian minister, a two-phase lockdown was imposed in the city from July 13, midnight till July 23 to contain the spread of Covid-19.According to the order issued by the commissioner, grocery shops, mutton and chicken shops, vegetable and fruit shops will remain open from 8 am to 6 pm, on Sunday.Kumar said, “All the essential commodities shops are allowed to remain open on Sunday, including vegetables and fruits till evening. From Monday, essential commodities shops would remain open only till noon, till July 23.”According to the order, services that will operate include grocery shops, banks, ATM and insurance services, private offices, factories, IT companies and agriculture-related business with 15 per cent manpower and employees will have to carry their identity card and passes issued by the office.Meanwhile, cab and auto services, e-commerce, travel, hotels and other commercial activities are restricted to operate.In the first phase of the lockdown, from July 13-18, only milk, medicines and clinics were allowed to operate.Meanwhile, in Pimpri-Chinchwad, all shops will be remain open till 6 pm beginning SundayGrocery, vegetables, egg and fish shops will remain open till 6pm on Sunday as the civic body don’t want people to rush to collect essential things.The second phase of lockdown will see shops, including grocery, vegetables, egg and fish shops to remain open from 8 am to 12 noon from Monday to Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/second-phase-of-lockdown-begins-with-more-relaxations/story-cwGGLmjghfps3qcDXeTVIL.html
19-07-2020||Pune||Resort birthday party busted in Pune, 11 doctors booked||The Pune rural police have booked 11 doctors and two resort managers for hosting a birthday party at a resort on Friday night in Shirur, Pune.The incident occurred at the Aroha Shrishti Agritourism resort located in Talegaon dhamdhere, Shirur. The manager of the resort denies any such action by the cops. However, the name of the resort was confirmed by the police. “We received an anonymous tip that there was gathering of people inside a resort area on Friday night when they are supposed to be shut. A team was sent and they were found there. It was a birthday party of one of the doctors,” said police inspector Sadashiv Shelar of Shikrapur police station.The doctors all have a private practice and were celebrating the birthday of a fellow doctor.The doctor whose birthday was being celebrated was hosting a dinner party. Whether alcohol was served or not is not confirmed.While no arrests were made in the case, the case will be sent to court along with a charge sheet, according to PI Shelar.A case under Sections 188, 269, 270 of Indian Penal Code; Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Regulations; and Sections 2, 3, and 4 of Epidemic Diseases Act was registered against the 13 at Shikrapur police station. Police sub-inspector Rajesh Mali of Shikrapur police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/resort-birthday-party-busted-in-pune-11-doctors-booked/story-el6ZcFeR1C7zSK1J3IZQkM.html
19-07-2020||Pune||Sex trade busted in Pimpri-Chinchwad||Two Ugandan nationals were arrested late Friday night by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for running a sex trade at their apartment.The two were staying at a housing society in Padwalnagar, Thergaon and are natives of Kampala Masaka in Uganda. The duo was staying in the country on expired visas, according to police.“They were staying on student visa that expired in 2018. We are yet to get any college admission records from them,” said senior inspector Vivek Muglikar of Wakad police station.The two used a WhatsApp number to fix alleged meetings with clients, according to the police.The police sent a decoy customer and caught them in a raid at 8pm on Friday.Assistant inspector Sapna Devtale of Wakad police station is the complainant as well as the investigating officer in the case.The two were booked under Sections 3, 4, and 5 of Immoral Traffic Prevention Act and Section 14 of the Foreigners Act. The case was registered at Wakad police station.The two were produced in court for further custody. The police will also initiate deportation process for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sex-trade-busted-in-pimpri-chinchwad/story-Kn49mKJ9bGexjIC1wjqQsJ.html
19-07-2020||Pune||Clerics appeal to faithful to follow safety norms on Eid in Pune||The state home department has appealed to the Muslim community to observe Eid-ul-Adha (Bakrid) in a symbolic manner in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. The festival is likely to be observed on August 1.Qari Idrees, a cleric from Pune said, “We appeal to all the Muslim community members to give top priority to health and safety while performing Qurbani. We respect the orders issued by the home department.”Maulana Razeen Ashrafi, another cleric, “Qurbani is mandatory for the community and they must perform it in the simplest and humble way following the instructions given by authorities. Everybody must wear masks, carry sanitisers and maintain social distancing. Those unable to sacrifice an animal must do it next year.”The state has directed the Muslim community to offer traditional Eid Namaz in homes instead of mosques.Since the goat market is closed due to lockdown, the home department has appealed that the pious must buy sacrificial animals online or through phone communication.Temporary goat markets that flourish in Muslim dominant areas like Kondhwa, Yerawada, Pune Camp, Ghorpadi peth, Nana peth and Momin Pura during this period are not set up this year. The prices of goats, however, have not come down due to shortage.According to goat sellers, the shortage of fodder and lockdown has hit the goat farmers hard. With transportation services hit during the lockdown, goats from Rajasthan, Haryana, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and other far-flung states did not reach Pune market. The buyers are relying on the local goat market to cater to the needs of the community every year.Abid Shaikh, social worker, said “There is a shortage of goats in the market but prices will remain high due to a lesser number of animals available in the market.”Supply less, demand moreKondhwa had more than a dozen goat markets in 2019 where around 10,000 animals were available for sacrifice, however the market was not given permission this year because of the Covid pandemic.Tausif Shaikh, owner of Kohinoor farms, a prominent goat seller in Kondhwa said that they were accepting online orders and would even facilitate the slaughtering of sacrificial and meat distribution.“This year, the market conditions are very tough and there are less number of goats with us despite good demand from customers. We have ordered truckload of goats from Madhya Pradesh, but transportation during lockdown is a major issue. We are hopeful that the stock will arrive before Eid,” Shaikh said.BoxPune’s biggest goat markets which are set up in Kondhwa, Mominpura and Camp are missing this year, the number of sacrificial goats available has also fallen in number. Kondhwa had more than a dozen goat markets in 2019 where around 10,000 goats were available for sacrifice, however, no permission for markets has been granted this year. The high priced goats purchased by wealthy businessmen are available for sale.Tausif Shaikh, owner of Kohinoor farms, a prominent goat seller in Kondhwa said that they were accepting online orders for their goats and would even facilitate the slaughtering of sacrificial and meat distribution.“This year the market conditions are very tough and there are less number of goats with us though there is a demand from the customers. We have ordered another truckload of goats from Madhya Pradesh but transportation shutdown during lockdown is a major issue and we are hopeful that the stock will arrive before Eid,” Shaikh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/clerics-appeal-to-faithful-to-follow-safety-norms-on-eid-in-pune/story-E8kJWDIzmdd3Ug4qURlB8O.html
19-07-2020||Pune||Ambulance drivers at YCMH in Pimpri Chinchwad demand better facilities||The ambulance drivers employed at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) are demanding better facilities while transporting Covid patients.The civic-run hospital has 14 ambulances that operate round the clock. These vehicles are used to transport positive patients and carry deceased to crematorium.The drivers claim that there are only two ward boys in service for 14 ambulances and demanded two ward boys for each ambulance.Dr Aniket Lathi, professor and head of ENT department, accepted shortage of ward boys for ambulance service, but assured of increasing manpower shortly.“The hospital has issued a tender for increasing manpower and soon more hands will join us. Currently, there are four ward boys in every shift and soon the number of ward boys will be eight per shift,” said Lathi.The drivers said that shortage of ward boys is felt the most when they face emergencies.“Ward boys at the hospital have different shifts and two ward boys cannot attend all ambulances. Many times we are not provided hand gloves, masks and sanitiser. When we demand it, it is provided after four days,” said an ambulance driver on request of anonymity.The ambulances are working in three shifts – 9am-3pm, 3pm-11pm, 9pm-7am.“As more deaths related to Covid-19 was reported last month, hence more ambulances were on duty,” added Lathi.Drivers want the hospital administration to be more responsible when it comes to protecting the health of staff.“We should be provided with all protective material,” said an ambulance driver.As of Friday, PCMC reported a total of 9,790 Covid positive cases, 162 deaths and 5,900 patients have been cured.As of Saturday, PCMC reported a total of 10,446 Covid positive cases, 175 deaths and 6,480 patients have been cured.“Load on ambulance drivers have been increasing since last one month, soon hospital will be getting extra staff to help Ambulance drivers,” Anna Bodade, Assistant Municipal Commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ambulance-drivers-at-ycmh-in-pimpri-chinchwad-demand-better-facilities/story-KTWfVyPNYQQf1NJPQmb9PL.html
19-07-2020||Pune||Drugs’ shortage continues, but FDA hopes to regularise supply||Despite a rising number of Covid-19 cases in Pune, the city is reporting a shortage of essential drugs including Anti-viral drug remdesivir and tocilizumab (a drug that modifies the immune system or its functioning), itolizumab and favipiravir all of which are used for critical patients or those with moderate symptoms. The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), Pune division has made a list of all the registered suppliers of these drugs and brought in a three-point check to ensure that city hospitals do not hoard the drugs and the needy patients get it on time.As of Friday, there are 666 critical patients among 1,530 active cases in the district.The FDA issued a list of 23 registered suppliers of these drugs for the entire Pune division of which 10 are in Pune district. One of the distributors, Girish Lunavat from Prakash Medical Centre, said, “We are facing a shortage of essential drugs mainly remdesivir and tocilizumab. The demand is huge and rising, but the supply is not regular. We give full advance payment, but still the supply is not consistent. Only if the production increases will the supply become smooth. However, we have been assured by the company that by next week, the shortage of both these drugs will be fulfilled.”SB Patil, FDA joint commissioner (drugs) Pune division, said, “There is a shortage, but we will regularise the supply by the end of this month. However, we have also seen that doctors are prescribing these drugs to even those who are in home isolation whereas these drugs are for those who are hospitalized and are critical. We get around 400 vials of remdesivir and 100 vials of tocilizumab every day, but the demand is high.”Patil further said that to ensure that the drug reaches the right patient for every vial the hospital/distributor has to provide the hospital’s admission card, patients’ identity proof, relative’s identity proof who has come to buy the drug and Covid-19 report.He said, “The drugs are supplied either through distributors to individuals or to the hospital’s medical store. The same documents have to be provided. Each hospital has to provide a daily report of the opening balance of drugs, closing balance and details of the patients who have been administered with the drugs. We also keep a three-way check at the company’s depot, distributor level and the hospital level to ensure that the drugs are not kept away from needy patients.”Patil further added that by next week the supply will be regularised as about 20 per cent of the drugs which the state will receive will be diverted for Pune.Remdesivir is the only drug approved by the United States food and drug administration for treating Covid-19 patients. While tocilizumab is still imported, remdesivir has now been certified to be manufactured by two Indian companies Cipla and Hetero Drugs.Families of Covid-19 patients and doctors have said that generic brands of remdesivir and tocilizumab are in short supply in Mumbai too. However, stocks of remdesivir and tocilizumab are likely to improve from next week, according to manufacturing companies and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Hetero Healthcare on Friday announced that it will distribute 60,000 units of the Covifor injection, which is its generic brand of remdesivir, across the country between July 13 and July 20.Of these, 12,500 units will be distributed in Maharashtra. Cipla, the other company permitted to manufacture the drug, started production of CIPEMI (remdesivir) on Monday. Around 80,000 vials will be available within the first month, said Nikhil Chopra, executive vice president and chief executive officer (India, business), Cipla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/drugs-shortage-continues-but-fda-hopes-to-regularise-supply/story-Hrs86IXqwwi03AD5VL0oMI.html
19-07-2020||Pune||Pune reports 1,838 fresh positive Covid-19 cases on Saturday||The city reported 1,838 fresh positive Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths on Saturday. The progressive positive count of the city stands at 35,878 and death toll at 935.Also, four deaths were reported of those living outside the PMC limits. The city has also reported the highest number of samples taken so far as over 6,981 samples were collected in 24 hours as of Saturday evening. With the latest spike, the number of active cases also went up to 13,062 out of which 547 are in critical condition, with 89 on the ventilator, 458 in ICU or non-invasive ventilator.The number of those discharged and cured has gone up to 21,881 out of which 774 were discharged on Saturday. A total of 6,981 samples were collected on Saturday and a total of 1.98 lakh samples have been collected till date.Out of the 18 deaths, nine deaths were reported from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), three deaths from Deenanth Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH), two from Surya Sahyadri and one each from Sahyadri hospital, Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital, Tarachand hospital and Inamdar hospital.Four deaths from outside PMC were reported from Ruby Hall of a resident from Dapodi, from DMH of a resident of Ahmednagar, Symbiosis from Pirangut and from Sahyadri of a Hadapsar resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-1-838-fresh-positive-covid-19-cases-on-saturday/story-epgjmAyAEbdal3oO2rIzKJ.html
19-07-2020||Lucknow||Two Uttar Pradesh hospitals set to begin human trials of India’s Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin||Two private hospitals in Uttar Pradesh will soon begin human trials of Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited.The two hospitals—Prakhar Hospital in Kanpur and Rana Hospital and Trauma Centre in Gorakhpur—are among the 12 institutes across the country where the human trial of the vaccine candidate will be conducted.However, none of the two hospitals is affiliated to a medical college and is not a dedicated Covid-19 hospital.Prakhar Hospital in Kanpur is looking at a sample size of 50 people in the first phase and another 150 in the second phase of the human trial. The Rana Hospital, meanwhile, is awaiting a safety certificate before the trials can begin.“We are getting a number of calls from healthy people every day who want to volunteer for the clinical trial of Covaxin,” said Dr JS Kushwaha, owner of Prakhar Hospital.“The hospital has a database of volunteers in place with a team of eight specialists, headed by a doctor, who has joined the hospital from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS),” he said.The hospital has received a letter from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and is waiting for statutory permission from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI).“It is expected to come by next week. Then, we can move ahead in line with the ICMR protocols,” Dr JS Kushwaha said.In the past, the hospital has conducted successful clinical trials for the rotavirus vaccine.Bharat Biotech did not comment on the matter. A senior ICMR official, in the know of things, said the size of a hospital doesn’t matter when it comes to conducting clinical trials.“There are a lot of other factors such as ethics committee approvals, infrastructure to support the type of trial, subject recruitment, qualified principal investigator etc. It’s better to have a mix of sites that is decided mutually by trial sponsors,” said the official, who did not wish to be named.ICMR issues permits for conducting the trials to government facilities (67%) and the private sector (33%).The primary task of the hospital would be to vaccinate and keenly observe the side-effects, if any, and send samples to an National Institute of Virology (NIV) or ICMR-sanctioned laboratory after 28 days—the period in which the antibodies are developed, said Dr Kushwaha.After the recruitment of volunteers, the hospital would first send their samples for RT-PCR and antibody tests in Delhi. On the basis of the reports, the vaccine would be given to the subjects. Their samples would be tested again to ascertain the increase in antibodies. The process would be repeated after another 14 days.“The antibodies take 28 days to develop. All the data will be analysed at the level of ICMR and NIV. We have no capability here in Kanpur to evaluate that kind of data,” Dr Kushwaha said.The hospital would monitor the subjects after they are given the vaccine.“There is no problem in 99% of cases and if someone shows adverse symptoms, these would be treated and corrected by a team of specialists,” he said.For the Rana Hospital, it will be the third vaccine trial in a span of one year.“We completed two vaccine trials for typhoid and Japanese Encephalitis (JE) with a sample size of 100 volunteers in January. The third will be the Covid vaccine,” Venkatesh Chaturvedi, chief administrative officer of Rana Hospital, said.Established in 2001, Rana Hospital is known for obstetrical and gynaecological services. The human trial at this hospital will be held under the supervision of physician Dr Ajit Pratap Singh and Dr Sona Ghosh.Dr Ghosh, a senior consultant gynaecologist and one of the key members in the vaccine trial at the Rana hospital said the hospital was selected by Bharat Biotech when the trials for Covid-19 vaccine were announced. “In eastern Uttar Pradesh, we are the only medical centre with the experience of conducting two vaccine trials,” Dr Ghosh added.Chaturvedi said that delivery of the vaccine for the trials is awaited. “Also the sample size has to be decided by the company along with final guidelines for the trial method,” he said.He said a list of volunteers was ready with the hospital and more volunteers were contacting the hospital. “Random sampling will be done to check their health status and then a final list of volunteers will be made. Our prior experience will help us in the Covid vaccine trials,” he said.Chaturvedi said the hospital would move ahead with the trials as soon as the guidelines and vaccines arrive.ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava had said in a letter that the plan was to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by August 15, after completion of all clinical trials.The hospitals had also been directed to enrol healthy people for the trial of the vaccine earlier this July.Covaxin, India’s first potential indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, has been jointly developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL).Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech is among the seven Indian firms working on Covid-19 vaccines. It was the first to get the regulatory nod to begin phase 1 and phase 2 human trials to test the vaccine for efficacy and safety.Zydus Cadila has also got an approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for human clinical trials for ZyCov-D, its indigenously developed vaccine candidates against Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/two-uttar-pradesh-hospitals-set-to-begin-human-trials-of-india-s-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin/story-DITvMxiBgJTvgIAE1mcybL.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Amid criticism, Arvind Kejriwal says keeping an eye on Delhi’s waterlogged areas||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday all agencies must work together in clearing waterlogged parts after a spell of heavy rain flooded several areas in the national capital.Arvind Kejriwal’s response also came amid criticism from opposition leaders, especially BJP’s Gautam Gambhir.The former cricketer had attacked the Delhi chief minister soon after several areas in the Capital were flooded. Gambhir, who represents East Delhi in Parliament, had posted several photographs of waterlogged roads on Twitter to make his point.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader’s tweet came almost an hour after Gambhir’s retort over the condition of the Capital’s roads. He mentioned Minto Bridge, where the body of a 60-year-old man was found after the heavy rains, as one such area which was cleared of waterlogging earlier in the day. “I have been with agencies since this morning and was monitoring the process of removing water from there. There are several such areas in Delhi which are being monitored. We shall send pumps immediately to areas in which waterlogging is reported,” he tweeted.“This year all agencies, which include the Delhi government and the municipal corporations, were completely invested in managing corona. They have faced a lot of difficulties,” he posted on Twitter.“This is no time to get into any blame game. All agencies must join hands in fulfilling their responsibilities. We will make all efforts to clear areas where waterlogging is reported at the earliest,” he added.Raghav Chadha, the AAP’s national spokesperson and Delhi Jal Board vice-chairperson, said de-silting and clearance of drains in the city got delayed this year because of the coronavirus pandemic.“Drains that come under the jurisdiction of the Delhi government and the municipal corporations are cleared before the arrival of monsoons, especially in April. This year, all agencies were invested in Covid management, so the work concerning drains either got postponed or delayed,” said Chadha.“The work could not take place in the scheduled time. Agencies could properly get into clearing and de-silting of drains only by June. The current issue is being monitored personally by the CM. We are sending pumps to clear water from waterlogged areas,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amid-criticism-arvind-kejriwal-says-keeping-an-eye-on-delhi-s-waterlogged-areas/story-5hce7G7q1s9akac9JEmZPM.html
19-07-2020||Patna||Bihar govt ‘doing nothing’ to fight Covid-19, alleges Congress||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Akhilesh Prasad Singh has alleged that Bihar government led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is doing nothing to fight against Covid-19 in the state despite the cases rising rapidly.Speaking to ANI Singh said, “The government is doing nothing to fight against corona. I want to say that people of Bihar totally dependent on God. Let me tell you that more people will die in Bihar in the coming days. Though infection is spreading in Bihar there is still less testing. More than 10 crore people live in the state and compare to other big states like Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, only 20 per cent Covid testing is being conducted in Bihar.”“Nitish Kumar does not want to do anything. He wants to somehow remain in power and has nothing to do with public service,” the Congress leader said. He welcomed LJP President Chirag Paswan’s statement in which he thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Central government for sending a team in Bihar to assess the situation of Covid-19 in the state.“I welcome what Chirag Paswan has said, he has presented the right picture while in government. I was the Health Minister there 20 years ago and I know the health structure there. Health facilities are the worst in the state. I do not want to demotivate those who are infected with Covid in Bihar. However, it is a fact that outside of Patna, there is no proper treatment facilities in Bihar except PMCH, NMCH and AIIMS Patna,” he said. A three-member team from Central government’s Health Ministry arrived today in Bihar to access the ground situation of Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-govt-doing-nothing-to-fight-covid-19-alleges-congress/story-vYs7tA7AQiho6EJxtdycZI.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two Congress legislators in Punjab infected with Covid-19||Two Congress legislators in Punjab have tested positive for Covid-19, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Sunday. Singh wished both of them a speedy recovery.“My colleagues @INCPunjab Mla Phagwara, Balwinder Dhaliwal ji & MLA Tarn Taran @DrDharambir  ji have tested positive for #Covid19. Wishing them a speedy recovery,” the CM said in a tweet.Earlier, cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa had tested positive for the virus. He was the first minister to have contracted the infection. Later, the minister’s wife and son had also got infected.Punjab has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases for the past several days. The state’s Covid tally stood at 9,792, with 246 deaths as on Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-congress-legislators-in-punjab-infected-with-covid-19/story-Dasvc9rK5Uo1NdlzlOy5XN.html
19-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s coronavirus count rises to 5,399, death toll at 48||The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand rose to 5,399 including 2,695 active cases, said State Health Department on Sunday.A total of 2,656 have been recovered/discharged, and 48 deaths, informed the health department.With the highest single-day spike of 38,902 cases reported in the last 24 hours, India’s total Covid-19 tally on Sunday reached 10,77,618, informed the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry on Sunday.The death toll has gone up to 26,816 with 543 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours.The Health Ministry said the total number of cases includes 3,73,379 active cases and 6,77,423 patients have been cured/discharged/migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-coronavirus-count-rises-to-5-399-death-toll-at-48/story-aNfLFpJb47a7jvU1eOjhPM.html
19-07-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal Governor urges people to follow health norms to contain Covid-19||In the wake of the rising cases of coronavirus in the state, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday urged people to abide by the social distancing norms and take all precautionary measures to contain its spread.“PANDEMIC Covid-19 challenge is on rise. As figures of Covid-19 +ve and Deaths @MamataOfficial rise I appeal CALM and URGE to give 100% in observing:- *SOCIAL DISTANCING *WEARING MASK *REGULAR HAND WASH ...TIME TO HAND HOLD NEEDY. No scope for complacency at any level,” he tweeted. He also tagged Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the tweet. According to the Health Ministry, West Bengal so far has recorded as many as 40,209 cases of coronavirus. Out of the total,15,594 are active cases, 23,539 have been migrated/cured/discharged. Around 1,076 have died in the state after contracting the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-governor-urges-people-to-follow-health-norms-to-contain-covid-19/story-A8ro2EuKz430CCkCLJIPgI.html
19-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan records 193 new Covid-19 cases, state tally reaches 28,693||A total of 193 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths were reported in Rajasthan on Sunday, taking the state count of coronavirus cases to 28,693.“193 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths have been reported in Rajasthan till 10:30 am today, taking total cases to 28,693,” said State Health Department.Out of the total cases, 21,266 people have recovered from the illness while 556 have died.With the highest single-day spike of 38,902 cases reported in the last 24 hours, India’s total Covid-19 tally on Sunday reached 10,77,618, informed the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-records-193-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-reaches-28-693/story-qvQ97CShLgGx1AOxOXJQQO.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||‘Where’s the ad, chief minister?’ Gautam Gambhir attacks CM over waterlogged Delhi roads||Gautam Gambhir, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker, took a potshot at Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal after several areas in the Capital were flooded following heavy rains on Sunday.Waterlogging in low-lying areas and traffic snarls were reported from many keys stretches of Delhi after the Capital received its first spell of heavy rains in the morning.Delhi Traffic Police said waterlogging was reported at Azadpur Underpass, South Avenue Road, Pul Prahladpur Underpass, Paharganj side of the New Delhi railway station, Moolchand Underpass and near Batra Hospital, among others. “Got to hear that the Delhi government is running a “Rain Water Harvesting” scheme on the London-Paris like roads! When will we get to see its advertisements, chief minister ji?” Gautam Gambhir tweeted in Hindi.Gambhir, who represents East Delhi in Parliament, also posted several photographs of waterlogged roads as vehicles and people navigated through them.The former cricketer has been attacking Arvind Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) by calling the Delhi chief minister “21st-century Tughlaq” for spending money over “ads and hashtags”. TV पर बोलो - क्रेडिट नहीं चाहिए Twitter पर बोलो - सब मैंने किया है Ads और Hashtags की जगह अगर इतना पैसा काम में लगाया होता तो दिल्ली @AmitShah जी के साथ "आप"का भी धन्यवाद करती @ArvindKejriwal जी! #21stCenturyTughlaq pic.twitter.com/A0enPhFsV7He was not the only one critical of the ruling party over the waterlogged areas.Jai Prakash, the mayor of North Delhi, berated the Arvind Kejriwal-led government after a body of a 60-year-old pickup truck driver was found under a flooded bridge in central Delhi.Police to believe he drowned while trying to manoeuvre his vehicle through the waterlogged underpass. “Such incidents will continue to occur until the Delhi government gets rid of its irresponsible attitude. The CM should take responsibility and announce an ex gratia for the kin of the deceased,” Jai Prakash was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“The government should ensure that such incidents don’t happen again,” he added.The body was found in the water close to a spot where a Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus was submerged in the waterlogged underpass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/where-s-the-ad-chief-minister-bjp-s-gautam-gambhir-attacks-kejriwal-over-waterlogged-delhi-roads/story-735S0yBt1jf3Tp0KPcBfGL.html
19-07-2020||Lucknow||Amethi self immolation case: 4 cops including SHO suspended||A couple of days after two women tried to self-immolate in high-security zone area near Uttar Pradesh Assembly and CM office, the Amethi police suspended four cops, including a Station House Officer (SHO) on Saturday. “There was a dispute between the women and a person over the flow of the drainage system. Both sides had filed FIRs. Necessary action has been taken. We had no input about the self-immolation attempt, not even from LIU. Four policemen including SHO have been suspended. The inquiry has been initiated,” said Amethi SP Khyati Garg said while speaking to reporters.Pointing out further about the case, she added, “I and the district magistrate had reached the spot and also spoke to the people.”Giving details about the case, Uttar Pradesh Police Commissioner Sujeet Pandey had said on Sunday, “It has come to light that it was done as per a criminal conspiracy in which some people instigated the women. FIRs have been registered against four people including AIMIM district president Kadir Khan and Congress leader Anup Patel.”“The case has been filed under sections 306, 505, 511 of the IPC and 7 Criminal Amendment Act. It is a case of instigating the two women for self-immolation, breaking law and order, and trying to show the government in a bad light. More arrests will be made in this connection,” he had said.Two women had tried to self immolate in Lucknow’s high-security zone on Friday evening. The area houses state Assembly and Lok Bhawan. While the police was able to save one woman from a self-immolation bid, the other was admitted in a hospital with burn injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/amethi-self-immolation-case-4-cops-including-sho-suspended/story-CxxcjTb2ZWYNtQCFjXee1N.html
19-07-2020||Ranchi||Thieves dined on mutton before stealing from Covid patient’s home in Jamshedpur||In a peculiar incident of house theft, thieves feasted on mutton and rice before stealing Rs 50,000 cash and jewellery worth the same amount from a Covid-19 patient’s house at Haludboni under Parsudih police station in Jamshedpur on Thursday night, police said on Saturday.In another incident, thieves stole sanitizers along with other valuables from two houses under Sitaramdera police station on Thursday midnight. “Thieves stole Rs 50,000 cash and jewellery worth Rs 50,000 from the house of a Covid-19 patient undergoing treatment at Tata Main Hospital (TMH) here. Police guards have been deployed and the areas have been declared a containment zone. We are investigating the case,” Alok Ranjan, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), said.The thieves entered the house of the patient, who works in the surveillance team of Jugsalai Nagar Parishad, by breaking open the rear door with sharp weapons and crowbar, police said. “The thieves cooked mutton, rice and chapatis and feasted in the house before fleeing,” brother of the Covid-19 patient alleged in his written complaint lodged on Friday evening. “The house and adjacent areas were declared a containment zone after my brother had tested positive on July 8. He was admitted to TMH and the house was sealed. His wife and children have been living at their village house for the past one month. We came to know about the theft after my brother sent me to check the house on Friday and neighbours informed me that the rear door of the house is broken,” he said.In the second incident, thieves stole cash, sanitizers and mobile phones from student leader Khushboo Lama’s house at Old Sitaramdera under Sitaramdera police station late on Thursday night. Lama lodged a complaint in this connection on Friday. “The thieves took away sanitizers along with cash and mobile phones,” said Lama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thieves-prepared-feast-before-decamping-with-rs-1-lakh-from-covid-patient-s-house/story-rURkGtGkUp9sdC9zM5ksZP.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Watch: Passengers rescued from bus stuck on waterlogged road after Delhi rains||At least two people were rescued from a Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus, which was trapped under a waterlogged bridge in the Capital’s Minto Road area following heavy rains on Sunday morning.The DTC bus passing through the underpass on Minto Road in central Delhi got stuck after it was flooded due to the heavy rains. News agency ANI tweeted the video of the rescue as two men were seen climbing on top of the submerged bus and then on to a ladder kept by the personnel of the fire department. #WATCH Delhi: Fire Department personnel rescue people on-board a bus that was stuck in a waterlogged road under Minto Bridge following heavy rainfall in the national capital this morning. pic.twitter.com/wBCjSRtvqwThe rains led to waterlogging at several stretches of roads across the national capital on Sunday morning. Delhi Traffic Police said the affected roads include the Azadpur Underpass, South Avenue Road, Pul Prahladpur Underpass, Paharganj side of the New Delhi railway station, Moolchand Underpass and near Batra Hospital, among others. The traffic police also issued an advisory asking bus and auto-rickshaw drivers to avoid wading through submerged roads as manholes could have been swept away or ditches could have flared up.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over parts of northwest India. It had said the “entire monsoon trough is most likely to shift northwards, closer to the foothills of the Himalayas during July 19-20”.Private forecaster Skymet Weather has also that the monsoon will move towards north and will remain stable for the next three to four days. More rainfall is expected in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/watch-passengers-rescued-from-bus-stuck-on-waterlogged-road-after-delhi-rains/story-jrXTTv4AD0kfWlq2UZxXoL.html
19-07-2020||Lucknow||3 teenagers drown in Yamuna in UP’s Shamli||Three teenagers drowned while bathing in the Yamuna river in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district, police said on Sunday.Identities of the deceased, aged between 16 and 19, are being ascertained, they said.The youths drowned while bathing in the river near the Yamuna bridge on the Uttar Pradesh-Haryana border under Kairana police station on Saturday evening, the police said.Circle Officer Pradeep Singh said the bodies were fished out by police divers. They have been sent for post-mortem.It is likely that the deceased came from the Haryana side, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/3-teenagers-drown-in-yamuna-in-up-s-shamli/story-TjTLQ9Pota0kOKHBjMd1IJ.html
19-07-2020||Kolkata||Durga Puja organisers in Kolkata recommend safety measures during festivities||A Durga Puja organisers’ forum in Kolkata has recommended certain safety measures to be taken during the festivities.The Forum for Dugotsab, an association of 350 Durga Puja committees in the city, said it will submit its list of recommendations to the office of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, an office-bearer of the body said on Sunday.The forum has recommended measures like thermal screening of visitors, making the wearing of masks mandatory for everyone, allowing only 25 people inside a marquee at a time and regular sanitisation of the structures, he said.It has also called for keeping the marquees open from the front so that visitors can see the idols without having to enter the structures, the forum’s office-bearer said.“After Mamata Banerjee said in state secretariat Nabanna that everyone should be careful about their health so that they can celebrate Durga Puja in a grand way, we are hopeful of celebrating the festival this year with all safety measures in place.“We have distributed a list of guidelines among members of the forum. We will submit the same to the Chief Minister’s Office,” he told PTI.Durga Puja organisers across Kolkata are hopeful they will be able to celebrate the festival this year, albeit in a scaled-down manner and by taking safety measures.“We will celebrate Durga Puja by following the guidelines as the livelihood of thousands are attached to it.But maybe, we will not be able to celebrate the festival the way we had initially planned,” Somen Dutta of Kasi Bose Puja Committee in north Kolkata said.Partha Ghosh of Shiv Mandir Puja Committee in south Kolkata said the festival will be a low-key affair for them this year and safety measures will be taken.“The celebration will be scaled down this year while retaining our artistic hallmark. We will have a grand theme- based celebration next year,” he said.Debashis Kumar, former mayor-in-council of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and one of the key persons of the Tridhara Sammilani Puja Committee in Ballygunge, said they are waiting for safety guidelines from the administration.“We haven’t started our preparations yet for this year’s Durga Puja. We haven’t even booked any idol. Unlike some Durga Puja organisers, we don’t believe in using thermal devices to screen revellers. Unless we get clear guidelines from the administration on how to go about with the celebrations, we will not take any decision,” he said.Subhendu Ghosh of Kasba Talbagan Puja Committee said they will scale down the celebrations. “Our decorator has tested positive for COVID-19. We will decide accordingly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/durga-puja-organisers-in-kolkata-recommend-safety-measures-during-festivities/story-XjYyE88fZlQe5anxCAvAUJ.html
19-07-2020||Lucknow||One cop dead, three others injured as UP police vehicle overturns in Jhansi||One police personnel lost his life and three personnel were severely injured after a vehicle of Kanpur police overturned in Jhansi on Saturday.The accident occurred because one of the tyres of the vehicle, which had six occupants, got punctured.The injured were taken to a hospital in Jhansi for treatment, where one of the personnel passed away.“Today morning, four police personnel were brought to the emergency wing. One of them was severely injured, he later passed away. The other three are receiving treatment as per the injury, if needed they will be sent to a bigger hospital for their treatment,” Doctor Zaki Siddiqui, AMO of Medical College, Jhansi said.Speaking about the accident, constable Ashish, who sustained injuries said, “We were going by the vehicle when suddenly one of the tyres got punctured. We did not know what happened afterwards as we were caught unawares. I have received injuries in the spinal cord.” Further, Sonu Kumar, another police personnel who had brought the injured to the hospital said, “There were six occupants in the vehicle in total. One inspector passed away, while three others are receiving treatment here. Two others with minor injuries have returned to Kanpur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/one-cop-dead-three-others-injured-as-up-police-vehicle-overturns-in-jhansi/story-rbXoLXI4eQwS1py3jpCZFK.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 cases rising in Delhi area even after 100 days of containment||An area in Delhi’s North East district has been a containment zone for the last 100 days due to rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and continues to be sealed off subject to stringent checks.Authorities have sealed all the routes passing through E Pocket of GTB Enclave, where 25 cases of Covid-19 have been reported so far, as a precautionary measure, according to HT’s sister publication Hindustan.MM Tripathi, the general secretary of the Residents Welfare Association of Pocket E, said while speaking to Hindustan the area was declared as a containment zone on April 6. There are about 5,000 living in this area and there are 1,026 flats.Also read: India begins study on BCG vaccine impact on Covid-19Tripathi said the World Health Organization (WHO) has organised a camp for the checkup of people in the area. The RWA also facilitated a camp by the ministry of AYUSH to distribute medicines to increase people’s immunity. Regular sanitisation of areas and roads where cases are being reported are also being done, he added.However, Tripathi said the rising number of Covid-19 cases is a matter of concern.Tripathi said the RWA has made sure that no resident faces any problem after the area was declared as a containment zone. He, along with the treasurer of the association, Yashpal Singh, is working closely with the administration and police. He said there is no restriction on people’s movement and medical, ration and milk shops are opening. But other shopkeepers say they are facing a lot of trouble.RN Shukla, a 50-year-old owner of a clothes shop, told Hindustan he has been facing financial problems as the shop has been closed for a long time and he can’t take up any other job.Shukla said the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) has verbally allowed other shops to open but since there are no written directions, the police are not allowing him to open his. Officials of the RWA said they have written to the SDM and the issue will be resolved soon.Also read: How soon can the world get Covid-19 vaccine? A look at which country stands whereAccording to the residents association, the number of coronavirus disease cases are higher among the employees of the hospitals in the area. There are five big hospitals in this area, including the GTB Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, and Delhi State Cancer Hospital. The route to the GTB Hospital via the colony has been closed.Residents said the police, including station house officer Arun Kumar Singh, have been a big help and they have not faced any issues so far. GTB Enclave’s Block E was among the first 23 containment zones announced by the Delhi government in April to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease in the city. There are four other areas—blocks K and G in Jahangirpuri, Majlis Park in Adarsh Nagar and Hauz Rani—which have remained containment zones for more than three months.The Centre’s orders say a containment zone can be de-sealed 28 days after the last Covid-19 case has recovered or tested negative.However, district officials have said there were still some major reasons because of which these zones have remained sealed for months.They said these include the presence of several medical professionals living in some zones, the 28-day rule for de-sealing a containment zone and continuous movement of people within the zone despite strict curbs. District administration officials said they have raised the matter with the Delhi government. Delhi has 120,107 cases of the viral disease and 3571 people have succumbed to Covid-19, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-cases-rising-in-delhi-area-even-after-100-days-of-containment/story-aFJ4eWO4aAPACld9acBYmL.html
19-07-2020||Ranchi||Four new coronavirus care centres set up in Ranchi||Keeping the rising number of coronavirus cases in mind, four new Covid care centres have been set up in Ranchi, Jharkhand for asymptomatic patients. According to the district administration of the state capital, these Covid care centres have a combined capacity of 313 beds. Further one of them, located in Paras Hospital, HEC area is also equipped with the ICU facility.The state capital has 727 confirmed cases of the disease, health officials said on Saturday.As many as 275 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths were reported in Jharkhand on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 5,385, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/four-new-coronavirus-care-centres-set-up-in-ranchi/story-0sAL5aiOszMSWA92CcaRzL.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Social distancing norms flouted at rally organised by retrenched physical training instructors in Jind||Social distancing norms were flouted at a rally, which was organised by retrenched physical training instructors (PTIs) in Jind on Saturday. The event was attended by many people including members of Khap Panchayat.Those who participated in the event were seen sitting very close to each other and many of them did not cover their faces as per the Covid-19 guidelines.The event was organised to protest the dismissal of Haryana’s PTIs. “The PTIs and those organisations who are supporting them were not given any permission. They did not follow Covid-19 protocols. We are investigating the case. We will take action accordingly,” said Manoj Ahlawat, duty magistrate at the spot. Meanwhile, Meham MLA Balraj Kundu who came out in support of the protest said: “This protest is not only about PTIs but about all those who are not being made permanent by the government and working on a temporary basis. I am with them.”“This is utter injustice with these PTIs. The state government has all the powers to ensure justice to them. If the government fails to pay heed to the miseries of people, the Baroda by election will push the government to margins,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-social-distancing-norms-flouted-at-rally-organised-by-retrenched-physical-training-instructors-in-jind/story-kmRxqfaK3dYoaU8m7eGTSP.html
19-07-2020||Patna||Bihar reports 739 new Covid-19 cases, total count stands at 24,967||Bihar reported 739 Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the total number of cases in the state to 24,967.The state Health Department said in a bulletin that there are 9,018 active cases in the state, 15,771 patients have recovered and 177 persons have died due to the virus. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA total of 3,68,232 samples have been tested in the state including 10,502 in the last 24 hours.The recovery rate of coronavirus in the state stands at 63.17 per cent, according to the bulletin.Meanwhile, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday that a central team has been deployed to Bihar to assist the state in the assessment of Covid management and to provide all necessary support.The team consists of Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, Dr SK Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Dr Neeraj Nischal of Medicine Department AIIMS (Delhi). The team will reach Bihar on July 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-reports-739-new-covid-19-cases-total-count-stands-at-24-967/story-XlndELShrFHlPEVdso2jFI.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt asks panel to look at factors that can reduce Covid-19 fatality||The Delhi government earlier this week told a 12-member committee, set up on directions of the Supreme Court to inspect Covid-19 hospitals in the national capital, to look into factors that can help reduce the deaths caused by coronavirus disease (Covid-19).According to an office memorandum from Delhi’s principal health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt, the government also provided a checklist containing questions such as time taken for triaging (the practice of assigning treatment based on urgency) Covid-19 patients; whether early warning scores to determine whether a patient might deteriorate was followed; and whether the hospital had a standardised investigation protocol. “Since committees constituted for the inspection of hospitals in Delhi, consequent to orders passed by the Supreme Court, are already carrying out their mandate in a continuous manner, it would be appropriate that specific attention may now be focused upon aspects which have a bearing on the reduction of Covid-related mortalities,” the memorandum read.This comes after the Delhi government released protocols for management of Covd-19 patients, including having a dedicated health care worker monitoring each critical patient. The protocols had also said that availability of dialysis has to be ensured by all hospitals as patients with Covid-19 acute respiratory distress syndrome may also develop acute kidney problems.The government had also said hospitals had to set up a proper holding area for Covid-19 patients, apart from ensuring an effective triage and monitoring of oxygen saturation.Dr Mahesh Verma, a member of the committee and vice-chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, said, “The government has provided us with a checklist of questions to look into whether the hospitals are following protocols for admission, triage, critical care, and infection control. Even one death that can be prevented should be prevented and the committee has just been asked to look into whether there is anything that can be done.” So far, most of the deaths in hospitals have been of patients who tried to managed their symptoms at home and reached hospitals only when their lungs were compromised or at a stage when they needed to be put on ventilators and the condition could not be reversed. Earlier, Covid-19 related deaths were also happening because doctors did not understand the progression of disease and there was a sudden coagulopathy (formation of clots) or drop in oxygen saturation,” he said.The data provided by the chief minister’s office showed that 691 deaths took place in Delhi between June 24 and July 8, which works out to an average of 46 deaths a day. The numbers have gone down further, with just 26 deaths being reported on July 17 in the daily health bulletin. Of the 691 deaths, the the CM’s office said zero deaths happened in home isolation in July and only seven deaths were reported in home isolation between June 24 and 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-asks-panel-to-look-at-factors-that-can-reduce-covid-19-fatality/story-luCm4gUO1iJunqzdHpt6HL.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||SDMC plans to levy professional tax on self-employed people, firms||Professionals working in south Delhi areas will have to shell out more money on taxes in the coming months as the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) will soon start colelcting a ‘professional tax’ from companies operating in areas under its jurisdiction.According to SDMC officials, the civic body is planning to implement professional tax over the next two months. Self-employed professionals such as doctors, lawyers, chartered accountants, and architects, among others, will also have to pay the new professional tax. However, those earning less than ₹20,000 a month have been kept out of the ambit of the new tax.A senior SDMC official, on condition of anonymity, said a plan to implement professional tax has already been finalised and it will now be passed by the House on July 27. The official said the professional tax is collected against the amenities being provided by the civic body to professionals and companies.“Since the proposal has already been approved by the standing committee, there will be no problem in getting it passed by the House. After that, it will be sent to the Delhi government for a gazette notification and then we will start collecting the tax from companies and self-employed professionals. The new tax is likely to be implemented in two month’s time,” the official quoted above said.As per the move, a professional tax of ₹150 per person per month will be collected from those earning between ₹20,000 and ₹50,000 a month while it would be ₹200 per person per month for those earning above ₹50,000 per month. The tax will be charged even if the person doesn’t live in the SDMC areas but works there. Traders will remain outside the ambit of the tax.The official said this would be the first time that a professional tax is being implemented in Delhi. This tax is already levied in 19 states across the country, including Maharashtra, West Bengal, Bihar and Gujarat, among others.These recommendations for realising a professional tax were made in the SDMC’s 2020-21 budget proposal for the enhancement of revenue. The SDMC officials said the new tax will net the corporation an income of ₹50 crore a year.Anamika Mithilesh, SDMC mayor, said in the past few years, the civic body had refrained from imposing this tax on the public but this year due to “acute fund crunch”, the proposal was approved.“Instead of relying solely on funds from the state or central government, we are taking steps to increase our revenue by enhancing our sources of income. This year, our income has gone down drastically due to the Covid-19 pandemic and so we decided to go ahead and levy the professional tax. This move will bring a revenue of ₹50 crore a year to the cash-strapped civic body. We are hopeful of people’s support i this regard,” the mayor said.Mithilesh said very soon, notices would be issued to firms operating in SDMC areas informing them about the professional tax and its modalities. The companies will be asked to submit the amount to the civic body after a gazette notification from the Delhi government.A second official, also on condition of anonymity, said efforts are being made to add professional tax to the house tax bills so that people can pay it along with the property tax. He, however, said modalities on this front are being worked out.“It can be collected online as well as offline. Professional tax will be collected from all companies and self-employed people whose office is in SDMC areas. The maximum tax will be ₹200 per month or ₹2,400 annually. The minimum will be ₹150 a month or ₹1,800 annually. People will be given options for making either monthly or annual payments. The accounts of companies will be attached if they fail to pay professional tax within the given time frame,” the official said.Dr Akanksha Singh, a gynaecologist who has a clinic in Lajpat Nagar, said burdening the public with more taxes is not fair. “People are already paying a number of different taxes and one more will only put more burden on their pockets. The condition of professionals, be it self-employed or the service class, is not good especially during these times of the coronavirus pandemic. People are already going through a lot of problems and imposing one more tax will only make things more difficult,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sdmc-plans-to-levy-professional-tax-on-self-employed-people-firms/story-3PAhJApsya3e4NMe081OmM.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||DJB inspects Palla region site for setting up 200 tubewells to extract 25MGD water||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha on Saturday visited northwest Delhi’s Palla region to inspect the board’s project to install 200 tubewells to extract 25 MGD (million gallons per day) of water. This will be in addition to the existing 25 MGD extracted from the region.Senior officials of the Jal Board said the water augmentation project being carried in the region will be in line with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s vision to provide round-the-clock supply to all Delhi residents.Chadha said the additional 25MGD water can be extracted in a sustainable manner from this region, as the extracted groundwater will be recharged during the flood season.“To bring about an overall improvement in the water management system of the DJB, this additional 25 MGD should be extracted and connected to the main supply to augment the distribution in north and northwest Delhi,” Chadha said.He said it is estimated that the work on the installation of 200 tubewells to extract 25MGD water will be completed in the next two years. DJB officials said a 25-acre pond with a depth of 1.75 metres was also checked and 35 piezometers were installed around it to study the impact of water recharging during floods.“Many technical committees, researchers and scientists were brought to the table and they have all agreed that this project has the potential to increase the groundwater level, which can be extracted during the lean season to augment the supply in the national capital. Currently, the pilot project is being executed on 25 acres, which will be expanded to cover 1,000 acres,” Chadha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/djb-inspects-palla-region-site-for-setting-up-200-tubewells-to-extract-25mgd-water/story-1OCQOvUpgMN15YRcLanicO.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Three held for assaulting cop who asked them to follow social distancing||Three members of a family, including a father-son duo, from Shahdara were arrested late Friday night for allegedly thrashing a Delhi police constable who asked them to return to their house and follow social distancing. The constable was on patrol duty in the area. Senior officers said two of the arrested men also have a previous criminal record of molestation and assault. A fourth family member who was also involved in the altercation fled, the police said.According to the police, around 9pm Friday, constable Pradeep was on patrol duty along with head constable Akash (both known only by their first names). A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that when the two policemen neared the rear of Rahman building in Shahdara, they noticed that a group of people had gathered there.“Constable Pradeep asked the group the reason for gathering and requested them to disperse. Because head constable Akash was still a few paces behind Pradeep, the group of men ignored him. When Pradeep threatened them with legal action, they started abusing him. Some of the men surrounded and thrashed him. They even tore his uniform,” the officer said.Akash jumped into the fray and both of them nabbed three of the group, while one fled. “We identified the men who were caught as Arun Singh, a driver, his father Raghuvir Ram and uncle Ram Pal. Arun’s brother Vishal Singh, also a driver, ran from the spot and efforts to arrest him are underway,” the officer said. The deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said Pradeep was taken to a hospital where he was treated and, based on his statement, the three arrested men were booked for assault, obstructing a public servant in discharge of public functions and voluntarily causing hurt to a public servant.Sharma said the preliminary enquiry revealed that Arun, his father and his brother have been involved in a case of molestation and assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-held-for-assaulting-cop-who-asked-them-to-follow-social-distancing/story-BC1isFtEootWxQ4Gl7ADJL.html
19-07-2020||City||Jailed for mother-in-law’s murder, prisoner hangs himself in Tihar||New Delhi: A 38-year-old prisoner, who was arrested and jailed on Thursday for killing his 62-year-old mother-in-law and injuring her three relatives with an ice pick in southwest Delhi Mohan Garden, killed himself by hanging in Tihar Jail late Friday night, jail and police officials said.“The prisoner was found hanging in a cell in jail number 4 by other inmates around midnight. He used a bedsheet to hang himself. No suicide note was recovered. He was jailed on Thursday in the murder case of his mother-in-law registered at the Mohan Garden police station. He was in the cell with six other inmates,” said Director General (Tihar prisons) Sandeep Goel.Goel said that a magisterial enquiry (inquest proceeding under Section 174 CrPC) has been initiated by the metropolitan magistrate concerned in the prisoner’s death. On Friday, the deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka district) Anto Alphonse had issued a press release regarding the man’s arrest. The DCP mentioned that the man was enraged as he suspected that it was because of his mother-in-law that his wife and daughter were not ready to live with him in his house. His wife and daughter left him and started living at her mother’s home after the man was arrested in a case of rape in 2019, the DCP said. “The man was released from the jail after nine months but as his wife and daughter were unwilling to return to him, he planned to kill his mother-in-law, holding her responsible for everything,” the DCP said, adding that the man purchased an ice pick to execute the murder plan.On Thursday around 12.30 am, the man’s wife and mother-in-law had come out to see off their three relatives – a couple and their 10-year-old son. Suddenly, the man arrived, overpowered his mother-in-law and stabbed her multiple times with the ice pick. When the relatives tried to intervene, he attacked them as well, the DCP said.“The man was brandishing the ice pick and nobody in the neighbourhood was daring to go near him. Hearing the commotion, two beat patrolling constables reached the crime scene and overpowered the attacker,” he added.The man was arrested with the ice pick and sent to jail the same day, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jailed-for-mother-in-law-s-murder-prisoner-hangs-himself-in-tihar/story-1cJM8P2nXoJ7lcL2Ms1GKK.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||DU further extends registration dates for admissions till July 31||The Delhi University (DU) on Saturday extended the date of registration for admissions to undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD courses till July 31. This is the second time in the ongoing admission season that DU has extended the dates of registration, which had begun on June 20, and was scheduled to close on Saturday. The decision of extending the date of registration was taken during a meeting of the University’s admission committee on Saturday. A member of the committee said, “While the Central Board of School Education (CBSE) recently announced the results of Class 12, some state boards are yet to announce the results. The committee has decided to further extend the date of registration to July 31 and give some more time to the students.”Suman Sharma, another member of the committee, said, “We received several requests for extension. The university’s students’ union had also sent us a request, citing the fact that many candidates could not apply due to the prevailing situation. So the committee has decided to extend the registration dates.”The number of applications has already exceeded last year’s figure. By Saturday evening, 288,900 paid applications were received for undergraduate courses, 131,531 for postgraduate courses and 29,862 for MPhil and PhD courses. Last year, as many as 258,388 paid applications were received for admission to undergraduate courses, 131,129 for postgraduate courses and 20,862 applications for MPhil and PhD programmes. Principals said that the spike in the number of applications will lead to tougher competition. Anju Srivastava, the principal of Hindu College, said, “It’s good that the University is giving a chance to students whose Class 12 results have not been declared yet. But yes, it will surely lead to high cut-offs.” The college had the highest cut-off of 99% across the University in 2019.Meanwhile, the number of applications under the reserved categories for admissions in undergraduate courses is still low as of now compared to last year. By Saturday evening, 54,518 applications were received under the OBC category, 33,720 under the SC category, 6,247 under the ST category and 7,662 in the EWS category. However, the number of applications in OBC, SC, ST and EWS categories was 55,457, 34,262, 7,100 and 9,091, respectively, in 2019.Hansraj Suman, the chairperson of the DU SC/CT/OBC teachers’ forum, said, “Many students could not get their reservation certificates issued amid the pandemic and hence the number of applications is low as of now. The extension will give such students some more time to apply.”Given the Covid-19 pandemic, DU has shifted its admission process completely online this year. The admission process has also been delayed by over two months this year due to the prevailing situation. Last year, the registration process had begun on May 30 and the first cut-off list was announced on June 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-further-extends-registration-dates-for-admissions-till-july-31/story-jTHTCEZhB0yIBvPpM3eTOL.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Suspect, cop injured in scuffle, shoot-out at park in outer Delhi||A Delhi constable suffered fractures to his hand and shoulder during a scuffle and gunfight between the police and a 32-year-old burglary suspect, who also suffered a bullet injury to his leg in the melee at a park in outer Delhi’s Bhalaswa Dairy on Friday evening. The incident took place when the suspect was taken to the park to recover a firearm that he had buried there, the police said.The injured suspect, identified as Rafiq alias Rokha, tried to outsmart the police by tricking them into digging a particular spot, claiming that he had buried the automatic pistol and ammunition there. While the policemen were busy digging, he stood near the spot where he had actually hidden the firearm with just a constable holding him by the hand to keep him from fleeing, police said.“Suddenly, Rafiq pushed the constable away and pulled out the pistol he had hidden nearby and fired at the constable. The bullet missed the constable, who immediately fired a round in the air to scare Rafiq into stop shooting,” said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya.As Rafiq tried to flee, a sub-inspector who was in the raiding team fired two bullets – one in the air and the other on Rafiq’s leg. An injured Raiq was overpowered by the constable following a scuffle in which the constable suffered two fractures to his hand and shoulder, the DCP said.DCP Arya said Rafiq was involved in over 50 burglaries across the city and was also wanted for firing at the police party near Akshardham Temple last year. He and his associate Akhtar were caught with firearms from the same park on Thursday afternoon.During questioning, Arya said, Rafiq revealed that he had buried another firearm in that park. The police team took him there to recover the weapon. He tried to flee after misleading and firing at the police party. However, he was caught after a brief exchange of fire, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/suspect-cop-injured-in-scuffle-shoot-out-at-park-in-outer-delhi/story-BW7w26B32cPwtVg7FsfrtJ.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Sonu Punjaban overdoses in Tihar Jail after conviction||Geeta Arora alias Sonu Punjaban, who ran Delhi’s biggest prostitution ring for around decade till 2017, was hospitalised after she allegedly overdosed on medicines at Tihar Jail on Thursday evening, hours after a Delhi court convicted her and her associate, Sandeep Bedwal, in a case of kidnapping and prostituting a minor girl, jail officials said. The court is slated to pronounce the quantum of punishment in the case on July 22.Director-general (Tihar prisons) Sandeep Goel said that Punjaban was lodged in Jail Number 6, a women’s jail. She consumed some medicines on Thursday evening and became drowsy. When she complained of uneasiness and told the jail officials that she had consumed some pills, she was taken to a dispensary within the premises.“We shifted her to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital for better medical attention. She remained under doctors’ observation and was brought back to the jail after her condition stabilised and she was discharged. We still don’t know what medicines she consumed. Prima facie, it appears that she had collected medicines given to inmates for fever, headache and other minor health issues,” Goel said, adding that the jail authorities had informed Punjaban about her conviction a few hours before she overdosed.No police complaint or case has been registered. “We are looking into why she took so many pills,” added the DG.Punjaban, of Haryana’s Rohtak, was last arrested in December 2017 on the complaint of a girl, who alleged that she beat her, drugged her and forced her into prostitution. The girl was 13-years-old when was kidnapped by Punjaban’s associate Sandeep Bedwal in 2009 was and was sold and resold to a score of people in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, including Punjaban, the crime branch team probing the case stated in the charge-sheet filed in 2018.On Thursday, a Delhi court noted that the prosecution has proved the charges against the two accused persons—Sonu Punjaban and Sandeep Bedwal—beyond a reasonable doubt. The court convicted Punjaban for the commission of offences such as procuration of minors, slavery, selling and buying minors for prostitution, poisoning, wrongful confinement and criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. Bedwal was convicted for kidnapping, procuration of minors, slavery, selling minors for prostitution, rape and criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code.In 2011, the police had booked Punjaban under charges of stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sonu-punjaban-overdoses-in-tihar-jail-after-conviction/story-5waQwVIbQzSyS9fZyp9sNN.html
19-07-2020||City||Rohini road rage: Man arrested for threatening woman with rape||New Delhi: The police have arrested a man for assaulting a woman and threatening her with rape and murder after an altercation over giving passage to each other’s cars in a narrow lane at a residential society in outer Delhi’s Rohini on Friday morning.Two groups were involved in the incident which took place around 11am in the area’s Sector 3 — one with a 28-year-old woman and her husband, while the other family included an elderly man, his two sons and a daughter. The 28-year-old woman alleged that the attackers assaulted and molested her, tried to drag her inside their house, and threatened to rape her while holding her husband at gunpoint. She also accused them of allegedly assaulting her mother as well. A case of assault, wrongful restraint, molestation, sexual harassment and criminal intimidation along with illegal use of a licensed firearm was registered against the other party on the woman’s complaint, said Pramod Kumar Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini).“We have arrested one of the men from the other party as he used his father’s licensed revolver to threaten the couple. The case is being probed,” he said.A senior police officer associated with the matter said a separate case of assault and molestation was registered against the couple after the woman from the other party lodged her complaint in the evening.“However, no arrest has been made in her case, as she lodged her complaint after the couple filed their complaint. Her allegations are being verified through the eyewitnesses and other available evidence,” said the officer who did not want to be named.The police said the couple was returning to Noida. Their car was near the exit gate when an SUV, in which were travelling a father and son, entered the lane through the same gate. Both cars stopped in front of each other, and the parties asked each other to reverse the vehicle and give a passage to their car, said another officer, quoting the couple’s complaint.The couple reversed their car after a security guard deployed at the gate intervened. While crossing each other they hurled objectionable remarks on each other following which a fight broke out between them. The couple alleged that the father-son duo called their two family members living in a nearby building and they assaulted them.“The son driving the SUV took his father’s licensed revolver and put it at the abdomen of the woman’s husband while his brother twisted her arm and threatened to rape her. When the woman’s mother came and intervened, they manhandled her as well,” the officer cited above said.The fight stopped after some residents intervened. The couple called the police and informed them about the incident. Their medical examination was conducted at a nearby hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohini-road-rage-man-arrested-for-threatening-woman-with-rape/story-n5hBJllsrPlu8RIPQH5gfJ.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Guest teachers claim being made to sign Covid undertaking, govt says no such order issued||Several guest teachers employed on contractual basis in government schools alleged that they have been asked to sign an undertaking by the principals declaring that they would not claim compensation or monetary help in case they are infected with Covid-19 while on duty. Officials in the Delhi government, however, said that no such order has been issued to schools. Around 20,000 guest teachers, employed in Delhi government schools on a contractual basis, found themselves out of jobs after their contracts lapsed in May. Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia had, on July 2, announced that these teachers must be engaged in the online teaching taking place in all government schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic. On July 13, the Delhi of Education (DoE) issued an order to all its schools stating, “Heads of Schools (HoS) are advised to engage willing guest teachers wherever required for the online teaching-learning activities.”Earlier this week, many of them were called back to work. However, the schools have asked them to sign an undertaking stating, “I know that on account of the spread of the Covid-19 contagion, my health may be at risk. I will not claim any compensation or monetary benefits in case of infection during the normal discharge of my duties towards the school and students.”DoE director Binay Bhushan said that the education department has not issued any order asking schools to make the teachers sign such an undertaking. “The government has given compensation to only those who were infected with or died of the coronavirus disease while on duty. We will look into the matter and issue notices to the schools who are doing this,” he said. Education minister Manish Sisodia, when asked about the matter, said, “The government has not issued any such order.”A senior official in his office echoed his statement and said, “No such direction has been issued to the HoSs. The education department will take action against any HoS who does this.”Several guest teachers on Saturday said that they were asked to sign a similar undertaking. “This is the first time we have been asked to sign such a threatening undertaking while joining work. It’s absolutely unnecessary,” a teacher working at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Mangolpuri said.Head of the School (HoS) Seema Puri said that the undertaking was a way to ensure that the guest teachers were “willing” to work amid the pandemic. “The government has been giving monetary help to teachers infected with Covid-19 on duty. There is no such provision for the guest teachers. So, we are making sure that they do not claim any such compensation in future,” she said.Another guest teacher at Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya (SBV) in Noor Nagar said that he and his colleagues were made to sign a similar undertaking. When contacted, HoS Nazakat Ali said, “The schools have decided to take an undertaking to ensure that they do not later say that they were asked to join work forcefully amid the pandemic.”Praveen Tobaria, the president of the All India Guest Teachers’ Association, said that the department should remove the word “willing” from its order. “There is no much confusion over this word ‘willing’ in the order. Schools are interpreting it according to their convenience. All the guest teachers are willing to join duty. Such an undertaking clearly show that the schools are trying to discourage them from joining,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/guest-teachers-claim-being-made-to-sign-covid-undertaking-govt-says-no-such-order-issued/story-VMXptklYHyQyfbpJpMzKdL.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||1 dead after heavy rains in Delhi; waterlogging, traffic jams reported in several areas||The body of a 60-year-old man was found under a flooded bridge in central Delhi on Sunday morning after heavy rains lashed the national capital and surrounding areas.Police to believe he drowned while trying to manoeuvre his vehicle through the waterlogged underpass. Rajender Dubey, the assistant commissioner of police (Barakhamba Road), said the body was found around 10am.“The man, Kundan, was driving his Tata Ace tempo from New Delhi railway station towards Connaught Place when he possibly drowned,” Dubey said. The body was found in the water close to a spot where a Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus was submerged in the waterlogged underpass. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 74.8mm rainfall till 8:30am.It added that Ridge, Lodhi Road, Palam and Ayanagar weather stations recorded 86 mm, 81.2mm, 16.9mm and 12.2mm rainfall, respectively.Rainfall below 15mm is considered light, between 15mm and 64.5mm moderate, and above 64.5mm heavy.The department has predicted thunderstorm with rain in the national capital and neighbouring areas till Tuesday. Waterlogging in low-lying areas and traffic snarls were reported from many keys areas of Delhi after the Capital received its first spell of heavy rains in the morning.Delhi Traffic Police said waterlogging was reported at Azadpur Underpass, South Avenue Road, Pul Prahladpur Underpass, Paharganj side of the New Delhi railway station, Moolchand Underpass and near Batra Hospital, among others. The traffic police also issued an advisory asking bus and auto-rickshaw drivers to avoid wading through submerged roads as manholes could have been swept away or ditches could have flared up.The DTC bus got stuck while it was passing through a waterlogged bridge on Minto Road in central Delhi, which was flooded due to the heavy rains. The bus’ driver and conductor were rescued by the fire department later.Residents shared videos and pictures of rainwater gushing into their houses and vehicles navigating waterlogged roads on social media.The rains also led to power outages in some areas.The weather bureau had predicted isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over parts of northwest India. It had said the “entire monsoon trough is most likely to shift northwards, closer to the foothills of the Himalayas during July 19-20”. According to IMD, Delhi has recorded 47.9mm rainfall so far in July, which is 56% less than the normal of 109.4mm. Monsoon reached Delhi on June 25, two days earlier than its usual date, but despite the early arrival rains had remained subdued so far.Weather forecasting agencies have said Delhi and its adjoining states of Punjab and Haryana are likely to experience continuous rainfall typical of the rainy season from Sunday as the monsoon trough is likely to shift to its normal position.The northern plains have received only patchy rains since the beginning of July as the axis of the monsoon trough had been oscillating north and south frequently (towards and away from the Himalayan foothills), private Skymet Weather said.It said the trough will move north and stabilise for the next three to four days and that a significant increase in rainfall in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab can be expected from July 19 to July 21.IMD has predicted normal rainfall in the national capital during the season.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rains-hit-parts-of-delhi-showers-to-continue-till-tuesday/story-hyBuHloaGtopUpXFLhiZOP.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Shravan Shivratri: Denizens celebrate with small acts of kindness||Unlike previous years, the celebration of Shivratri in the month of Shravan ie monsoon will be of a different kind. Due to the pandemic, most of the temples are shut and even the Kanwar Yatra couldn’t take place. So, the devotees have found another way to pray to Shiva. On this day, rather than offering milk, sweets, fruits, etc to the shivalinga, Delhi-NCR residents have taken up initiatives to help the needy. And it is though their acts of kindness towards human beings and animals that they are endeavouring to get closer to God. Naman Goyal, a 21-year-old student of Delhi University, says, “My dad often visit a cow shelter (Gopal Gaushala in Aravalli hills, Faridabd) to feed the cows. So I thought it would be good idea to accompany him on Shivratri, and feed the blind and disabled cows and their calves. There are around 1,300 cows in that shelter and the care taker plays instrumental flute music on speakers to make the atmosphere soothing and peaceful. You actually feel closer to God in such an environment.”Everyone has their way to extend help the needy. While some feel happy in the company of animals, others such as Kritika Kamra, a Noida-based homemaker, feels it’s the company of kids that makes her feel closer to God. Kamra explains, “On my son’s birthday ever year, I donate for the welfare of underprivileged children. So, this year, I decided to make the donation on Shivratri, which will be the birthday of lord Shiva. I believe a smile on the faces of children can impress anyone, even God. I have even set aside the money, which I use to spend in purchasing milk that was to be offered to the Shivalinga, and will use this to support the needs of these children.”Every small initiative leads to a bigger change and can even change our lives. Shweta Sharma, a Delhiite, has plans to sponsor the education of a child. “One of my friends informed me about a boy who wants to study but can’t, due to financial crunch. I asked my family and friends to help, and we have now decided that together we will enable him to get into a good school. This is my offering to lord Shiva this Shivratri, and what could be better than helping a child get access to good education? Shiksha daan is also given importance in our culture, and no doubt it brings us close to our God!”Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/shravan-shivratri-denizens-celebrate-with-small-acts-of-kindness/story-9vw9VxrEkdIrpfE8kmToxO.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||38-year-old jailed on Thursday takes his life in Tihar jail||A 38-year-old prisoner, who was arrested and jailed on Thursday for killing his 62-year-old mother-in-law and injuring her three relatives with an ice pick in south-west Delhi Mohan Garden, killed himself by hanging in Tihar Jail late Friday night, jail officials and police said.“The prisoner was found hanging in a cell in jail number 4 by other inmates around midnight. He used a bedsheet to hang himself. No suicide note was recovered. He was jailed on Thursday in the murder case of his mother-in-law registered at the Mohan Garden police station. He was in the cell with six other inmates,” said Director General (Tihar prisons) Sandeep Goel.Goel said that a magisterial enquiry (inquest proceeding under Section 174 CrPC) has been initiated by the metropolitan magistrate concerned in the prisoner’s death. On Friday, the deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka district) Anto Alphonse had issued a press release regarding the man’s arrest. The DCP mentioned that the man was enraged as he suspected that it was because of his mother-in-law that his wife and daughter were not ready to live with him in his house. His wife and daughter left him and started living at her mother’s home after the man was arrested in a case of rape in 2019, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/38-year-old-jailed-on-thursday-takes-his-life-in-tihar-jail/story-DQFu0nqYnUlQsG8cLWOC8L.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Recoveries in Delhi cross 100k; Capital records 1,475 cases||Over 100,000 people have recuperated from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital so far, the Delhi government’s health bulletin said on Saturday as the recovery rate stood over 83%.Delhi has 16,711 active cases, according to the bulletin, the lowest number in the last 40 days.According to the bulletin on Saturday, 1,475 fresh cases were reported, taking the overall infection tally in the city to 121,582. With 26 new fatalities, the death toll reached 3,597.This is the second consecutive day when the lowest single-day fatality count has been recorded since June 9. This is also the eighth consecutive day when fresh cases have been reported in the range of 1,000 to 2,000. On Friday, the national capital had recorded 1,462 fresh cases. The total recoveries in the national capital stand at 101,274 — nearly 15% of those who have recuperated across the country. In fact, Delhi has recorded significant recoveries during the last three weeks. July so far has alone recorded 40,963 recoveries. Of the 15,475 beds for Covid-19 patients, only 3,635 were occupied as of Saturday evening, and more than 11,000 vacant.In an interview with HT on Saturday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “Now we are seeing the curve of daily infections, deaths and positivity rate bending downwards. The positivity rate is down, and the recovery rate is getting better by the day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/recoveries-in-delhi-cross-100k-capital-records-1-475-cases/story-pzlQXlAeOOMiil8tyYdZoL.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||SDMC to levy professional tax on firms in 2-3 months||Professionals working in south Delhi areas will have to shell out more money on taxes in the coming months as the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) will soon start collecting a ‘professional tax’ from companies operating in areas under its jurisdiction.According to SDMC officials, the civic body is planning to implement professional tax over the next two months. Self-employed professionals such as doctors, lawyers, chartered accountants, and architects, among others, will also have to pay the new professional tax. However, those earning less than ₹20,000 a month have been kept out of the ambit of the new tax.A senior SDMC official, on condition of anonymity, said a plan to implement professional tax has already been finalised and it will now be passed by the House on July 27. The official said the professional tax is collected against the amenities being provided by the civic body to professionals and companies.“Since the proposal has already been approved by the standing committee, there will be no problem in getting it passed by the House. After that, it will be sent to the Delhi government for a gazette notification and then we will start collecting the tax from companies and self-employed professionals. The new tax is likely to be implemented in two month’s time,” the official quoted above said.As per the move, a professional tax of ₹150 per person per month will be collected from those earning between ₹20,000 and ₹50,000 a month while it would be ₹200 per person per month for those earning above ₹50,000 per month. The tax will be charged even if the person doesn’t live in the SDMC areas but works there. Traders will remain outside the ambit of the tax.The official said this would be the first time that a professional tax is being implemented in Delhi. This tax is already levied in 19 states across the country, including Maharashtra, West Bengal, Bihar and Gujarat, among others.These recommendations for realising a professional tax were made in the SDMC’s 2020-21 budget proposal for the enhancement of revenue. SDMC officials said the new tax will net the corporation an income of ₹50 crore a year.Anamika Mithilesh, SDMC mayor, said in the past few years, the civic body had refrained from imposing this tax on the public but this year due to “acute fund crunch”, the proposal was approved.“Instead of relying solely on funds from the state or central government, we are taking steps to increase our revenue by enhancing our sources of income. This year, our income has gone down drastically due to the Covid-19 pandemic and so we decided to go ahead and levy the professional tax. This move will bring a revenue of ₹50 crore a year to the cash-strapped civic body. We are hopeful of people’s support in this regard,” the mayor said.Mithilesh said very soon, notices would be issued to firms operating in SDMC areas informing them about the professional tax and its modalities. The companies will be asked to submit the amount to the civic body after a gazette notification from the Delhi government.A second official, also on condition of anonymity, said efforts are being made to add professional tax to the house tax bills so that people can pay it along with the property tax. He, however, said modalities on this front are being worked out.“It can be collected online as well as offline. Professional tax will be collected from all companies and self-employed people whose office is in SDMC areas. The maximum tax will be ₹200 per month or ₹2,400 annually. The minimum will be ₹150 a month or ₹1,800 annually,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sdmc-to-levy-professional-tax-on-firms-in-2-3-months/story-p73nzfihathJOTQpF4bjzJ.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Row over prosecutors in Delhi riots cases escalates||The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday objected to interventions by lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal in the judicial representation of cases on the northeast Delhi riots and anti-citizenship amendment act (CAA) protests even as the L-G’s office sent a letter to the CM saying the government must decide if the police proposal to appoint six lawyers was acceptable to it.Baijal said in the letter that despite the police justifying its choice of lawyers, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia rejected the proposal.“Since the difference of opinion still persists, I would request the chief minister to expeditiously refer the matter to the Council of Ministers under Rule 49 of TBR of GNCTD, 1992 with Section 45 (c) of the Government of NCT Act, 1991. In view of urgency and sensitivity of the matter, it is requested that the decision of cabinet be communicated expeditiously, preferably within a week,” stated the contents of the letter as read out by an official in Sisodia’s office.If the Delhi Cabinet decides to hold on to its stand of appointing its own panel of lawyers led by Delhi government counsel Rahul Mehra, then the L-G is likely to refer the matter to the President exercising his powers in the event of a difference of opinion with the elected government, said an official in the L-G office.Reacting to the letter, Kejriwal in an interview to HT on Saturday said the decision to frequently use gubernatorial powers in cases of difference of opinion with the elected government was against the spirit of a Supreme Court judgment dated July 4, 2018. The latest disagreement has been over the appointment of public prosecutors, most recently in the hiring of lawyers to represent the state in the northeast Delhi riots cases.“I personally feel that the Centre’s decision to use this extraordinary power in the matter of deciding the advocates is not in the correct spirit of the SC judgment, according to me. Deciding on lawyers does not account for a ‘rarest of rare case’. But, still, they keep using that power,” Kejriwal said.Officials said there was a meeting between Baijal and Sisodia through video conference on Friday to settle differences, but the matter could not be resolved.Senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said, “The AAP government in Delhi is committed to providing the strictest possible punishment to all those involved in these riots. But for that to happen, an independent investigation by the police and a free and fair trial are a must. The L-G and the central government are insisting on the appointment of a panel of special public prosecutors chosen by the central government.”“This is happening when there are very serious allegations on the response of Delhi Police to these riots as well as how the investigation process is going on... If they are under the central government and appointed by Delhi Police itself, their independence is under serious question.”The L-G office in a statement said the cases pertaining to the northeast Delhi riots and the anti-CAA protests involved large scale communal violence and require careful handling in view of their gravity and deep impact on the society.“As such, effective prosecution in these cases is the need of the hour. Since the cases are of highly sensitive nature, very large in numbers and there are several petitions including bail matters, other applications and writ petitions, these require constant monitoring and coordination across different courts. It was felt that a dedicated team of prosecutors is needed and senior law officers/senior advocates/advocates may also be appointed as Special Public Prosecutors to ensure that the cases are handled properly and in a focused manner,” the L-G office said.On July 10, the Delhi police had sent a proposal to the Delhi government recommending the names of six special public prosecutors including Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi to fight 85 cases related to the riots and the anti-CAA protests in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/row-over-prosecutors-in-delhi-riots-cases-escalates/story-lriqofsa5qQAMEFbu0dr4H.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Govt asks panel to look at minimising Covid fatality rate||The Delhi government earlier this week told a 12-member committee, set up on directions of the Supreme Court to inspect Covid-19 hospitals in the national capital, to look into factors that can help reduce the deaths caused by coronavirus disease (Covid-19).According to an office memorandum from Delhi’s principal health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt, the government also provided a checklist containing questions such as time taken for triaging (the practice of assigning treatment based on urgency) Covid-19 patients; if early warning scores to determine whether a patient might deteriorate were followed; and whether the hospital had a standardised investigation protocol. “Since committees constituted for the inspection of hospitals in Delhi, consequent to orders passed by the Supreme Court, are already carrying out their mandate in a continuous manner, it would be appropriate that specific attention may now be focused upon aspects which have a bearing on the reduction of Covid-related mortalities,” the memorandum read.This comes after the Delhi government released protocols for management of Covd-19 patients, including having a dedicated health care worker monitoring each critical patient. The protocols had also said that availability of dialysis has to be ensured by all hospitals as patients with Covid-19 acute respiratory distress syndrome may also develop acute kidney problems.The government had also said hospitals had to set up a proper holding area for Covid-19 patients, apart from ensuring an effective triage and monitoring of oxygen saturation.Dr Mahesh Verma, a member of the committee and vice-chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, said, “The government has provided us with a checklist of questions to look into whether the hospitals are following protocols for admission, triage, critical care, and infection control. Even one death that can be prevented should be prevented and the committee has just been asked to look into whether there is anything that can be done.” “So far, most deaths in hospitals have been of patients who tried to manage their symptoms at home and reached hospitals only when their lungs were compromised or at a stage when they needed to be put on ventilators and the condition could not be reversed. Earlier, Covid-related deaths were also taking place because doctors did not understand the progression of disease and there was a sudden coagulopathy (formation of clots) or drop in oxygen saturation,” he said.The data provided by the chief minister’s office showed that 691 deaths took place in Delhi between June 24 and July 8, which works out to an average of 46 deaths a day. The numbers have gone down further, with just 26 deaths being reported on July 18 in the daily health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-asks-panel-to-look-at-minimising-covid-fatality-rate/story-Rd4gbYJDZmetiRUBTZngJP.html
19-07-2020||Delhi||Centre frames rules for Covid care centres in gated colonies||The Union ministry for health and family welfare on Friday released guidelines for gated colonies across the country to create facilities for the patients of coronavirus disease as the number of total cases in India touched 1,076,479 with 26,812 succumbing to the viral infection. Facilities created by the colony managements would be “more acceptable to the residents and help reduce the burden on existing facilities”.The facilities created in these colonies can be utilised to quarantine suspected cases or isolate those who are asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic, or mildly symptomatic. The facilities are not meant for people over the age of 65 and the children below the age of 10, the guidelines stated. Also read: India added last quarter million Covid-19 cases in just 8 days, 3 states added 55.7% patientsPregnant or lactating mothers, persons with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, kidney disease, chronic respiratory disease, cancer or other illnesses and those who use drugs that compromise the immune system will also not be allowed to stay at these centres, the guidelines added.India is now the third country in the world to have more than a million confirmed Covid-19 cases. India has conducted about 13.1 million tests, behind only the United States and Russia.Neighbourhood Covid Care Centres were to be operationalised with minimal support from the government in case the number of cases soared and the requirement for beds went up. Besides the creation of Covid care centres in the colonies, the government has also been holding training programmes under the ‘Swasthya Doot’ project to prepare community volunteers in basic health care techniques. Also read: COVID-19 Statistics for IndiaThe ministry guidelines stated that community centre or common utility areas can be used for setting up these centres. Vacant flats that are isolated from occupied ones may also be used. The centre must have a separate entrance and exit gate, follow hand hygiene and thermally scan all persons who enter.Within the centres, the beds have to be placed at a distance of 3 feet and adequate natural ventilation has to be ensured. The air conditioning system should follow the government guidelines of maintaining the temperature between 24°C to 30°C and relative humidity between 40% and 70%, avoid re-circulation of air, and ensure as much intake of fresh air as possible.These centres will be linked to surveillance teams and an ambulance service. They will be staffed by doctors from either within the community or those provided by NGOs. They have to undergo training on a government portal. Support for clinical assessment, sample collection, and transportation will be provided, the guidelines stated.The guidelines also stated that continuous monitoring of the centre (by guards or via video feed) is needed to ensure that patients do not go out.To engage the community in the prevention of the infection, Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs) should encourage people above the age of 65, pregnant women, and children to stay at home and keep contact with visitors to a minimum, the ministry stated in another document.The guidelines also called for creating awareness on preventive measures, need for early reporting on the disease and fight the stigma If a colony is declared a containment area then the Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) must facilitate house-to-house screening, ensure daily surveillance, shift suspected cases to the nearest Covid-19 facility, and identify volunteers to ensure the supply of essential services, the guidelines stated.“The involvement of the community is essential when it comes to preventing and managing this infection. The government should have taken steps to involve people from the start. In places such as Delhi and Mumbai, the number of cases has started stabilising—involving the community in setting up Covid care centres in these places would have been helpful. This can be implemented in maybe Bengaluru, Chennai and their outskirts, and some places in Telangana where the number of cases is still quite high or is rising. Other than that, most cities and towns are not too well-planned and have very few gated colonies that can implement this,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, the head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/centre-frames-rules-for-covid-care-centres-in-gated-colonies/story-LyyRMcvYDLjQt7VK4TmUVP.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||June versus July: Chandigarh tricity infections already up by 46%||The number of Covid-19 cases reported in the first 18 days of July has already surpassed the total infections reported in June across the tricity.While there were a total of 389 cases across the tricity in June, the number is already 569 this month – a spike of 46%.In Chandigarh, July saw the cases rising by a whopping 72%. Similarly, Mohali had a 54% jump in cases in the same period and Panchkula 51%. (see graphic).According to experts, health authorities should further ramp up tracing and treatment of patients. “There is a possibility that we have reached the stage of community transmission because every positive patient does not have travel or contact history, and at the same time people have gone lax. Public places are flooded with people, with no regard for precautions and social distancing rules,” said Dr Yogesh Chawla, former director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said the spurt in cases was on expected lines. However, which way the graph goes in the near future will depend on people’s attentiveness to norms. “It is hard to predict the infection’s spread, but restrictions, which do not harm people’s economic interests, need to be devised and implemented,” he said. WHAT LED TO THE SPIKE?Chandigarh’s director of health and family welfare, Dr G Dewan said the current affairs were similar to those in the neighbouring states.“When the lockdown was in place, the number of cases was low. As the restrictions got eased, borders were reopened and there was an overall surge in infections. In Chandigarh, there are no longer any clusters and most of the cases are limited to families and their contacts,” he said.The rise in cases can also be attributed to a more liberal approach to testing, he said, adding, “Once private labs came into play, more people, irrespective of symptoms, are being tested. This was restricted to only symptomatic people at government labs. But, at the same time, our recovery and fatality rates have improved,” he said.In Panchkula, civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said most of the recent infections were detected at the quarantine centres established in the ITBP and CRPF stations.“The surge is largely due to ITBP and CRPF personnel returning from various states and being tested positive at the quarantine centres. We have decided to conduct the antibody testing as well. We have received ELISA test kits from the headquarters,” she said. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the cases in the district soared after the borders were reopened in June. “Several recent infections comprise visitors from outside Mohali,” he said.TESTING LOWEST, POSITIVE CASES HIGHEST IN UTWhile testing is the lowest in Chandigarh in July, the city’s positivity rate remains the highest at 6.3%, followed by Mohali (2.7%) and Panchkula (1.69%).Beginning July, Chandigarh has conducted only 163 tests on average per day. Panchkula tested 269 people a day, while Mohali had the highest tests per day, at 303.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/june-versus-july-chandigarh-tricity-infections-already-up-by-46/story-8eFa1WCBBzeS9a2HDzEOwJ.html
19-07-2020||City||Two dead in Mohali, Covid-19 cases breach 500 mark||District’s death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 11 with two men succumbing to the virus on Saturday.Mohali also confirmed 21 fresh cases, causing the district count to breach the 500 mark. Of the 513 confirmed cases now, 318 have recovered and 11 have succumbed to the virus. The district has 185 active cases.Among those dead is a 43-year-old man from Preet Colony, Zirakpur. He traded in building construction material. “He had diabetes and was also suffering from typhoid,” said Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali. The patient was under treatment at GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh.The other deceased, an 82-year-old man from Kharar, breathed his last at PGIMER, Chandigarh. He was admitted there with acute hypertension and tested positive thereafter.Private hospital sealedThe fresh cases on Saturday included seven staff members of Sohana Eye and Super Specialty Charitable Hospital, Sector 77.Health authorities declared the hospital a containment zone and sealed the entire complex.Earlier on July 15, nine nurses and two doctors of the same hospital had tested positive for Covid 19. The remaining cases were reported from Sector 69, Sunny Enclave, Kharar; AOM Enclave, Kharar; Dhakoli, Sunny Enclave, Zirakpur; High Land Park, Zirakpur; and Peer Muchhala tested positive.“The extensive sampling and contact tracing has brought to fore 21 new Covid-19 cases,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.“In view of recent spike in cases, sampling has been intensified and extensive contact tracing is afoot to curtail the spread of infection,” he said.Two positive in PanchkulaPanchkula Two persons tested positive in Panchkula on Saturday. They are a 27-year-old resident of Sector 15 and an employee of Haryana Public Service Commission. With this, the district’s count is now 242, of which 110 cases are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-dead-in-mohali-covid-19-cases-breach-500-mark/story-abSz27qhPflcFC6hAiQtBN.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 positive P Varavara Rao shifted to Nanavati Hospital||Poet and Elgar Parishad case accused P Varavara Rao, who had on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19 after he was shifted out of jail to a hospital, was moved to Nanavati Hospital from St George’s Hospital on early Sunday.Dr Akash Khobragade, medical superintendent of St George Hospital, said that around 1am, Rao was shifted to Nanavati Hospital for further neurological and urological management. Khobragade confirmed that Rao doesn’t have complications related to Covid-19.Earlier, Mumbai Police sources had confirmed that 81-year-old Rao, who was first moved out of Taloja Jail to Sir JJ Hospital last week, would be shifted to the private hospital. The decision from the state government came a day after the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued notices to the Maharashtra government on Friday to ensure the health condition of Rao, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), is taken care of and adequate medical facilities are arranged. Rao was shifted to Sir JJ Hospital on July 13 after his health started deteriorating.NHRC, based on a complaint from the special monitor of the commission, Maja Daruwala, had issued a notice to the chief secretary and the director-general of prisons of Maharashtra state, asking for a report on the health of Rao within two weeks. It was mentioned in the complaint that Rao was suffering from many ailments, owing to which his health condition was deteriorating.Taking cognisance of the matter, the commission observed that the right to life and medical care is one of the basic human rights and the state is duty-bound to provide a prisoner who is in its custody appropriate medical care so that there should be no danger to his life.The commission has also directed the state to constitute a medical board to examine the health condition of Rao and to see whether the treatment being provided to him is appropriate. The commission has mentioned that the board is expected to decide as to which hospital, whether government or private, will give best medical treatment to Rao. NHRC had also asked the state to provide Rao the best possible treatment in a private hospital and also to ensure to bear all the expenditure for his treatment.Rao was first taken to JJ Hospital on May 28 after he fell unconscious, but was discharged on June 1. The family had alleged that Rao was discharged in a hurried manner to obstruct his bail plea. “He was not normal at the time of discharge. While sodium normal range was 134-145, he attained only 133 and potassium normal range was 3.5 to 5.0, he attained only 3.55, according to the hospital’s own discharge summary. But, later on June 2 it was proved that all this – admission in hospital, getting a normal report, getting him discharged – was part of a conspiracy by the police. June 2 was the date of hearing on his bail application on health grounds in NIA special sessions court and police argued against his bail showing this hospital “normal” report. The judge accepted that and refused bail on June 26,” read a statement from the family.Later, Rao continued to show signs of delirium and after objections from various quarters, Rao was admitted to JJ Hospital again on July 13. On Thursday, Rao tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to St George’s Hospital. Rao’s bail plea in the Bombay high court (HC) will be heard today.(With inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/p-varavara-rao-to-be-shifted-to-nanavati-hospital/story-hPN0P5nnmsUje8Jed4wQrJ.html
19-07-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak: Mumbai stable, other districts in Maharashtra cause for concern||On July 4, Maharashtra had recorded 2 lakh cases of Covid-19. Within 14 days, the state has added another 1 lakh cases, taking its tally to 3,00,937 cases on Saturday. Although Mumbai crossed 1 lakh cases on Saturday, the pandemic curve has plateaued in the city, which has contributed only 19% of the cases in the most recent surge. However, districts such as Thane, Raigad, Pune and Nanded are now major contributors to the spread of Covid-19 in the state.“Till May, Mumbai constituted almost 60% of the total cases recorded in Maharashtra. But gradually, the city started reporting constant numbers of daily cases below 1,500, which helped flatten the pandemic curve in Mumbai. The city was the epicentre, but now the wave has spread to other districts,” said Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner (family welfare) and director, National Health Mission, Maharashtra.Mumbai now accounts for 33.8% of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases and the remaining 66.2% cases have been reported from elsewhere in the state. After Mumbai, Thane has recorded the maximum cases of Covid-19, with its tally rising from 45,833 cases on July 4 to 71,345 on July 14. As per data from the state government, 92,525 new Covid-19 cases have been recorded between July 4 and 17 in Maharashtra.An analysis of all 36 districts in Maharashtra shows Covid-19 cases in Raigad have increased from 5,585 to 10,548 in the last 13 days – an 88.8% rise and the highest in the state. This is followed by Nanded, which recorded an 87% surge with its caseload increasing from 388 to 726 in the same period. Cases in Pune have increased from 26,956 on July 4 to 49,037 on July 17, marking an 81.9% rise.“The pandemic curve may have plateaued in Mumbai, but it is at its peak in other districts. Our main priority is to get more oxygen-supported and intensive care unit (ICU) beds. Also, despite the rise in number of cases, we have been able to keep a check on the mortality rate,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.Experts have identified several reasons for this gradual increase in the number of cases. First, in mid-May, migrant workers from Mumbai, Pune and neighbouring states returned to their home regions, often without properly-conducted tests. District health officers have complained that many ignored quarantine rules and thus spread the infection. “The returning workers don’t trust us and often try to run away from quarantine centres. If we keep them in home quarantine, they don’t follow social distancing,” said Dr AR Gita, district health officer, Aurangabad.Another reason is that after the lockdown was relaxed from June 3, the infection spread from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to other regions through people travelling to and from Mumbai. “MMR has a large population, so it was expected that cases would increase with lockdown relaxation,” said Tope.Health officials also pointed to increased testing as a reason for more recorded cases of Covid-19. Dr Sanjay Mukerjee, secretary of the medical education and drugs department said the state at present has 124 testing laboratories with a daily testing capacity of 40,000 samples. “On July 16, we did over 36,500 tests in a day. We have tested more than 15 lakh people, which is a 40% rise over the last three weeks. With increased testing, the number of patients diagnosed with Covid-19 will rise naturally,” said Mukerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-mumbai-stable-other-districts-in-maharashtra-cause-for-concern/story-JxCPJpWkstOvzkspMigPSN.html
19-07-2020||City||Coronavirus shows no signs of slowing in Maharashtra||The Covid-19 numbers coming every day from Maharashtra dwarfs all other states. In the past week, India’s worst-hit state reported over 75% more daily cases than Tamil Nadu — the state with the second-highest number of new cases.In the past week, until July 17, the state recorded more than 7,700 new cases a day on an average, compared to 6,500 the week before that — a statistic that highlights how cases are still growing in the state. The doubling rate of cases — the number of days it takes for a given number of infections to double — in the state is currently 23.7 days, slightly higher than the national average of 20.6 days.If Maharashtra’s 300,000 cases are divided into bands of 100,000 each, we see that the first 100,000 cases took 96 days (June 12) since the first case was reported in the state. The state touched 200,000 cases 22 days later on July 4. The latest 100,000 cases, however, have come in just two weeks.The positivity rate, too, has shown no signs of slowing down. In the past two months, the weekly average positivity rate in the state has grown from 17.6% to 23.6%, despite a three-fold increase in testing. This means that currently, nearly a quarter of all tests conducted in the state are turning out positive — one of the most alarming trends coming out of the state.In the two other states with high caseloads – Tamil Nadu and Delhi – as the testing has been ramped up, the positivity rate has remained less than half the number in Maharashtra. In Tamil Nadu, the average positivity rate for the week ending July 17 was 10.2% and in Delhi,it was 7.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-shows-no-signs-of-slowing-in-maharashtra/story-uJYP3p9Lm7Qx5Kuu9a4deO.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s coronavirus fight enters battle mode as cases cross 3-lakh mark||Maharashtra’s share in India’s Covid-19 tally has declined over the past two months, but it still remains the state with most infections (300,937) and fatalities (11,596). On May 18, Maharashtra accounted for 40.9% of that day’s Covid cases in India – 2,033 of 4,970 cases in 24 hours. The state’s share in the daily rise in infections dropped to 27.6% on June 18, and it was 23.8% on July 17. This is primarily because the state has managed to contain the spread of the virus, while cases in other states have risen at a greater pace. The case fatality rate (CFR), however, has remained a constant worry for Maharashtra, as it stands at 3.85%, second only to Gujarat (4.54%), and more than the national CFR of 2.53%.The state has reported 62,476 infections in the past eight days, with a daily average of 7,809 cases, while the fatalities during the same period are 1,702 at a daily average of 212 deaths.Mumbai, the state’s worst affected city, has 100,350 cases and 5,650 deaths, but the rise in infections in the city has plateaued over the past fortnight. However, other cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Jalgaon remain a cause for concern as the cases in these cities have witnessed a massive spike. Currently, the eight civic bodies of Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Mira-Bhayandar, Vasai-Virar, Navi Mumbai, Panvel and Ulhasnagar contribute to 30% of the total cases in Maharashtra. These civic bodies have witnessed more than three times rise in infections in the past four weeks. Many of these cities have poor health infrastructure and it has been the primary reason for the rise in cases, high mortality rate and poor recovery.“Kalyan-Dombivli, Bhiwandi, Mira-Bhayandar, Vasai-Virar, Panvel in MMR and Pune, Jalgaon, Solapur have poor health infrastructure. Besides, the local bodies have failed to aggressively track, trace and isolate suspected contacts of Covid patients. We had directed them to trace at least 10 people per patient, but in some cities, it has not happened, leading to the rise in the cases,” said a senior government official, on condition of anonymity. “Civic bodies like Kalyan-Dombivli, Bhiwandi, Pune and Jalgaon could not ramp up their facilities with oxygen beds and ICUs and failed to cope up with the surge witnessed in the past few weeks. We had to change commissioners of at least six civic bodies in MMR over the past month.”While Mumbai still tops the daily rise in cases – between 1,200 and 1,300 – it is closely followed by Pune, which has reported a daily average of 1,023 cases over the past week. In MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli’s daily average is 470 cases, the highest among other civic bodies. Solapur has the highest CFR (7.4%), followed by Mumbai (5.63%), Jalgaon (5.5%) and Akola (4.9%).Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the 11-member task force constituted for clinical management of patients, said local authorities of areas with the high number of cases need to ramp up their facilities. “I am personally not happy with the infrastructure and the tracing-testing-isolation done by some of the civic bodies like in Kalyan-Dombivli. Testing for coronavirus takes two days and another three to four days for the report to come. They need to go for capacity building for testing, apart from aggressive tracking of the suspected contacts. The civic bodies and districts are also facing shortage of doctors and health experts. If they can match up to these challenges and ready themselves to fight the surge, then it is possible to contain the spread.”The state government, meanwhile, has been closely monitoring the areas with constant rise in cases. “We have been giving projections for 15 days to every district to enable them to ramp up their infrastructure. Barring a few districts or civic bodies like Pune, and civic bodies in MMR, rest of Maharashtra is well equipped to take up the additional load. Even in Pune, they have added 600 oxygen beds two days ago and have started acquiring private hospitals. It is true that in exceptional cases the patients are facing hardships owing to the weak infrastructure, but we have been putting in constant efforts to augment it,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. Joshi said Mumbai has reached its peak of the infection, while the rest of MMR has entered into peak mode and may stabilise in the next two weeks. “The rest of the state is entering the peak and may see a rise in cases over the next few weeks. In the next four weeks, the entire state can be stabilised,” he said.Awate said they expect the descending limb of the virus spread to begin by mid-August, which is also considered the midpoint of the monsoon season. He said that with more than 35,000 tests daily and introduction of rapid antigen tests, the government expects rapid containment of the transmission of the virus and a drop in CFR. Dr Anil Pachnekar, national vice president of the Indian Medical Association and a private practitioner in Dharavi, said the model used to contain the spread of coronavirus in India’s largest slum will help other parts of the state too. “Dharavi pattern has shown the way by aggressively implementing ‘chase the virus’ mantra with the help of various stakeholders of the society. It has been widely applauded and needs to be implemented across the state, especially in areas with rising numbers. The coronavirus test has been freed from the compulsion of having a doctor’s prescription in Mumbai, while antigen and antibody testing has been introduced across the state. This will help in effective containment of the virus over the next few weeks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-coronavirus-fight-enters-battle-mode-as-cases-cross-3-lakh-mark/story-7UxCaIwk26Pird0FShOs2L.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||12th fatality in Chandigarh, highest single-day spike of 31 new Covid-19 cases||A 55-year-old woman became Chandigarh’s 12th Covid-19 fatality on Saturday that also saw the city recording the highest spike in cases with 31 fresh infections.City’s tally is now nearing 700 with 691 confirmed cases, of which 194 remain active.The latest victim of the virus is a resident of Ram Darbar. She tested positive after her death at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.“She was brought dead to the hospital on July 16 and sampled. The results are positive. She had undergone an abdominal surgery some years back. She was brought to GMCH with severe abdominal pain, but was declared brought dead,” health officials said.It was on July 13 last when Chandigarh saw the most cases in a day, at 29, from nine different areas.As many as six of the 12 people, who have died of the virus in the city, were aged above 60. Half of the total fatalities occurred in the past two weeks.Among the fresh cases is an employee of Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. The 42-year-old man lives in Sector 37. Two cases are contacts of an already positive case.Six members of a Sector 29 family, including four males and two females, have also tested positive. They are also contacts of a positive case.Similarly, a one-year-old girl and two persons, aged 62 and 22, from a single family in Sector 27, have contracted the infection from a positive patient.Four persons of one family from Sector 32, which includes two females and two males, have also been found positive.Remaining cases are from Sectors 25, 27, 33, 41 and 44, besides Manimajra, Dhanas and Daria village.Five patients from Khuda Lahora, Sector 45 and Sector 20 were discharged on Saturday, increasing the number of recoveries to 485.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12th-fatality-in-chandigarh-highest-singl-day-spike-of-31-new-cases/story-GJ0ABIDbmohS9TT24xDM8L.html
19-07-2020||City||2 Covid centres at Navi Mumbai to get 4,100 more beds||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s (NMMC) newly-appointed commissioner Abhijit Bangar has announced that Navi Mumbai will get 4,100 additional beds to treat Covid-19 patients. The corporation will set up additional 1,000 oxygen beds and 100 intensive care unit (ICU) beds at the Cidco exhibition centre in Vashi, while the facility at India Bulls quarantine centre in Panvel will get 3,000 more beds.Bangar, who has taken charge this week, visited the two NMMC Covid care centres (CCCs) to take a stock of the facilities and services being provided there to the patients.Currently, the Vashi facility has 1,200 beds. “Patients, especially those who are in a serious condition, are finding it difficult to get beds in the city. We will convert 500 beds each in the facility to oxygen-equipped beds in two phases. I inspected the facility along with a team of doctors and we intend to have an ICU facility here with 100 beds in the first phase,” said Bangar.The civic commissioner said that the 3,000 beds that will be set up at the Panvel facility will also include oxygen beds for emergency cases.“The antigen test facility that we have started in our hospitals will be provided to the patients in the Panvel facility also to ensure that results are received immediately and the patient can be treated accordingly. Our objective is to augment the bed facilities in the city so that no patient is without one,” said Bangar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-covid-centres-at-navi-mumbai-to-get-4-100-more-beds/story-nssBTAdXY8pryHFZXQ7tLM.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Tell victims about acquittal of accused: Bombay HC to trial courts||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed all trial courts to inform victims whenever the accused persons are acquitted so that the victim can effectively exercise his or her right to appeal against the verdict of the trial.“It is a common experience that in most cases, informants [victims of crimes] are not well educated or come from a stratum of society that lacks awareness and nuances involved in the proceedings,” said the bench of justice SS Shinde and justice VG Night, highlighting the importance of informing the victims in time about the acquittal of accused persons.The court has directed that the office of the district magistrate should ensure that a copy of the judgment is provided to the victim, whenever criminal trials result in acquittals so that the victims can exercise their right to appeal in time.The bench fastened the liability on the district magistrates, as under section 365 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), trial courts are mandated to provide a copy of their judgments in criminal trials to the district magistrate within whose jurisdiction the trial is held.The bench noted that district magistrates have the mechanism and manpower to provide copies of judgments to the victims.To ensure that the directive is scrupulously complied with, the bench has directed all trial courts across Maharashtra to maintain a register to record all relevant dates –date of delivery of the judgment, date of dispatch to the office of the district magistrate, and date of receipt of the verdict copy by the victim.The directives were issued on a plea filed by 56-year-old Dharavi resident Ranjana Suryavanshi, seeking condonation of a delay of 717 days in filing an appeal against the acquittal of her son-in-law Jayprakash Gupta.Gupta had been tried for murdering his wife – Suryavanshi’s daughter – and had been acquitted by the Mumbai sessions court on March 13, 2014.Suryavanshi, however, belatedly appealed against the acquittal last year.Her counsel, senior advocate Rajiv Chavan, pointed out that the delay occurred as the 56-year-old applicant was illiterate and financially weak. Chavan argued that the appeal delay should be condoned based on these grounds.HC accepted the submission and condoned the delay. The bench said the delay appears to be huge, but “we cannot be oblivious of the applicant’s social status and financial condition”. The bench also accepted Chavan’s argument that no period of limitation had been prescribed for the victim to prefer an appeal in terms of proviso to section 372 of the CrPC, against the acquittal of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tell-victims-about-acquittal-of-accused-hc-to-trial-courts/story-Pwm0mbllB46z9yhT8KGY2H.html
19-07-2020||City||Test report mix-up: Recovered patient told to quarantine||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Friday asked a 35-year-old man, who had recovered from Covid-19 two months ago, to shift to a quarantine centre as their records showed him to be positive. TMC called the person several times before reaching his house, despite the person’s claims that he is negative. The corporation later admitted that there was a mix-up in the names and left.The civic body also sanitised the entire building considering him to be positive. The man, Mayur Date, has claimed this has led to lot of mental harassment as his neighbours believed he was infected again. A resident of Vartak Nagar, Date had tested positive for Covid-19 two months ago and was treated for the same, first at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital, then at Thane civil hospital and later he was kept in quarantine in Horizon School. He returned home on May 23.Date said, “On Friday morning, I got a call from TMC telling me that I have tested positive for Covid-19. I thought someone is playing a prank on me as I had not even given a swab sample and ignored the call. Later, I also received a call from Vartak Nagar police station saying the same thing. This scared me and I kept my previous reports ready to show the authorities.”He also approached local politicians to get their help. “The corporation also sanitised my building due to which the residents assumed I have tested positive again. When the employees came home, I showed them all my reports and told them that I had not opted for the test.”Civic officials claimed the mix-up might be the result of similar names. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “The confusion must be over two similar names. However, we will conduct an inquiry as to why a negative patient was harassed and ensure such things do not happen again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/test-report-mix-up-recovered-patient-told-to-quarantine/story-PCVl95QQDnKTQZaluS34yL.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Pink hue in Lonar Lake due to salt-loving bacteria, says report||Scientists have identified salt-loving bacteria as the reason for change in water colour at Lonar Crater Lake in Buldhana in June, which could also hold true for the pink hue spotted at Talawe wetlands in Navi Mumbai in May.A report by Agharkar Research Institute (ARI) in Pune, an autonomous body under the Department of Science and Technology, said the change in water colour from green to pink was due to the dominance of a pink pigment producing halophilic microbes that grow in an extremely high-saline environment giving a bright pink or reddish appearance.The report, released on Thursday and received by the state forest department on Friday, will be submitted before the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court (HC) on July 22.“Change in colour was due to a salt-loving bacteria (red-coloured archaeal strains classified as halophilic archaea or haloarchaea). It is associated with high salinity and alkalinity (pH),” said Prashant K Dhakephalkar, director of ARI, who carried out the study with Monali Rahalkar, Sumit Dagar, and Karthik Balasubramaniam.A section of the flamingo feeding ground at Talawe wetlands near NRI Complex in Navi Mumbai also witnessed a similar change in water colour in May. “While we did not collect samples from Navi Mumbai area, a similar phenomenon could hold true as characteristic changes in surface water were similar. However, more research is needed,” said Dhakephalkar.Meanwhile, flamingo presence was reported at Lonar Lake in December 2019 and February 2020. ARI’s study identified this as an incidental observation and a unique aspect that might be related to the change in colour. “Flamingos have characteristic pink plumage caused from carotenoids ingested from carotenoid-abundant food sources. Whenever these birds consume food having high halobacterium growth (rich in carotenoid), it helps them gain this pink plumage,” said Dhakephalkar.Manoj Khairnar, deputy conservator of forest, Akola, confirmed flamingo numbers were much higher at Lonar lake this year. The Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) had said 25% more flamingos had visited Mumbai wetlands this migratory season, surpassing 1.5 lakh in April alone.The presence of deep pink colour was noticed towards a section, enclosed from three sides, towards the southeastern end of Talawe from May 13-19. “The enclosed section from three sides allowed stagnation of water where salt concentration increased, allowing rapid bacteria growth,” Dhakephalkar said.The surface water at the 113-hectare Lonar Lake turned reddish-pink during first week of June. Worried about increasing water pollution, the Maharashtra forest department requested ARI Pune and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Nagpur to assess the cause of discolouration. “NEERI will be submitting its report directly to the HC next week. Open defecation and sewage discharge was a cause of concern but ARI’s report denies any increase in water pollution,” said Khairnar.At Lonar Lake, alkaline (pH) levels were 9.8 as opposed to 7 which is neutral. Salinity was over 6%, whereas over 3% is considered a high-saline environment, said Dhakephalkar adding, “Due to the lockdown there was no dilution in water. High-salinity and pH allowed rapid conducive growth of halobacteria. When the rains set in both parameters dropped, and green algae growth allowed normal water colour to return.”The study also reported presence of an algal species (Dunaliella algae) in Lonar Lake, previously reported from Mumbai saltpans and Rajasthan’s Sambhar Lake. “We initially thought the pink hue was an algal bloom, but on studying water samples we realised that halobacteria population was much higher than algae.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pink-hue-in-lonar-lake-due-to-salt-loving-bacteria-says-report/story-f0izImYoB3cnWPU3pfkAFM.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||5 policemen home-quarantined after 5 arrested accused test positive for Covid-19||Five personnel of Kherwadi police station have been home-quarantined after five of the six persons they arrested for rioting and assault on July 13, tested positive for Covid-19. Kherwadi police had arrested the six for assaulting three men at Sant Gyaneshwar Nagar in Bandra (East).As per protocol, the accused were tested after being arrested. “Five of them tested positive for the virus. And as a precautionary measure, we have asked our men to home quarantine,” said deputy commissioner of police Zone -8, Manjunath Singe.Dnyaneshwar Khollam, senior inspector of Kherwadi police station, said, “Once we received the test results of the accused, we immediately shifted them to a Covid care centre (CCC) at Vakola.”According to police, the incident of rioting occurred on July 13, around 2pm, when eight people attacked 29-year-old Gyaneshwar Upadhyay. Upadhyay was standing with his two friends when the accused, equipped with swords, knives, choppers, and blades, attacked them due to a fall out because of an old enmity between two groups. Locals who witnessed the attack informed the police.Six of the accused were arrested after a first information report (FIR) was registered against eight accused under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Arms Act, and Maharashtra Police Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-policemen-home-quarantined-after-5-arrested-accused-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-5tS0EXXVPgdHxZYAozTPtO.html
19-07-2020||City||34 held in Vasai for gambling, ₹11L seized||Around 34 people were arrested by the local crime branch (LCB), Palghar, on Friday morning for allegedly gambling at a vacant plot near a hotel on Maljipada highway. The police also seized ₹11.10 lakh from the accused.After receiving a tip-off, Palghar superintendent Dattatray Shinde directed the LCB to conduct the raid. The accused gathered from different parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region as well as Gujarat.“The accused flouted social distancing norms and none of them were wearing masks. They also violated section 144 (unlawful assembly) imposed by the Palghar collector. On Saturday, the Vasai court granted all the 34 accused bail,” said assistant police inspector Santosh Gurjar of LCB, Palghar.Meanwhile, Shinde is to initiate an inquiry against the Waliv police for failing to conduct the raid in the alleged incident. “Based on the inquiry, we will take action against Waliv police,” said Shinde. In a similar incident in September 2018, the then Palghar superintendent took action against five officers of Waliv police station, as they did not act against a gambling racket in a resort on the highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/34-held-in-vasai-for-gambling-11l-seized/story-P4A9XqkJOLUb2ODa13KWhO.html
19-07-2020||City||Will state home minister apologise for Panvel Covid facility rape incident: Kirit Somaiya||Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament (MP) Kirit Somaiya on Saturday demanded an apology from Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh over the Panvel Covid centre rape incident. Despite repeated attempts, Deskhmukh was not available for comment.On Thursday evening, a 25-year-old man posed as a doctor and allegedly sexually assaulted a 40-year-old woman at the centre.Somaiya, along with BJP Maharashtra vice-president Chitra Wagh and Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) mayor Kavita Choutmol, met the local police, demanding an upgrade in the security at Covid-19 quarantine centres. He later visited the Indiabulls quarantine facility in Kongaon, where the incident took place.“I have a question for home minister Anil Deshmukh. When will you apologise to the people of Maharashtra for this incident? What will the [Uddhav] Thackeray government do to ensure such an incident is not repeated?” Somaiya said at the quarantine facility.Choutmol demanded that the men and women’s wards be separated at all centres.“Only one person is admitted in a room to ensure infection does not spread. So the security at the quarantine centres should be upgraded,” said Choutmol.She also issued a press release stating that the administration should appoint security personnel at the facility. “At a time when coronavirus already spread fear among people, such an act can only be committed by a monster,” the press release added.Referring to last year’s police encounter of four men accused in the gang rape and murder of a 27-year-old veterinarian, Choutmol said, “Such a monster should be given the same punishment given [to the accused] in the Hyderabad incident.”Meanwhile, Wagh cornered the state government over women’s security and demanded action against the administration and security personnel for negligence.“The woman visited the centre for her treatment. The accused should get punishment, but action should also be initiated against the administration and security staff as their negligence led to the incident. Women have been molested at various quarantine centres in Maharashtra, and this incident raises further questions on women’s security. The government must tell us if women should go to Covid centres for treatment or die at home?” Wagh added.Meanwhile, Raigad guardian minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Aditi Tatkare also demanded strict punishment for the accused. “I have spoken to the police officials and have demanded strict punishment for the accused,” she said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-home-minister-apologise-for-panvel-covid-facility-rape-incident-kirit-somaiya/story-pjD3RDHSfJEMqXuzNtmiiL.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 17 deaths, 750 fresh virus infections||Haryana on Saturday recorded 17 deaths and 750 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 25,547, officials said.The death toll in the state has risen to 344. Five people succumbed to the virus in Faridabad, two each in Gurugram, Rohtak, Rewari and Ambala and one each in Sonepat, Palwal, Nuh and Fatehabad.About 57% of the total fatalities had existing medical conditions or disease.As per the health bulletin, 600 more patients have been cured. The total number of recoveries stand at 19,318 and active cases are 5,885.Four national capital districts (NCR) bordering Delhi—Faridabad (139), Gurugram (111), Rohtak (56) and Sonepat (46) collectively accounted for 45% of the new cases on Saturday. The four districts collectively also account for 55 % of the total active cases and 77% of the total deaths in the state.According to the bulletin, there were 74 critically ill patients, including 13 put on ventilator support, and 5,811 infected persons are with mild symptoms.Among the other districts, Ambala reported 96 new cases followed by Rewari 42, Hisar 40, Jhajjar 39, Palwal 23, Karnal and Fatehabad 21 each, Panchkula 20, Nuh 15, Jind 14, Bhiwani 11 Kurukshetra and Mahendragarh 7 each, Sirsa 4, Yamunanagar 2 and Kaithal 1. Charkhi Dadri district did not report any fresh case.Panipat records biggest single-day spikePanipat recorded the biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases after 75 more people, including 24 women, tested positive for the virus on Saturday, taking the total number of infections to 513 in the district.The district health department said the new cases include seven members each from two families and a medical officer posted in the isolation ward of a Primary Health Centre in Mandi village. Most new patients are in the age groups of 30 to 60 years. A 3-year-old girl and two boys aged 6 and 9 have also been found infected.Chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said most patients are contacts of already infected persons. Eight more people were discharged after they tested negative on Saturday.In Sonepat, two deaths and 90 new virus cases were reported, deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said. “A 73-year-old man from Gohana, who was suffering from hypertension and chronic kidney disease and a 46-year-old man from a village in the district succumbed to the virus. The second patient was suffering from fever and had respiratory problems,” the DC said.In Rohtak, 23 people, including a deputy superintendent of police rank official have tested positive and 11 new cases were reported from Bhiwani. Rohtak civil surgeon Dr Anil Birla said Meham DSP was found infected during random sampling. “The DSP is asymptomatic and is not facing any serious problem,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-records-17-deaths-750-fresh-virus-infections/story-BPxePKHd8ybqIdZ8ZkE4zO.html
19-07-2020||City||Period till monsoon ends is crucial for Mumbai, says additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani||As Mumbai crossed the grim milestone of one lakh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said the number of cases being reported every day in the city will “remain in the same range or may go down”. Kakani, who is in-charge of the civic body’s public health department, has played a crucial role in handling the Covid-19 outbreak in Mumbai. It has been four months since the first case was reported in Mumbai. What is your take on the current situation? What does the future hold?A lot has happened in the past four months, but in the past month, the situation has only improved in Mumbai, with the recovery rate touching 70%. The recovery rate going up has also resulted in active cases going down, and that has helped us to be ready with more beds for a future surge. The number of cases has stabilised and we have not seen more than 1,500 cases in a day, except for a couple of days. I feel the number of cases may remain the same or may go down in the coming days, but we are ready for a scenario if there is a surge in cases. The BMC has liberalised testing and has tested over four lakh persons till now. How are you planning to increase the number of tests in the city?We have been conducting around 6,000 to 7,000 tests every day, and the number will only increase in the coming days. We have also seen an increase in tests after we allowed citizens to get tested without prescription. In addition, we conduct around 600-700 tests every day using the rapid antigen kits. In the coming week, we plan to increase the number of tests using antigen kits to around 1,500-2,000 every day. The area where these kits will be used will also be increased. Currently, these kits are being used in the western and eastern suburbs, but we will expand it. We are also taking blood samples in the form of a sero-surveillance test to understand the development of antibodies in citizens.How many more months or days are crucial for Mumbai? When can we see situation normalising?We need to understand that there is no definite period to say when the situation will be normal. I can’t comment on a time limit for conducting tests, tracing and treating people. Each passing day is crucial for Mumbai. The period until the monsoon gets over will be very crucial. We also have to deal with other diseases such as malaria and dengue during this period. Even after the monsoon, we can’t say that the virus will be eliminated. We can’t eliminate, but control its spread until we have a vaccine or medicine to treat the disease. When can we expect more relaxations in the city or will there be further lockdowns?Locking down the city again is not something that is on the cards currently. We are working out details and in the next 15 days we might be in a position to allow small- and medium-sized restaurants to reopen. But that does not mean big restaurants will not be allowed to reopen. We will have to maintain a balance. In case of gyms and theatres, we might have to wait some more time. Gyms are confined air-conditioned spaced. There is exercise equipment, which is frequently touched by multiple individuals. There are similar issues in case of theatres. We will have gradual reopening and citizens will have to take all precautions.What are the areas of concern for BMC?The area of concern in terms of Mumbai remains the number of cases increasing in high-rises and multi-storey buildings. Cases in slums have been controlled. We are now focussing on high-rises. Another important factor is the number of cases being reported in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). It is equally important that cases in MMR come under control. We are giving all assistance to the municipal corporations and councils in MMR.What about the shortage of crucial medicines required for treatment of Covid-19 patients? There have also been allegations that there is not enough medical staff available for the newly built Covid-19 centres. As far as civic run hospitals are concerned, there is no shortage of medicines to treat patients of Covid-19. We have sufficient medicines at civic run hospitals. It will not be correct to say that there is a shortage of doctors in jumbo facilities. We have kept the facilities ready in advance, considering it is monsoon. We will use them as and when required. Is the capacity of Covid-19 care centre is more and the admissions there are less, that’s not because there is shortage of staff. We are treating every single patient. What about the Covid-19 deaths happening in the city? The fatality rate is around 5.50%-5.75 %.We are constantly taking steps to bring down the fatality rate in Mumbai, and have implemented various measures for it. If we compare these deaths with the overall deaths that take place in the city, the number is not that high. But definitely, we are working towards bringing the fatality rate at par with the national average. Kerala on Friday became the first state to confirm that community transmission of Covid-19 has occurred in two coastal hamlets of capital Thiruvananthapuram and asked people to be extra vigilant. Is there community transmission in Mumbai?We have to understand that the BMC can’t make or announce this. In case of Mumbai, we are not claiming or even predicting that there is community transmission. This has been our stand. However, we are working on understanding the spread of the disease in the city. Currently, we are taking around 10,000 blood samples from three wards in the city as part of a sero-surveillance test. After collecting these samples and knowing their results, we will undertake such a drive again in these areas. However, that will be later, and the sample size might not necessarily be the same, but it will help us analyse the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/period-till-monsoon-ends-is-crucial-for-mumbai-says-additional-municipal-commissioner-suresh-kakani/story-1B1QoTk5nWR4j9gbqnBM1I.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||78 people duped of ₹12 crore by investment firm||The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police has booked six co-owners of a firm and their two relatives for allegedly duping 78 people to the tune of ₹12 crore by accepting money from them by offering 12% annual interest. The accused used the money to invest in other firms for higher returns, but they failed to return the interest as well as the principle amount to investors. According to EOW officers, the complainant, Rajesh Shah, a resident of Goregaon, has alleged that Ramnik Hashmukh Associate lured him into investing money by offering 1 to 1.05% interest per month, in 2016. “The firm gives a promissory note to investors as an acknowledgement. The said note was allegedly also signed by concerned executives of the firm where the investor’s money would be further invested for high returns,” said a police officer.Shah, who works at a senior post in a private bank, was also promised by the accused firm that they would return the money within a month if the investor wishes to withdraw the amount.Shah invested ₹48 lakh and initially received the interest regularly. However, since January 1, 2018, he has not received any interest or principal, following which he filed a complaint, a copy of which is with HT.Later, Shah learnt that many others also did not get the money from the firm and visited the firm’s Matunga office together. The firm told them that they were facing a major crisis due to demonetisation.However, investors later found out that the firm invested their money in eight other companies under their relative’s names.Shah and 77 other investors then approached EOW.All six of the firm’s co-partners Hasmukh Gogari, Ramnik Dedhia, Dilesh Vira, Mukesh Chheda, Pankaj Chheda, Kushal Chheda and their relatives Hemant Chheda and Jayesh Dedhia are named as accused in the case and have been booked under sections 409 (breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 120B (conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act. The case was first registered at Matunga police station, later EOW took over the investigation, said an officer requesting anonymity.Calls to Ramnik Hasmukh Associates went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/78-people-duped-of-12-crore-by-investment-firm/story-LCMWMRBfi0Eug3nNJMd2hL.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Yuva Sena moves Apex court against UGC directive to hold final-year exams||Shiv Sena’s youth wing Yuva Sena, which is led by Maharashtra environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court (SC) on Saturday against the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) decision to hold final-year exams in universities by September-end.“Today Yuva Sena has filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court with a humble prayer to save lives of lakhs of students, teachers, non-teaching staff and their families by asking the UGC to not be stubborn about enforcing examinations when India has crossed the 10-lakh cases mark,” Thackeray tweeted.Calling the UGC’s decision “bizarre”, he further wrote, “We believe that academic excellence can’t be judged by 1 examination and for academic excellence, we must calculate the aggregate marks of the past semesters. Beyond which, if students still feel the need to appear for an examination, they voluntarily may do so post-Covid.”Yuva Sena’s secretary Varun Desai, in a video released on Saturday, said that despite writing to the UGC and the Human Resource Development ministry, the student group did not receive any reply from either of the two authorities.“Maharashtra government already cancelled the final-year exams and we want the same decision to be taken for the entire country. In the past 10-15 days, we received messages from lakhs of students seeking our support on the issue,” Desai said in the video. The Congress, which is in coalition with the Shiv Sena in the state, also supported the latter’s decision.“Conducting exams in the background of the #COVID-19 is the culmination of insensitivity (sic),” tweeted Satyajeet Tambe, president of the Maharashtra State Youth Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yuva-sena-moves-apex-court-against-ugc-directive-to-hold-final-year-exams/story-ryI2zQGSBSqxLwzszTEJqK.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Four held for beating 37-year-old to death, driving over body||Shivaji Nagar police arrested four accused on Friday for allegedly kidnapping and murdering a 37-year-old man a month ago near Turbhe in Navi Mumbai. The victim, identified as Ahadullah Khan, a painter, was kidnapped in a vehicle from Govandi on June 17. According to police, the accused — Naushad Khan, 50; Ramkumar Nirmal alias Devraj, 28; Noor Alam Munir Khan, 38; and Mohammed Taki Ahmed Shaikh, 28 — attacked Khan with iron rods and killed him. The main accused in the case, Naushad, then decided to place the victim’s body on the highway near Turbhe and drive over his head to make it look like an accident. When the matter came to the notice of Turbhe police, they registered a first information report (FIR) against an unknown person for causing death due to rash and negligent driving.On June 18, when the victim did not return home, his wife registered a missing complaint at Shivaji Nagar police station.Datta Nalavade, deputy commissioner of police (preventive), and in-charge of Zone 6, said, “Our teams started questioning several people, and Sajid, Khan’s brother, told us that Naushad had threatened the victim and had refused to return ₹1.5 lakh that he had borrowed.” Naushad and his friends were called for questioning, and Mohammed informed police officers about the murder and accident set-up in Turbhe. “Naushad was lying, but when we confronted him with facts that we had learnt from his accomplices, he confessed to the crime,” said Nalawade.Turbhe police were informed about the incident, and Khan’s wife was taken to the hospital to identify his body.“During Naushad’s questioning, we learnt that he had an affair with Khan’s wife. He had also borrowed money which Khan was asking him to return. Naushad then plotted to murder Khan,” said Kishor Gayke, senior inspector at Shivaji Nagar police station. Police have not yet identified Khan’s wife as a conspirator in the murder and are investigating the case further. The four arrested accused have been remanded in police custody till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-held-for-beating-37-year-old-to-death-driving-over-body/story-vUUO2jmEacjBModtUTZXUK.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Cancel retest for failed Class 9, 11 students: Parents to state||Parents of several students who failed to clear their Class 9 and 11 exams urged the state education department to cancel the mandatory re-exams and instead promote students to the next class.On Friday, a group of parents from the city wrote to the state, threatening to stage a hunger strike on July 21 if their children are not promoted.“We understand that our children have to take a re-exam to be promoted. But an exam can’t be conducted anytime soon in the current situation, and so it is better to promote them. Students are currently awaiting a decision by the state amid anxiety and uncertainty, even as they started attending online teaching sessions for Class 10 or 12,” said a parent of a student at a Dadar-based school.Education commissioner Vishal Solanki said a decision on the issue will be taken soon. “The Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training will be submitting a proposal to the government soon,” he said.Earlier, the education department cancelled the exams for Class 1 to 8 in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown, after which schools promoted the students on the basis of internal assessments. However, for Class 9 and 11, re-exam is mandatory for students who failed, to be promoted to Class 10 and 12. But owing to the lockdown, schools could not conduct these exams until now. Meanwhile, the state allowed these students to attend classes for the next year.Rajendra Ahire, deputy director of Mumbai region, said schools can conduct online retests to promote students who failed Class 9 and 11. “Students can’t go to school for exams in the current situation. But schools can hold online exams for such students as a way out,” he said.Shivnath Darade, secretary of Shikshak Parishad, a teachers’ group, said the state should consider the unprecedented circumstances and cancel re-exams. “Many students failed this year because they have not been evaluated on their final exams. This is unjust to them and they should be promoted,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cancel-retest-for-failed-class-9-11-students-parents-to-state/story-jyUlEOmmS5GHE4GYYG1WBM.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Satara start-up provides ready-to-eat packets to isolation centres||A Satara-based start-up that works in partnership with the Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai, is supplying ready-to-eat food packets to Covid-19 isolation centres and frontline workers across the state, thus also helping reduce food waste in these facilities.Trilok Foods India processes fresh agricultural produce to make preservatives-free ready-to-eat packets that have a shelf life of up to one year. “All you have to do is place the packets in hot water and enjoy the meal,” said Gourang Potnis, managing partner of the firm. The retort processing technology to dehydrate food items and increase their shelf life used by the start-up was developed by Smita Lele, a food tech engineer and a professor at ICT. “In most isolation centres, there is no fixed head count and the number of food consumers varies every day. If fresh food is cooked, it either falls short or there is excess which gets wasted. Our ready-to-eat packets are handy in such situations,” Potnis said. Trilok is supplying two meals a day and a breakfast to three isolation centres in Pune and also serving frontline workers in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur. “We have supplied sample packets to a few centres in Mumbai as well. We are hoping to start delivering food in Mumbai soon,” said Potnis. While the breakfast menu includes Poha, Shira and Upma, meals include chapatis, rice and curry. The start-up was established three years ago with the intent to provide quality and hygienic ready-to-eat snacks and staples for mobile consumers, particularly those who do not have the access to home-cooked foods due to hectic lifestyles. The manufacturing facility situated near Satara has a capacity of processing 1.5 tonne of food each day and is equipped with requisite technology that produces ISO 22000 certified products. It is a public-private enterprise between the start-up and ICT, Mumbai. Lele said the start-up was working with 80 farmers in Satara who are paid assured prices. “Unlike most companies offering a fixed contract to farmers, Trilok provides assured prices irrespective of market fluctuations. Trilok also lets farmers sell their produce directly in the market if they get a better price, so farmers have a lot of freedom,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/satara-start-up-provides-ready-to-eat-packets-to-isolation-centres/story-pLZawi9CxJKgmrYR1QdXEL.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Two Mumbai teenagers help NGO raise funds for 1.3 lakh meals for the poor||With the Covid-19 outbreak leaving many in need of relief, some agencies like the non-governmental organisation (NGO) Indian Development Foundation (IDF) have found support coming from unexpected avenues. Two teenagers from Mumbai have helped IDF raise funds to mobilise 1.32 lakh meals for the needy in the city.IDF’s Meal to Heal program IDF has provided 1.5 million meals in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) so far, said Dr Narayan Iyer, chief executive officer at IDF. “We got a lot of support from several youngsters in the city. We have been running our community kitchens for more than 100 days now. We have also provided meals and dry ration kits to 200 transgenders in Mumbai,” said Iyer.In June, 16-year-old Rajveer Bothra took to Instagram and Whatsapp to talk about the Meal to Heal program, which provides dry rations and organises community kitchens. Bothra asked friends and friends to each donate Rs 600 to the program which would help IDF provide a week’s dry ration to a family or make 30 meals in one of their community kitchens. “Within 10 days, we raised around Rs 2 lakh,” said Bothra, a resident of Malad.Ananya Dalmia, 17, also helped IDF by creating a presentation about its projects and approaching private companies in the city for donations. “With the help of my parents, I could reach out to several corporates,” said Dalmia, who is also volunteering with the NGO Magic Bus India Foundation for an upcoming fundraiser.Both Dalmia and Bothra had previously volunteered with IDF. “Looking at what was happening, I felt I needed to do something. So I called IDF, which asked me to help them raise funds,” said Bothra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-mumbai-teenagers-help-ngo-raise-funds-for-1-3-lakh-meals-for-the-poor/story-naLTSqWqFVmTfYsQZ5qAcP.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||No impediment in granting temporary parole to Pocso convicts: HC||Observing that there is no impediment in releasing persons convicted under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 on temporary parole, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday ordered that a Pocso convict be released on parole for 30 days.“Considering the language of the notification dated May 8, 2020 and particularly in view of the fact that the offence under Pocso Act is not mentioned in the proviso which bars for grant of parole, there should not be any impediment for releasing the petitioner on parole,” said the bench of justice AS Chandurkar and justice Amit Borkar, and granted parole to 27-year-old convict presently lodged in Amravati central jail.The bench was referring to the notification issued by Maharashtra home department by which Rule 19 of the Maharashtra Prisons (Bombay Furlough and Parole) Rules, 1959 has been amended to allow decongestion of prisons by granting certain convicts temporary parole and furlough leaves in view of Covid-19 contagion.The bench accepted the argument advanced on behalf of the convict that under the proviso to the amended rule, conviction under Pocso Act is no longer a disqualification for availing parole or furlough leaves.The proviso to Rule 19 states that prisoners convicted for serious economic offences or bank scams or offences under special Acts (other than IPC) like Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act etc. which provide for additional restrictions on grant of bail, shall not be released on temporary parole or furlough.The bench said there was no impediment in granting temporary parole to the convict “considering the language of the proviso and particularly in view of the fact that the offence under Pocso Act is not mentioned in the proviso which bars grant of parole.”Besides, the bench also noted that some other Pocso convicts have been released by the jail authorities on parole. The convict had moved HC after his plea for parole leave was rejected by jail authorities. He had sought leave to attend to his ailing sister, but the jail authorities rejected the plea on the grounds that he had not submitted any proof showing his sister was seriously ill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-impediment-in-granting-temporary-parole-to-pocso-convicts-hc/story-5z3Fm47ca4AJWfsoJSs3xO.html
19-07-2020||City||Film-maker arrested for extorting shopkeeper||Mumbra police on Friday arrested a film director for blackmailing and extorting a shopkeeper in Mumbra. He was arrested after he was caught on spy camera while taking ₹20,000 from a shopkeeper. According police, the accused, FM Ilyas, 40, who directed and produced a Marathi film in 2011, has previously extorted a few others. Ilyas has allegedly been threatening a ration shop owner at Tanwar Complex in Mumbra since the past week demanding ₹2 lakh. Senior police inspector Madhukar Kad said, “He was threatening the complainant saying he would register a complaint and get his shop license revoked. He has taken an initial amount of ₹20,000, which the complainant recorded using a camera and lodged a complaint.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/film-maker-arrested-for-extorting-shopkeeper/story-nORtyZYeUW2Y7FOSbGf3iO.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 100,000 Covid-19 cases 129 days after reporting first infection||The city crossed the grim milestone of 100,000 Covid-19 cases, 129 days after it had recorded the first case on March 11. Mumbai on Saturday reported 1,186 cases, pushing up its count to 100,350, and 65 fatalities took the city’s toll to 5,650.Mumbai, which is the worst affected city in Maharashtra, took 91 days to reach 50,000 cases on June 8, with the recent 50,000 infections added to the city’s tally in just 40 days. Active Covid-19 cases in the city stand at 23,917, according to the state health department bulletin, which states that 70,492 people have so far recovered in the city. Mumbai’s recovery rate is 70.24%. With the rise of cases having plateaued over the past month, when Mumbai has recorded infections in the range of 1,000-1,500 every day, citizens are now waiting for the Covid-19 case curve to start dipping. Civic officials and experts, however, said it would take a few more weeks before they can declare with certainty that cases have started to drop. Officials said the situation in Mumbai is far better now than what it was in April, May and June. While the number of active cases in Mumbai has gone down from around 30,000 in June to 24,000 in July, the doubling rate, too, has improved from 28 days to 54 during the same period. Where does Mumbai currently stand?The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has increased its daily Covid testing capacity from an average of 4,000 tests in June to 6,000 tests in July. Since July 7, the civic body also allowed citizens to get tested at private laboratories without a doctor’s prescription or self-declaration. “This should have had increased the number of daily cases, but the number has stayed between 1,200 and 1,600. This is a good sign. We are also prepared with our health facilities if there is a surge in the cases,” said a civic official. The city has conducted 427,378 tests so far and has a positivity rate of 23.48%.The recovery rate of Mumbai currently stands at 70.24% in comparison to Maharashtra’s 55.05%. A high recovery rate has also helped in reducing the number of active cases in the city. BMC claims to have around 7,000 beds of Covid patients lying vacant in its health facilities. The cause for concern for Mumbai is its case fatality rate (CFR). The pandemic has claimed 5,585 lives in the city so far, with a CFR of 5.63%. The state’s CFR stands at 3.85%. One of the primary reasons for the sudden spike in CFR was BMC adding 862 old fatalities to the city’s toll in June after a reconciliation exercise.Looking aheadWith the case curve of Mumbai flattening, most restrictions in the city have been lifted gradually by the authorities. The state government and BMC have plans to also open up malls, theatres, restaurants and gymnasiums in a phased manner soon. Civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal had said on Tuesday that reopening of malls and restarting suburban trains for the general public will only happen after the situation in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which includes Navi Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli, among other areas, improves.“The situation looks under control [in Mumbai] for now, considering the number of cases that are reported every day... Nearly 85% of the total patients are asymptomatic… Also, it’s taking much longer for cases to double, which helps in bed availability. If this trend continues, it will be easier for us to bring down the number of cases in the future,” Chahal had said. Civic officials said extending more relaxations will also depend on citizens as they will have to continue to follow social distancing norms and take precautions. “BMC should now prioritise restricting movement of senior citizens and patients with co-morbidities. Also, it needs to check if the city is heading towards herd immunity. There needs to be more community participation and involvement of private health practitioners. Result of all of these measures will ensure what needs to be done for future relaxations in the city,” said Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert.Covid fight so farAround a month after the first Covid-19 case was found in Mumbai on March 11, the total cases in the city had crossed the 1,000-mark and there were 38 fatalities. By the end of April, areas like Worli and Dharavi had emerged as hot spots, with a significant number of cases in slum pockets and densely populated localities.Authorities then came up with several initiatives such as ‘Chase the Virus’, ‘Save Lives Strategy’ and ‘Rapid Action Plan’ in order to increase testing, enhance contact tracing, improve fatality rate and bring down cases in hot spots. All this and proactive citizens helped to improve the situation in Worli and Dharavi, which now see very few cases.However, over the past four months, there have been numerous complaints from patients and their relatives as the crumbling health infrastructure of the city could not handle the spread of the virus. There were reports of deaths owing to unavailability of beds and ambulances, delayed admissions, and lack of timely treatment. The bed capacity has been gradually scaled up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-crosses-100-000-covid-19-cases-129-days-after-reporting-first-infection/story-DmkcQYA7mKCArrhF7FO4iP.html
19-07-2020||City||Two arrested for robbing bank with lighter gun||Two days after two men robbed ₹4.16 lakh from a Koparkhairane bank at gunpoint, Navi Mumbai police on Saturday arrested the duo from Chembur. The two arrested accused had planned the robbery owing to no income during the lockdown. Police also found that the gun that they used was a lighter. Sources said the duo had watched popular crime shows to plan the robbery.The accused have been identified as Bhushan Chaudhari, 26, and Swapnil Sapkal, 19, both unemployed. On Thursday afternoon, the duo entered Saraswat Bank posing as customers around lunchtime. They were wearing masks and gloves and waited till there was less number of customers.One of them then brandished a knife at the branch manager while the other pulled out the fake gun. They also attacked a female employee with a knife and robbed ₹4.16 lakh from the cash counter and fled on a motorbike.The police formed five teams led by inspector Nishikant Vishwakar and assistant inspector Wasim Shaikh and nabbed the accused early on Saturday in a raid.“We have arrested the duo and recovered ₹68,000 cash along with the weapons. They have been remanded in custody till Thursday,” said Pankaj Dahane, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-robbing-bank-with-lighter-gun/story-Rjzs1rOKWozHGabfuFXmJL.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Auto driver arrested for killing 13-year-old||Malwani police officers on Saturday arrested a 23-year-old autorickshaw driver for kidnapping and murdering a 13-year-old at Madh in Malad. The accused, Karan Birbal Bahadur, a resident of Aarey Milk Colony, confessed to the crime and said he committed the murder as an act of revenge after the child’s mother obstructed him from constructing a boundary wall to prevent water from coming inside his house.Police officers said that on June 9 the accused took the child in his auto under the pretext of going out for a drive and took him to an isolated spot near Dharavali village at Madh in Malad, and smashed his head with a heavy stone. He then chopped off the boy’s head, said police officers.“On Friday, we received information from a local about a headless body of a boy near Dharavali. A team of police officers found the head around two to three metres away from the body. The body was partially decomposed, making it hard to identify,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 11, Vishal Thakur.A photograph of the body was circulated to all police stations to check if there was any missing complaint registered, following which Aarey police responded. “The description in the missing complaint of the child including the clothes was similar to those found on the body, so we called his parents to identify the body,” said Thakur.His parents informed the police about an argument with Bahadur earlier in the month, following which Bahadur was called for questioning, said Thakur. “During questioning, Bahadur confessed to the crime,” said Thakur. A case of kidnapping and murder will now be registered at Aarey police station, and further probe will be conducted. “On Sunday, Aarey police officials will produce the accused before a court to get his custody,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/auto-driver-arrested-for-killing-13-year-old/story-7Wie2jBi4MToGTTiFzkdsO.html
19-07-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: Statement of film-maker Aditya Chopra recorded||Aditya Chopra, film-maker and chairman of Yash Raj Films, on Saturday recorded his statement with the Bandra police, in connection with last month’s death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Bandra police called him to Versova police station where they recorded his statement, which took over three hours. Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police, zone 9, said, “We have recorded his statement in an ongoing investigation of Sushant’s death.”On June 14, Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment, following which a detailed probe was ordered to find the cause. Mumbai Police have recorded the statements of 36 people, including his cook Neeraj Singh, househelp Keshav Bachner, manager Deepesh Sawant, creative manager Siddharth Ramnath Murti Pithani, sisters Neetu and Meetu Singh, father KK Singh, actor Mahesh Shetty, casting director Mukesh Chhabra, business manager Shruti Modi, PR manager Ankita Tehlani, actor Rhea Chakraborty, film-maker Sanjay Leela Bhansali, employees of Yash Raj Films, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-statement-of-film-maker-aditya-chopra-recorded/story-As74gkAszbmQa0R25W4BwO.html
19-07-2020||City||Thane relaxes curbs as cases dip for third day||While Thane saw the highest number of Covid-19 patients being discharged in a single day, Navi Mumbai recorded its third-highest single-day spike on Saturday, pushing the total number of cases in the city past the 11,000 mark. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has issued orders to ease the lockdown in the city from 5pm today. Restrictions remain in place for Kalyan-Dombivli, Navi Mumbai and other cities in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR).On Saturday, Thane city continued its trend of the past three days and reported a declining number of Covid-19 cases. The city recorded 342 new cases and 10 deaths, raising its tally to 15,516. The death toll is 547. Around 1,277 patients were discharged on Saturday, which is the highest number to be discharged in a single day in the city. Thane’s recovery rate has risen from 52% to 64%.TMC issued guidelines relaxing the lockdown in Thane city from 5pm today allowing standalone shops and markets to open. Residents are allowed to go for walks. “Except for malls, markets and commercial places within housing societies, all other shops can open from 9am till 5pm on odd-even day basis. In containment zones, only medical shops and essential services will be permitted. All the relaxations of Mission Begin Again will be permitted in Thane,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.The lockdown will not be relaxed in the 27 containment zones in Thane city.TMC also sent notices to 15 privately-run Covid hospitals on Saturday for overcharging patients. A special audit committee, instituted by civic commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma, identified 196 people who had been overcharged by 15 hospitals. “The corporation received around 1,752 complaints. Till now, the committee has identified 196 people who were overcharged. The respective hospitals have been given notices. In response, if the hospital is unable to prove its innocence, it will have to refund the patient,” said TMC commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma. The total refund for all 196 patients is ₹27 lakh.The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has also registered four complaints of overcharging by hospitals in the past two days.On Saturday, KDMC recorded 475 new cases of Covid-19, taking its tally to 15,240, of which 6,221 are active. Nine deaths were recorded taking the toll to 240.Navi Mumbai recorded 352 new cases of Covid-19, which is the third-highest single-day spike. The total number of cases in the city is 11,138. Ten deaths were also reported, raising the death toll to 340. Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar has cancelled leaves, public holidays and weekly offs for all civic employees to tackle the spread of Covid-19.The Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 125 new cases and two deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Panvel is 4,739 and the death toll is 110.The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) recorded 67 new cases. The total number of Covid cases is 1,834, of which 1,188 are active. The city also recorded three deaths while death toll is 29.The Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC) recorded 64 new cases and four deaths. In total, the city has recorded 3,030 Covid-positive cases and 116 deaths. Badlapur city recorded 67 new cases, bringing its total to 1,834. The death toll is 29. Bhiwandi saw 57 new cases and seven deaths. Altogether, Bhiwandi has 3,063 cases, of which 688 are active. The death toll is 173.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-relaxes-curbs-as-cases-dip-for-third-day/story-FDqWXw7jE3j77G6cF0snpN.html
19-07-2020||City||UP to conduct more rapid antigen tests, use drones to monitor containment zones||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, during a video conferencing with officials of different districts on Friday night, directed that antigen testing be ramped up and drone cameras be used for monitoring containment zones, besides having special cleanliness and sanitisation drives every weekend.Adityanath directed the health department to conduct a minimum of 500 rapid antigen daily in districts having a population less than 25 lakh and 1,000 such tests daily in districts having a population exceeding 25 lakh. The state health department has been directed to ensure that sufficient kits -- 5,000 in smaller districts and 10,000 in big districts -- be made available.“Although Adityanath has directed that 1,000 antigen tests be conducted in districts like Ghaziabad that have a population exceeding 25 lakh, we will be conducting up to 3,000-3,500 antigen tests daily. The 1,000 tests per day limit is a minimum but we plan to do more for about a month in order to filter out all suspected cases of ILI(influenza like illness) and SARI (severe acute respiratory infections). Once comprehensive testing is done, we expect that active containment of Covid-19 infection will help reduce the number of cases,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate.Overall, till July 17, the Ghaziabad district has a total of 3,902 Covid-19 cases and 63 deaths,of which 1,560 cases are currently active. The district has tested 61,292 samples till July 17 which includes 30,497 antigen tests.The district magistrate also said he had roped in a ‘sector scheme’ which was a component meant for better enforcement in containment zones in areas such as Khoda, Loni and Vaishali.“We have on our radar areas which have a high number of cases since March. So, we have also planned that sector scheme may be implemented in localities if the cases fail to reduce. This will help in breaking the chain of infection and has helped us previously in the three localities. Through our records, we have also come to know about people who are yet to be traced. We are taking the help of police surveillance,” Pandey added.According to the latest list of containment zones, as of July 10, the district has 189 category-1 zones (having one case) and 173 category-2 zones (having more than one case).According to health department’s mapping figure, as of July 14, the district had 3,458 cases, with Karhera-2 segment comprising Indirapuram, Makanpur and Kanawani localities having the highest number cases at 403, while the segment of Sahibabad-2, comprising areas of Lajpat Nagar, Rajendra Nagar and Shalimar Garden had 261 cases. This was followed by Carte segment having localities of Kavi Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Nehru Nagar with 238 cases.The Ghaziabad police said they have two drones available with them but they are also making use of drones available with private agencies for monitoring containment areas and weekend curfew.“The SHOs of all the 18 police station areas have been asked to rope in surveillance drones to ensure strict adherence to weekend restrictions. In our drive since March, we have lodged 2,339 FIRs against different persons for violation of lockdown norms,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police.According to police records, they have fined 31,663 persons till July 17 for not wearing a mask. On this account, police have collected about ₹39 lakh in fines. Till July 17, they have also penalised 5,766 persons for violating lockdown norms and health protocols.MISMATCH IN GHAZIABAD’s COVID TALLY The daily health bulletin released by the state control room on July 18 had mismatch figures for Ghaziabad district as it displayed total 3,902 cases, the same figure reported on July 17.On July 17, the control room figures stood at overall 3,902 cases including 2279 patients discharged from hospitals, 63 deaths and 1560 active cases. The figure included 139 fresh cases as well.However, on July 18, the figures indicated 2,305 patients discharged from hospitals, 63 deaths and 1,534 active cases, while the cases reported in the last 24 hours were 104 and 26 patients had been discharged. The total figure released on July 18 should have been 3,980.“There is a mismatch in the data of the control room as their count includes some duplicate records and some cross-notified patients who have been (transferred) to other districts. But this is not indicated in the report. We will convey the issue to the control room,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-to-conduct-more-rapid-antigen-tests-use-drones-to-monitor-containment-zones/story-nMUDqIQVC9WsIJyThHgW9I.html
19-07-2020||Gurugram||Residents allege DHBVN issuing inflated power bills based on average||Residents of a number of upscale residential colonies in the city have alleged that they have been served inflated electricity bills as these were calculated on the basis of average usage rather than the actual meter reading. The residents also said that bills for the months of May and June have not been delivered and have been delayed in many areas.They said that they were apprehensive that these would also be on the higher side than the actual usage as readings have not been taken. Residents of Sushant Lok 1, south city 1, sectors 57, 46 and 45, in particular, have been affected and allege that despite repeated calls and messages to Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), there has been no action.Ajay Sharma, a resident of sector 57 who bought a house in a Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) sector in the middle of last year, said he was shocked when he was given a bill for Rs50,000 for the month February and March.“The bill is almost ten times my average monthly bill. I tried to check my past usage through online records but the maximum amount that can be arrived at through this is Rs 20,000. I have spoken to officials through the call centre but every time a complaint or docket number is raised and the matter is automatically shows as ‘resolved’ after 15 days by them, and an SMS is sent to me, without any redressal,” said Sharma, who now plans to lodge a written complaint in this matter.In the neighbouring sector 56, resident Kriti Agarwal said on twitter that they have not received electricity bills for months. “In fact, we have raised this matter but are told soon or next week,” she wrote.Lokesh Madan, a resident of Sushant Lok 1, said that since March the utility officials have not taken meter reading in their area and no physical inspection has taken place despite the relaxation of lockdown.“We have been issued a bill of Rs30,000 for two months based on the average usage but it is inflated, as a realistic and correct assessment would never make it exceed Rs15,000 to Rs16,000. I have complained to the authorities on their web portal but nothing has happened,” he said.Dr AK Nagpal, another resident of Sushant Lok 1, said a large number of residents there had not received their bills and this was causing worry as delays meant inflated bills or penalty for consumers.Yatendra Nath Jha, a resident of South City 1 said that the bill issued to him has been calculated on a flat rate instead of applying slabs. “The authority should clarify on these things and rebates and show some consideration during the pandemic. My bill is almost double my usage,” he said.In neighbouring sectors 45, 46 and 47, apart from the problem of delay in bills and higher charges, the residents are also grappling with the problem of acute power cuts that occur daily and are making lives of residents miserable. “We are suffering both problems of delayed and inflated bills and also power cuts which continue for four to five hours,” said RS Yadav, president, sector 46 residents’ welfare association.The residents also said that the problem was more acute in colonies on the eastern side of the highway as compared to parts of the old city and across the highway.KC Agarwal, chief engineer, DHBVN, Gurugram did not reply on the matter despite repeated phone calls and messages.Manoj Yadav, superintendent engineer, DHBVN, Gurugram 1, however, said that above said areas were not in his jurisdiction but maintained that areas under his jurisdiction that included old city and colonies around it had been served bills that were based on metre reading. “Our bills have been issued on time and these are based on actual readings. Despite that, if there is a concern we will resolve it,” he said.When asked about the matter, Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh Chautala said that he would certainly ask the DHBVN officials in Gurugram to look into the issues faced by city residents and ensure that they are resolved at the earliest.“If people are facing issues with regard to electricity supply or related matters, they can approach me directly through social media or can drop a message on my phone number 94160-48386. All matters pertaining to consumers are taken very seriously and resolved by concerned power utilities,” said Chautala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-allege-dhbvn-issuing-inflated-power-bills-based-on-average/story-kU4Xnim9ipuWWcOjfumhgK.html
19-07-2020||Noida||Noida school teen death: Chancellor, wife booked for murder||The chancellor of a city-based private boarding school, has been booked by the Noida Police on Friday for murder and causing disappearing of evidence, along with his wife in connection with the death of a 14-year-old Haryana girl who was found hanging in the establishment on July 3.The incident had come to light on July 12, nine days after the girl’s death, when a video of her mother went viral. In the video, the mother had alleged that her daughter was a target of foul play and the hostel authorities had dubbed her death as a suicide case as part of a cover-up. A suicide note had been reportedly recovered at the spot in which the girl had alleged that no one was responsible for her death.The family of the girl, who was a class 10 student, had filed a complaint with the local police in Haryana and also wrote to the state chief minister saying they suspect foul play in their daughter’s death and that she could have been murdered. Following this, the Noida police took suo motu cognizance of the matter and launched a probe into the incident. A case was registered on Friday against the school’s chancellor and his wife at the Sector 49 police station, under which the private boarding school falls, under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code. “A probe is underway. We are awaiting the result of the forensic examination of the alleged suicide note which was recovered from the spot. Meanwhile, statements of everyone concerned- the family, the suspects, the school staff, other students among others- will be recorded,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.The family of the deceased said they were against hushing up the matter, and how the school authorities allegedly forced to perform the last rites of their daughter girl without informing the police. According to the mother, her daughter was in Class 10 and was studying at the school along with her younger sister and brother. The family had dropped the kids off at school on June 18 for their final exams.“The way the school authorities tried to hide the whole matter shows that there was something wrong that happened. There was no reason for my daughter to take her own life. I just want them to be brought to justice for their role in her death,” said the mother.According to the family members, they had received a call from their eldest daughter’s boarding school on July 3 to come to the school at the earliest. “They wouldn’t tell us anything. They simply asked us to come there at the earliest. We immediately rushed to the spot. What we saw their filled us with horror. Our daughter’s body was hanging from a fan. The hostel management took our phones away and told us that she had taken her own life. They even claimed that she had left a suicide note behind,” the girl’s mother had earlier said. The family had further alleged that the school forced them to sign a non-disclosure and the body was cremated, without the police being informed.The police had earlier said that the school was wrong for not reporting the girl’s death to them.The chancellor has, however, denied all allegations of foul play.“Everything happened with the consent of the girl’s family. My wife and I don’t even live in the school premises. But we are cooperating with the investigation, and are ready to provide all information. The police have also checked the CCTV camera footage from near our house to verify our whereabouts from that day. We only came to the school after we found out about her death,” said Jayandra Prakash, the school’s chancellor.Notes were also reportedly recovered from the girl’s school bag in which she had written about some “troubles” in her life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-school-teen-death-chancellor-wife-booked-for-murder/story-8MgyWPfE4NRV3mYVR8AQEP.html
19-07-2020||Noida||PG students perform risky liver procedure, save 71-yr-old Covid patient’s life||Taking serious notes of the deteriorating condition of a 71-year-old male Covid-19 patient, who had a huge amount of pus in his liver, two post-graduate (PG) residents of Sharda hospital, on Friday evening, successfully drained his liver abscess with the help of needles. Though still on ventilator, the patient is reportedly recovering and is now out of danger, sources at the hospital said.Dr Vani Dutta, a PG student of general surgery at the Sharda Institute of Medical Sciences, said it was a case of alcoholic liver disease, complicated with liver abscess. “Added to these complications was the fact that the patient was diagnosed with coronavirus (Covid-19) disease five days ago and admitted here. Because of Covid-19 and the expanding abscess, the patient went into a state of shock and was resuscitated in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Covid ward,” she said. She added that since the drainage was necessary, she and another PG student of radiology Dr Aanchal (single name), decided to take a final call without further ado. “When it’s about a patient’s life on the edge, Covid scare is the last thing on our mind. Under the ultrasound guidance through video conferencing by our medical superintendent (MS) Dr Ashutosh Niranjan and head of radiology department Dr Vishal Gupta, we started performing the drainage procedure. It was really a moment of pride for us when the patient felt well enough to himself ask for water and eatables this morning,” she said.Appreciating the efforts of these young medicos, the hospital’s MS, Dr Ashutosh Niranjan, said tackling such complicated cases in pandemic times is a great sign of their brilliance. “Liver abscess is a mass filled with pus inside the liver. Common causes are abdominal conditions such as appendicitis or diverticulitis due to haematogenous spread through the portal vein. Had it not been done on time by our young students, it could have caused a major liver injury, which often takes the life of the patient. Their commitment will also inspire many doctors who prefer not to work fearing for their lives. Our PG students never shy away from treating Covid-positive patients,” he said.It should be noted here that as many as seven doctors and 47 nurses of the Sharda hospital did not report to duty last month, fearing for their lives due to the pandemic. However, after the state government decided to book them under the Pandemic Act if they remain absent, most of them resumed their duties recently. Incidentally, as many as 100 out of a total of 125 PG students of the Sharda Institute are presently working in Covid wards of the hospital.Dr Gyanendra Kumar, officer on special duty (OSD) to the state government and a professor at the Jhansi medical college, said that draining pus from the liver is never an easy task, even for trained doctors. “First of all, all credit goes to the bright students, and secondly, it is the high-end technology available at the hospital that boosts the morale of the doctors and students there,” he said.Hailing the efforts taken by these PG students, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY also said that these young hands are the real torch-bearers during this pandemic crisis. “I think it will spread a positive message among other doctors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-pg-students-perform-risky-liver-procedure-save-71-year-old-covid-patient-s-life/story-jeMGWBVPD0U1ETWT9QnWjK.html
19-07-2020||Noida||Noida residents complain of inflated water bills||Several residents in the city are complaining of inflated water bills received from the Noida authority. Residents from many areas including sectors 28, 29, and 37 among others claimed that despite paying the water bills for the 2019-2020 financial year, the amount has been wrongly added to their current water bill. They are also miffed about being forced to go to the authority’s water department office to get the water bill corrected amid the coronavirus disease pandemic. “There is some technical error in the system of the water department that is calculating the bills wrongly and adding previous year’s amount, which was already paid, to the new bill. The shocking thing is that the authority’s website itself states that I had paid the last year’s water bill in full. But the amount was still added to the new bill. I am above 75 years and had to stand for an hour in a queue during this pandemic to get this corrected,” said colonel (retired) Diwakar Sharma, who is a resident of Sector 37. Sharma said he had paid last year’s water bill of ₹3,000 and he had the receipt for it too. However, the water bill for this year is ₹6,300 water bill which wrongly includes last year’s bill year as well, he said.“When I showed the officials at the counter at the water department office the last year’s receipt then they got it corrected. But like me, many others need to needlessly visit the water department to get their bills corrected during this tough time when social distancing has to be maintained strictly,” colonel (retd.) Sharma said.Several other residents are similarly irked with inflated water bills. “I had paid my last year’s bill amounting to₹2,850 and the payment was visible on the Noida authority’s portal as well. However, the authority generated a new bill including the last year’s amount. This is bizarre, the authority is troubling its consumers for no reason especially when we are going through an unprecedented time” said Gaurav Sahrawat, a resident of Sector 28.Elderly people said they find it even more difficult to go out to get their water bills corrected when they should stay home and keep themselves safe during the coronavirus pandemic.“At a time when we are supposed to maintain social distancing, we are being forced to go to these offices to get our bill’s corrected when the proof of our last year’s payment is on the authority’s website already,” a senior citizen, who did not wish to be named, said.The Noida authority officials said that there is some error in their system that is causing inconvenience to consumers and the glitch will be fixed soon. “We are addressing the issues being faced by our consumers. Consumers who had deposited their last year’s bill at our counter via cash might be getting inflated bills. The online system might have skipped these payments. We will, however, address the grievance and ensure the errors are corrected to ensure no new consumer faces this issue,” said BM Pokhriyal, deputy general manager, Noida authority. The authority had on May 3 increased water tariff by 7.5% amid the Covid-19 pandemic facing flak from consumers who were demanding relief from bills. As per the old rates the authority charges ₹175 per month from a middle-income group (MIG) flat owner; ₹210 per month from a high-income group flat owner; and, ₹ 260 from a duplex flat owner. An owner of a 200 square metre plot needs to pay ₹ 250 per month and the authority charges ₹470 per month from the owner of a 350 square metre plot. Now beginning from April 1, 2020 each consumer will have to pay 7.5% more, said officials of the Noida authority. Generally, the consumers pay their bills annually at the end of a financial year in April, said, officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-residents-complain-of-inflated-water-bills/story-Ty6GurkuPAzH5WbefzRI1L.html
19-07-2020||City||Witerati: My big fat Indian Zoom minus Dhoom wedding!||This piece has been inspired by infiltrators of an interesting sort in these times of “Chini Kum” narratives, by creatures scripting ‘virtual’ infiltration narratives into the other kind of LAC – Line of Audio Control. Where else, but on Google Hangouts or Zoom. And where the infiltrators are crossing all lines of etiquette enabling Zoom’s zero-background intrusion protocol, there it tantamounts to infiltration of the Line of Aesthetic Control.Like the tell-all tales in Donald Trump’s new biopic, Too Much And Never Enough, by niece Mary, these infiltrators, in this season of pandemic where Virtual is the New Real, come in all shapes, sizes and surprises.Not all lungs are as gifted or garrulous as those appended to the anatomies of the Prattlemouths of Primetime – Arnab, Chaubey & Co – to have the power to drown decibel-ism from the background that the Zoom call may be inviting onscreen, the way a roaring lion outshouts the whimpers or whining of lesser creatures who deign to air their lungs just when the King of the Jungle is jibber-jabbering his jingle.A portrait of peculiar tribes of Tweeple guilty of infiltrating into Zoom’s LAC. And how!Of Far From The Migrating CrowdPicture this. Lollita is on a Zoom call with CEOs, Colleagues & Co, deconstructing and deliberating how jobs have been robbed by recession. Bingo, barging into the background is a floating form of recession – the receding hairline of Lalit ji or Lamba ji.Inadvertent intrusion, for he happened to be tiptoeing into the other room and was manoeuvring to materialise this migration by ducking down almost on all fours so as not to be caught on Zoom, much like monkeys at a Hanuman Mandir crawling to creep off with your Chanel clutch without being spotted. Alas, Lamba ji or Lalit ji’s bald pate somehow strayed onto screen to stage a guest appearance. Love it or hate it (oops, pate it).Now, if this had been a scene from the 2014 romcom Khoobsurat in which the heroine Mili (Sonam Kapoor) is having her “Maa Ka Phone Aaya” moment – a video call on the terrace with mom Manju (Kirron Kher) – and just then, the hero decides to stroll into the background and even stray into the video call, Lollita & Co wouldn’t really mind it. Nor would the peers on the Zoom call. For, who minds if peers get to peer at eye candy and who minds flaunting a dandy, as dapper as Pakistani heart-throb Fawad Khan.Alas, when Lollita is twaddling with colleagues about their company’s fiscal deficits, it isn’t the most opportune moment to expose her household’s follicle deficits.Or just when Lollita is pontificating on a pandemic webinar about mid-caps or middle-class survival, it isn’t the best of times for the middle anatomies of the migrating population on home turf to raise their heads, virtually. That smacks so much of actor Kajol’s baby bump playing a cameo, where else but in a song in KJo flick Kal Ho Naa Ho.Best is to be ready for a realistic remedy – of being pushed up against the wall. But if the wall doesn’t boast backdrops as oomph-y as The Oprah Winfrey Show studio or as museum-y as The Louvre, or even as clinically cerebral as a Rajdeep Sardesai and Arnab Goswami news studio – the sort of setting conducive to the “Nation Wants To Know” brand of squeaky screen presence – then the only way to keep creeping ‘n’ crawling populations out of the Zoom backdrop is to migrate one’s screen countenance in sync. When in (Zoom) roam, do as the roamers do.If facial migration fails, as badly as Donald Trump’s dumb tweets or even dumber histrionics, simply stick your face up close and personal into the webcam such that fellow Zoomers can even count the blackspots on your nasal bridge. After all, in these pandemic times, Zoom-ing is but the only bridge between Tweeple.The curious case of Zoomers zinging, “Honey, I shrunk the creeps!”Of Band Baaja Baarat & Beyond LACThen, there is the infiltration by Biradri, BFFs, Bulldogs & Co into Zoom’s Line of Audio Control.Zoom is New Normal’s Banquet Hall and Marriage Palace. From virtual sangeet ceremonies to cacophonous Antakshri rituals to saat pheras saat samundar paar, Zoom is the new ‘Band Baaja Baarat’ stage for the Great Garrulous & Ghee Fattened Indian Family. But it’s not only the Zoom screen that’s staging the Kith, Kin & Canines’ Day Out, as in the shaadi of SpuddyKat (Bengaluru bride Spandika Jayaraj) where a canine in Candy Cane Tie stole the show. Off-screen action may steal the show, too.Sample this. Lockdown’s Lamba ji or Lalit ji and family are all copiously congregating globally on Zoom for the third wedding of the second brother of their first cousin Larry or Lalli. Vows and wows waft from the Zoom wedding, which has upstaged My Big Fat Indian Dhoom Wedding, as the masked priest prattles, “Till Death Do Us Part … “Bingo, that very moment the pets of the household – Chihuahuas, Cats & Co – start tearing their teeth into Lamba ji or Lalit ji’s pyjama string (pyjamas and boxers being elevated to the New National Dress of India Quarantining and curiously constituting the casual bottom wear beneath the blue-collared or white-collared elitism or formalism of Zoom conferencing). And the pets ‘belt’ out their own canine chorus driven by similar sentiments stirred for the string, “Till Death Do Us Apart … “Lo behold, the Big Reinvented Zoom Minus Dhoom Wedding party gets ‘torn’ -- between listening to the vows and ‘bow-bows’.The curious case of Zoom staging 101 Dalmatians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/witerati-my-big-fat-indian-zoom-minus-dhoom-wedding/story-hN8Wwt4vMhCQZ2Vh4EYEkN.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Except final year, all Panjab University students to be promoted||Panjab University has decided to promote all students except those in the final year, as per the new academic calendar issued for the 2020-21 session. Also, online classes for the ongoing courses will start from August 3 at PU, its regional centres and affiliated colleges.However, the procedure to grade the students has not been decided yet. The vice-chancellor gave the final approval for the new academic calendar on Saturday. It was approved on Thursday by a committee constituted by the PU syndicate in its last meeting.As per the new calendar, the varsity will start the admission process for ongoing batches on July 27. Thereafter, online classes will start on August 3.The first academic term of the next session will end on November 28 and the semester examinations will be conducted from December 2 for 20 days, following which a winter break of nine days will be announced from December 25.A PU senator, requesting anonymity, said, “A policy about reduction in syllabus is also required keeping in mind the limitations of online teaching.”Also, during the first academic term of the next session, all Saturdays will be working. Besides this, duration of classes will be 40 minutes maximum. For under-graduate (UG) first-year, classes in PU and its affiliated colleges will start on September 1. The semester exams will be conducted in December.Former PU vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Grover said, “It is a wishful thinking at the moment but it is going to be a challenging task for PU and its affiliated colleges as well. How well prepared teachers and students are for online teaching remains a question.”PU dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla said, “After online classes start, we will identify students who don’t have requisite facilities. We will take necessary steps for them as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/except-final-year-all-panjab-university-students-to-be-promoted/story-rZuQDalGBoE0oXbRo2I7IP.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Missing 11-year-old girl lands in shelter home, family alleges police negligence||Due to the lack of coordination among various police wings in the city, an 11-year-old girl, who was reported missing from Mauli Jagran, ended up at Nari Niketan in Sector 26 here. As the Mauli Jagran police station failed to keep the police control room in loop, she was taken to the women shelter in a PCR vehicle after cops found her walking on the road alone three days ago.The girl’s mother said it was through a call from the shelter home that they got information about her daughter on Friday.On July 15, the girl’s mother had approached the Mauli Jagran police station and lodged a complaint, following which a case of kidnapping was registered. However, the police station was unaware that the child had already been found by a PCR vehicle and taken to the Nari Niketan.This comes after four cases of missing minor girls were recently reported at four different police stations on the same day.The 11-year-old stays with her aunt in Vikas Nagar in Mauli Jagran, while her mother and two brothers live in Daddu Majra colony along with her grandmother. “On July 15 around 1pm, she had gone out to play, but got lost on her way back home,” said the mother.Later when a PCR vehicle spotted the child, the cops tried talking to her, but she did not speak. The PCR then took her to Nari Neketan, and there too she could not share any information about her address.“Though intimation was sent to all the police stations regarding an 11-year-old having been found, but the Mauli Jagran police station did not respond,” alleged the mother.“Had the police acted in time the child would have been home sooner. Her medical examination has been done and we have met her. She is safe, but the two days when we did not know her whereabouts were like hell,” the mother added.She said she would visit the Nari Niketan on Monday to complete the formalities and bring her daughter home, though she would have to undergo quarantine in the wake of Covid-19 spread.When asked, Chandigarh Police public relations officer DSP Charanjit Singh said, “The child remembered her address of DMC only so the information was shared with the concerned police station, but no missing complaint was found there. It was only on July 17 that the Mauli Jagran police station got information that the child had been taken to Nari Niketan by officials of Bapu Dham police post on July 15. The Mauli Jagran SHO then contacted the Nari Niketan superintendent, who informed him that the child’s family was informed.”The girl is now safe and will be produced before the child welfare committee on July 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/missing-11-year-old-girl-lands-in-nari-niketan-family-alleges-police-incoordination/story-tX6mJdaRfGrMfyyOaT2VPI.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fearing infection, residents of Chandigarh’s Sector 11 demand shifting of Covid testing kiosks from market||The residents of Sector 11 here have been feeling unsafe lately due to their proximity to three Covid-19 testing kiosks set up on the road near their homes and possible exposure to infected patients.They have written to the administration, including UT adviser and director health services, asking that the facilities be shifted elsewhere.Punjab and Haryana high court advocate Anshuman Chopra, who lives right opposite to the Sector 11 market, said the situation had become bad only about two weeks back. “When the price for Covid testing was capped at Rs 2,000, more and more people got their tests done at the drive-through booth set up on the road. The World Health Organization has said that Covid-19 can be transmitted through air, so the citizens living nearby are concerned. Sometimes, it is hard for us to take out our vehicles as long queues could be blocking the road,” he said adding that he had written to the UT authorities about this a week ago, but no action has been taken.Market welfare association president Diwakar Sahoonja added, “Earlier, SRL Diagnostics Lab had one booth here, but about a week ago, Atulya labs have also opened two more kiosks on the other side of the road leading to more rush. When they come for Covid tests, people have to wait and they often get out of their vehicles to buy something to eat or drink, or to get photocopies of their ID proof, which are needed for the tests. This has got the shopkeepers very worried. Even customers are afraid to visit this market now and we have been steadily losing out on business.”Local area councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said residents and shopkeepers here had asked him to help in the matter. “Though the labs have the necessary permissions, I’m taking up the people’s concerns with the authorities so that the drive-in booths may be shifted to a spot away from the residential area.”‘DRIVE-THROUGHS SAFE, SET UP ALL OVER COUNTRY’Meanwhile, SRL regional chief operating officer (north and east) Anindya Chowdhury said, “We understand people’s apprehensions, but we assure them that they have nothing to be worried about. In the drive-through, there is no close contact so there is no chance of spread. The swab is taken through the car window so there is no aerosol generation. The booth and the vehicles are regularly sanitised. A hypo-solution is used for sanitisation after each sample is taken.”UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “These kiosks are just collection centres and have been built on the lines of other private Covid testing facilities throughout the country. The kiosks have been allowed by the government and the residents have nothing to be worried about.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fearing-infection-sector-11-residents-demand-shifting-of-covid-testing-kiosks-from-market/story-ZrnhVeFtRMvIVGEFqFLv6J.html
19-07-2020||Pune||City to get 6,227 isolation beds at 18 Covid-19 care centres being set up by PMC||Amid the rise in Covid-19 positive cases, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is in the process of setting up 18 Covid-19 Care Centres with a capacity of 6,227 isolation beds.As of Friday, the total count of progressive positive cases in Pune city stands at 34,040 and the virus-related death toll is 917.According to civic officials, most of these centres are being set up at hostels of educational institutes and work is already in progress.Rajendra Muthe, head, PMC estate department, said, “PMC is erecting Covid-19 Care Centres at 18 more places in the city. The main purpose of these centres is to create isolation facility for asymptomatic patients who have tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection.”“We are using hostels of educational institutes to set up these centres,” said Muthe.“PMC will provide food and medical facility at these centres. The capacity of these centres can be increased up to 9,000 beds if needed,” added Muthe.Presently, there are 32 Covid care centres erected by PMC in the city with a total bed capacity of 10,065 and 70 oxygen beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-to-get-6-227-isolation-beds-at-18-covid-19-care-centres-being-set-up-by-pmc/story-itt3JywOkN0B7zGnwNnVxO.html
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Retired IAF officer shoots himself dead in Chandigarh’s Sector 51||A 75-year-old retired Indian Air Force officer allegedly shot himself dead with his licensed pistol at his house on Friday night. The deceased lived with his daughter and grandson at the Police Society, Sector 51. His wife had died about a year back. No suicide note was found.Police said according to his daughter, the elderly man was depressed due to his prolonged illness. On Friday night, he pulled out his licensed pistol and shot himself in the temple. His body was found by his caretaker around 5am on Saturday. Police have sent the body for autopsy and initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/retired-iaf-officer-shoots-himself-in-chandigarh-s-sector-51/story-ijonHHpDk7Zc1nDh1ABgnK.html
