20-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s ex-CM Babulal Marandi ‘stamped’, put in home quarantine after Delhi return||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Jharkhand has accused the state government of targeting its legislature party leader Babulal Marandi, who was put in mandatory home quarantine by the administration after he returned from Delhi on Sunday night. A stamp of home quarantine was also put on Marandi’s hand upon his arrival at Ranchi airport from New Delhi. Marandi, a former chief minister, had gone to the national capital last week on a two-day trip for party-related work and had met Union home minister Amit Shah, besides top party functionaries. The state government had issued a notification last week underlining that anyone entering Jharkhand from any other state by any means of transport would have to stay in mandatory 14-day home quarantine. Reacting to Marandi’s quarantine, BJP MP Nishikant Dubey said it was an act of “desperation” on part of the Hemant Soren-led JMM government.State BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said the Soren government was scared of Marandi. “The fear of this government is for all to see. The Hemant Soren government has put a home quarantine stamp on the BJP legislature party leader’s hand. Why was the same stamp not put on the CM’s hands when he himself went into home quarantine for a week,” said Shahdeo.The JMM, meanwhile, said officials were only following protocol. “The government has issued a clear notification for all those coming to the state from outside. The rule applies to all,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-ex-cm-babulal-marandi-stamped-put-in-home-quarantine-after-delhi-return/story-CGgIMLJthKCUHuDCGohKbJ.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||Hand over 185ha Mahim mangroves to us: Forest department to collectors||The Maharashtra forest department has requested the transfer of crucial mangrove forests at south-central Mumbai extending from Dharavi to where the Mithi river meets the Arabian Sea along Mahim creek.Citing increasing threats due to encroachments and debris dumping, the state mangrove cell wrote to the Mumbai city and suburban district collectors to hand over 184.87 hectare (ha) area to the forest department for better protection.“This is the first correspondence by us in 29 years based on directions issued by the Bombay high court (HC) in 2018. It took us some time to study the area’s expanse and coordinates before making the transfer request,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).“It is essential to protect this patch from encroachments, curtail developmental pressures and other allied threats to mangrove trees that act as a natural barrier against flooding at the mouth of the Mithi river,” said Tiwari.Environmentalists had been demanding the move for over three decades as it could allegedly threaten the flood plains of Mithi river.The area was declared as protected forests under section 29 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 on March 16, 1991, and includes a major section of the 15 ha Maharashtra Nature Park (MNP) in Mahim. HT has reviewed the letter that was issued on Friday.In September 2018, the HC had directed all state agencies along the Konkan coast to hand over mangrove forests under their jurisdiction to enhance protection. Despite repeated reminders, transfer of over 2,000 ha mangrove area remains pending, the cell confirmed.Tiwari added that the latest transfer request was further set in motion following a meeting with the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA) commissioner earlier this year. “Rising encroachments were identified as a worrying issue. Our letter is marked to MMRDA based on decisions taken during the meeting,” he said.However, MMRDA commissioner RA Rajeev said, “We need to study details of the letter first.”Meanwhile, Mumbai suburban deputy collector Vivek Gaikwad said the entire forest patch was under the city collector’s jurisdiction. However, the 1991 published government resolution included villages spread across Dharavi, Mahim, and Bandra as protected forests.Mahesh Ingle, superintendent (city survey and land records), Mumbai city collectorate said, “We are aware of the communication. Owing to Covid-19 related issues and less staff, we are yet to verify the contents of the letter with our land records. The matter will be taken up soon.”The petitioner before the HC environmentalist Debi Goenka said the land was notified as protected forest in 1991 after the intervention of the then Union environment minister Maneka Gandhi. “At the time the forest department did not have any staff but MMRDA took up the responsibility of securing the area. However, violations increased over the past three decades with minimal cognisance by state authorities and no deterrence. Transferring this forest land is a welcome move but we need to be wary that land remains protected and not further de-notified for future development,” said Goenka.In 2017, MMRDA had proposed to redevelop MNP and beautify it with a pedestrian-cycling bridge among other development plans. The plan was revived in February this year, and the 550-m bridge, connecting BKC to MNP, received MMRDA’s approval earlier this month.“It is high time MMRDA moves out and relinquishes their hold over MNP. All of MNP is a forest though only a part was notified in 1991. The forest minister should immediately instruct the department to take possession of MNP,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti. “If the forest land is transferred, MNP will be protected from encroachments and real estate sharks trying to develop Dharavi showing MNP as a ‘green space’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hand-over-185ha-mahim-mangroves-to-us-forest-department-to-collectors/story-g1G3u1BKQkyAb2o0GNmEuO.html
20-07-2020||Patna||Bihar’s ruling JD(U) gets in poll mode with ‘I am Nitish Kumar’ posters||Even as Opposition parties are pleading with the Election Commission of India to defer the Bihar assembly polls, scheduled in October-Novmeber, in view of the raging Covid-19 pandemic, the ruling Janata Dal (U) is going all out with its poll preparations, launching a poll poster with new tagline “Main hi hoon Nitish Kumar’ (I am Nitish Kumar)” on Sunday.The launch of the new poster comes a fortnight ahead of the virtual rally by chief minister and party president Nitish Kumar scheduled on August 7.The new banner reads: “Vikas path par chal pada Bihar, main uski hi kataar hoon. Bihar ki vikas mein, main chota sa bhagidaar hoon. Ha, main Nitish Kumar hoon. (Bihar is moving on development path. I am a small stakeholder. Yes, I am Nitish Kumar.”“It is a reflection of the public sentiment, who see Nitish Kumar as a man of development, who is both honest and farsighted... It will strike an instant rapport with sympathizers and electors,” said JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Sinha.Except perhaps for the BJP and JD (U), all other parties have put a brake on their poll-related activities. Even Lok Janshakti Patry chief and NDA partner Chirag Paswan on July 10 had echoed Leader of Opposition Teajsahwi Prasad Yadav’s concern over the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases and joined him in demanding postponement of polls in view of the infection threat, which may also lead to low voter turnout.On Friday, heads of Opposition parties, including Congress, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), Rashtriya Lok Samata Party, Loktantrik Janata Dal and Left parties, had also cautioned the CEC against holding the polls on schedule as it may turn into a “super spreader event”.However, the,JD(U) seems undeterred. Party leader and IPRD minister Neeraj Kumar said, “The poster will be put up in all corners of the state. Honest and development oriented person will feel proud in identifying themselves as Nitish Kumar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-ruling-jd-u-gets-in-poll-mode-with-i-am-nitish-kumar-posters/story-sVpOaUj3f8rw1F5vAD9FON.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC chief seeks cancellation of transfer of three head draftsmen||Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has asked the local bodies department to cancel the transfer order of three head draftsmen, citing staff shortage in the Ludhiana municipal corporation’s (MC) building branch.In a letter to the director of local bodies department, Sabharwal said Ludhiana MC is the biggest MC in the state, but the lowest number of staffers are deputed in the building branch compared to other MCs. There are six posts of assistant town planners (ATPs), of which four are lying vacant. Only four building inspectors are working in the MC against the sanctioned posts of 18.Due to this, three head draftsmen, namely Harvinder Singh, Mohan Singh and Satish Malhotra were deputed as ATPs. But, they were transferred by the local bodies department in an order on July 15. Sabharwal said this will affect the working of the building branch, which has to keep a check on illegal constructions and recover dues from residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-chief-seeks-cancellation-of-transfer-of-three-head-draftsmen/story-4b09OnL9mH8MCRNVNP9tlK.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||Will see if political social distancing is followed: Sanjay Raut on Ram Mandir ceremony||Barely days after the date for the foundation-laying ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya was finalised, Shiv Sena said that it will see if “political social distancing” is followed in invitations to various people, including Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the Sena chief does not need an invitation to visit Ayodhya.Prime minister Narendra Modi is expected to visit Ayodhya for the bhoomi pujan ceremony of the Ram Mandir on August 5. Following that there were speculations if Thackeray, whose party has been at the forefront of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement since the late 1980s, would be invited.BJP and Shiv Sena stitched the political alliance in the backdrop of the movement and Hindutva ideology in Maharashtra in 1989. The former allies, BJP and Sena, have parted ways late last year after the latter formed a government in Maharashtra with the support of the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party.“I have heard through the media that the date for the ceremony has been decided. The Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas (Trust) has given an invitation to the prime minister. So he would go to Ayodhya on this occasion, we regularly keep going to Ayodhya. They will decide on the invitation, how many people to call, how to maintain social distancing. It is also to be seen if they follow political ‘social distancing’,” Raut said in an apparent jibe at the BJP. He added that the Sena chief has been visiting Ayodhya regularly even before he became the chief minister and will continue to do so.Raut, meanwhile, added that the party has “paved the way” for the construction of the Ram temple and it was instrumental in removing “obstacles” for it. “Shiv Sena has a connection with Ayodhya and it will remain eternally. It is not a political connection. Shiv Sena has never gone to Ayodhya for political gains. The road for Ram Mandir was paved by the Shiv Sena. The obstacles for the Ram Mandir were cleared by the Shiv Sena, not for politics, but because of [our] faith and for Hindutva,” he said speaking to reporters in Mumbai.Meanwhile, party legislator from Thane, Pratap Sarnaik wrote the head trustee of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust saying Thackeray be invited for the foundation ceremony as the chief guest considering party’s contribution to the movement. In the letter dated July 20, Sarnaik said that in the backdrop of the coronavirus outbreak guests would be limited but political parties and organisations who have been directly or indirectly associated with the construction of the Ram Mandir should be invited. Sarnaik in the letter said, “On the occasion of the bhoomi pujan you are inviting prime minister Narendra Modi. Similarly, you would invite Uddhav ji Thackeray as a chief guest for the bhoomi pujan ceremony. Scores of followers of Lord Ram wish that there would not be any politics over this event. Everyone is aware of what stand was taken by Shiv Sena party founder’s son and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for the construction of Ram Mandir.”On Sunday, South Mumbai MP and former union minister Arvind Sawant said that the Sena does not bother about an invitation to visit Ayodhya. He added that Thackeray during his last visit donated Rs 1 crore on behalf of the party to the temple trust for the construction of the Ram Mandir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-see-if-political-social-distancing-is-followed-sanjay-raut-on-ram-mandir-ceremony/story-SGW9Iv9EPVtDaoqeBvbyxN.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||Man cuts 25 birthday cakes with sword, arrested; 30 others booked||Bandra police on Monday arrested a 25-year-old man for cutting his birthday cake with a sword on the terrace of his building. He is also booked for violating social distancing and lockdown norms by inviting 30 guests to attend the party.According to police, the accused, Haris Khan had called over 30 people to the terrace of his building on Saturday midnight and was seen cutting 25 cakes with a sword. The video of the celebration was then shared by social activist Mohsin Shaikh with the Mumbai police commissioner. “I got this video from one of my friends, after which I alerted the commissioner of police, Mumbai, and also tweeted about it,” said Shaikh.Bandra police officers said that all the accused were booked as they failed to maintain social distancing and were not even wearing face masks, while Khan was booked under the Arms Act for using a sword. Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police, zone 9 confirmed the arrest.Hemant Phad, assistant police inspector (API) from Bandra police said, “We have recovered the sword which was used for the cake cutting. We will also take appropriate actions against others who were present at the party.”Khan and guests who attended the celebrations are booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and section 4 (licence for acquisition and possession of arms of specified description in certain cases) and 25 (punishment for possession of arms) of Arms Act and section 37(1) (power to prohibit certain acts for prevention of disorder), 135 (penalty for contravention of rules) of the Maharashtra Police Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-cuts-25-birthday-cakes-with-sword-arrested-30-others-booked/story-AFQ25EIUZyVPALI95nBMFJ.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||38-year-old man stabbed to death, four arrested||Tilak Nagar police on Monday arrested four persons for killing a 38-year-old man with sword and knives in Vidyavihar area.According to police, on Sunday night the accused were celebrating Gatari Amavasya feast. “They were celebrating the feast, when at around 8.30pm, a heated argument broke out between the victim Jitendra Gagada and the accused Aniket Gaitadake, 24. The accused and Gaitadake were sitting separately in an open area, near the railway quarters in Vidyavihar and were consuming alcohol. Gagada asked the accused and his friends to not to make much noise. This enraged Gaitadake and he and along with his friends stabbed him multiple times with sword and knives and fled from the spot,” said a police officer.Tilak Nagar police arrested all the four accused in the case on Monday morning and produced them before a local court, which remanded them to police custody till July 24. The murder of Gagada was a result of past enmity, said a police officer. Apart from Gagada, police also arrested his younger Atish Gaitadake, 23, and his friends Santosh Raghubir Singh, 32, and Akshay Pradeep Rewale, 25. Police said that except for Rewale all others have past cases of assault at Tilak Nagar police station.Jitendra was rushed to Rajawadi Hospital by his son and family members. However, he succumbed to his injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/38-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death-four-arrested/story-aewLvn2LVx0ipRiXWesVbP.html
20-07-2020||City||2015 sacrilege casesShare replies with each other: CBI court to accused, complainant||Mohali The court of special CBI judge, Gurkirpal Singh Sekhon, on Monday, hearing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) appeal to restrain the special investigating team (SIT) that the Punjab government has formed for investigating the Behbal Kalan and Bargari sacrilege cases of 2015, directed the complainant and accused to share the copies of the replies filed by them with each other. The court deferred the hearing for July 29. The judge warned all counsels that ‘the party who will not argue the matter on the next date of hearing will be presumed to be not an interested party and the court will proceed as per the law.’On July 8, the CBI had moved the court urging it to stop DIG Ranbir Singh Khatra-led SIT from carrying out “parallel probe” in sacrilege cases. The move came two days after the SIT named Sirsa dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh as an accused in the 2015 theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib. The CBI plea has claimed that the agency is still conducting a probe in these cases and there can’t be two simultaneous investigations by two agencies in same cases.Punjab, in its reply to the court, filed through district attorneys Sanjiv Batra, and RK Salwan alleged that the CBI has, in an illegal and unjustified manner, withheld the handing over of the case files. “It is submitted that the said actions of the CBI clearly amount to contempt of the orders passed by the Supreme Court, the high court and the State of Punjab reserves its rights to take action with regard to the same,” the reply added. Advocate Gagan Pradeep Singh Bal, counsel for the complainant, has replied that the SIT investigation is not criminal contempt and it has the legality of doing investigation. Accused’s counsel RK Handa also filed an application, seeking interim stay to restrain the Punjab SIT to proceed further parallel investigation, till the pendency of the matter in this court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2015-sacrilege-casesshare-replies-with-each-other-cbi-court-to-accused-complainant/story-Etb8pGV4tAQVgQXqe45WBJ.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana:20-ft encroachments found along Buddha Nullah||With the district administrations starting the demarcation process of Buddha Nullah, encroachments of up to 20 feet have been found at different points. The process started on July 8, and so far, only around 5 km of 14.8 km has been inspected. A review meeting was also held at circuit house, wherein mayor Balkar Sandhu, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal took stock of the ongoing demarcation process. Officials of revenue and irrigation department were also present. One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said, “Even plots allotted by MC to its employees alongside the nullah are part of encroachments, as per records available with the revenue and drainage department. At Tajpur road dairy complex, the nullah’s width has been reduced by around 20 feet. Similarly, many other factories have also been established by encroaching upon the nullah. We have already marked over 80 encroachments and more will come to light when the process is completed in around 10 days.”Earlier, residents of New Kundanpuri area had rued that the width of the nullah had been reduced by around 20 feet in the last few decades as residents established houses by encroaching upon the nullah portion. Mayor Balar Sandhu said, “The private contractor and officials of different departments involved in the process have been told to expedite the process and submit the report regarding the same. After that, final notices will be served to owners to present documents. The encroachments will be removed to increase the nullah’s width.”The nullah is the main drain of the city and due to encroachments, its width has decreased and overflows almost every monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-20-ft-encroachments-found-along-buddha-nullah/story-w1lUJXliRnZtdYMChRTZPL.html
20-07-2020||City||Two Ludhiana men held with 3kg opium in Khanna||The Khanna police arrested two men with 3kg opium near Alour village on the Delhi-Ludhiana highway on Monday. The duo was identified as Rajesh Kumar of New Shimlapuri, Ludhiana, and Rijwan of Makkar Colony, Giaspura, Ludhiana.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh said the police installed a check post on the highway following a tip-off. There, the cops stopped a Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire car coming from Mandi Gobindgarh.On searching the car, the police recovered 3kg opium from it and impounded the vehicle. During investigation, the accused revealed that they procured the opium from a man in Uttar Pradesh and were headed to Ludhiana to sell it among addicts, the SSP said.Police have initiated an investigation to trace their network and retrieve their past criminal record.A case under Sections 18, 25, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was lodged at the Khanna Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-ludhiana-men-held-with-3kg-opium-in-khanna/story-0b3GibDe64rXXDVXJqITGJ.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh among 4 UTs on Digital Health Mission grid||Chandigarh is among four other union territories (UTs) in India that will get a strong public digital infrastructure with individuals, doctors and health facilities connected to a grid as part of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), the UT health department announced on Monday.NDHM will provide a comprehensive health ecosystem that will have digitally empowered individuals, doctors, and health facilities, facilitate electronic signatures, enabling paperless registrations and payments, leading to streamlining of healthcare information.Four systems are to be developed in the first phase which will be implemented in the UTs of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep and Puducherry.Among the first systems to be rolled out will be the digital health identifier, ‘swasthya account’, which will help individuals create their identity in the national healthcare system for ease of access to their personal health information.A comprehensive central repository known as ‘digi doctor’ will be made of all healthcare providers and practitioners (HCPs), uniquely identified in India, to provide a one-stop solution for streamlined medical practice.A health facility registry will collate information on healthcare facilities uniquely identified in India, which will maintain, store and facilitate exchange of standardised data.The system will digitise health records of patients, inclusive of various documents such as diagnostic report, discharge summary, and prescription, shared by various health establishments and doctors to help patients effectively manage their care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-among-4-uts-on-digital-health-mission-grid/story-Oa6VzPmTafuJjfZteJh0cL.html
20-07-2020||City||Punjab local bodies dept seeks AG’s opinion if civic body polls can be held in October||Chandigarh Punjab local bodies department has sought legal opinion from the state’s advocate general on whether the civic body polls can be held in October. “As per municipal laws, September first week is the deadline to finish the polling process, so we have to make sure whether or not we can go beyond that,” local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra said. The terms of nine municipal corporations and 117 municipal councils and notified area committees in Punjab came to an end between March 8 and April 26 this year, and as per the provisions of the Municipal Act, 1911, polls should take place within six months. As on date, government-appointed administrators are running these civic bodies. On Saturday, after a video conference with cabinet colleagues, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had said the polls would be conducted in October. The idea of conducting polls in September was dropped because the state government apprehended that the covid-19 pandemic would be at its peak then. At the meeting then, the ministers had said a final call would be taken after the assessing the pandemic situation. Cabinet ministers were divided over the poll schedule, with paddy procurement starting from October 1. “That’s also an issue because of 117 civic bodies, some are semi-rural and the residents would be busy in procurement,” said food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who comes from Ludhiana. He added, “I think the issue can be handled, as procurement picks up steam in the second week of October, and we want the polls to be over by then.”Mohindra added his department would complete work related to ‘wardbandi’ (delimitation of wards) by the end of the month. “The polls will have 50% reservation for women, in line with the state government’s policy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/local-bodies-dept-seeks-ag-s-opinionif-civic-body-polls-can-be-held-in-oct/story-qS2NtWg3KL5hDGz7rgnSfJ.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police destroys 40,000 litres of illicit liquor||Ludhiana The anti-smuggling wing of Ludhiana police on Sunday evening destroyed 40,000 litres of countrymade illicit liquor (lahan) recovered from banks of Sutlej River near Razapur and Bholewal villages. Police also recovered utensils used to prepare the liquor from the spot.Inspector Yashpal Sharma, in-charge of the anti-smuggling cell, said police conducted raid following a tip-off that bootleggers were brewing illicit liquor on the banks of Sutlej. He added that the bootleggers managed to escape, but police recovered the illicit liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-police-destroys-40-000-litres-of-illicit-liquor/story-G47Xgr2OULQTO5gX9mTmhI.html
20-07-2020||City||Stop shedding crocodile tears for farmers: Amarinder to Sukhbir||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday asked Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal to stop shedding crocodile tears over the plight of farmers, whose very existence was threatened by the farm ordinances that the Central government had passed, with the support of his party. Having given its full backing to the ordinances, which were clearly the first step towards the elimination of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime, the CM said that the SAD had lost all locus-standi to even pretend to care about the farmers, whose condition had deteriorated to abysmal levels.“Sukhbir should not forget that as Union minister, his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, was part of the Cabinet meeting that stamped its approval on the ordinances that will totally destroy Punjab’s farming community,” CM added.Ridiculing the SAD president’s offer to lead a delegation of farmer organisations to seek clarification from the Centre on the MSP, the CM said that Sukhbir was totally disconnected from the ground situation. He pointed out that the ordinances were completely against India’s federal structure, and were in line with the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee, which had also suggested dismantling the MSP structure.Having implemented the recommendation on the ordinances, the inference was logical that the MSP elimination would soon follow, he said, adding that Sukhbir was conveniently choosing to ignore that in order to protect the interests of SAD, in particular his own and his wife’s interests.“Left with no defence for SAD’s anti-farmer and anti-Punjab actions, Sukhbir was now trying, desperately, to save face with his offer,” added the CM.Amarinder claimed that the government, at the Centre, had failed to take a single initiative to protect farmers’ interests in the past six years, and thus neither farmers nor their representative organisations had any trust in their assurances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stop-shedding-crocodile-tears-for-farmers-amarinder-to-sukhbir/story-Sm2FjvHBqgl0bLjWDx7pTL.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi cop fights carjackers, seriously injured||A Delhi Police assistant sub-inspector (ASI) was seriously injured while resisting and fighting two armed men who attempted to rob him of his Maruti Swift car at gunpoint in outer Delhi’s Alipur Monday morning, police said.The policeman, Jagdish, suffered injuries to his head, nose, and face after the duo attacked him with bricks and a pistol’s butt. His three family members, including his wife and a one-and-a-half-year-old child, were inside the car when the carjacking attempt happened around 6.30 am.Some farmers working in the nearby fields and rushed to help the car’s occupants after hearing their screams for help. They thrashed the alleged carjackers before handing them over to the police. Both of them were injured and had to be hospitalised, police officers said.“The arrested men were identified as Rahul and Deepak. Their antecedents are being verified. A case has been registered against them,” deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Gaurav Sharma said.DCP Sharma said ASI Jagdish is posted in the security wing of Delhi Police. On Monday morning, the ASI and his family had left home for their relative’s home in Delhi in their Swift car. After driving some distance from their home, the ASI stopped the car on the roadside and was waiting for another family member.In the meantime, a police officer said, two men, arrived, pointed a gun at the ASI, who was not in the police uniform, and asked him to come out of the vehicle with the other occupants. The ASI tried to snatch their pistol and a scuffle broke out between them.“One of the assailants picked up a brick and hit Jagdish in his face and head. Despite being injured, the ASI foiled the carjacking attempt and managed to overpower the duo with the help of some farmers,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-fights-carjackers-seriously-injured/story-IZZI19mhXqnD1rssR6W6oN.html
20-07-2020||City||JNU set to get Centre’s nod for projects worth Rs 450 crore||New Delhi: The Union human resource development ministry is learnt to have decided in favour of approving projects worth Rs 450 crore for Jawaharlal Nehru University which includes five new hostel blocks, building for its management school, an incubation centre and an advanced animal research building.According to a person aware of the developments, the university had submitted a detailed plan, seeking a Rs 450-crore loan for setting up hostel complexes and other important infrastructure projects.“The university has written to the HRD ministry seeking a Rs 450 crore loan for several key projects, including new hostels. The university had given a presentation about the projects. In a meeting held through video conferencing, the ministry has decided in favour of giving a go ahead to the proposals,” said the person cited above.HRD secretary Amit Khare and JNU vice chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar were among those present in the meeting it is learnt.Five hostel blocks for the students of JNU’s School of Engineering and Atal Bihari Vajpayee School of Management and Entrepreneurship are among the proposals. The hostel complexes, according to varsity estimates, could cost over Rs 150 crore.The JNU, which has over 8,000 students, already has 18 hostels and one complex for married students. In addition, the university has also sought these funds for a number of other projects including a trans-disciplinary academic and research building, an advanced instrumentation research facility building and an incubation centre building.An Advanced Animal Research Building, expected to cost around Rs 20 crore and a trans-disciplinary academic and research building is also planned.The university also plans to build a special e-learning centre. The development is significant as the HRD ministry has focused immensely on e-learning after the Covid-19 pandemic.A lecture hall complex for students of social science departments is also among other proposed projects.A senior university official said the outcome of the meeting was being awaited. We are awaiting communication in this regard, the official said. The HRD ministry had a couple of years back set up a Higher Education Funding Agency (HEFA) for providing loans to institutions to meet their infrastructure loans. The university has applied for a loan under HEFA.Record registrationsVice chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar on Monday said the university has received a record 135,462 applications, 22% higher than last year, for admission to various courses this year. The university conducts an online entrance exam, known as the JNU Entrance Exam (JNUEE), in collaboration with National Testing Agency (NTA).The university had last year received 108,982 application for admissions to several undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jnu-set-to-get-centre-s-nod-for-projects-worth-rs-450-crore/story-0FqR2iNa5E3jlG4pK3ntpL.html
20-07-2020||City||DU reconsiders its decision to skip ECA admissions, set to start registration under the category||New Delhi: Delhi University (DU), which had earlier planned to skip admissions under the extracurricular activities (ECA) quota this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, has reconsidered its decision and is set to start registrations in the category. Just like the sports category, ECA admissions will be done on the basis of merit and participation certificates this year, without any trial. The move comes after some students, teachers and artists objected to the university’s decision to skip admissions under all other ECA disciplines, except for National Cadet Corps (NCC) and National Service Scheme (NSS), for the academic session 2020-21. The university had on June 10 said admissions under other ECA categories were not feasible without trials since there is no recognised body to issue certificates for the activities, unlike in sports.Later on July 18, the admission committee accepted the recommendations and detailed guidelines of the marking scheme issued by the sub-committee constituted for sports, ECA and performance-based admissions, according to minutes of the meeting.The minutes were on Monday approved by the standing committee of the university’s academic council — DU’s highest academic body.Arun Attree, a member of the standing committee, said, “The recommendations of the sub-committee were approved by the standing committee on Monday. The committee has decided to take admissions solely on the basis of certificates. I registered my dissent, saying there is no way of authenticating the credibility of ECA certificates unlike sports,” he said.Dean of admission Shobha Bagai said, “Apprehensions are still there about the authenticity of ECA certificates. Offline and offline trials are not possible. But we had no other option but to approve the sub-committee’s recommendations.”In its suggestions, the sub-committee said, “For undergraduate admissions based on ECA, the committee suggested the trial’s marks should be clubbed with the certificate marks. The applicant is required to upload self-attested pdfs of his/her ECA certificates of merit/participation (maximum five certificates). The certificates uploaded by the applicant shall be scrutinised and evaluated out of a maximum of 100 marks.”“Merit or participation ECA certificate of preceding three years will be considered from 01 May 2017 to 30 April 2020. The marks under ECA category will be awarded based on the sum of the total marks awarded in the three best certificates uploaded by the candidate,” read the sub-committee’s suggestions, a copy of which is with HT. The sub-committee has also suggested forensic verification of the certificates.There are 14 recognised activities under ECA — creative writing, dance, debate, fine arts, music, music instrumental (such as tabla, harmonium, sitar, dholak, drums, guitar and sarod), theatre, NCC, NSS and yoga, among others.Several faculty members objected to the decision to give admissions on the basis of certificates in the ECA quota. A group of teachers and members of the Indian National Teachers Congress on Monday sent a memorandum to DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi, saying, “The university must ensure a free-and-fair process to conduct the ECA admissions. It should not become a back-door entry for admissions in top colleges.”Despite several attempts, vice-chancellor Tyagi did not respond to calls and texts for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-reconsiders-its-decision-to-skip-eca-admissions-set-to-start-registration-under-the-category/story-Up6MMjcaYR0ufX0Ge6vDIJ.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Owner of cafe arrested for serving alcohol and hookah illegally, 40 booked||Forty customers -- 25 men and 15 women -- were booked and a cafe owner arrested for alleged violation of lockdown norms after they were found to be revelling with alcohol and hookah at the food joint in West Delhi’s Paschim Vihar on Sunday night, police said.The police arrested the owner of Crossroads Cafe, Tanmay Singhal, and booked him under non-bailable sections of the Excise Act, A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (outer district), said.This is the second such raid at a cafe or restaurant in Paschim Vihar. The police had booked 31 customers at Playgue restaurant last Tuesday, barely a kilometre from the spot of the latest bust.The DCP said Sunday’s raid was carried out after a police patrolling team heard loud noise at Crossroads Cafe and discovered the place.Also read: Hookahs are no safer than cigarettes, here’s all you need to know“When the policemen checked the place, they found it was a restaurant serving alcohol and hookah without authorisation. Serving alcohol in pubs and discos is currently banned, and restaurants are allowed to only seat customers with social distancing in place. Reinforcements were called in and the customers and the owner were caught,” said another senior investigator not authorised to speak to the media.“The owner had let some of his regular customers know that they could get alcohol and hookah and party without any hassle. Those customers called their known ones and soon the place was crowded,” said the investigator.Five bottles of whiskey, 25 beer bottles and 19 hookahs were recovered from the place, the officer said.Calls and text messages to the phone number belonging to the cafe went unanswered.Police said restaurants serving alcohol in Paschim Vihar were taking advantage of the desperation of people looking out for a place to party.“Since these restaurants and cafes are located on the upper floors of buildings in markets, it made it easy for them to operate. They would disable the lifts of their floor so that customers reached the place though a back door without drawing much attention,” said the investigator.The fancy lights would continue to be used but they would be masked in such a way that outsiders wouldn’t see them. The volume of music would be substantially lowered, the officer said.In the latest case, the cafe was located on the second floor of a building. “The patrolling policemen noticed many youngsters visiting a single building and a heavy movement of vehicles around that spot. They checked the building to find alcohol being served illegally there,” the officer said. But there were other business owners who would know of the alleged illegal operation and alert the police. “And that is what happened in the previous raid. One of the local residents had alerted us,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/owner-of-cafe-arrested-for-serving-alcohol-and-hookah-illegally-40-customers-booked/story-8fDs2nu7n5GEDJSIOqyUzM.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Parents wary of schools reopening till situation is under control||As the number of Covid-19 infections continues to spike across the country, parents of school-going children continue to be unsure about physical classes until a vaccine is developed. This comes after the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) asked states to furnish by Monday the feedback of parents on reopening of schools.In addition to the parents’ preference on the reopening of schools in either August, September or October, the ministry on Friday also asked parents about their expectations from schools whenever they reopen. The final decision in the matter will be taken in consultation with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).Opposing the move to reopen schools, All India Parents Association (AIPA) said the current Covid-19 situation wasn’t conducive to allow offline classes for children. “Parents have been asking for a declaration of the 2020-21 academic year as zero year and promote every student. This would help alleviate stress among parents and students at a time when death rates are skyrocketing,” said Ashok Aggarwal, AIPA president.Most parents HT spoke to opposed the move to reopen schools in the upcoming months without taking stock of the Covid-19 crisis. Vikas Sharma, a west Delhi businessman whose children study in classes 1 and 5, said, “Most parents I know are not in favour of the schools reopening any time before the health crisis subsides. When grownups are participating in meetings over online conferencing, how can we allow our children to go out and expose themselves to the virus?” Sharma also said that while online classes cannot compensate for classroom learning, parents are compromising to protect the health of their children.Rohini Arora, a south Delhi resident whose daughter studies in Class 5, said, “The government recently came up with revised guidelines about reduced hours for online classes. Parents are mostly satisfied with this and would not want to risk sending their child to school when there have been reports of infection among children in other countries the moment they started going to school,” she said.Recommendations from the parents’ community include staggered classes conducted in the open, halting all extracurricular activities, shorter classes, no sharing of food or water bottles, compulsory masks and sanitisation whenever schools reopen.The Delhi Parents’ Association (DPA) also wrote to MHRD on Sunday and said that schools should not reopen till a vaccine is developed for Covid-19 crisis. “Students till Class 8 should be promoted without exams as per the earlier practice. While students of classes 9 and 11 should be tested through online exams, board exams can also be held online if the situation is not under control by March next year,” said Aparajita Gautam, DPA president.A Delhi government official said that since the order came on Friday, the education department was compiling responses to send to the ministry. “Responses can be varied since there are different types of schools in the capital catering to people from various socio-economic backgrounds. We have had several rounds of conversations with parents on their expectations from schools when they reopen and other suggestions. However, the call over when schools should reopen should be taken by experts,” the official said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parents-wary-of-schools-reopening-till-situation-is-under-control/story-0R2wY4V7jF3H9kpJTTAZXP.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest outside Ludhiana school for charging fee||Over 20 parents of students from GMT Public School, Jalandhar Bypass, on Monday protested against school authorities for asking them to pay all charges, including tuition and admission fee, for the last three months.The parents raised slogans against school authorities for an hour and said they are in no position to pay the fee as many have lost their jobs during the lockdown and are facing financial constraints. A one-minute video also went viral in which parents were seen raising slogans against the school authorities.Jasbir Kaur Bal, school principal, said, “All parents reached the school to deposit the fee and many submitted fee for a month or two. But, one parent provoked the others against the school, and they started protesting. I understand they have been going through a financial crisis amid the Covid-19 lockdown. We have continued giving scholarships to students despite no activities being held this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-outside-ludhiana-school-for-charging-fee/story-cpCxqWEbE07Umn8gonZKoN.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Record statements of children rescued from labour via video conferencing: Plea in Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought the response of the Delhi government and city police on a plea that said statements of child witnesses lodged at child welfare centres should be recorded through video conferencing and not physically in court. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the authorities, seeking to know their stand on a plea filed by NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan through its counsel Prabhasahay Kaur. The plea also sought testing of these children at the child care institutions or homes where they are lodged, or at the office of the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), instead of transporting them to government hospitals for the purpose.Citing a recent incident, advocate Kaur told the court that it had recently carried out a raid with the authorities and rescued several children from child labour. Thereafter, the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) directed the police to record the children’s statements before a magistrate in accordance with section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).She said both the CWC and the investigating officer (IO) of the case were “irrationally” insisting that the children be physically taken to the Karkardooma Court to record their statements, despite concerns related to Covid-19 raised by officials of a home run by the NGO, Mukti Ashram.The plea said the children had already been taken to the court complex twice and the IO said he would again take them there to record their statements.Appearing for the Delhi government, its counsel Sameer Vashist, told the court that the children would not be taken to the court. However, since the statements have an evidentiary purpose, the magistrate can go at the CWC and record the statements. He said the physical presence was required to console and counsel the kids.Following brief arguments, the court asked the authorities to file their replies and posted the matter for further hearing on July 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pleas-seeks-recording-of-statements-of-child-witnesses-via-video-conferencing/story-e6KzV7ZQ9uR4F1pdcG5FqN.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Online training of school principals in association with IIM-A begins||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday addressed the first online session of a 14-day training programme for government school principals in association with the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad.“IIM Ahmedabad will train the next batch of 50 Delhi government school principals in leadership and empowerment, which is in continuation with the tie-up between IIM-A and State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) Delhi,” the government said in a statement. So far, 700 Heads of Schools have undergone training at IIM- A via the programme which started four years ago, they added.The aim of the training programme is to train heads of Delhi government schools to “build leadership competencies, empower them and instil local accountability towards their respective schools.”“In our first term of the Principal Training Programme, we empowered our school principals to take autonomous decisions at the school-level and made them in charge of School Management Committee (SMC) funds which led to local accountability. I am now looking at IIM Ahmedabad to help us to further empower our principals,” Sisodia said. He also said that he wants to see Delhi government schools as “decentralised autonomous institutions.”“Running the school is the responsibility of each school principal who is central to the entire school system. We, as ministers, Education Directors and officers, are just the facilitators,” Sisodia said. While addressing the importance of online learning, he said, “Online learning may not be a solution, but it is a necessity today. So I urge all our school principals to fully commit to it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/online-training-of-school-principals-in-association-with-iim-a-begins/story-QLEkqVrtzmXBOcwYnDsNpO.html
20-07-2020||City||22% increase in applications for admission in JNU: VC||New Delhi: Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar on Monday said the university has received a record 135,462 applications, 22% higher than last year, for admission to various courses this year. The university conducts an online entrance exam, known as the JNU Entrance Exam (JNUEE), in collaboration with National Testing Agency (NTA).The university had last year received 108,982 application for admissions to several undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD courses.In a video message, Kumar said, “This is the second year of JNU conducting online entrance examination in collaboration with NTA. I am very happy to announce that JNU has received a record number of applications this year for its different academic programmes. For JNUEE, 135,462 applications have been received. This is nearly 22% increase in comparison to last year.”“These applications come from all states and union territories of the country. This year, we have seen a large improvement in the gender representation as well as the representation of students from different social categories. This clearly indicates that JNU continues to remain an aspirational university among our national student fraternity,” Kumar said. The NTA is yet to announce dates of JNUEE 2020. Last year, the entrance exam was held May 27 and May 30 and the results were announced on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-increase-in-applications-for-admission-in-jnu-vc/story-G2gSgrNeNg0G2ko1Zu1gGO.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Man murders mother in a fit of rage, boy killed over monetary dispute in Delhi||A woman and a minor boy were killed in two separate crimes reported from south Delhi between Sunday and Monday. In the first incident, a 22-year-old man allegedly stabbed his mother to death at their rented home in south Delhi’s Madangir on Monday for scolding him over his habit of taking liquor and drugs, police said.The woman, Anjali Devi, was stabbed multiple times and she died while being taken to the hospital. Her son, identified by his first name Sagar, was arrested from the crime spot. A case of murder was registered against him. He works as a DJ operator and believed in occult practices, police officers associated with the case said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the police control room received a call that a man has stabbed his mother in a house in Madangir Central Market. A police team found the woman in unconscious state. She was rushed to a nearby hospital where she was declared brought dead. Her son was arrested, he said.Also read: Delhi Police rescues 84-yr-old woman after she accidentally locks herself in bed boxDuring investigation, a police officer privy to the probe said, it was learnt the woman’s son is addicted to liquor and drugs and she often scolded him for that. On Monday morning, an argument broke out between them over the issue. The man picked up a knife and stabbed her mother multiple times, until she became unconscious.In another murder case, a 15-year-old boy died after he was attacked with a brick in Zamrudpur near Greater Kailash early Sunday, allegedly by two men who had a dispute over money with his father. Both the men, identified as Sudhir alias Shyam Singh,55, and Satish,45, were arrested and booked, the police said.DCP Atul Kumar Thakur said that around 3 am , the Greater Kailash police was informed that a 15-year-old boy was injured in Zamrudpur and had been taken to a hospital by two men. The doctors told the police that the boy had deep injuries in the left temporal region. The boy succumbed to his injuries around 11.30 am after which a case was registered, Thakur said.During the probe, the police found some witnesses who said the boy was attacked by the two men who had taken him to hospital but later fled. “We established the identities of the suspects and caught them from Zamrudpur. They said revealed they killed the boy over a money dispute,” said an investigator, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-murders-mother-in-fit-of-rage-boy-killed-over-monetary-dispute-in-delhi/story-wfc7oVnihQlm4hzp4VbweO.html
20-07-2020||City||Minor gangraped, 3 accused free even after kidnapping bid||Ludhiana Three men accused of gangraping 14-year-old daughter of a daily-wager couple on July 17, without being caught and without a complaint being lodged, attempted to kidnap her from her home on Sunday as well, police said on Monday. The accused have been identified as Manoj, his brother Arjun and their friend Nikku, all residents of Mand Chaunta village.Initially, the family had not lodged any complaint of rape, but on Sunday when they reached their home just in the nick of time to save their daughter from the perverts, the mother decided to lodge a complaint at Koom Kalan police station.ASI Harmeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said, “The accused are migrant labourers and had gangraped the girl. They are now absconding. We are searching for them.” He added that a case has been registered under Sections 376-D (gangrape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and Sections 3 and 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-gangraped-3-accused-free-even-after-kidnapping-bid/story-Yly2YxAojwHuqdZOxlDPnI.html
20-07-2020||City||Milkman hit by car found dead in Mohali; one arrested, search on for three others||The police on Monday arrested a man and booked three others for hitting a 60-year-old milkman, Sukhdev Singh, with their car on July 18 and then dumping his body at a secluded place in Sector 88 here. The matter came to light after a body was found on Monday that turned out to be of Sukhdev of Kambala village who used to deliver milk in Phase 11 area. As per the police, Sukhdev was returning home after delivering the milk on Saturday when his bicycle was hit by a Hyundai i20 car near Bestech Mall in Sector 66, leaving him seriously injured. The car occupants stopped the car and assured the passersby that they will take Sukhdev to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. They took Sukhdev along in their car and left the spot. When the victim’s family members were informed, they rushed to the hospital but did not find Sukhdev there. The victim’s kin were searching for him in hospitals and clinics in Mohali and Chandigarh since. This morning, they learnt about Sukhdev’s body lying in the fields in Sector 88. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Deep Kamal (City 2) said the suspects have been identified as Ramandeep Singh, Ravi, Rana and Gaggu, all residents of Lehra Gaga in Sangrur. Ravi was arrested on Monday but his accomplices are yet to be arrested. The suspects have been booked for kidnapping, hurting and causing death due to negligence charges. The victim’s kin demanded that a case of murder should be registered against them, he said. The family members said passersby told them that Sukhdev was alive after the accident. “They dumped him in an injured condition. The police must add murder charge against them,” said an acquaintance of the victim. At present, a case has been registered against the suspects, among others, under sections 365 (abduction) and 279 (rash driving) of the IPC at the Phase 8 police station. The victim is survived by his wife and two sons. The post-mortem was conducted at the Mohali Civil Hospital and the body was handed over to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/milkman-hit-by-car-found-dead-in-mohali-one-arrested-search-on-for-three-others/story-uebde0uEsBhqLXMAVRf2fK.html
20-07-2020||City||Bail plea dismissed in northeast Delhi riots case||New Delhi: A Delhi court has dismissed a bail application of a man arrested in connection with the murder of a local during the northeast Delhi riots, while observing that the accused might threaten the public witnesses as he lived in his neighbourhood.Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav dismissed the bail plea of Pardeep Rai in the murder case of one Monis in Brijpuri area. In an order on July 18, the court said the case was sensitive in nature and there were serious allegations against Rai.“The case is very sensitive in nature. The possibility of the applicant (Rai) threatening the public witnesses, who are yet to be examined, cannot be ruled out as they are residents of the same locality.“Considering the facts and circumstances of the case in totality, I do not find it to be a fit case for grant of bail. The bail application is accordingly dismissed,” the judge said.Appearing for the accused, his counsel told the court that Rai was picked up from his house by crime branch officials and falsely implicated in this case. He contended that Rai worked as a taxi driver and had clean past antecedents. He said there was no recovery of any material from Rai in the matter.Special Public Prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary, appearing for the police, opposed the bail plea, saying an eyewitness in the case had identified Rai to be part of a mob that had allegedly beaten Monis with sticks and swords and also pelted stones.This eyewitness said Monis had tried to escape, but fell on the ground and later the police deployed at Brijpuri saved him and sent him to the hospital, the public prosecutor said.According to the prosecution, on February 25, Monis was returning from his father’s home. When he reached the Yamuna Vihar bus stand, he found that riots had erupted in the area.He was allegedly caught by a mob, beaten up severely due to which he succumbed to his injuries at the hospital.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bail-plea-dismissed-in-northeast-delhi-riots-case/story-a6LTHisU4kTzpyyBAJlqbM.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t reopen schools till there is Covid vaccine, parents in Ludhiana tell MHRD||Several parents from Ludhiana have asked the ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) to reopen schools only when a vaccine is developed and no positive case is reported for at least a month.On July 17, the MHRD department of school education and literacy, had written to education secretaries of all states and Union Territories, asking parents to send their feedback on the ministry’s email id, coordinationee1@gmail.com or rsamplay.edu.nic.in, on when they will be comfortable with reopening of school and specify their expectations when they reopen. Majority of parents suggested that children are secure at home and asked who will be responsible if schools reopen in the next three months and student gets infected there. They said it is better if schools reopen in the next academic session. A parent, Mandeep Bhullar, a resident of Pakhowal Road, said, “My son is studying at a private school in Class 7. I have sent feedback to MHRD stating that with surging Covid-19 cases in the country, there is no need to reopen schools as children below the age of 10 will be at high risk. Schools should be reopen only after a vaccine is developed.”Ishneet Sharma, another parent, and resident of Punjab Mata Nagar, said, “We should take precautions and focus on online learning for now. In my opinion, schools should reopen in October as the number of cases should dip by then and we can also expect a vaccine, Also, schools should keep ACs switched off, which will be possible in October. We must take precautions, train our children to maintain social distancing and optimise this time with online learning.”Another parent from Chandigarh Road, Baljit Singh, said, “My kids are studying in Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, Sector 39, Jamalpur, and Vardhman International School. Safety of children is very important at this hour with the rising in number of coronavirus cases, schools should not re-open in the next three months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/don-t-reopen-schools-till-there-is-covid-vaccine-parents-in-ludhiana-tell-mhrd/story-8xyLKCYg9d0YDDnKbsX5ML.html
20-07-2020||City||Delhi HC reserves order on former councillor’s plea in riots case||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Monday reserved its order on a plea filed by former Congress municipal councillor Ishrat Jahan -- charged with the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for her alleged role in the northeast Delhi riots -- challenging a trial court order granting more time to the investigating agency to complete its probe.During a hearing before Justice Suresh Kait, the police opposed the plea and said the high court should not interfere in the matter and that there was no infirmity in the order of the additional sessions judge.Appearing for Jahan, her counsel, Lalit Valecha, said the trial court order was “erroneous”, “bad in law” and “wrong on facts”. He said the prosecutor had not applied his mind while filing the application in the trial court.While Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra said he was authorised to represent the state and Delhi Police, advocate Amit Prasad said he was appointed as Special Public Prosecutor by the L-G to represent the police in riots cases.The high court allowed both the counsels to argue and submit their respective status reports in the matter as it had made clear in an earlier hearing that it was not going to enter into the controversy over which lawyer will represent the police.The high court has already reserved its order on the issue of who is authorised to represent police in another riots matter involving a school principal, Faisal Farooq.Mehra told the court that it need not look into the reasons given by the prosecutor in the application, seeking an extension of time to complete the probe, as it was something for the sessions judge to look into.“All the ingredients for extending the time are made out and there is no irregularity in the sessions judge’s order,” he argued.Prasad contended that the petition does not make out a case and even no question of law is made out here and it be dismissed. He said the reasons warranting an extension of time to complete the investigation in the case has been tested twice, first by the public prosecutor and second by the trial court judge.Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan said he will place on record an order passed by another judge of the high court in the case of former JNU student Sharjeel Imam, who had also challenged the order extending time to complete the probe in the UAPA case lodged against him in relation to his alleged instigating speeches during anti Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens protests.The high court on June 24 had asked the police to respond to Jahan’s plea challenging the trial court’s June 15 order granting a 60-day extension to the police to complete its investigation against her and activist Khalid Saifi.Jahan, in her plea, claimed “The application by the prosecutor is an abuse of the legal process as the same fails to make out any legal or factual basis that justifies the extension of time. This exercise is only to subvert and defeat the right of the petitioner to seek regular and statutory bail under the CrPC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-reserves-order-on-former-councillor-s-plea-in-riots-case/story-Atf9zG2X76ONNEHyBPn1qN.html
20-07-2020||City||Markaz case: 79 Bangladeshi and 42 Kyrgyz nationals set free||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Monday allowed 79 Bangladeshi and 42 Kyrgyz nationals, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz here, to walk free after they accepted mild charges under the plea bargaining agreement related to various violations, including visa norms, during the Covid-19 lockdown.A plea bargain is an arrangement between the prosecutor and accused whereby the latter pleads guilty to a lesser charge in exchange for a more lenient sentence, or an agreement to drop other charges.Metropolitan Magistrate Jitendra Pratap Singh allowed 79 Bangladeshi nationals to walk free on payment of a fine of Rs 5,000 each, advocate Ashima Mandla, appearing for them, said.Metropolitan Magistrate Rohit Gullia allowed 42 Kyrgyzstan nationals to walk free on payment of a fine of Rs 5,000 each, advocate Fahim Khan appearing for them said.The court allowed them to walk free after the Sub-divisional magistrate of Defence Colony, who was the complainant in the case; Assistant Commissioner of Police of Lajpat Nagar, Inspector of Nizamuddin, said they have no objection to the decision.However, eight nationals from Kyrgyzstan and three from Bangladesh did not plead guilty to the charges against them and claimed trial before the court.The police had filed charge sheets against 956 foreigners from 36 countries, including 122 Mayalsians, for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and regulations regarding Epidemic diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure.They were also accused of offences under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markaz-case-79-bangladeshi-and-42-kyrgyz-nationals-set-free/story-Er7emnEoTFz3zMqHofzLAM.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Lamborghini impounded by Chandigarh Police for speeding||A white Lamborghini Huracan supercar, priced around ₹3 crore, was impounded at the Sector 16/17 dividing road on Sunday evening. The driver was booked for talking on the phone while driving, speeding and not carrying documents, including driving licence, registration certificate and third party insurance.As per the police, the car was stopped near Matka Chowk. It was impounded and taken to ITI, Sector 28. The car has a Delhi registration number and is registered with Italica Motors Pvt Limited, a Lamborghini dealership. Senior officials confirmed that the challan will be for around Rs 20,000. The exact amount will be determined when the driver shows up with the documents. Officials also confirmed that the licence of the driver will be suspended for a period of three months as he was on the phone while driving.Police said the car wasn’t racing against any other car but was being driven dangerously at high speed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lamborghini-impounded-by-chandigarh-police-for-speeding/story-6qE8mjT5tZc83gzZnvHkaM.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University admissions: 4,973 register for UG, 6,047 for PG courses||As many as 2,684 candidates have submitted forms for admission into various undergraduate and postgraduate courses in Panjab University for the 2020-21 academic session. So far, 11,020 have registered.The online admission process is underway and the last date for applying is August 8. PU’s dean university instructions (DUI), R.K Singla, said, “As many as 4,973 candidates have registered for UG courses and 6,047 for PG courses. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, physical help desks on campus haven’t been setup. For the convenience of students, mobile numbers along with email ids of departments have been uploaded.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-admissions-4-973-register-for-ug-6-047-for-pg-courses/story-imJcFME7hvF7h6AOhEZz6H.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir invites Capt for assurance on MSP||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to accompany him along with farmer organisations for a blanket assurance on MSP and assured marketing from the Centre.In a statement here, the SAD chief told the chief minister, “Your repeated lies about the end of MSP regime have already been exposed by the central government. The Centre has announced that MSP and assured marketing will remain in force in the present form.“Since you are choosing not to believe this assurance, you should accompany me along with farmer organisations to get a blanket assurance on this issue from the Union agriculture minister,” said Sukhbir.Stating that it was doubtful that the CM would accept his offer, Sukhbir said it was apparent that the former wanted to continue with the malicious propaganda on the issue to divert people’s attention from the utter failures of his government.“The bogey of the end of MSP regime and assured marketing has also been raised deliberately to mislead the farming community and inflame passions against the SAD in league with the AAP,” added Sukhbir.The SAD president said farmers would not be fooled by this propaganda. He claimed that the CM had passed the provisions of the central agricultural ordinance three years back against which he was protesting now. “I challenge Capt Amarinder to deny this,” he said.Sukhbir said his party had a track record of always standing by the side of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhbir-invites-capt-for-assurance-on-msp/story-Yhat0yfK24JERpE0YC72RM.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||100 years of SAD discussed during webinar at Panjab University||Panjab University’s Institute of Social Science Education and Research (ISSER) on Monday organised a webinar on 100 years of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).Speaking about challenges being faced by the political party, Amarjit Singh Narang, former registrar and retired professor of political science at IGNOU, New Delhi, said, “The party has failed to address farmers’ issues, despite claiming to be a party for farmers. Federalisation of polity and BJP emerging as the dominant party has allowed SAD to shed its anti-Centre politics and share power at the Centre,” he said.Ashutosh Kumar, chairperson of political science department, PU, said, “SAD, as a ‘Panthic party’, was formed by a religious congregation to serve religious and political interests of Sikhs. But, given territorial and demographic changes in Punjab at the time of Partition and after, the party found itself trapped at the crossroads of region and religion. As a result, it transitioned from pursuing the politics of ‘representation’ in colonial Punjab to the pursuit of ‘a territorial homeland’ for the Sikh minority in post-Partition India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/100-years-of-sad-discussed-during-webinar-at-panjab-university/story-OGU5UJp7FkeipnlhFnS5DO.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula DC asks govt officials to ‘take care of staff’ as Covid cases spike||Concerned over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases among government employees, Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja ordered officials on Monday to “take care of their staff.” Those who have tested positive so far include 13 department of medical education and research (DMER) employees, Sector 16; 27 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and five Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel; and one employee each from the Central Board of Secondary Education and Board of School Education Haryana.  “I have issued an order to heads of the departments in government institutes in Panchkula to take care of their staff. Recently, Corona positive cases have been reported from Haryana Public Service Commission, DMER, CRPF and ITBP. I have also written to the heads of offices of Panchkula administration” Ahuja said.The DC said he had written to ITBP and CRPF create Covid care units in their own centres.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Panchkula civil surgeon, said random sampling at government offices has also been started. “There are at least 50 government institutes in Panchkula. To begin with, we will take five samples from each office.”Most of the offices had working chambers, with three to four staffers in one. The main risk of infection arose from movement of files, as these pass through many hands, she said.Initially, the health department will collect samples of Group-D employees, as they have the highest movement in offices to tackle tasks such as moving of files and arranging for refreshments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-dc-asks-govt-officials-to-take-care-of-staff-as-covid-cases-spike/story-ScgicZmBf98YcpG6fLCJPK.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 appoints nodal officer for inter-state referrals on PGIMER pattern||The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has appointed a nodal officer to deal with referrals of patients from Punjab and Haryana so that the institute can make prior arrangements for their treatment.Prof Harish Dasari, head of forensic department and chairperson of emergency services, GMCH-32, was appointed as a nodal officer for the inter-state referrals.Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, had come out with a referral protocol after an inter-state meeting of officers from both states, UT and PGIMER was held last Saturday. “It was agreed that the nodal officers from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana and GMCH-32 will unanimously take a call on whether a patient should be treated at a hospital of the respective state or an immediate intervention is required at GMCH-32,” Dr BS Chavan, director-principal, GMCH-32, said.The health authorities in Chandigarh have time and again raised the issue that patients who do not require tertiary care medical facilities are flocking the institute.“Once in place, the referral system will have many advantages. Many procedures which can be done at district and medical colleges of states will be dealt locally, while we will provide tertiary care to the patients irrespective of boundaries. This will save the money the patients have to spend on travel, besides the early treatment,” Dr BS Chavan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmch-32-appoints-nodal-officer-for-inter-state-referrals-on-pgimer-pattern/story-4Xr2xkaUF91PjbnxnHkYFI.html
20-07-2020||City||Floods affect over three lakh people in eight Bihar districts||Heavy rain in Nepal’s Terai region and plains of North Bihar during past 24 hours has caused flooding in Bagmati, Adhwara group of rivers, as a result of which all major rivers are flowing above the danger mark.According to the disaster management department, a population of over 3 lakh from 32 blocks of eight districts has been affected by the floods. The districts affected are Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj and East Champaran.Water Resources development minister Sanjay Jha said through tweets that heavy rains lashed several parts of the state. “We are maintaining a constant vigil on water level of rivers and embankments,” said Jha.Flood water of Bagmati, Lakhandei and Rato entered many villages under three blocks, Aurai, Katra and Gaighat, of Muzaffarpur district. The flood waters also washed away makeshift bridges at more than 10 places, disrupting traffic between villages to district as well as block headquarters in Muzaffarpur.In Darbhanga, a population of over 41,000 in 127 villages under 32 panchyats of six blocks has been affected by the floods so far. An official said that of the 32 flood-hit panchayats in the district, eight were completely affected whereas 24 were partially affected, prompting the district administration to launch relief measures.Meanwhile, Dharbhanga district magistrate (DM) Thiyagarajan SM has directed the senior in-charge officials in the concerned blocks to visit the flood-hit on a regular basis and monitor the situation. As many as 150 boats, including 31 government boats, were pressed into service. According to circle officer of Keoti block Ajit Kumar Jha, some of the flood-hit villages in 9 panchayats include, Atraha, Jalwara, Kothia, Pindaruch, Shekhpur, Gami, Matiyani, Ladari, Nanoura and Khirma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/floods-affect-over-three-lakh-people-in-eight-bihar-districts/story-MVJwZeHtw9nQ8Uy3tXRFkN.html
20-07-2020||Patna||Heavy rain lashes north Bihar, temperature dips||Southwest monsoon remained vigorous over Bihar as northern districts including West Champaran, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi and Sheohar received extremely heavy rain while very heavy rain occurred over southwest and southeast parts of the state, said an official of Patna Meteorological Centre on Monday.According to the daily bulletin issued, Ramnagar and Chanpatia in West Champaran received extremely heavy rain measuring 290mm and 250 mm respectively. Jhanjhapur in Madhubani and Sursand in Sitamarhi recorded 220 mm rain each while Kamtaul in Darbhanga and Sheohar recorded 210 mm rain each during the past 24 hours.Other places which received significant amount of rain were Chakia and Kesaria in East Champaran, Pusa in Samastipur, and Belsand in Sitamarhi which received 190 mm rain each.Weathermen claimed that this season, Ramnagar received the highest amount of rain in 24 hours. Earlier in July, Birpur in Supaul had received 260 mm rain while Kesaria in East Champaran recorded 250 mm in 24 hours.Meanwhile, maximum temperature in Bihar hovered around 30 degrees Celsius, a dip of four to six degrees. Patna remained the coldest in the state with a maximum temperature of 27 degrees Celsius which was six degrees below the normal.Anand Shankar, director in charge of Patna Meteorological Centre , said, “Monsoon trough is passing from Uttar Pradesh and Bhagalpur of Bihar and thence towards the foothills of the Himalayas. Under the influence, several districts of Bihar would experience very heavy rain for the next three to four days. However intensity of rain is likely to decrease after 48 hours.”He said, “Several north Bihar districts and few southern districts may receive very heavy rain on July 21. The capital city Patna and adjoining areas are likely to experience intermittent rain.”Shankar also advised people to take precautionary measures as there is strong possibility of thunderstorm and lightning along with rain.Highlights:Ramnagar (West Champaran)- 290mmChanpatia (West Champaran)- 250 mmJhanjhapur ( Madhubani)- 220 mmSursand (Sitamarhi)- 220 mmKamtaul (Darbhanga)- 210mmSheohar -210 mm rain||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/heavy-rain-lashes-north-bihar-temperature-dips/story-K62DwAEavLjl1KLhyfnUGM.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College to provide financial aid to needy students||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has decided to provide financial assistance to students who require it, for the next semester.The decision comes after some students sought fee waiver as the economy has been hit amid the Covid-19 lockdown.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “A complete fee waiver is not possible, but we will provide financial help to students who genuinely need support.”Last month, PEC had announced Covid emergency fund for providing financial help to students. The institution’s alumnus will contribute to the fund.Classes for the next semester which will be held online, is scheduled to start from July 27. For granting financial aid, PEC will identify students who need the institution’s assistance. A proper screening will be held before financial assistance is granted.“We might set up a committee for this. I have received many emails from students seeking fee waiver, but we want to make sure that students who genuinely need it get assistance,” Sanghi said.Meanwhile, after there was a delay in receiving planned grant of ₹5 crore for the first quarter of this financial year from UT administration, PEC received its planned grant for the second quarter, but with 15% deduction. PEC gets around ₹60 crore from the Chandigarh administration every year, of which ₹20 crore is a planned fund, which the college gets paid in four equal instalments of ₹5 crore in every quarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-to-provide-financial-aid-to-needy-students/story-8H1150zQqP7E6poa4JtkMJ.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||20 cases in Chandigarh, source of infection unclear in nine cases||Twenty fresh cases of Covid-19 cases were reported from Chandigarh on Monday, taking the tally to 739, of which 207 are active. With 30 more recoveries, the number of discharged people have crossed 500 mark to reach 518, while 12 have succumbed to the virus.Among the new cases, the source of infection of nine cases is unclear. These include: Six males aged between 29 and 70 from Dadumajra, Sector 45, Sector 29, Sector 61, Sector 49 and Sector 40); two women aged 45 from Bapu Dham Colony and a woman from Sector 22.Three males of a Dhanas family aged 17, 25 and 53 have contracted infection from a family member. Three members of a Daria family, including a 4-year-old boy, too contracted the virus from a family member.From Daria, two more people from a same family were also diagnosed with Covid. They also contracted the infection from a family member.A 25-year-old woman from Sector 7 was found positive for coronavirus after coming into contact with a patient in her family.A man and a woman from Manimajra, who had visited Meerut (Uttar Pradesh), were found infected with Covid-19. A 23-year-old woman from Sector 63 contracted the contagion from a patient in Punjab.PANCHKULA RECORDS 29 CASESSeven personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) were among 29 new Covid-19 cases reported in Panchkula district on Monday, taking the count to 280. According to the health bulletin of Panchkula district, 31 persons were tested positive on Monday, out of which 29 are from the district and two from other districts. Out of 280 people who tested positive for the virus, 134 persons have cured, one has died and 145 are active.Those who tested positive on Monday include a 32-year-old man from Sector 9, a 39-year-old man from Naggal, a 38-year-old from Jaspur, a 40-year-old woman from Toda, a 40-year-old female from Nayagaon, a 45-year-old woman from Mouli, a 12-year-old boy from Tagra and a 20-year-old woman from Tipra. Two men aged 30 and 18 are from Ashiana, Phase 1 and seven are from Barwala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-cases-in-chandigarh-source-of-infection-unclear-in-nine-cases/story-yyi2Rt5WuR1euh2XPuYOiK.html
20-07-2020||Patna||Need to increase beds: Central team to Bihar govt||The central team, which was here to assess the state’s preparedness against coronavirus (Covid-19), has suggested increasing the number of hospital beds to keep pace with the rise in cases, as it reached 27,455 after 1,076 new infections were reported Monday, with eight deaths pushing the state’s death toll to 187.Of the eight deaths, reported through the state health department’s Twitter handle, East Champaran accounted for two, followed by one each in Begusarai, Bhojpur, Purnia, Sheikhpura, Siwan and Vaishali.Six deaths were reported Monday at AIIMS-Patna and five at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), the two dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Patna.The state had also decided to write to the Centre to seek support in providing oxygen, which the central team said the state would need as the number of Covid-19 cases increase, said Bihar chief secretary Deepak Kumar.The team also pointed to the need to motivate doctors at the hospitals in Bihar.In keeping with the central team’s advisory, the state had asked the AIIMS-Patna to take over the 500-bed ESI hospital at Bihta, on the fringes of Patna, for Covid care, said Kumar.“We will also take support of private hospitals in management of Covid-19 cases,” he added.Two private hospitals — the Paras-HMRI and Ruban Hospital — in Patna were given approval on Monday to treat Covid-19 patients amid the rising number of cases in the city.Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi allowed the two hospitals to set up corona wards with 25 beds each to treat Covid-19 patients. These hospitals would, however, treat low to moderate cases only, said a source of the hospital.Kumar said in addition to private hospitals, the government will also increase the number of beds in its hospitals, including NMCH and Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH).The state government has already asked all its medical college hospitals to have 100 isolation beds for Covid-19 cases. The PMCH was expected to commence the facility in the next couple of days, said sources.The chief secretary, whom the team members met before leaving for Delhi, said the team was in general satisfied with the measures taken by the state, especially during the lockdown, as also curbs imposed in containment zones.The team, however, advised better perimeter control and health screening of people residing within containment zone to contain the spread of the disease.Kumar said the central team was satisfied with the “open-ended measures” the state had taken to ramp up testing through antigen rapid testing kits.“Now, the state will not have any testing target, but conduct testing of all symptomatic patients, who reach our facilities or mobile testing vans,” said Kumar.The Centre had recently sent 10,000 rapid testing kits to the state.Meanwhile, testing facility had started in 11 sub-divisional hospitals of the state on Monday, said Bihar’s health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh during the media briefing.He said the facility will begin in 27 other sub-divisional hospitals on Tuesday.Singh said there were 2,584 containment zones in Bihar, of which 1,931 were in rural areas and 653 in urban areas.He said with the recovery of 938 Covid-19 patients, the total recoveries had gone up to 17,535, with a recovery percentage of 63.87%.A three-member central team, headed by Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW) had visited the NMCH to assess its condition on Sunday. Other team members were Dr SK Singh, director National Centre for Disease Control, and associate professor of AIIMS-Delhi Dr Neeraj Nischal.The team also visited Covid-care facility in Gaya before returning to Delhi on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/need-to-increase-beds-central-team-to-bihar-govt/story-wpLmLDW8xWn2xDVv0jVkaM.html
20-07-2020||Lucknow||UP’s cricketing heroes who missed the Team India bus||Bowlers the world over often complain about the nature of the wicket, its pace or turn after unproductive spells. But Uttar Pradesh pacer Ashish Winston Zaidi never found fault with the pitches. Rather, he showed his mettle with 378 wickets in 110 first-class matches in an 18-year career for the state side.If Zaidi had the opportunity to bowl on grassy wickets like those available today, he would have taken close to 500 wickets. His achievements, despite bowling mostly on turning tracks or flat surfaces, should be a lesson for young bowlers in India.Nicknamed ‘Pope’ and ‘Amar, Akbar and Anthony’, Zaidi played his last first-class match against Haryana in 2006 in Rohtak. He tops the list of UP cricketers who couldn’t sport the Team India jersey despite their talent.“I never bothered to see whether the pitches had grass on them. I focused on my deliveries and took wickets,” Zaidi had said soon after quitting the sport in 2006. “If I had the opportunity of bowling on grassy wickets, I would have broken all records for pace bowlers in India,” he had added. Zaidi’s 14-wicket haul in a Ranji Trophy match against the Kapil Dev-led Haryana in the 1991-92 season in Faridabad was one of the most thrilling encounters of his career. The 1983 World Cup winning skipper had spoken to Zaidi after the match. It was a dream come true for the UP bowler.“I was thrilled to bowl because Kapil Paaji was in the opposition team, so much so that I ended up taking 14 wickets in the match. He (Kapil) spoke to me after the game and it was a dream-come-true moment for me,” he recalled.After spending his childhood with Dynamic Cricket Club on muddy tracks of the Yamuna Basic School in Katghar locality of Allahabad (now Prayagraj), Zaidi was picked for the Guru Govind Singh Sports College in Lucknow before moving to MRF Pace Foundation in Chennai, the place Zaidi credited for his transformation into a complete bowler. In-swing came naturally to him, but he learnt to bowl good outswingers at the MRF Pace Foundation.After a 10-wicket haul in an U-15 game for UP, Zaid made his first-class debut at 17. Although his exploits in the domestic circuit put him in reckoning for Team India, he never received a call-up.He was one of the probables for the 1992 World Cup and his name was also doing the rounds for the Singer Cup. He had plenty of five-wicket hauls (19 times) in the domestic matches, but luck didn’t favour him. The wicket-machine of UP cricket had to accept this harsh reality of his career silently.RAJINDER SINGH HANSLeft-arm orthodox bowler Rajinder Singh Hans was in the 14-member Team India squad for the home Test series against Australia in 1979-80 but did not make it to the Playing XI. He was sidelined afterwards.Despite being a native of Mumbai, Hans enjoyed a 10-year career with Uttar Pradesh till 1986-87 as he had a job with Mohan Meakin in Ghaziabad. “I chose to play for UP as I was working for the company in Ghaziabad, but I never felt like an outsider,” said Hans, who took 340 first-class wickets.“I was quite sure of getting a chance to bowl for India in the series against Australia in 1979, but Dilip Doshi bowled exceptionally well and my chance never came,” recalled Hans, who said his 9/152 against Karnataka in the Ranji Trophy final was his best performance. “My 9/152 is the best of my life,” says Hans, who played for Central Zone against touring teams and in the Duleep Trophy from 1976-77 to 1984-85. Besides being a fine spin bowler, Hans was one of the most successful coaches of Uttar Pradesh from 2001-02 to 2006-07. His stint led to UP winning their maiden Ranji Trophy in 2005-06. He also coached Jharkhand Ranji Trophy team in 2007-08 before becoming a member of the Junior National Selection Committee for two years, 2008–09 and 2009-10. He graduated to the senior selection committee from Central Zone in 2012.SHASHIKANT KHANDEKARShashikant Khandekar from Kanpur was an elegant opening batsman whose stroke-play was worth going miles to watch. He was a prolific scorer for UP in the Ranji Trophy and came very close to playing for India when he was named the 12th man in the Guwahati ODI vs West Indies in 1983/84.Once he missed that opportunity, he never got another chance. He played in an era when Sunil Gavaskar was already established and Krishnamachari Srikkanth had emerged as the Little Master’s mercurial partner. But Khandekar had himself to blame. Whenever he got a chance in big matches, he failed to deliver, be it in the Duleep Trophy, Irani Cup or important games against international teams. With a lot of luck and pluck, he could have earned an India cap, but it was not to be. The only consolation for him is that even today he is UP’s top scorer in an innings with an unbeaten 261 against Railways at Moradabad in 1984-85 season. In his 87 first-class matches, Khandekar scored 5,452 runs, including 12 centuries and 24 half-centuries.RIZWAN SHAMSHADAn elegant right-hander from Aligarh, Rizwan Shamshad was a quality batsman of his time who couldn’t play for the country. Shamshad, who belongs to the grand old trinity of AW Zaidi and Gyanendra Pandey, was part of the India under-19 camp with Sourav Ganguly, VVS Laxman and Rahul Dravid.“Yes, we played together in zonal under-19 cricket. I was a better performer than many of the cricketers (many of whom played for India later). With my performance in 1995-96, I averaged almost 100 and I was very sure of getting a call for Team India, but it never happened,” recalls Shamshad who is still known as ‘The Wall’ of UP cricket with 7,018 runs to his credit in 108 first-class matches.Asked who he would blame for his non-inclusion in Team India, he said, “I can say that it was just destiny and nothing else. I have always been a consistent performer, but don’t know the reason for my non-selection.” ANAND SHUKLAAllahabad’s Anand Shukla is the only all-rounder in the list of top five unsung heroes of Uttar Pradesh cricket. A skillful leg-spinner and dependable batsman, Shukla took 300-plus wickets and scored 3,000 runs in domestic cricket. In his third first-class match in his debut season in 1959-60, Shukla took 7/91 against Vidarbha. This was followed by another superlative performance in 1961-62 against Rajasthan, when he took 7/43 and 3/87 and struck an unbeaten 168, helping UP recover from 88/6 to 356 all out.Shukla, who also played for Delhi for one season in 1965-66 and represented North Zone in Duleep Trophy, captained Uttar Pradesh in 1963-64 and 1964-65. In 1964-65, in eight matches, he made 567 runs at an average of 43.61 and bagged 41 wickets at of 22.21, guiding Uttar Pradesh making it to the Ranji Trophy semi-finals for first time before losing to Hyderabad by an innings.Shukla top-scored in each innings with 60 and 83. He returned bowling figures of 3/253 in 63 overs. Earlier, in a victory over Madhya Pradesh, he scored 28 and 96 and took 6/63 and 6/102. He also played for Bihar in 1966-67 and stayed there for nine seasons.Before coming back to Uttar Pradesh for three more seasons from 1975-76 to 1977-78, Shukla scored two centuries in the Ranji Trophy, including 111 not out in a team total of 205 in the second innings when Bihar lost their quarter-final narrowly to Mysore. Against Vidarbha in 1975-76 he scored his last century, after taking five wickets in the first innings. The next season, also against Vidarbha, he made 59 and 35 and took 5/36 and 6/104.Shukla’s stats of 4,312 runs and 386 wickets, including 31 five-wicket hauls and nine 10- wicket hauls are proof of his caliber. Although Shukla was also a national selector from Central Zone, none from Uttar Pradesh could make it to the India team then.“There have been many more like Obaid Kamal, Rahul Sapru, Manoj Mudgal and even Haider Ali, who could have played for Team India from Uttar Pradesh,” said veteran sports writer Santosh Suri.“Have been following Uttar Pradesh cricket since long and drawing a comparison between many great performers is quite a difficult task, but I still believe that if there was a level playing field for UP players, many more from the state could have played for India then,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-cricketing-heroes-who-missed-the-team-india-bus/story-scsWgHhshhEvrgbkC4lCPJ.html
20-07-2020||Patna||Bihar woman declared Covid-19 positive without test, probe ordered||With Covid cases witnessing spike in Bihar, the negligence of health department has come to the fore in Rohtas district.A 50-year-old woman was declared positive without being tested. The fact came to the light on Sunday when a health department team reached her house at Sanjhauli to mark a containment zone and take the woman to isolation centre.The woman and her family were shocked after being told that she is corona positive. However, the family informed the health team that she had neither visited any testing centre nor any health employee had collected her sample at home. Sanjhauli primary health centre in-charge medical officer Dr Sudhir Kumar said it was a human error, either by the entry operator or by the concerned clerk which has been rectified.However, a local resident said the health department was collecting samples without verifying the names from voters card or Aadhar Card and there was a chance of a person giving a false name.Civil surgeon Dr Sudhir Kumar said an inquiry has been marked into to the matter. “It may be a human error or a political conspiracy to defame the government,” Dr Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-declared-covid-ve-without-test-probe-ordered-in-bihar/story-ewgNcc9TRXBbV8DYgnRRfI.html
20-07-2020||Patna||Bodies lie in Covid ward of Patna’s NMCH, patients flee||The Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) in Patna, the first government facility in BIhar to be declared a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, has come under intense scrutiny after pictures of a body lying in the isolation ward of went viral on Monday, a day after the Central team visited it.An attendant of a Covid-19 patient, who shot the pictures, claimed the body had been lying there since Sunday. Seven patients were being treated in the room where the body was lying, he said.“My mother has stopped eating since last afternoon. The body is lying on the bed adjacent to hers, and her condition has begun to deteriorate,” said Shatrughan, whose mother is being treated for Covid-19 for the past one week.He said the body had been covered with a thin ‘gumcha’ (cotton towel) and a large part of it was exposed, causing anxiety among other patients undergoing treatment in the room.The attendant claimed he had complained to the hospital staff but nothing was done despite assurances. This was not an isolated instance at the NMCH.Saurabh Gupta, attendant of another patient, alleged that two bodies were lying in another isolation ward since Sunday. A total of five deaths were reported at the NMCH on Monday.Gupta claimed no doctor had come to attend to the patients in the ward since Sunday, compelling him to take a voluntary discharge of his relative from the hospital and shift him to the AIIMS-Patna.Gupta said the immediate relatives of the patient were made to sign a form that they were taking the patient against medical advice, before allowing the patient to leave.“We had no other option. We signed the form because we could not have left our patient to die at the NMCH, where there is no one to either dispose of the bodies or attend to patients,” he claimed.Hindustan Times photographer was witness to a 62-year-old Danapur woman dying inside a private ambulance at the portico of the emergency ward of the NMCH after she was reportedly denied admission. Her two sons brought her to the NMCH around 11.30 am on Monday, but she died in about an hour after no one came to attend to her.The son was heard telling someone on cellphone that the authorities were not admitting her mother, who was on oxygen support following respiratory distress.Asha Garg, 70, who recovered from Covid-19 after undergoing treatment at the NMCH between June 16 and July 3, had also claimed a body remained in the ward with none to dispose it for 24 hours.“We were treated as untouchables. Forget doctors, even nurses would not come despite our request in case of emergency. They would keep our medicines outside the ward and call us out to collect them, avoiding any physical contact with us,” she said.“All through the 17 days of my stay at the NMCH, no physician ever came to attend to me or any of the patients in the ward I was admitted. The doctors enquired about condition of patients on mobile phones and communicated through the nurses,” she added.NMCH principal Dr Hiralal Mahto defended the hospital administration.“There’s a protocol for disposal of bodies of Covid-19 patients. The five deaths had taken place on Monday morning and we had left the bodies there (on beds in wards) for disposal in the evening, as the crematorium at Bans Ghat receives these bodies only after 8 pm,” said Dr Mahto.Asked if the hospital did not have a mortuary, he said: “The hospital does not have a mortuary though there is one at the medical college.”The distance between its medical college and hospital is around 3.5kms.He denied allegations that doctors and nurses were not attending to the patients at the Covid-19 hospital. “We have sufficient protective gear and all our doctors and nurses are promptly attending to all patients,” he said.He also denied that the number of dissatisfied patients leaving the hospital against medical advice was increasing.A three-member Central team, headed by Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW) had visited the NMCH to assess its condition on Sunday. Other team members were Dr SK Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control, and associate professor of AIIMS-Delhi Dr Neeraj Nischal.Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi, who visited NMCH later in the evening, said: “The bodies should have been kept in the mortuary. There are some administrative issues, which we are trying to resolve and have extended all possible cooperation to the authorities at the NMCH.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bodies-lie-in-covid-ward-of-patna-s-nmch-patients-flee/story-uIjgoGGGQpCMQ5YZTHRiZP.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Members of BKU, AAP’s kisan wing protest against agri-ordinance in Kharar||Members of Bharti Kisan Union (BKU), Lakhowal, and kisan wing of Aam Aadmi Party on Monday held a tractor rally at Anaj Mandi in Kharar against the Agriculture Amendment Ordinance and the Power Amendment Bill promulgated by the central government. BKU, Lakhowal, protested under the leadership of Devender Singh Dehkalan, while members of AAP’s kisan wing protested under Narender Singh Shergill The protestors used around 40 tractors to conduct the rally and as they came on the road, were stopped by the police.Kharar sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Himanshu Jain and deputy superintendent of police Pal Singh reached the spot and received a memorandum and ensured that, they will speak to higher authorities.The protestors said the Agriculture Amendment Ordinance and Power Amendment Bill are anti-farmer and will benefit big corporate houses while farming will be wiped out. They said the impact of the ever increasing rates of diesel and petrol on the income of the farmers should be taken into consideration and the central government should take immediate steps to being down the prices. They said the Punjab government should pass a resolution in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha against the increase in electricity bills, ordinance bills, protection of agriculture sector from corporate houses and implementation of MSP of crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/members-of-bku-aap-s-kisan-wing-protest-against-agri-ordinance-in-kharar/story-mI3Xpb2km6JthFo4NFOAwO.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh wants weekend curfew in tricity, Punjab says no||The UT administration’s proposal for imposing weekend curfew in tricity has been turned down by the Punjab government, while Haryana’s response is awaited.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida had on Monday written to the chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana, seeking their consent and opinion on imposing weekend curfew in the tricity, a decision taken in the war-room meeting to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The proposal was mooted taking into account the spike in cases in July. In Chandigarh, cases reported in the first 20 days of July are more than double the cases reported in June. So far in July, 297 persons have tested positive, while in June the figure was 146.In the letter, the UT had proposed imposing curfew in the tricity (Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula), from 7pm (Friday) up to 6 am (Monday).Parida said the UT officials considered to take on both Punjab and Haryana on board “since weekend curfew only in Chandigarh will not be effective, unless it is simultaneously imposed in Mohali and Panchkula” .Confirming the development, Parida said, “Punjab has said no. Haryana, initially said no, but later, said they would be putting it up to chief minister. They are also reluctant.”In this regard, Raveen Thukral, media adviser to Punjab CM, tweeted, “Clarifying that Capt Amrinder-led Punjab government has not so far accepted UT administration’s proposal to impose weekend curfew (Friday evening to Monday morning) in tricity.”Significantly, in Mohali, curfew from Saturday evening to early Monday morning is already in force.Meanwhile, the Haryana government as well is not keen to impose weekend curfew in Panchkula. Top officials said chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had considered the issue of imposing a fresh lockdown or curfew in the national capital region (NCR) districts and elsewhere, but decided against it.“The state is instead focusing on ensuring social distancing measures, inculcate the habit of mask wearing among people, observe safe practices at workplace and more sampling, including rapid antigen. This is our approach in the NCR districts and elsewhere,’’ said an official.Khattar had said on Sunday that the government is pursuing an aggressive strategy in the containment zones whereby they screen more people and conduct higher testing since infections were being reported from only certain small pockets in every district.Now, the UT administration will take a final call on Wednesday whether to impose weekend curfew in Chandigarh, said Parida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-wants-weekend-curfew-in-tricity-punjab-says-no/story-umBOWQ8JSOv9NtsojWY24H.html
20-07-2020||City||Male nurse was beaten up for telling drunk man not to pay beggar: Police||The 29-year-old male nurse, who was beaten to death in Sector 68 on Saturday night, was assaulted as he had objected to a drunk man giving alms to a beggar near a liquor vend, police said on Monday.Police have arrested two men for the murder of Arun Bhardwaj, who worked at Fortis Hospital and lived in Phase 9 with his parents, wife and a two-month-old daughter.The accused have been identified as Kamaldeep Grewal, 29, and Rinku, 19, who stayed in rented accommodations in Kumbra village.Kamaldeep hails from Jaitu, Punjab, and works as a photographer here, while Rinku is a daily wager, police said. Three other accused are absconding.“Arun, along with five other men, was standing near the liquor vend adjacent to the Forest Complex on Saturday night. Meanwhile, he saw one of the men give Rs 40 to a beggar and objected to it, stating that the beggar will use to it buy liquor,” said Rajneesh Chaudhary, station house officer (SHO), Phase 8. “Arun’s objection enraged one of the inebriated men, which led to a scuffle. All five men started thrashing Arun and even strangled him, which led to his death,” he added.DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal said, “The other accused will be arrested soon. We have rounded up some persons on suspicion and are confirming their role in the crime.”The duo arrested on Monday was produced in a local court, which sent them to three-day police custody. They are facing a case of murder registered at the Phase 8 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/male-nurse-was-beaten-up-for-telling-drunk-man-not-to-pay-beggar-police/story-4v4WemMSujqbmrZJpCawcJ.html
20-07-2020||Dehradun||With 3 more deaths, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 toll rises to 55||Uttarakhand reported 127 new Covid-19 cases and three more deaths from the disease on Monday, taking the tally to 4,642 and death toll to 55 in the Himalayan state. Those who succumbed to the coronavirus disease included two male and one female patient, according to the health bulletin released by the state health department.Two of out of the three deaths - both male patients - were reported from AIIMS, Rishikesh, while a 63-year-old woman died at Sushila Tiwari Government Hospital, Haldwani.According to the state health department, of the 55 people who have died due to Covid-19 till date, only seven patients out of 55 have died due to coronavirus infection, while others died due to comorbidities.Meanwhile, with 95 new cases, Haridwar district accounted for the highest number of cases in the state on Monday.Of the infections reported on Monday, 90 were found to be contacts of earlier detected positive cases while the others had returned to the state from places like Jammu, Mumbai, Bihar and Muscat.Ninety-six patients were also discharged from hospitals during the day with a maximum of 51 patients being from Nainital.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 21.93 days, while the infection rate is 4.21%. The state has so far tested 1.23 lakh samples of which results of 9400 are awaited.In a late development, the Uttarkashi district administration on Monday announced a three-day immediate lockdown in Barkot region till July 23. The decision was taken at a joint meeting of the police, district administration, municipality and traders’ body. The lockdown was imposed from Monday 8pm till the same time on July 23. Only essential services will be allowed during the lockdown with a ban on movement of vehicles as well. The decision was taken after two positive cases were reported from the area in the past two days. Neither of the two cases had a travel history . In another development, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nainital district on Monday made it mandatory for police personnel to be tested for Covid-19 if they visit Udham Singh Nagar even for one day. The decision has been taken due to the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in US Nagar district.As per official records, over 50 police personnel working in Nainital district are residents of US Nagar who usually commute from their home district to the police line in Haldwani on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/with-3-more-deaths-uttarakhand-s-covid-19-toll-rises-to-55/story-SC6sc6fzbkWuj1iDZZleAI.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Online registration for admission to Class 11 at 40 Chandigarh govt schools to start from July 21||Online registration for admission to Class 11 at 40 government schools for the 2020-21 academic session will start from Tuesday. Forms can be submitted till 2pm on July 30. As many as 12,500 seats are available at government schools in four streams- science, arts, commerce and skill courses.As per the prospectus, provisional merit list will be out on 7 August, while the list indicating allotment of schools and streams after taking objections of students, will be out on August 13. The details for counselling will be notified later.Candidates have to submit online registration forms with scanned documents as per details mentioned in the prospectus. To help students complete the process, admission help desks have been set up in 20 government schools. The desks will be operational from 9am to 1pm on all working days.Moreover, 20 options for different schools/streams will be available to students in the registration form. Candidates scoring above 60% have to fill a minimum of 10 options for schools and streams. Candidates with less than 60% have to fill a minimum of 15 options. The online prospectus is available at www.chdeducation.gov.in and www.nielit.gov.in/chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-registration-for-admission-to-class-11-at-40-chandigarh-govt-schools-to-start-from-july-21/story-Ent2f2xWvkrkmdz64Hu63L.html
20-07-2020||City||Covid-19 caused economic loss of ₹30,000cr to state, says Himachal minister||The Covid-19 pandemic has hit Himachal Pradesh’s economy adversely and as per estimates the state has suffered losses to the tune of ₹30,000 crore in the last three months, education minister and Cabinet spokesperson Suresh Bhardwaj said on Monday.He was addressing the media after the cabinet meeting held here. Bhardwaj said that the issue was discussed in the meeting. and that the tourism sector alone has suffered losses up to ₹3,000 crore. The transport sector has also taken a hit and the situation may be gauged from the fact that the salaries of Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) employees have been delayed.Electricity consumption has declined which resulted in heavy losses to the power sector.The state government is meeting its expenditures from revenue deficit grants received from the Centre. The GST and central taxes share have also declined.GOVT CONCERNED OVER SPIKE IN COVID CASESBhardwaj said that the government was concerned over the spike in Covid-19 cases in Himachal, particularly in the industrial belt. This issue was also discussed in the cabinet meeting.He said no tourists visiting the state were tested positive for coronavirus. However, most of the cases were found among the people returning to Himachal from other states.Bhardwaj said that given the surge in cases the chief minister has directed to strengthen the health and quarantine facilities in the affected areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-caused-economic-loss-of-30-000cr-to-state-says-himachal-minister/story-qQ5pkdbVWoy6XDuhE7Nt0L.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fresh warrants against suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur||A special CBI court has issued fresh non-bailable warrants against suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur, accused in a Rs 5-lakh graft case.The warrants are returnable by July 23, which means if she is not arrested by this date, the proceedings to declare her a proclaimed offender will begin. The case will next come up for hearing on July 23.Earlier on July 16, the court had issued the warrants for July 20. On Monday, the CBI court was informed that the warrants could not be executed, as accused Kaur could not be traced despite best efforts.Teams conducted searches in Panchkula, Mohali, Chandigarh and Punjab. The houses of her parents and husband were also visited, but Kaur was not found. Hence, CBI appealed for fresh warrants against her.On July 10, the court had denied anticipatory bail to Kaur, who had claimed false implication and that the amount recovered was actually compromise money and not bribe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fresh-warrants-against-suspended-sho-jaswinder-kaur/story-0rtNcsJ7d3GQmyOWtSSZlN.html
20-07-2020||City||Cheema, Khaira seek judicial probe into granthi’s death||Sangrur A week after Lovepreet Singh, 22, a granthi at Gurdwara Sahib in Sehjra village of Barnala district, joined investigation before the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Chandigarh, on July 13 and was found dead at the Gurdwara Amb Sahib, Mohali, the same night, political leaders have sought a judicial probe into his death. Raising the demand of a probe, both Punjab leader of opposition and Dirba MLA Harpal Singh Cheema and Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, separately, visited Lovepreet’s village and met his family. Lovepreet belonged to Ratta Khera village near Lehragaga in Sangrur. Police say that the NIA had summoned him as witness in a case of ‘sedition and Arms Act’ registered in Amritsar district. He had left behind a suicide note, saying he alone was responsible for his death. Dirba MLA Cheema said, “It is suspicious that a man joins probe before the NIA and the next day, his body is recovered. Dalit families are being targeted in Punjab,” adding, “Lovepreet hailed from a poor dalit family.” MLA Sukhpal Khaira said, “The suicide of Lovepreet is suspicious. Family claims there were marks of torture on his private body parts. The CM should order a judicial probe into the death of Lovepreet.” Lovepreet’s father Kewal Singh said, “I demand justice.”Sangrur SSP Sandeep Garg said, “I have received an application and the matter will be investigated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cheema-khaira-seek-judicial-probe-into-granthi-s-death/story-QdKtNpIwk9BGRWSi6g8I2I.html
20-07-2020||City||Jalandhar pvt hospitals to treat covid patients from Aug; 211 beds to be added||Jalandhar With the state government capping the maximum rate for treatment of covid-19 patients at Rs 18,000 per day and the infection continuing to spread among more residents, 14 private hospitals will provide 211 beds to help the district administration deal with the pandemic. To date, the district has only 340 beds at the civil hospitals for covid patients. With private hospitals expected to be ready by August, as an immediate measure, the administration has asked the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) to start giving treatment to covid-19 patients from July 23. For better planning and response, grading of patients will be done. Level 1 will be for patients requiring advanced respiratory support alone or monitoring and support for two or more organ systems; Level 2 for patients requiring more detailed observation or intervention including support for a single failing organ system or post-operative care and those ‘stepping down’ from higher levels of care and Level 3 for critical and in need of ICU and ventilator.At PIMS, from July 23 (Thursday), 110 beds for level-2 and 10-beds for level-3 patients will be available. Nodal office for covid-19 in Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh, said, “We will seek daily reports from hospitals. No one will be allowed to fleece patients.” Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “We are committed to providing best possible care to covid-19 patients. These hospitals will start admitting and treating patients in first week of August. Ten leading hospitals under the Indian Medical Association (IMA) are also running a special hospital in Shahkot providing 25 beds for level-2 and 10 beds for level-3 since April.”Some of the other hospitals besides PIMS are New Ruby, Mann Medicity, Gulab Devi and Joshi Hospitals offering 22 beds combined for level-2; eight beds for level-3 patients in Gulab Devi Hospital; six beds for level-2 patients in Kidney Hospital and Armaan Hospital; 10 beds for level-2 in Rattan Hospital; Eight beds for level-3 offered by Sacred Hearts Hospital; Four beds for level-2 and level-3 by Shrimann Hospital, respectively; 10 beds for level-2 and four beds for level-3 by Joshi Hospital; Four beds for level-2 and five beds for level-3 by Sarvodya Hospital; and three beds for level-2 and level-3 by Capitol Hospital, respectively. The DC added hospitals had been directed to give priority to take care of old and vulnerable population with co-morbidities, which was at the high risk of developing severe illness and also appealed the people to don’t take flu-like symptoms lightly and contact doctors soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-pvt-hospitals-to-treat-covid-patients-from-aug-211-beds-to-be-added/story-Y3BNGfW9ocejIfuY9hpkAM.html
20-07-2020||Patna||Bodies lie in Covid-19 ward in Patna’s NMCH, a hospital without mortuary||Pictures of a body lying in the isolation ward of the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), a dedicated Covid-19 government facility in Patna have gone viral in Patna on Monday, a day after a Central team visited it and advised the Bihar government to improve hospital managementAn attendant of a Covid-19 patient, who shot the pictures from the Covid ward of the NMCH, claimed that the body had been lying there since Sunday. Seven patients were being treated in the room where the body was lying, he said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “My mother has stopped eating since last afternoon. The body is lying on the bed adjacent to hers, and her condition has begun to deteriorate,” said Shatrughan, whose mother is being treated for Covid-19 for the past one week.He said the body had been covered with a thin ‘gumcha’ (cotton towel) and a large part of it was exposed, causing anxiety among other patients undergoing treatment in the room.The Union health ministry’s guidelines on management of the body of a Covid-19 casualty say, “Place the dead body in leak-proof plastic body bag. The exterior of the body bag can be decontaminated with 1% hypochlorite.”The attendant claimed that he had complained to the nurses and hospital staff and everyone assured him that the body would be taken out of the room in an hour, but it had not been done.This was not the only instance of lapse in patient care at the NMCH.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Saurabh Gupta, attendant of another patient, alleged that two bodies were lying in yet another isolation ward at the NMCH since Sunday. A total of five deaths were reported at the NMCH on Monday.Gupta claimed that no doctor had come to attend to the patients in the ward since Sunday, compelling him to take a voluntary discharge of his relative from the hospital and shift him to the AIIMS-Patna.Gupta said the immediate relatives of the patient were made to sign a form that they were taking the patient against medical advice, before allowing the patient to leave.“We had no other option and we signed the form because we could not have left our patient to die at the NMCH, where there was none to either dispose of the bodies or doctors to personally attend to patients,” he claimed.A Hindustan Times photographer was witness to a 62-year-old Danapur woman dying inside a private ambulance van at the portico of the emergency ward of the NMCH after she was reportedly denied admission. Two of her sons had taken her to the NMCH at around 11.30 am on Monday, but she died in about an hour without any doctor attending to her.The woman was on oxygen support following respiratory distress.Asha Garg, 70, who recovered from Covid-19 after undergoing treatment at the NMCH between June 16 and July 3, had also claimed that a body remained in the ward for 24 hours.“We were treated as untouchables. Forget doctors, even nurses would not come despite our request in case of emergency. They would keep our medicines outside the ward and call us out to collect them, avoiding any physical contact with us,” she said.“All through the 17 days of my stay at the NMCH, no physician ever came to attend to me or any of the patients in the ward I was admitted. The doctors enquired about condition of patients on mobile phones and communicated through the nurses,” she added.NMCH principal Dr Hiralal Mahto defended the hospital administration.“There’s a protocol for disposal of bodies of Covid-19 patients. The five deaths had taken place on Monday morning and we had left the bodies there (on beds in wards) for disposal in the evening, as the crematorium at Bans Ghat receives these bodies only after 8pm,” said Dr Mahto.He did not say why the bodies were not immediately put in plastic body bags.Shockingly, the hospital does not even have a mortuary. “The hospital does not have a mortuary though there is one at the medical college.”The distance between its medical college and hospital is around 3.5 km.He denied allegations that doctors and nurses were not attending to the patients at the Covid-19 hospital. “We have sufficient protective gear and all our doctors and nurses are promptly attending to all patients,” he added.He also denied that the number of dissatisfied patients leaving the hospital against medical advice was increasing.Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi, who visited NMCH later in the evening, said: “The bodies should have been kept in the mortuary. There are some administrative issues, which we are trying to resolve and have extended all possible cooperation to the authorities at the NMCH.” A three-member Central team, headed by Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW) had visited the NMCH to assess its condition on Sunday. Other team members were Dr SK Singh, director National Centre for Disease Control, and associate professor of AIIMS-Delhi Dr Neeraj Nischal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bodies-lie-in-covid-19-ward-in-patna-s-nmch-a-hospital-without-mortuary/story-mgr1YAmi6BIauMttjvt5yL.html
20-07-2020||City||Nabha jailbreak accused Neeta Deol attempts suicide in prison, booked||Gangster and jailbreak accused Kulpreet Singh alias Neeta Deol attempted suicide in Nabha district jail on Sunday night, officials said.As per the jail authorities, Deol was immediately administered first aid after his suicide bid was reported around 11.30pm.Police have booked him under Section 309 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. Last week, the jail authorities had recovered a mobile phone from his possession.Nabha deputy superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar Chhiber said the jail authorities informed that the gangster was upset after the police had nominated his wife and alleged girlfriend in the mobile phone smuggling case. “The organised crime control unit is set to take Deol on production warrant in the same case on July 22,” he said.Deol was one of the six inmates who had escaped after breaching Nabha jail’s maximum security in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nabha-jailbreak-accused-neeta-deol-attempts-suicide-in-prison-booked/story-6YFpWJn4PBtNAbaxNamoGK.html
20-07-2020||City||3 months after wife’s death, man among 4 booked for murder in Amritsar||Three months after a 30-year-old woman died in mysterious circumstances at her in-laws’ home in New Gurnam Nagar in Amritsar, the police on Monday registered a murder case against her husband and his three family members.Balwinder Kaur alias Kulwinder Kaur had died on April 21, following which the Division B police of Amritsar commissionerate initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc), and her autopsy was done in Amritsar civil hospital.Division B police SHO Gurwinder Singh said the autopsy report showed that the victim had died of strangulation, and subsequently a case under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC have been registered against the woman’s husband Tejinder Singh, his father Kulwant Singh, mother Kashmir Kaur and brother Arvinder Singh.He said the victim’s father had already expressed doubts about daughter’s in-laws for her mysterious death. “She had been complaining to me about harassment by her in-laws over dowry demand,” the father said.Police said raids were on to nab the accused who are absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-months-after-wife-s-death-man-among-4-booked-for-murder-in-amritsar/story-u4OQIL9C9o2zT0RhOg7ZYL.html
20-07-2020||Bangalore||Amid surge in Covid cases, minister rules out Bengaluru lockdown extension||The Karnataka government on Monday decided not to extend the weeklong lockdown - in force from July 14 to 22 - for state capital Bengaluru. This was announced by medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar after a meeting convened by the CM to review the situation in the city. The minister however clarified that other restrictions like night-time curfew and weekend curfew would continue to be in force as in other parts of the state, but it would be business as usual from Wednesday.Earlier home minister Basvraj Bommai speaking to the media had also reiterated that lockdown was not a solution and that there would be no extension of the same in Bengaluru. The decision by the government came despite a surge in Covid-19 cases. On Monday, the state recorded 3648 new cases taking the total to 67,420 cases which includes 23,795 discharges and 1,403 deaths. Bengaluru meanwhile recorded 1,452 new Covid-19 cases taking the total number of active cases in the city to 25,574.Even as the Congress continued to allege that there were large scale irregularities and corruption involved in the procurement of equipment to treat Covid-19 patients, the government said they are false reports. Addressing the media, Deputy CM Ashwath Narayana and Minister for health and family welfare B Sriramulu claimed that all purchases were above board and have been done in a transparent manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/amid-surge-in-covid-cases-minister-rules-out-bengaluru-lockdown-extension/story-gxhvk5p9LKlAqHR2C8PPqM.html
20-07-2020||City||State medical interns demand stipend hike from Rs 11,000 to Rs 50,000||PUNE The Association of State Medical Interns, Maharashtra, has written a letter to multiple state authorities demanding that the government hike the stipend, which is currently Rs 11,000 per month, to Rs 50,000.This demand is on the lines of what Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is paying interns working in its hospitals.This demand has been raised by doctors working in all state government hospitals including Pune’s Sassoon General Hospital, which is treating Covid-19 positive patients.Dr Vedkumar Ghantaji, president, Association of State Medical Interns, Maharashtra, said, “We have put forward this demand multiple times in front various authorities, but the association has not got a positive response. We demand that the current stipend must be hiked to Rs 50,000 even if it is a temporary hike.”“This hike can be provided to only those who are working in Covid-19 wards if not to all. Out of the 2,000 interns in the state, at least 600 are working in Covid-19 wards,” he said.“We have sent the letter to the chief minister, health minister and the Directorate of medical education and research (DMER) which supervises all medical colleges,” he said.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, head, Directorate of medical education and research, said, “We have increased their stipend from Rs 6,000 per month to Rs 11,000 per month which is a permanent hike. The recent demand by the students to hike it to Rs 50,000 at par with what the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is offering to its interns can be decided only by the state.”“This hike is not permanent and will be withdrawn once the Covid-19 situation ends. Just like the BMC is offering this stipend hike, the respective civic bodies can also take a call,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-medical-interns-demand-stipend-hike-from-rs-11-000-to-rs-50-000/story-2mU6GDWndC31RMjCWDk4tO.html
20-07-2020||City||Pune district now ‘one unit’ for hospital bed availability with taskforce in place: collector||PUNE The district administration has appointed a special task-force to handle “bed management” in the city’s hospitals with the added impetus of and bringing down the case fatality rate.Pune’s case fatality rate as of July 20 was at 2.6 per cent, as per data provided by the state health department.District collector Naval Kishore Ram, addressing an online media briefing on the Covid-19 situation, said, “Panic had been created among citizens as some are not getting beds. We have decided to consider Pune district as a one whole unit. Right now, PMC area may have only one bed available, but neighbouring PCMC has 32 beds vacant. Some beds are available in the Cantonment hospitals. As all areas are connected to each other, it is has been decided to update the dashboard with Pune district as a whole unit. If citizens are not able to get a bed in one place, availability all over the district will now be there.”Covid-only hospital planDistrict collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “It has been decided that some private hospitals would be converted into exclusive Covid hospitals, and non-Covid patients would be relocated to non-Covid hospitals. The administration is working to shortlist which private hospitals would be for Covid treatment only.”The district administration is also working to ensure medical facilities in rural areas so patients do not have to come to Pune as this will help ease the load on Pune’s health infrastructure.Naval Kishore Ram said, “We have increased the number of beds in the ICUs and the number of beds with ventilator in Sassoon Hospital, Inlaks & Budhrani, and Dalvi hospital. At least 650 beds more beds will be added very soon across hospitals.”Pawar prompt? Thackeray reviews Solapur situationA day after NCP chief Sharad Pawar and health minister Rajesh Tope visited Solapur on Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray conducted a review meeting with Solapur officials via video conferencing on Monday.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar confirmed the meeting with Thackeray and said many suggestions were made to the local administration as regards the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-now-one-unit-for-hospital-bed-availability-with-taskforce-in-place-collector/story-GyuiKIeabMRDdykgN1DYbP.html
20-07-2020||City||AAP, farmers hold stir, demand rollback of agri ordinances||Farmer unions along with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) activists held protests in Bathinda and adjoining districts against the Centre, demanding the rollback of the ordinances related to the agriculture sector.The protesters gathered in a large numbers on tractors with placards and also pressed for reducing fuel prices.However, several activists were seen moving without masks and violated social distancing during the protest.A senior leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal), Ramkaran Singh Raman charged the central government of formulating policies to suppress the farming sector. He said the three ordinances issued by the government were against the interests of small and marginal farmers and must be taken back.AAP activists also raised slogans against the Congress government in Punjab for ignoring the interests of farmers.AAP district president Navdeep Singh Jeeda said fuel prices have rocketed and CM Capt Amarinder Singh did nothing to bring down taxes as a relief to the agrarian state.He said the farming community has serious apprehension that the minimum support price mechanism and assured marketing system may be disbanded by the Centre to benefit the corporate sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-farmers-hold-stir-demand-rollback-of-agri-ordinances/story-GaRibrMcqSmJ3Xr4bywLgL.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Online classes leading to stress, eye problems in children, say parents||The long hours children spend on computers and smart phones for online classes as schools remain shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic is beginning to bother parents as complaints of headaches, eye problems and stress surface, it has been learnt. Time spent on screens not just for studies but for other activities as well is increasing, says a city-based psychiatrist, who, worryingly feels it’s turning out to be “worse than cannabis addition.” The ministry of human resource development (MHRD) recommended just 30 hours of screen time for pre-primary students, two classes of 45 minutes each for classes 1 to 8 and four classes of 45 minutes each for classes 9 to 12, but that’s not working, parents allege. Many schools are not following the directions,which anyway are not binding. Classes go on for longer than expected. “My children recently developed fever and headaches after attending online classes and I had to take them to the doctor,” says Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh Parents Association.About his two children in Class 8 at a private school in the tricity, Mahesh Dheer from Panchkula says, “they had only one class initially, which has now increased to four. Sometimes lessons are extended till the evening after which the children have to complete homework. We try to have 10 minute breaks for them to relax and wash their eyes, but there is a visible redness in their eyes now which makes me very concerned as a parent.” Some parents are reporting mental health issues too due to excessive use of gadgets. Baljinder Singh of Sector 21, Chandigarh, suspects his children have increased mood swings now. “They are already cooped up at home and are getting cranky and restless. After their online classes I find they are unable to focus on their work and suffer from headaches,” he says.Opticians report jump in salesOpticians in the city too say more cases of children with complaints of eye strain are coming to them. “At least three or four people come in every day to get their children’s eyes tested because of increased screen time,” says Samrat Arora, the general secretary of the Chandigarh Optical Association, who runs an eye care centre in Sector 22. “We prescribe blue light filtering glasses and anti fatigue lenses to these children, which cost about Rs 1,200 and more.”Eye wear sales have jumped fourfold, adds Arora.‘Worse than cannabis addiction’ Calling screen addiction among children a growing concern, Dr Adarsh Kohli, professor of clinical psychology at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research compares it to cannabis addiction, “Too much exposure to screens of mobiles and laptops leads a feeling of isolation and anxiety in the current scenario. It can lead to depression and an increase in neurotic traits such as nail biting, thumb sucking and hair pulling,” she says.This can have an adverse physical impact on children and lead to eye strain on eyes and ears, obesity and disturbed sleep patterns, she adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-classes-leading-to-stress-eye-problems-in-children-say-parents/story-y4a8cnLKqHN8oCqozZ0psN.html
20-07-2020||City||Heroin seizures along Punjab border see three-fold rise this year||There has been a three-fold increase in the recovery of heroin by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the Punjab border this year as compared to the corresponding period last year.According to the BSF’s statistics, around 328kg of heroin, apparently smuggled from Pakistan, has been seized till July 19 this year. Last year, the figure was around 100kg for the same period.Punjab Police officials opine that the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown and restrictions imposed on the unnecessary movement of people have cut the supply chain of heroin, increasing the drug’s demand and prompting the Pakistani smugglers to push in more consignments into the Indian territory through various means.In the last four months of lockdown (March 23 to July 19), the BSF has seized 229kg heroin on the state border, which is 9kg more than the total seizures in the last year. In 2019, the BSF had seized total 227kg heroin. On March 23 this year, the Centre had enforced the nationwide lockdown.This year’s seizures include a 64-kg heroin haul from the Ravi river that flows along the India-Pakistan border in Gurdaspur district. The contraband was found in 60 packets concealed in long fabric cloth tubes and tied to a bunch of water hyacinth floating in the river on Sunday.A senior BSF official in Amritsar said, “We have noticed the increased activities of anti-national elements across the border this year. But our force is capable of thwarting their all attempts. Our personnel are keeping 24x7 vigil along the border.”A senior special task force (STF) official said, “The supply chain of heroin has been disrupted by the strict lockdown in Punjab and due to this out-patient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) centres across Punjab have also witnessed a drastic increase in the admission of drug dependents for treatment.”The BSF’s recovery is apart from the drug haul by Punjab Police along the international border. On May 28 this year, the Tarn Taran police had seized around 8.50kg of heroin from across the barbed fence at Rattoke village on the India-Pakistan border.Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police Dhruv Dahiya had said the heroin was buried in an agriculture field across the barbed fence. After the recovery, the police had also arrested one Gurlal Singh of Rattoke village. Police had said Gurlal had been in contact with Pakistani smugglers for the supply of heroin.Similarly, on May 2, STF had recovered 9kg heroin with the arrest of three persons in two separate operations carried out near the India-Pakistan border. The STF had said the heroin, which was smuggled from across the border, was being cleared by the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heroin-seizures-along-punjab-border-see-three-fold-rise-this-year/story-MjyxX9bTW2WTrgLpvpiZRL.html
20-07-2020||Lucknow||Humble egg: UPites new-found love during the lockdown||The Covid-19 pandemic seems to have egged on the people in Uttar Pradesh into consuming more eggs.As per estimate, UPites were buying over 2.5 crore eggs per day as against an estimated 1.5 crore eggs per day last year during the same period. The ban on meat-chicken-fish sale, unhindered supply and sale of eggs and nutritional value of eggs worked together in the high sale of eggs despite the summers.“Between April and now, all summer months, the Uttar Pradesh consumed the number of eggs it consumes in winters. This is the Saawan month (of Hindu calendar)--when sales of all non-vegetarian products and eggs goes down drastically but despite the summers and the sawaan, this time eggs are selling high,” said Ali Akbar, president, UP Poultry Farmers’ Association.Akbar said the state’s average summer consumption was between 1.25 crore to 1.75 crore eggs per day.“Chicken, meat was banned in UP since when Covid started in UP. When the government imposed the lockdown, eggs sale were allowed under essential supplies. We have witnessed higher demand and sale of eggs since April. And it continues. I have been selling 25-30 per cent more eggs than what I sold just before the lockdowns. Never before we saw such demand of eggs in summers,” said Ashwani Kumar, owner of Mama Milk Point in Udaiganj.He also said that this was the first time he observed eggs-hoarding tendencies among people.“Normally, people buy six or a dozen eggs. But this time, they pick up egg trays. One tray has 30 eggs people picking up more than one tray at a time is quite common now,” said Ashwani.According to the Livestock Production Data of the UP Animal Husbandry Department, the state had produced 260 crore eggs in 2018-19--that was roughly 70 lakh eggs per day.“But the capacity of UP egg farmers had touched 1.5 crore egg per day before Covid,” said Akbar.UP Egg Farmers Association data said that UP has 644 egg farms (with the capacity to produce 10,000 to 30,000 eggs per day each) in the organised sector and an additional backyard (unorganised) farms that produce 40 lakh eggs per day.The surplus eggs are coming from Telangana, Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan.The egg producers of those states are reaping the benefits of this jacked up demand.But then how did the UP egg farmers couldn’t reap the benefits of higher demand?“Because we were not in a position to meet the demand with enough supplies. Our egg production fell. The price of bird feed went up during lockdowns while already the UP egg farmers were reeling under high electricity bills as the poultry farmers’ power connections are commercial while they should be concessional ones as they too should be considered farmers. So many farmers could not sustain the business.Egg farmers buy chicks are Rs 5 each, but when the fresh non-vegetarian sale got banned in the state; many farmers sold the full-grown live birds at a premium--around Rs 125 each bird--to people (to be reared at home and then used for eating whenever desired). So, UP egg farmers production went down and other states’ benefited.”The egg farmers in UP got the opportunity to sell their birds at the premium because the state’s chicken industry had suffered badly due to pre-lockdown rumours that birds spread Covid. Before the lockdown, the chicken was either sold at throwaway prices, distributed free or culled.“Now, the farmers are rearing new chicks and they would be ready to lay eggs in about three months. So, the UP farmers would be in a position to supply 1.5 crore eggs per day by September,” said Akbar.“Eggs became a staple in our family since April,” said Tarun Gupta, a Canal Road resident.Eggs are well known good source of protein and good fats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/humble-egg-upites-new-found-love-during-the-lockdown/story-2GOTER4d1ldePyGeNSNpII.html
20-07-2020||City||Rise in fuel prices: Himachal govt hikes bus fare by 25%||Travelling in buses would be costlier as the government on Monday increased fare by around 25% to compensate for the recent increase in fuel prices, officials said.The minimum fare has been increased to ₹7 from existing ₹5. The decision to hike the fare of both private and Himachal Roadways buses was taken at the cabinet meeting on Monday presided by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.“The decision has been taken keeping in view the increased fuel prices amid coronavirus pandemic. Transport corporation is suffering huge losses after the Covid-19 outbreak,” said transport minister Govind Thakur.Public transport in Himachal Pradesh was stalled in March-end after the Covid-19 outbreak. The government allowed intra-state transport to resume on June 1 with 60% occupancy. However, most private buses remained off-road due to non-viability and operators demanding up to 50% hike in the fare.The government initially refused to increase the fare but allowed 100% occupancy in the buses during Unlock 2 that started this month.However, the private bus operators remained adamant and wanted the government to hike the fare due to increased fuel prices.The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) had also recommended an increase in the bus fare.SECOND HIKE IN TWO YEARSAt present, the fare of ordinary buses in Himachal is ₹1.12 per km in the plains and ₹1.75 in the hills.Similarly, the fare of deluxe buses is ₹1.37 per km in the plains and ₹2.17 per km in the hills.For Volvo and air-conditioned buses, the fare is ₹2.74 per km in the plains and ₹3.62 in the hills.The minimum bus fare is ₹5.This is the second bus fare hike during the tenure of the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government.Last time, bus fares were hiked by up to 24.44% on September 24, 2018.Buses are the only means of transportation in rural Himachal as the state lacks air and train connectivity in these areas.The HRTC has 3,300 buses in its fleet while there are 3,100 private buses in the state. At present only 33% of buses are plying. OTHER DECISIONSThe cabinet approved the replacement of 38 ambulances under the National Ambulance Service-108 in the state in lieu of ambulances which have outlived their economic life.The Industries Department made a presentation on ‘Ease of Doing Business’ before the cabinet. It stressed on the development of an online system for 46 services to facilitate the entrepreneurs and improve the ease of doing business in the state. The cabinet directed the department to move on all points of reforms in a time-bound manner.Information and Technology Department presented the hardware for e-Cabinet and the cabinet authorised the department to go-ahead for the purchase of 16 workstations. It was decided that the third-party security audit should be done for maintaining confidentiality.It also gave its nod to provide government land measuring 8 marala at a rate of 20% of the present circle rate i.e. ₹34,008 as a lump sum and ₹1 per month lease for 99 years at Bamsan in Hamirpur district in favour of HPSEB Limited. for construction of office of junior engineer and complaint room of tikri section.The cabinet gave its nod to withdraw the facility of free travel to Members of Parliament and MLAs in HRTC buses within and outside the state. However, this facility would continue for all former MLAs and MPs.It decided to convert the 771 vacant posts in the cadre of assistant librarians in the education department into junior office assistant (library) for the smooth functioning of libraries of educational institutions in the state.CONGRESS, CPI(M) CONDEMN HIKE State Congress and Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Monday condemned the state government’s decision to hike bus fare by 25% and have demanded to take back this decision.CPI(M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said that this decision has exposed state government and its ministers as after receiving backlash for considering to hike bus fares after the last cabinet meeting, CM, transport minister Govind Singh Thakur and other ministers were constantly making statements that bus fare in the state will not be hiked. The government has betrayed the people of the state.State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore said that this decision is totally anti-people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rise-in-fuel-prices-himachal-govt-hikes-bus-fare-by-25/story-aEffiTMv2v0dDx04ME1XaO.html
20-07-2020||City||Three arrested in Ludhiana for betting on England-West Indies Test match||Three men were arrested for accepting bets on the ongoing Test match between England and West Indies on Monday night. The accused were operating from a house in Santokh Nagar. Police have recovered eight mobile phones, a laptop and Rs 1,850 in cash from their possession.The accused have been identified as Rakesh Kumar of Panchkula, Sanjiv Kumar of Ramesh Nagar and Pawan Kumar of Kartar Colony.Police found voice recordings of people setting bets on the match in their mobile phones, which have been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory, Kharar, for data recovery. They also found that the mobile phone, used for accepting bets, was procured using fake identity documents. ASI Gurwinder Singh said the Daresi police arrested the accused following a tip-off. “During questioning, the accused revealed that they had a secure network of bookies for the past two years. They accept bets only within this circle and keep all records in the mobile phones in form of call recordings,” he said.The day after the match, they collect and distribute payments according to the result, the ASI added.Police said Rakesh Kumar was the kingpin of the betting racket. A realtor, he is already facing trial in two cases of gambling lodged in Mansa and Panchkula.“The house from where the police arrested the accused belongs to Rakesh’s father-in-law. We are investigating the involvement of the house owner,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Deepak Pareek.All accused were booked under Sections 13A, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-in-ludhiana-for-betting-on-england-west-indies-test-match/story-IJXFqnlvtVjnu5yLrcrQnI.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||65-year-old woman is Mohali’s 12th Covid-19 fatality, 20 new cases reported||A 65-year-old Zirakpur woman diagnosed with Covid-19 died on Friday, taking the death rate to 12 in the district, even as 20 new cases pushed up the count to 551.Sheela Devi from from Penta Home on VIP Road died at Chandigarh’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Monday.Dr Manjit Singh, Mohali civil surgeon, said she was also suffering from hypertension, diabetes and heart disease. Sheela Devi was cremated according to protocol under the observation of health officials, he added.20 positive cases reportedAmong the 20 cases reported today were a woman, 30, from Malakpur; a man, 34, from Sector 111; two women, 20 and 18, and a man, 48, from Sector 125; a woman, 47, and two men, both 39, from Zirakpur; a man, 24, from Dhakoli; a woman, 36, from Baltana, a man, 65; from Sunny Enclave, Zirakpur; a woman, 38, and three children: A boy and girl, both aged nine, and a six-year-old boy from Dasmesh Nagar, Kharar; two women, 31 and 26, from Sector 69; a man, 24, from Dera Bassi, a man, 25, from Handesra and another man, 35, from Lalru.On Monday, 44 patients were discharged after recovering from the disease, bringing down the number of active patients to 177 in the district. Out of total 551 cases, 362 have recovered, while 12 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/65-year-old-woman-is-mohali-s-12th-covid-19-fatality-20-new-cases-reported/story-Y7qkuNTMP9xeXLxXKOAbzO.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||2017 graft case: Complainant, witness allege threats, high court seeks DGP’s response||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought a personal affidavit from the Chandigarh director general of police (DGP) in an alleged false drug case instituted by the Chandigarh Police against a witness in graft case involving suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur and other cops.The high court bench of justice Sudhir Mittal acted on the plea of Prem Singh Bisht and Samdarsh Kumar, who had approached the court seeking that the probe be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The FIR was registered under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act against Kumar at the Sector 39 police station on June 19.As per them, while Bisht is the complainant in the graft case, Kumar claims to have witnessed sub-inspector (SI) Mohan Singh of Sector 31 police station demanding Rs 9 lakh from Bisht to withdraw names of his employees from an attempt to murder FIR.Bisht had alleged that the SI had told him that the Rs 8 lakh were for the then SHO, Jaswinder Kaur, and Rs 1 lakh for him. After Bisht had approached CBI, the agency had laid a trap and arrested the SI while accepting Rs 2 lakh bribe in October 2017. Kaur has not been named in this FIR. However, in 2019, Bisht had filed a plea in a trial court to summon her as an accused.They have alleged that both of them were receiving threats from Rajdeep Singh, an inspector and SHO-rank officer, and Kaur to turn hostile in the 2017 case. They claimed that the June 2020 FIR against Kumar was a result of them not toeing the cops’ line. “Petitioners are being harassed unnecessarily and false case has been planted. Present is a case where the life and liberty of the petitioners has been put to peril. The senior officials of Chandigarh Police are also aiding the accused and are involved in illegally pressurising the petitioners,” they stated, demanding transfer of case to CBI.Kaur, recently suspended as Manimajra SHO, is again in the news in another graft case. She, along with a conduit, Bhagwan Singh, was booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act on June 29 on charges of seeking Rs 5 lakh bribe from a Manimajra resident, Gurdeep Singh for not lodging an FIR in a cheating case.The court, while seeking response from CBI and Chandigarh Police by August 10, said the response should be accompanied by an affidavit of the director general of police.ALSO READ: Sanction to prosecute SHO Jaswinder Kaur under consideration: DIG to CBI court||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2017-graft-case-complainant-witness-allege-threats-high-court-seeks-dgp-s-response/story-slymn245tDStqQdxbSZzKJ.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Selja slams BJP govt for ‘anti-farmer’ ordinances||Accusing the BJP government of leaving no stone unturned to ruin the farmers, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Monday said the three recent ordinances promulgated by the Central government will only help government’s favourite capitalists to have a free hand to loot the farmers.The Congress leader was referring to the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance and the Essential Commodities (amendment) Ordinance.Addressing a press conference, Selja said that as per the new laws, the trader will be allowed to buy crops from outside the mandi. “This will eliminate competition in the market and minimum support price for the crops. These laws will also affect functioning of mandis in Haryana. At the same time, the crops of the farmers will be sold in the market at one-third price, due to which the farmers will suffer a huge loss,” she alleged.“The ordinances will protect the interests of a particular class only and are against the interests of farmers. These should be withdrawn immediately,” the Congress leader demanded. The state Congress chief maintained that amendment in the Essential Commodities Act will also lead to black marketing of many items.Chief minister ML Khattar, however, had on Sunday allayed fears regarding the new laws saying they will help in doubling the farmers’ income. Khattar had said the new measures will create an environment where farmers and traders have a free choice of sale and purchase of farm produce. The chief minister had said that it’s a false propaganda that minimum support price (MSP) will be done away with after the implementation of these measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/selja-slams-bjp-govt-for-anti-farmer-ordinances/story-gHDjCH47iZQoiQCNIPrOOM.html
20-07-2020||City||Punjab govt to hold webinar on employment opportunities on July 24||The Department Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE), Punjab, will organise a state-level webinar on “Emerging employment opportunities and challenges after Covid-19” at 3pm on July 24. Additional deputy commissioner(ADC) Aashika Jain said the webinar will create awareness among the youth about the employment opportunities in the Covid-19 shadowed environment and the skills required for them.It will be inaugurated by cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Rahul Tewari, secretary, employment generation and training. A panel of representatives of reputed organisations like Microsoft, Walmart India, Pepsi-Co, Dell and Amazon will participate in the session.Interested persons must register at www.pgrkam.com to participate in the webinar. The webinar will also be aired on DBEE’s YouTube channel.For queries, participants can contact 98151-62064 or 78142-59210.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-to-hold-webinar-on-employment-opportunities-on-july-24/story-6W9tTjWl20jA5j1PtkUu7O.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||GMC Patiala gets Punjab’s first plasma bank||Moving closer to effectively fighting Covid-19, Punjab will get its first plasma bank at Patiala with OP Soni, medical education and research minister, inaugurating it at the Government Medical College and Hospital here.The college, which has successfully trialled convalescent plasma therapy, will now have a fully functional plasma bank.Patients recovering from Covid-19 have antibodies (proteins to fight infections) to the disease in their blood. Plasma, the liquid portion of the blood, from people who have recovered from the disease is called convalescent plasma.Earlier the college administration was sending blood samples of recovered patients to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for plasma.Dr Harjinder Singh, principal, GMC Patiala said, “Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had given its permission to conduct trial of plasma therapy at college and we have successfully achieved the target. Now we will have state’s first plasma bank. We have enough people... who will donate plasma after the inauguration of the bank.”Dr RPS Sibiu, professor and head, department of medicine, in charge of trial process of plasma therapy, said, “The ICMR had given a target of 10 patients for plasma therapy in the state and we had contributed in five therapies. We already have facility of plasma storage and the equipment and machines”.Patients can donate their plasma 28 days after recovery and up to four months.“Around 15 donors are ready to donate their plasma and we are also encouraging other recovered patients to come forward for this purpose,” said Dr Harish Malhotra, civil surgeon Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmc-patiala-gets-punjab-s-first-plasma-bank/story-g1pakNAbupcjVuQrPbO1WJ.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt school students resort to widespread cheating, make mockery of online exams||Patiala: Students from primary to higher secondary classes of Punjab government schools are resorting to widespread cheating during the ongoing online examination, raising questions about the efficacy of such assessments during the Covid-19 pandemic.The students across government schools in Punjab were provided online study material followed by bi-monthly exams that began from July 13. It has been found that most children are using unfair means to attempt the examination.Teachers say most students have answered word for word as mentioned in help books. “The students did not adhere to repeated instructions and appeals by teachers to attempt exams with fair means. In most cases, the teachers received fully attempted answer sheets within 15 minutes of releasing the question papers,” said a government teacher, requesting anonymity.The students were provided question papers of 20 marks each on official WhatsApp groups. They had to upload the answer sheets in the same group.‘FAULTY PROCESS OF TESTING’Vikram Dev, a government school teacher, who is also a member of the Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), said, “This is a faulty process that makes students bank on unfair means to clear an examination. These can’t be called exams, rather they should be termed assignments. What is the point of holding such exams when students have a free hand to copy from guides and textbooks?” he said.“The online education method can only be used as a teaching aid. It is not possible for teachers to ensure decorum among students virtually,” he said.Another teacher said his colleagues were receiving answers-sheets with the cheating material also visible in the photos uploaded by students.“Parents are equally at fault as they have failed to keep check on their wards. Teachers will have no option than to make marking of answer-sheets stricter,” another teacher said.BE PREPARED FOR STRICT MARKINGEducation secretary Krishan Kumar said the purpose of providing online study material and conducting exams was to keep students involved with studies.“Teachers are well aware of their students’ performance so they can easily identify those who attempted the exams with unfair means. The teachers have been directed to follow strictness while giving scores,” he said.He said that these exams are meant to assess the actual performance of the students so that the teachers can work on their weak areas.“The teachers had also sent messages to parents to ensure that the children attempted the exams through fair means,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-school-students-resort-to-widespread-cheating-make-mockery-of-online-exams/story-EVdHo2TK7ZH4PI3TKwWnFN.html
20-07-2020||Pune||City reports 1,508 fresh Covid-19 cases, 41 deaths on Sunday||The city recorded another grim milestone on Sunday, reporting 41 deaths related to Covid-19 - the highest number within a 24-hour period, taking the overall death toll 976.Seven deaths of residents from outside the PMC limits were reported in city hospitals.Also, 1,508 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded on Sunday, taking the progressive positive count to 37,386.Of the 13,799 active cases in the city, 557 are critical patients, with 94 on ventilators, and 463 in ICUs. A total of 730 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the discharge count to 22,611. According to the state health department, PMC saw 1,812 positive cases on July 19, which is more than the number reported in Mumbai – 1038.The discrepancy in the numbers between the state and the district continues, not just with daily updates, but also with the number of current active cases.While the state reports 33,748 active cases in Pune district, the local district administration reports 16,000 active cases. Of the 41 deaths, Naidu hospital, which is PMC’s infection control hospital, reported 14. Some of the deaths reported on Sunday were of fatalities that occurred on July 14.The other deaths include 10 from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, seven from Sassoon General Hospital, two each from Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital and Ruby Hall Clinic, and one death each from Symbiosis hospital, Rising Medicare, Noble hospital, KEM, Morya multi-speciality hospital and Sahyadri hospital.The seven deaths reported of those from outside PMC limits were reported from Sassoon, Ruby Hall, Noble hospital, Deenanth Mangeshkar, Inamdar hospital, Kashibai Navale hospital and AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-reports-1-508-fresh-covid-19-cases-41-deaths-on-sunday/story-Fqi7SzidwykPYnBjyUZpAJ.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Landslide damages fruit market in Shimla, orchardists demand compensation||Shimla: A landslide after heavy rain damaged parts of the Bhatakufar fruit market in Shimla on Monday morning.Several boxes of apples stocked in the fruit market were buried under the debris. An estimated 20,000 boxes of apple are kept in the market.Police said the incident occurred when boulders and debris started falling after the rain. Traders and farmers at the market escaped unhurt.Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap said the amount of loss caused is being ascertained and debris being cleared.Orchardists urged the state government to provide immediate compensation. “We seek immediate relief as orchardists have already suffered a lot due to the coronavirus pandemic,” one of them said.SHIFT TO SAFER SITECommission agents (arhtis) sought the shifting of the fruit market to a safer site. For the past five years, they said, the place is unsafe as boulders and debris keep falling frequently.The state meteorological department has warned of landslides in the middle and lower hills of Shimla district due to heavy rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/landslide-damages-fruit-market-in-shimla-orchardists-demand-compensation/story-0H8CzTFiQw5elYD0VkxdcL.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||18 ITBP personnel among 27 new Covid-19 patients in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla/Dharamshala: Twenty people, including 18 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel, tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, taking the state’s coronavirus count to 1,548.Twenty-two people tested positive in Shimla, three in Bilaspur and two in Chamba district.Rampur sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Surender Mohan said that 18 jawans of ITBP’s 43rd Battalion tested positive at the Jeori camp.The jawans had returned from leave recently from different states and were in institutional quarantine within the camp.Forty-one samples of ITBP personnel were sent for testing of which 18 tested positive.Earlier, 23 ITBP jawans, six at Jeori and 17 at Jangi in Kinnaur district, were found infected on July 2.Two labourers tested positive at Mehndali village in Rohru. They came from Azamgarh of Uttar Pradesh and were home quarantined.Two patients were reported from Bhattakufer and Jatog area on the outskirts of Shimla town. Both were in quarantine.Three people, including a couple, tested positive in Bilaspur. In Chamba, a woman back from Agra and a man, who returned from Bihar, tested positive.All patients were shifted to Covid-care centres in their respective areas.SECOND STEEP SPIKEHimachal recorded 64 cases on Sunday, the second steepest spike in the virus cases this month.Earlier, 78 cases were reported in Himachal Pradesh on July 13.The state recorded a spike of 623 cases in June, while 595 cases have been reported in July till date.Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal said active cases have climbed to 462, while 1,060 patients have been cured so far. Till date, 1,15,298 samples have been tested in the state.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 334 cases followed by Solan with 332 cases. Hamirpur has 281 cases, Una 162, Shimla 93, Chamba 80, Sirmaur 89, Bilaspur 66, Mandi 48, Kinnaur 39, Kullu 20 and Lahaul-Spiti district four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-itbp-personnel-among-27-new-covid-19-patients-in-himachal-pradesh/story-89VGVtaTrtr3on5iPcxR7I.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||Ganesh Chaturthi: BMC urges mandals to follow ‘one ward-one Ganpati’ concept amid Covid-19 crisis||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) urged Ganesh mandals in prominent areas of Mumbai to follow the concept of ‘one ward-one Ganpati’ during this year’s Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in view of the coronavirus outbreak.Vishwas Mote, the assistant municipal commissioner of K-West ward which covers Andheri, Juhu, Versova and other such areas, made the appeal through a letter to the mandals.Ganesh Chaturthi, a 10-day long festival which is widely celebrated in Maharashtra, falls on August 22 this year.BMC data shows the K-West civic ward comprises around 150 ganpati mandals.The ward has registered 5,813 cases of the coronavirus disease and 258 deaths and is ranked fourth in the number of cases among the 24 wards in Mumbai.Mote said in his letter that he has already urged all the corporators of the K-West ward to implement the concept of ‘one ward-one Ganpati’. He said the height of a Ganpati idol is restricted to four feet and ample artificial lakes will be created in the ward for immersing the idols and appealed to the citizens to perform the immersion in these water bodies only. “To avoid overcrowding and for maintenance of social distancing, there is also a plan of accepting Ganpati idols at the society gates for immersion,” Mote said in the letter.Mumbai, which is one of the worst-hit cities in the country, logged more than one lakh Covid-19 cases and over 5,500 deaths.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ganesh-chaturthi-bmc-urges-mandals-to-follow-one-ward-one-ganpati-concept-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-iIzz4Ww5HcReZIIPPUYREI.html
20-07-2020||Patna||As cases rise, 2 private hospitals in Patna get nod for Covid-19 treatment||Two private hospitals in Patna were given the approval on Monday to treat Covid-19 patients amid the rising number of cases in the city.Earlier, only government hospitals were allowed to treat Covid-19 cases here.Patna District Magistrate Kumar Ravi has allowed Ruban Hospital and Paras Hospital to set up corona wards with 25 beds each to treat Covid-19 patients, an official statement said.Applications have been received from several other private hospitals seeking approval for treating patients and a decision will be taken after proper review and verification, it said.The corona wards at the two hospitals are likely to start functioning in a day or two, sources said.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who is the local MP, had on Sunday urged state health minister Mangal Pandey to allow Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals to ease the pressure on government facilities.There are four dedicated hospitals in the state for treating Covid-19 patients, including two in Patna.These are Nalanda Medical College and Hospital and AIIMS in Patna, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Bhagalpur and Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital in Gaya.The state has so far reported 26,379 cases of Covid-19 and most of them were detected in Patna where 3,696 people have tested positive.The state has been recording over 1,000 fresh cases every day since July 12 and 12,401 cases were detected in the last 10 days.Patna has also recorded the highest number of deaths in the state at 28. Total 179 people have died in Bihar so far.The state has 9,602 active cases at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/2-private-hospitals-in-patna-get-nod-for-covid-19-treatment-as-cases-surge/story-UnUm17jFTXfbKNODQA3sFK.html
20-07-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh Congress to launch agitation against state govt||In the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting held at party leader Kamal Nath’s residence on Sunday, it was decided to launch an agitation against the BJP government, sources said. Kamal Nath told MLAs that after winning the by-election, the next meeting will take place after taking oath in Raj Bhavan. He further asked all the MLAs to take action against the government, in solidarity, sources informed. All the MLAs were not present in the meeting held here yesterday.Meanwhile, Congress MLA KP Singh reached Home Minister Narottam Mishra’s bungalow today morning. “Even when Kamal Nath was the Chief Minister, all MLAs did not use to attend the meeting. Congress doesn’t have the confidence, they are just trying to show it so that others do not leave the party,” said Mishra.Attacking the Congress, Narottam Mishra said, “the party has always been doing politics in the name of Dalits, it has not done any work for their betterment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-congress-to-launch-agitation-against-state-govt/story-QhwdMHVl3pCn4T9J5fPGlJ.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal CM’s participation in yagya in Covid-19 times sparks off political row||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s participation in the yagya organised by the BJP’s women’s wing last week has sparked off a political row with the opposition Congress and Left parties training their guns on the ruling party, saying it flouted social distancing norms in Covid-19 times.The BJP’s women’s wing organised the Vedic ritual prayer in the parking lot on main Circular Road on July 16 for world peace and for warding off coronavirus. The chief minister, who participated in the ‘puranahuti’ (culmination of the ceremony) after 55 lakh Gayatri Mantra jaap (repetitions), praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “farsighted leadership” to help slow down the pandemic’s spread. Among those present on the occasion were the head of the Gayatri Parivar, VK Bhatnagar and state BJP Mahila Morcha chief Rashmi Dhar Sood besides education minister Suresh Bhardwaj, urban development minister Sarveen Chaudhary, organising secretary Pawan Rana, state BJP general secretary and the CM’s political adviser Trilok Jamwal, women’s wing office-bearers Vandna Guleria and Sheetal Vyas Sharma.“The Communist Party of India condemns the participation of the chief minister and his ministerial colleagues at a function where social distancing norms were thrown to the wind. Instead of age-old Vedic traditions, the government should draw up a scientific strategy to check the spread of coronavirus. There has been a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases after the government lifted travel restrictions,” Sanjay Chauhan, a former Shimla mayor, said. He said that Shimla was itself one of the worst-hit cities in the state.The Communist Party of India Marxist also demanded action against the organisers. “It’s ridiculous that on one hand the government has limited the numbers for wedding and funeral ceremonies, while on the other hand it’s not adhering to norms in the fight against Covid-19,” Congress organising secretary Harkirishan Himral said.Meanwhile, the BJP Mahila Morcha refuted the opposition’s allegations. “It’s mere propaganda by the opposition as it has failed in all aspects during the pandemic. The opposition should explain what it did for society during the pandemic. We have proof where Congress leaders themselves threw social distancing norms to the wind,” said Sheetal Vyas Sharma, the state BJP general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-s-participation-in-yagya-in-covid-19-times-sparks-off-political-row/story-SEZFVE3QGRtzGTgu6kXwCJ.html
20-07-2020||Lucknow||Coronavirus cannot be controlled by ‘jugaad’, says BSP chief Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) President Mayawati on Monday slammed the Uttar Pradesh government and the Central government for their Covid-19 response, saying that coronavirus cannot be controlled by “jugaad” but by making a “proper arrangement.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“It is a matter of concern how Covid-19 pandemic is unfolding in Uttar Pardesh, which has the largest pool of poor and backward people in the country. The state and central government must take notice of this situation. Coronavirus cannot be controlled by jugaad but by making a proper arrangement,” Mayawati tweeted in Hindi.BSP chief’s comment comes in the backdrop of rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state as well as the country. Last week, Mayawati had stressed upon the plight of migrants during the coronavirus times and said they are reeling under poverty due to rampant unemployment in the state.“...migrant workers who returned to Uttar Pradesh and are suffering due to coronavirus pandemic and lockdown. They are in search of a job but due to unemployment, they are reeling under pathetic financial stress. This situation of them is very serious and a worrisome issue,” BSP chief had tweeted.“In most government made Covid care centres in Uttar Pradesh, adequate cleanliness and arrangements have not been made. It would be better for the government to pay attention that these Covid care centres do not become the centres of spreading the disease,” she had said in another tweet.According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 49,247 cases and 1,146 deaths in the state due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/coronavirus-cannot-be-controlled-by-jugaad-says-bsp-chief-mayawati/story-Q9UiCZt3JMtWMg3UirRbAN.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police book singer Sidhu Moosewala in new case for glorifying gun culture in latest song Sanju||Chandigarh: Punjab Police are set to move the Punjab and Haryana high court for the cancellation of the anticipatory bail granted in an Arms Act case to controversial singer Sidhu Moosewala, against whom the crime branch registered another case for promoting violence and gun culture with his latest song Sanju, released on social media a couple of days ago.Punjab additional director general of police (ADGP) and director, Punjab Bureau of Investigations, Arpit Shukla said the singer had been booked in Mohali on the basis of information received that his song Sanju, which is trending on social media, blatantly glorifies the use of weapons and boasts about the FIRs, including the one under the Arms Act, registered against him. The ADGP said the police would be soon filing a petition for the cancellation of the anticipatory bail granted to Moosewala by the high court.Shukla said it had been verified that the latest video-song, Sanju, was uploaded from Moosewala’s official YouTube channel. In the song, Moosewala refers to the case against him under the Arms Act, and the video starts with a news-clip of him being booked for unauthorised use of an AK-47 rifle.GLORIFIES SANJAY DUTT’S OFFENCESIn the video, Moosewala’s news clip is later merged with news reports of Bollywood actor Sanjay Dutt having been convicted and sentenced for similar offences. Shukla said the lyrics of the song, and the video, promotes and glorifies the possession and use of illegal firearms, and boasts about the registration of an FIR as a sign of a ‘real man’.Shukla said the lyrics of the song, “Gabru de naal santali (47) jud gayi, ghato ghat saja paanj saal vat de, gabru utte case jehra Sanjay Dutt te, jatt utte case jehra Sanjay Dutt te….; awa tawa bolde vakil sohniye, sari duniya da oh judge sunida, jithe saadi chaldi appeal sohniye”, not only promote the use of illegal firearms but also undermine the judiciary, police and advocates.Shukla said Moosewala had been earlier booked for a similar offence on February 1 this year by the Mansa Police. On May 4, he was booked by the Barnala police for offences under the Disaster Management and Arms Act after his photos of firing an AK-47 rifle at a firing range during the curfew went viral on social media.MOCKING POLICE AND JUDICIARYHis latest act is clearly intended to not only ridicule, mock and undermine the police and the judiciary – but also shows that the singer is incorrigible and has repeatedly committed such offences, said Shukla.The ADGP said that the high court had already directed the director generals of police of Punjab, Haryana and the Union Territory of Chandigarh to ensure that no songs glorifying liquor, drugs and violence are played even at live shows. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has also expressed concern over the propagation of violence and gun culture in Punjabi songs and has directed the state police not to show any relaxation or concession towards such singers, who lure youngsters into following the path of violence and hooliganism.Shukla said it seems that with his latest song, which he seems to wear as some sort of a badge of honour, Moosewala deliberately wants to incite and mislead youngsters of this border state, which has borne the brunt of terrorism in the ’80s and ’90s, by glorifying the use of AK-47 rifles and other weapons.He said Moosewala has been booked under Sections 188, 294, 504 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-police-book-singer-sidhu-moosewala-in-new-case-for-glorifying-gun-culture-in-latest-song-sanju/story-ov3Uv5fL1Xd0LsEvxCwagJ.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Daily new Covid-19 cases drop in Delhi, CM Kejriwal says ‘don’t be complacent’||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal highlighted the work done by his government in checking the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), but said the people should not be complacent.He said on Twitter that the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, is very unpredictable so it’s better to stay safe.“The situation is better than what it was last month. But please don’t be complacent. This virus is very unpredictable. Stay safe and follow all precautions. We should always be prepared for the worst,” he tweeted on Monday morning. "Light at the end of the tunnel"The situation is better than what it was last month. But please don’t be complacent. This virus is very unpredictable. Stay safe and follow all precautions. We should always be prepared for the worst. pic.twitter.com/HYrCH5TWl0Kejriwal also attached a news article with his tweet which talke about how Delhi was able to lower the daily increase in the number of cases and the steps taken by his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government to improve the health infrastructure.Speaking to Hindustan Times on Saturday, Kejriwal had said that the national capital has turned a crucial corner in its fight against Covid-19. He credited a five-point “Delhi Model” - increased testing, home isolation of mild cases, availability of hospital beds, transparency of data, and plasma therapy - for nearly halving the number of daily new cases in a month.“After about a month, we are seeing the curve go down. The difficult times we saw in June, we have overcome that. Studying the entire Covid cycle and reacting to it has paid dividends. But we should be prepared if there is another difficult situation,” the chief minister told HT.New cases in the national capital have fallen from an average of 2,184 per day a month ago to 1,475 in the past seven days, making the city the only region in the country with a major outbreak to record a sustained reduction in epidemic growth.According to the Union health ministry data on Monday, Delhi recorded 1,211 cases in the last 24 hours, the lowest in over a month.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi is now 1,22,793. The death toll due to the disease is 3,628, according to health ministry.As many as 1,03,134 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 16,031 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/daily-new-covid-19-cases-drop-in-delhi-but-cm-kejriwal-says-don-t-be-complacent/story-u2jhazeotXvWwNJMkgkEXK.html
20-07-2020||Jaipur||Hearing on petition filed by Sachin Pilot, 18 other rebel Cong MLAs resumes in Rajasthan HC||The hearing on a writ petition filed by Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident Congress MLAs from Rajasthan, challenging the disqualification notices issued to them by the state Assembly speaker, resumed in the high court here on Monday.The petition was taken up a by a bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta on Friday and arguments were heard. The counsel representing the Assembly speaker opened the arguments on Monday.The notices to the MLAs were served after the party complained to the speaker that the lawmakers had defied a whip to attend two Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings last week on Monday and Tuesday.The Pilot camp, however, argues that a party whip applies only when the Assembly is in session.In its complaint to the speaker, the Congress had sought action against Pilot and the other dissidents under paragraph 2(1)(a) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution.The provision disqualifies MLAs if they “voluntarily” give up the membership of the party that they represent in the House.Pilot was sacked as the Rajasthan deputy chief minister and the president of the state Congress unit after he rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/hearing-on-petition-filed-by-sachin-pilot-18-other-rebel-cong-mlas-resumes-in-rajasthan-hc/story-Az9zyuTgij26euW6tcj53M.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain recovers from Covid-19, resumes work today||Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain, who was recovering after contracting the coronavirus disease, will resume work from Monday.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced this on Twitter today. “Our Health Minister Satinder Jain has recovered. He will join work from today. He was always on the field visiting hospitals and meeting health workers and patients. He contracted corona. After one month, he joins back today. Welcome back Satinder and best wishes!” Kejriwal tweeted. Our Health Minister Satinder Jain has recovered. He will join work from today. He was always on the field visiting hospitals and meeting health workers and patients. He contracted corona. After one month, he joins back today. Welcome back Satinder and best wishes!Jain (55) was undergoing treatment at Max Hospital in Saket after he tested positive for Covid-19 on June 17. He was administered plasma therapy soon after hospitalisation after his condition worsened.Jain was taken to Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur after he was found to be suffering from a high fever and low oxygen saturation.He was later moved to Max Hospital’s ICU after testing positive for Covid-19 and kept on oxygen support. Jain had complained of breathlessness and giddiness.Initially, he had tested Covid-19 negative.AAP MLA from Delhi’s Kalkaji assembly constituency Atishi and two other leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also contracted the respiratory disease last month. Akshay Marathe, an advisor to Kejriwal, and Abhinandita Mathur, an advisor to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, also tested positive for the viral disease in June.Delhi, meanwhile, recorded 1,211 fresh coronavirus cases, the lowest in over a month, and 31 deaths due to the disease in the last 24 hours, authorities said.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi is now 1,22,793. The death toll due to the disease is 3,628, according to Union health ministry data.As many as 1,03,134 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 16,031 active cases. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by around one per cent every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-health-minister-satyendra-jain-recovers-from-covid-19-to-resume-work-today/story-SI96ETeeu0i2nPqftAyzbM.html
20-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Prayers offered at Baba Baidyanath Temple in Deoghar||Priests offered prayers on the third Monday of ‘sawan’ month at Baba Baidyanath Temple in Deoghar, the holy city of Jharkhand.Although, the temple remained closed for devotees amid Covid-19 pandemic.Priests were seen wearing masks and maintaining social distancing as a preventive measure against the coronavirus.Deepak Kumar Jha, a priest at the temple said, “We have been praying on the behalf of people who are not been able to come to the temple during the lockdown.”“As taught by our elders, we have been following the ritual of prayers for years, for the goodwill of people,” he added.Shravan, the fifth month in the Hindu calendar, is considered to be the most auspicious month of the year. It is dedicated to Lord Shiva who, according to Hindu religious beliefs, is the creator, preserver, and destroyer of this universe.While Lord Shiva is worshipped on Mondays throughout the year, Mondays during this particular month are considered highly significant and auspicious. The festival is celebrated in North Indian states predominantly.It is believed that on ‘sawan ke somwar’ (Mondays falling in the month of Shravan), devotees observe a special fast and visit Shiva temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-prayers-offered-at-baba-baidyanath-temple-in-deoghar/story-05TbJ6hJwfMBxamTIOkQCO.html
20-07-2020||Patna||NCB Patna Zonal Unit seizes 1655.2 kg of cannabis, nabs 12||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday said that the Patna Zonal Unit had seized 1,655.2 kg of Ganja within a week and 12 people were arrested in connection with the transportation of a large quantity of Ganja in 2 two cases across Bihar and Jharkhand.The Patna Zonal Unit covers the Patna Zone and the Ranchi Subzone.“Based on intelligence inputs that widespread movement of a large quantity of Ganja from Andhra-Orissa border to Bihar & Jharkhand, intensive enforcement efforts were carried out by NCB Patna Zonal Unit on 15th& 16th July 2020. This resulted in the crackdown on two Ganja trafficking networks operating between Andhra- Odisha border to Bihar & Jharkhand states. The drugs were seized from national permit truck and small vehicles,” said the NCB in a statement.Speaking about the two cases, the NCB said that the Patna Zonal Unit of NCB seized 1,400.200 kg of Ganja at the Didarganj Toll Plaza (Patna-Bakhtiyarpur Road NH-30) from a truck bearing a Haryana registration number. The consignment was believed to be sourced from Odisha and destined to Bihar. Two persons namely N Singh of Barnala, Punjab and A Kumar of Vaishali, Bihar have been arrested during the seizure.In the second case, the Patna Zonal Director said, “In another case, Ranchi Subzone of NCB seized 255 kg of ganja from Rampur at Namkum in Ranchi this week. Nine persons were arrested in connection with the seizure. The contraband was sourced from Odisha and was destined to Bihar and Jharkhand.”The NCB said that further investigations in the case are underway especially “regarding the network linkages with other anti-state activities including the money laundering aspect”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/ncb-patna-zonal-unit-seizes-1655-2-kg-of-cannabis-nabs-12/story-ETiYra0Wq8mIuuPjGm322M.html
20-07-2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid-19 tally reaches 26,379; death toll mounts to 179||The Covid-19 death toll in Bihar on Sunday mounted to 179 with two fresh fatalities, while 1,412 new cases pushed the state’s tally to 26,379, according to the health department bulletin. The two deaths were reported from Khagaria and Saran districts, it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Patna has recorded the highest number of 28 deaths so far, followed by Bhagalpur (16), Gaya (13), Darbhanga (10), Muzaffarpur (eight) and East Champaran, Begusarai, Samastipur and Nalanda (seven each). Of the total 26,379 cases reported in the state so far, 12,401 were detected in the last 10 days. The state has been recording over 1,000 fresh cases every day since July 12. Patna tops the Covid-19 tally in the state with 3,696 cases, followed by Bhagalpur (1,601), Muzaffarpur (1,151), Siwan (1,102), Begusarai (1,076) and Nalanda (1,047). Bihar now has 9,602 active cases, while 16,597 people have recovered from the disease.The health department bulletin, however, said the state’s recovery rate dropped to 62.91 per cent from 77.52 per cent reported on July 1. A total of 10,276 samples were tested in the past 24 hours in the state, it said. Meanwhile, Samastipur District Magistrate Shashank Shubhankar home quarantined himself after some of the staff of his office and confidential branch tested positive for coronavirus. The state government has started conducting antigen tests in 25 facilities in Patna, eight in Gaya and six in Muzaffarpur, a health department official said. He said the government will start such tests in all sub-divisional hospitals of Bihar from next Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-26-379-death-toll-mounts-to-179/story-6ctkSnWdhgCp739HrD1JqL.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||4 die in first heavy rainfall of monsoon in Delhi; CM says not time for blame-game||The first heavy monsoon rainfall in Delhi claimed four lives on Sunday, including that of a mini-truck driver who got trapped in a waterlogged underpass, as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tried to defend his government by blaming the lack of preparation on the coronavirus pandemic.As the Delhi BJP charged that the very first spell of heavy rain this season “exposed” the AAP government’s preparations, Kejriwal said a “blame-game” should be avoided.Nearly 100 places across the city were waterlogged, the traffic came to a standstill on important roads, and at least 10 houses collapsed in a slum area in Anna Nagar, which is behind the WHO Headquarters near ITO, displacing the residents.A small NDRF team was sent to Anna Nagar to take stock of the situation.Many residents shared on social media videos and pictures of rainwater gushing into their houses and vehicles wading through waterlogged roads.The maximum cases of waterlogging were reported from North Delhi Municipal Corporation (36) followed by New Delhi Municipal Council (32) and South Delhi Municipal Corporation (30), officials said.The municipal corporation officials said more than 66 incidents of felling of trees or their branches were reported, in addition to around a dozen wall collapse incidents.A 56-year-old man from Uttarakhand drowned after his mini-truck was stuck under the waterlogged Minto Bridge in central Delhi. Police said Kundan Kumar was trying to navigate his vehicle through the waterlogged underpass but the vehicle got stuck in the neck-deep water. His body was found floating on the street.An eight-year-old boy died after he fell in a roadside ditch in Saurabh Vihar in southeast Delhi, police said. A 28-year-old man who worked at a scrap shop in Sriniwaspuri in Gandhi Camp died in a similar accident outside the shop.Police said their inquiry found that the area was filled with up to three-ft-deep water following the rainfall and the man fell into a pothole. His co-workers lifted him but he was unconscious and declared brought dead at AIIMS.The fourth accident happened in northwest Delhi’s Jahangirpuri.A 56-year-old man lost balance on a slippery road and hit a cemented electric pole. He was taken to BJRM Hospital but was declared brought dead, police said.Water-logging was reported from several areas including at Minto Road, Azadpur underpass, South Avenue Road, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Azad Market, Moolchand underpass and near Batra Hospital, according to Delhi Traffic Police.Water-logging was also reported at Youth Congress office on Raising Road.At Zakhira, six people stuck inside a bus submerged in water had to be rescued. According to Delhi Fire Service Director Atul Garg, the firemen could not use a ladder to climb atop the bus and they had to carry people on their backs to safer grounds.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said Kejriwal had promised to make Delhi like London and Paris but in reality people are unable to step out due to waterlogging.East Delhi BJP MP Gautam Gambhir shared pictures of waterlogging and tweeted, “Heard that Delhi government is running rainwater harvesting scheme on London-Paris like roads. When will the advertisements be seen Kejriwal ji.” Kejriwal, however, said that this was not the time for any “blame-game over waterlogging” as all agencies have been busy combating the coronavirus.“This year, all agencies, be it Delhi government or MCD, were busy in prevention of COVID-19. They faced many difficulties due to corona. This is not the time to blame each other. All have to fulfil their responsibilities together. Wherever there is waterlogging, we will try to pump out water immediately,” he said on Twitter in Hindi.But former Delhi BJP president and and his main challenger in February polls, Manoj Tiwari, tweeted: “Arvind Kejriwal ji your preparations are exposed by the first rains of monsoon. A solid plan should be prepared to deal with the rains so that Delhi could be prevented from submerging and people saved from difficulties.” Deputy Chief Minister Sisodia said the Delhi government is closely monitoring the situation and appropriate steps will be taken to address the issue.He requested BJP to work together and not indulge in a blame-game.The India Meteorological Department, which had predicted heavy-to-very heavy rainfall over parts of northwest India, said 74.8 mm rainfall was recorded in Delhi till 8:30 am on Sunday. Rainfall recorded below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate, and above 64.5mm is heavy.However, AAP leader Sanjay Singh said “no one had expected” that there would be such heavy rainfall.In a statement, AAP spokesperson and DJB Vice-Chairperson Raghav Chadha said the water-logging problem has been a huge issue but in the last 2-3 years, after the AAP government came to power, the situation drastically changed.At a time when all agencies are busy combatting the COVID-19 pandemic, it is unfortunate that the BJP is blaming us for water-logging.Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary said the rainfall “unmasked” the faulty working of both the ruling AAP and the BJP-ruled municipal corporations. “The swelling water of drain at Anna Nagar near ITO swept many houses,” he said after visiting the affected families.The monsoon reached Delhi on June 25, two days earlier than its usual date. But it remained subdued since. The IMD has predicted normal rainfall in the national capital during the monsoon season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/4-die-in-first-heavy-rainfall-of-monsoon-in-delhi-cm-says-not-time-for-blame-game/story-uiL82eYF1leTWhjh0Y7WVK.html
20-07-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow bench of Allahabad HC closed till July 21 due to spike in Covid cases||Due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court will remain closed on July 20 and 21.“There shall be no judicial or administrative function in the High Court at Lucknow on July 20 and 21 and also there shall be no physical/e-filing on July 20 and 21,” as per the directions of the Chief Justice, High Court of Judicature at Allahabad.Earlier, the Lucknow bench had been closed till July 19 after six staff members tested positive for Covid-19.A total of 2,250 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh, according to Principal Health Secretary Amit Mohan Prasad on Sunday.With this the total active cases in the state now stand at 18,256 while 19,845 people have been discharged after recovering from the disease in the state, he added.The death toll due to the disease stood at 1,146 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-bench-of-allahabad-hc-closed-till-july-21-due-to-spike-in-covid-cases/story-4x4k9ZEQ5C2yIoqL8SdQrI.html
20-07-2020||Jaipur||5-year-old girl raped by 3 boys in Rajasthan||A five-year-old girl was left bleeding after she was allegedly raped by three boys in a village in Rajasthan’s Baran district, police said on Sunday.While the five-year-old girl was playing outside her house at Tanki Mohalla in Nahargarh town on Friday evening, the three minor boys of the neighbourhood promised to give her a ~5 coin and later took turns to rape her in a nearby field, SHO at Nahargarh police station, Dalpat Singh said. The family members found the girl missing and began searching for her. The mother, then, spotted the girl crying and bleeding on Gogacha Road near their home, the policeman said.Later that night, the mother and the minor daughter reached the police station and lodged a complaint, he further said.The three accused boys are absconding and a search is on for them, Singh said .Woman raped in UP, 6 BookedSix persons were booked after a woman was allegedly raped and forced to undergo abortion in UP’s Bulandshahr district, police said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/5-year-old-girl-raped-by-3-boys-in-rajasthan/story-UpZEeBCmSE6slMxnBDeSPJ.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Ghewar sales unaffected: Foodies in Delhi-NCR can’t stay away from this festive sweet||Mention Teej, which is approaching on July 23, and the next word that comes to the mind is ghewar! The popular disc-shaped sweet dish from Rajasthan has its own fan following among North Indian dwellers such as those from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and of course, Delhi. Malai ghewar, mawa or plain ghewar — all variants are so tempting that their demand hasn’t reduced even amid the corona scare. Popular sweet shops in Delhi-NCR have reportedly been experiencing a decent demand for ghewar, which has left even the halwais surprised. A salesperson at Gopala, a popular dairy and sweet shop in Delhi-NCR, says they have been selling 15-20 ghewar/per day. “Jisko lena hain, woh le lete hain. Ab tyohar hai to log ghewar to khayenge hi... Teej ya Rakhi ghewar mithai ke bina kahan manti hai,” he says while manning the Gurugram outlet. ALSO READ: Teej 2020: History, significance, puja timing of this monsoon festivalEchoing similar sentiments, Sanjay Aggarwal, from Shyam Sweets, Chandni Chowk, says, “Jabse lockdown khula hai, waise orders kam ho gaye hain par ghewar log phir bhi khareed rahe hai. Farak itna hai ki ab log bada order directly nahi de rahe. They are buying in smaller quantities. For instance, people who bought 1kg earlier, are now buying half a kilo. Aisa shayad is liye ki logon ki jeb main paise utne nahin hain abhi... Pehle 15 din pehle tayari shuru ho jati thi, is saal ek hafte pehle hi hui hai.”Talking about how goodwill matters, Ramesh, from Nathu Sweets, New Friends Colony, says, “We are selling about 40 to 50 pieces of ghewar on a daily basis. Jinko wishwas hain ki hum achchi cheez hi banate hain, woh lene aa rahe hain, ya ghar se order kar dete hain toh we deliver.” It’s true that one can’t ignore sweets in the festive season. “I did buy ghewar from Harish Bakery in Sector 7, Gurugram,” says Nupur Agarwal Kalra, a food and lifestyle blogger, adding, “That is the first time I bought food from outside in the last four months. Initially I had reservations, but it was a prompt decision as I was passing by the sweet shop and this being the start of the festive season, the sweets were just irresistible to give a miss.” But precautionary measures do cross the mind of many before making a purchase. Gurugram-based home chef Shahla Ahmed says, “I have plans to buy malai ghewar from two of my favourite sweet shops. I trust them to be taking care of hygiene and safety.” Whereas Sakshi Jain, a Gurugrammer who travelled all the way to Old Delhi to get her favourite ghewar, confesses, “We bought ghewar from the famous Chaina Ram in Old Delhi. We were a little apprehensive for sure, so we sanitised the outer box and then threw away the entire packing once we reached home. Once it landed in our mouth, the taste surpassed all our worries.”Kunal Balani, one of the partners at Chaina Ram Sindhi Confectioners, informs that their sales have been “decent”. He adds: “Everything has been affected because of the coronavirus. We have taken a hit of 50 to 60%. But, I’m glad that people are still appreciating ghewar this year. As soon as July began, people started calling us to ask ‘When will you open?’ It meant people haven’t forgotten us. It feels good to be loved, and see people appreciate your sweets. People might have reduced the quantity of their purchase, but they are buying.” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ghewar-sales-unaffected-foodies-in-delhi-ncr-can-t-stay-away-from-this-festive-sweet/story-9Tql1OuMfWGnunHoLcU7aK.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Golf Club now a ‘puppy free’ zone||‘Hole in one’ is a friendly mutt who can be found at the 18 fairway. ‘Caddy girl’ roams freely around the caddy area, but has a cautious temperament. And ‘white line’ can be found lurking near hole no. 2 and is the least interested in interacting with golfers.These four-legged creatures are among the 50-odd dogs who have made the Chandigarh Golf Course their home. Only recently, these furry friends were christened and the club is now maintaining their data: what they look like, area of movement on the course, a brief on their temperament and the status of their sterilisation and vaccination. The Chandigarh Golf Club had tied up with two NGOs six months ago to conduct a sterilisation and vaccination drive. Now, the club is a ‘puppy free’ campus, with all 52 dogs, including puppies, sterilised and vaccinated. Two of the dogs have even been flown to the US for adoption with help from Reet, who runs Sewa Stray—an international NGO with roots in Chandigarh—and whose father is a member of the club.“In December last year, the club management approached us (Peedu’s People and Sewa Stray) for systematically dealing with the problem of dog-overpopulation. The drive was stretched a little due to the Covid situation. The drive will ensure the population of stray dogs stabilises. Though the chances of a new dog entering the course are less, because dogs here are territorial, if a new dog finds its way here, they will be promptly vaccinated and sterilised,” says Inder Sandhu, the brain behind Peedu’s People, which works for the welfare of stray animals and educating school children across the tricity on how to take care of animals.“We protect dogs against rabies so that humans are protected, too,” adds Sandhu, who has worked in animal rescue and rabies control authority in the US for six years before migrating back to India in 2016.“All the dogs were humanely caught with the help of the club staff and after vaccination and sterilisation, they were released back in their earlier marked areas,” says Rubika Singh, member of Peedu’s People.Dog trapping, transport, sterilisation and post-operative care were done by both the NGOs. The club pitched in for funds. “We now have complete data on the canines on the course and this will help us to monitor their population. Although no cases of human-dog conflict have been reported here, the drive was a precautionary measure,” says Colonel Arun Johal (retd), general manager of the Chandigarh Golf Club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-golf-club-now-a-puppy-free-zone/story-oUB0VJF52z7BAaKyb7GpqN.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records five fatalities, 617 new cases||Five patients succumbed to Covid-19 in Haryana on Sunday, while 617 fresh cases emerged in 20 districts in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s patient tally to 26,164.According to the state health bulletin, two patients died in Gurugram, and one each in Yamunanagar, Ambala and Faridabad. Until Sunday evening, Haryana had 6,022 active cases with maximum 1,194 in Faridabad, followed by Gurugram (1,028), Sonepat (718), Rewari (393), Hisar (300) and Panipat (290). As per the bulletin, 475 patients got recovered/discharged on Sunday, increasing the tally of those cured of Covid to 19,793. Haryana has so far tested over 4.47 lakh people and as of Sunday, the state was conducting 17,647 tests per million.The state’s doubling rate has climbed to 22 days. Gurugram on Sunday registered 154 new cases, while Faridabad saw 115 fresh infections followed by Panipat (72), Sonepat (42), Ambala (40), Hisar (35), Karnal (28), Jhajjar (26), Kurukshetra (22), Rohtak (19), Palwal (14), Mahendergarh (13), Nuh (12), Panchkula and Charkhi Dadri (7 each), Sirsa (5), Yamunanagar and Kaithal (2 each), Jind and Fatehabad (1 each). Among the fresh cases in Karnal included five cops. Health officials said in-charge of Nigdhu police station reportedly contracted the virus from a murder accused, who was arrested two days ago and tested positive on Friday. “Samples of all 11 policemen posted in Nigdhu police station were sent for Covid-19 tests, five of which turned out positive,” said Karnal SP Surender Singh Bhoria. He said the police station has been sealed for next 48 hours.Meanwhile, health minister Anil Vij has urged the recovered patients to donate plasma to help those struggling from the infection. He has said that the state was in process to set up plasma banks in Panchkula, Faridabad, Gurugram and Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-records-five-fatalities-617-new-cases/story-rx62Wmj003CnoqJAuUuRlK.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dhankar’s appointment as Haryana BJP chief: Central leadership keeps caste balance intact||The appointment of OP Dhankar as Haryana BJP chief is being seen as an attempt by the central leadership to balance the caste equations in the state, where politics revolves around Jats and non-Jats.By giving the baton to Dhankar, the BJP bosses have sent a conciliatory message to the politically boisterous Jat community that has been nursing a plethora of grouses against the BJP after 2016 violent Jat quota agitation. The Jat community constitutes about 25 % of the state’s population, making them a singular dominant vote-bank.The BJP has maintained a status quo on the delicate issue of caste by replacing Barala (a Jat) with Dhankar. But, the move primarily points towards BJP attempting to woo the Jat community ahead of the bypoll in the Jat-dominated Baroda assembly segment.According to Prof Ashutosh Kumar, department of political science, Panjab University, the Jats of Haryana will back “outspoken” Dhankar more than “non-performer and controversial Barala.Dhankar’s elevation should also be seen in the light of growing perception that the central BJP leadership ignores the dominant caste, he says. “The BJP has been cutting down to size the leaders of the dominant caste. That’s the perception... It’s a kind of status quo, but Dhankar is a dynamic leader, certainly a better choice than Barala.”There are no immediate electoral challenges before Dhankar, barring Baroda bypoll.Political analysts say electoral calculation is not what alone appears to have catapulted the former minister to the top post. “Khattar was backing some other leaders,” a Haryana watcher said.The key task before Dhankar will be to expand the base of the party and bridge the gap between the government and the people at the grassroots level even as he will have to maintain a delicate balance between the party and the state government.Unlike his predecessor, who was “unpopular “ even in his own constituency of Tohana, Dhankar is tactful — a trait that could come in handy to make inroads into the hearts of the Jats in the hinterland.Dhankar, a crowd-pullerInside the Vidhan Sabha, Dhankar, a former agriculture minister, often came across as an aggressive speaker who would hit back at the opposition with biting remarks.Outside the assembly, Dhankar is known for regaling the crowd by singing Haryanvi ragni (a traditional folk song) from public platforms.Before jumping into the active politics, people close to him say, Dhankar had served as a geography teacher in Bhiwani for over a decade. Born in Dhakla village of Jhajjar district in 1961, Dhankhar did his postgraduation and MEd from the Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak.BARALA’S EXIT WAS ON THE CARDSThe ouster of Subhash Barala as the Haryana BJP chief was on the cards. Somehow, he managed to not only complete his term, but also stay at the helm of affairs despite the BJP’s inability to cross the halfway mark in the October 2019 assembly elections, forcing the party to form a coalition government.Barala’s political troubles began with the alleged stalking case involving his son, who was then a law student at Kurukshetra University. The BJP backed him despite the raging controversy.A close aide of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Barala, 52, a Jat leader, went up the ladder quite quickly.He won his first-ever election in 2014 after losing twice. Barala remained the state BJP chief from December 2014, when he replaced Ram Bilas Sharma, who became a cabinet minister in the previous Khattar government.As Jats, the largest and very volatile vote bank of Haryana, were angry with the BJP, the task before Barala was to woo them in the October 2019 assembly polls.But the BJP, which was aiming at a lofty ‘Abki Baar 75 Paar’ (this time, it will be over 75 seats), fell short of a simple majority (46 seats) in the 90-member state assembly, securing just 40 seats. The BJP had swept the Lok Sabha polls in May.Barala himself lost the assembly polls from the Tohana segment by 52,302 votes. Since then, the knives were out demanding his ouster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dhankar-an-aggressive-leader-known-for-biting-comments/story-PxpIFihCkPO2Ywm1J0qzwK.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||RWAs in Chandigarh oppose imposition of TDS on park maintenance by MC||The resident welfare associations (RWAs) of the city have opposed the municipal corporation’s (MC) renewed action of imposing TDS (tax deducted at source) on them for maintaining neighbourhood parks.MC has been asking the local RWAs maintaining neighbourhood parks and public toilets either to get themselves registered with the income tax department or else seek exemption from payment of income tax, otherwise MC would start deducting TDS from their bills of payment.There are around 1,800 neighbourhood parks in Chandigarh and of these, nearly 700 are being maintained by the RWAs. They are paid ₹2.48 per square metre, and the rates haven’t been revised since 2013.In June 2020, the MC sent memos to all RWAs, imposing 2% TDS liability on them, and making it mandatory for them to get PAN (Permanent Account Number) to pay the TDS. It is reported that if RWAs do not get PAN, they will be considered as individuals and will be liable to pay 20% tax as per the provisions under the Income Tax Act.“TDS deduction on receipts of reimbursement of expenditure incurred by welfare societies on maintenance of neighborhood parks is totally illogical and unjustified. There was no such condition in the MOU signed by us with the MC,” said JP Yadav, president of Sector 37 RWA.Vinod Vashisht, convener of City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO), said “We have gone through the MOU issued by the MC to the concerned RWAs and relevant provisions of the I-T Act. Payments to RWAs by MC for maintenance of parks do not come under the purview of TDS.”“All our members are extending voluntary honorary services in maintaining the green cover in the city. Neither are we vendors of the MC, nor are they our customers. How can such an activity be considered under the purview of income tax?” said Som Nath Saini, president of Sector 27 RWA.“Imposing TDS at 20% on a society like ours having no PAN or Aadhaar is totally uncalled for. Our society has no profit function and we don’t want to remain unconstructively occupied in I-T works,” voiced Kuljinder Sra, general secretary of Sector 33 RWA.“The central government has reduced the rates of TDS on various non-salaried transactions by 25% with effect from May 14, 2020, hence, sending TDS notices for activities not covered under the purview of IT Act, are totally uncalled for,” said Vashisht.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rwas-in-chandigarh-oppose-imposition-of-tds-on-park-maintenance-by-mc/story-erLWLRjM1A8KGo1ogR5lmI.html
20-07-2020||City||Haryana BJP leader held for immigration fraud||Local BJP leader Makhan Singh Lobana, 50, was arrested on the complaint of Baldev Raj of Naggal’s Metla village for his alleged involvement in an immigration fraud, police said on Sunday. The accused has already been sent in five-day police remand.Baldev has accused him and one Surinder Singh of cheating him on the pretext of sending his son to the US. DSP Munish Sehgal said, “Another case was registered against him at the Ambala City police station. He has been arrested twice in cases registered against him at Barara and Shahazadpur police stations, but was released on interim bail.”Kaithal: Travel agent arrested A travel agent has been arrested for allegedly taking ₹56 lakh from a person for sending him to the US illegally. As per the police, action was taken following the complaint from the family of the victim, who is lodged a jail in the US.Mandeep Singh of Pundri alleged that accused Mahabir of Dherru village took ₹56 lakh from him to send his son to the US in February 2019. He claimed that his son had to face hardships as he undertook a rigorous journey via bus, boat and on foot through Mexican jungles. “He was later forced to cross the US border in July 2019 illegally and was subsequently arrested by police and sent to Jail,” he added. Earlier this month, he was deported and filed a police complaint. Kaithal superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan said the accused was taken in police remand for two days for interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-bjp-leader-held-for-immigration-fraud/story-RylkcioTiRzLY9TM67GEPJ.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Only 57% Maharashtra students have internet connectivity’||Lack of digital skills among parents, no access to smartphones, poor internet connectivity, and inability to recharge phones are some of the reasons why nearly half the students in the state have poor or no access to online education. The findings are a part of a survey conducted by the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) in association with the United Nations International Children’s Fund (UNICEF) before the new academic year began on June 15.A total of 737 schools and 6,855 students were interviewed for the study. The government had selected two blocks from each district – those with the highest and the lowest literacy rates – for the survey. While almost 59.8% of students had access to a smartphone, only about 57% had internet connectivity. Less than 1% of the total students surveyed had access to desktops and laptops.Dinkar Patil, director, MSCERT, said, “The survey was conducted to identify the hurdles that needed to be addressed before schools could reopen online. Efforts are now being taken to reach out to students through multiple mediums. After schools reopened online, we started conducting another leg of the survey to understand how students are managing to learn over the last one month.”The most common barrier for students who could not access online learning was the lack of digital skills among parents. Nearly 72% of the 3,391 students who had such issues, claimed this was a problem for them. Lack of access to smartphones (66.4%); no internet (52.3%); issues with connectivity (35.2%), and lack of family support (22.6%) were other major hurdles when it came to online learning. Nearly 8.5% of students were engaged in supporting their families through some type of unpaid work.Issues concerning access were seen more in marginalised and socially-backward groups. As opposed to 59% of students from the general category who could access learning resources of the education department, only 40.5% of students from the scheduled tribes and 46.2% from the nomadic tribes could use them. Vanita Mate, who has two children, both studying at a Mumbai-based school in Class 4 and Class 6, respectively, moved to her hometown Mangaon in Raigad district, when the lockdown began. She doesn’t have enough money to recharge her phone to call people, let alone get a data pack. “I want my children to learn but I cannot afford to pay for internet. Also, we have very poor network in our village,” she said.Even in a metropolitan city like Mumbai, several parents said they were struggling to take care of the expenses that come with online learning. Pushpa Sharma, who works as a domestic help, said, “My son has online classes for two hours daily, and the internet pack we got is not sufficient even for a week. This is becoming a big hassle and we do not know how to afford it.” Anagha Madhukar, the principal of Ahilyadevi Holkar Secondary School, which is run by the Pune Municipal Corporation and iTeach Schools, said that a student requires 1-1.5GB data daily for a four-hour online class. “This means a monthly investment of ₹200 to ₹250. Over the last few months, we are happy to see that a lot of parents have been able to keep aside some money for the purpose. Even children were saving for their recharges,” she said.Balu Bhoyar, principal, Karamveer Vidyalaya in Chandrapur, said that with most students not having access to technology, the only way to continue their education is through physical classes. “We have started sending teachers to localities, where small groups of students can be taught daily. This is safe and also helps in continuous learning for such students,” he said.Kannan Moudgalya, Erach and Meheroo Mehta Advanced Education Technology chair professor, IIT-Bombay, said that when it comes to access, one needs to understand that it is of two kinds. “It includes access to fast internet, which is required to see live videos, and slow internet, with which one can download videos and watch later. The first type of internet has limited reach, and several IIT students, too, do not have access to it, let alone school students from low-income families. For government schools, the second kind of access can be put to good use,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-57-maha-students-have-internet-connectivity/story-rIhrSeDyVuR5XMjE72tzDJ.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Need to bring fatality rate in city to below 1%’||Although the city’s Covid-19 cases have plateaued, the fatality rate, hovering at 5.63%, continues to be a cause for concern, and experts are now stressing the need to bring it to below 1%. HT spoke to Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Covid-19 task force formed by the state, on the way ahead. Excerpts:What has been the learning curve while tackling the outbreak nearly four months after we went into a lockdown?As the pandemic evolved, we learnt about its transmission and impact. There are three major learnings: when the first few cases were detected, wearing masks was not mandatory, as we believed that Covid-19 spread through droplets, sneezing etc, for which we advised social distancing. However, now we know that the virus is also airborne and hence wearing masks are mandatory. We also learnt that social distancing is not possible in a closed cluster, spaces with poor ventilation and at offices as central air-conditioning can aggrevate the risk of spreading the virus.Initially, we thought this pandemic is a life-threatening disease. But as the pandemic evolved, we found that 85% of the infected patients are asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic or are mildly symptomatic. Of the 15% critical patients also, only 3 to 5% would require intensive care. Earlier we though many patients will require ventilators, but now we know that most of them just require oxygen support.Why are Mumbai’s daily cases hovering in the 1,000-1,500 range (barring a few spikes or decline) for around two months now?In Mumbai, Covid-19 cases started getting detected from March-end and the city’s peak was probably from May 15 to May 31. The cases have now plateaued in the city, though the case burden is still existent. With testing being liberalised, there has not been much change in the daily number of cases. The recovery and doubling rates however, have improved, but Mumbai has still not managed to bring down its fatality rate. Now, a lot depends on how we handle the monsoon-related infections as well as the Covid-19 outbreak in the coming days.Why is the city’s fatality rate high and how can it be tackled?Many deaths which had taken place earlier, which were added up quite later. Due to this, the fatality rate is not accurate. The other reason being that patients are reaching hospitals late and many of the patients who died also had comorbidities. However, we need to save lives and Mumbai should bring the mortality rate to below 1%.We have rapidly built our health infrastructure, including providing life-saving drugs, which has not happened in Mumbai before. However, we ought to continue making more and better arrangements and must be on our vigil until the vaccine arrives.Which are the areas where the city should have done better?Like I said, we have a liberalised testing policy now, so anyone can go and get tested without prescription. But I feel we should have taken this step much earlier, though the testing protocols are driven by ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research]. I also think that we should have done better at ensuring that patients reach hospitals early. In March and April, there should have been better emergency healthcare facilities such as ambulances. We could have also conducted better at tracing and quarantining people. But let me also add that the entire responsibility does not lie just with the administration, and that citizens are also responsible. In several parts of the city, citizens did not follow the lockdown in true sense.What is the role of Covid-19 task force and what has been the contribution of the task force until now?The task force had two mandates: one was to draw out the treatment protocols and the other to strategise on reducing the fatality rate. We tried to have better treatment protocols, brought about a strategy to reduce the fatality rate and implemented protocols for critical patients’ care. We also gave inputs on Covid-19 hospitals to the authorities. Another thing we did was to draw up strategies for the ‘chase the virus and save lives’ initiative.We continue to be in a state of lock down. When do you think the city can open up local trains, restaurants, malls, gyms etc?Our unlocking needs to be very mindful. Malls, trains and theatres are crowded, have poor ventilation and can therefore become transmission hubs. If at all they are to be opened, we will have to look at restricted timings, restricted access and social distancing norms. All these services can be opened up only gradually to avoid a second spike. We don’t want to do a repeat of what happened in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/need-to-bring-fatality-rate-in-city-to-below-1/story-XmxxGsQ0e14E2RNBNC3qZJ.html
20-07-2020||City||Three of a family killed in Jind accident||A couple and their daughter were killed while one other got injured on Sunday after the bike they were riding on rammed into a tractor near Jind’s Narwana, police said.The deceased have been identified as Vijay, 36, Rekha and their eight-month-old daughter Vinmarta of Khadwal village, Jind. The youth, who was travelling with them, is undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak.A spokesman of Jind police said, “Vijay and his daughter died on the spot while his wife succumbed to her injuries later. Doctors say that the injured youth is unstable.”The police have registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the unidentified tractor driver, who fled the spot after the mishap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-of-a-family-killed-in-jind-accident/story-d2A62FCYOLMu5ErospzfBN.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar rules out lockdown in NCR districts||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday ruled out the imposition of an immediate lockdown in the national capital region (NCR) districts in view of the large number of Covid-19 cases being reported.Five NCR districts — Faridabad, Gurugram, Sonepat, Rohtak and Rewari — account for 63% of the total active coronavirus infections in the state. Speaking to mediapersons at a press briefing, the chief minister said the government did not want to create panic by imposing lockdown in the NCR.“Things have started coming back on track gradually. At this juncture, imposition of lockdown would be meaningless. Our focus remains on ensuring social distancing, wearing of masks, making people aware about taking precautions, and more testing,” Khattar said.The chief minister said infections were being reported from only certain small pockets in every district. “So, there is no need for a lockdown in the entire district. Instead, we are pursuing an aggressive strategy in the containment zones whereby we screen more people and conduct more sampling, including rapid antigen tests,” the chief minister said.Khattar said the state now has a recovery rate of over 75% which once fell down to about 32%. The mortality rate is also coming down, while our testing rate (14,000 per million) has gone up, he added. Don’t pay heed to false propaganda: CM to farmersThe chief minister said two ordinances promulgated by the Centre — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance and Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance — were beneficial for the farmers and they should not pay heed to any false propaganda. “These measures will help in doubling the income of the farmers. It will create an environment where farmers and traders have a free choice of sale and purchase of farm produce. It will also eliminate barriers to inter and intrastate trade and commerce outside physical market premises.Khattar said it’s a false propaganda that the minimum support price (MSP) will be done away with after the implementation of these measures.‘Can’t bring ordinance against SC’s decision’In response to a query regarding the demand made by opposition parties to accommodate 1,983 physical training instructors (PTIs), whose selections have been set aside by the Supreme Court, by bringing in an ordinance, the chief minister said the government cannot bring an ordinance against the apex court’s decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-rules-out-lockdown-in-ncr-districts/story-LLvmMZZbL1tLtvdI3pOmEN.html
20-07-2020||City||Thane teachers go the extra mile to help their students||Seventeen-year-old Gaurangi Patil, a resident of Bhiwandi, is unable to attend online classes as her family cannot afford internet connectivity. However, she has been able to keep up with her peers thanks to her teachers going the distance to provide her with study material.Like Patil, many students from poor financial backgrounds would be unable to get an education during the lockdown if it wasn’t for extra efforts taken by their teachers.“Initially attended a few classes, however, I noticed that my family was struggling to make ends meet and I did not want to burden them further for internet access. My parents are daily-wage workers; we have not had any steady income since the lockdown has been implemented. The first week after classes began, I had to miss out on lectures one by one as my data pack got over too soon,” said Patil.After she shared her trouble with her teacher, she was provided with recorded videos of the online sessions and her teachers also offered to be available on call to solve any of her doubts.Nitin Barve, professor, BK Birla College, Kalyan, said, “It has been hardly a week since online classes commenced for college students, but we have noticed that many of them are facing connectivity issues. Moreover, there are a handful of students who are not able to attend lectures due to their financial situation; we have helped by paying for their internet charges.”Meanwhile, a Shahapur-based couple who teaches in a zilla parishad school is taking extra efforts to ensure students from Varyachapada village within Thane district, are getting an education. The internet connectivity is weak in this village as it is in a tribal area and most families do not have smartphones. With the commencement of online classes, Pramod Patole and his wife Sharmila prepared notes based on the syllabus and started visiting the homes of their students to provide the study material.“We gathered different explanation methods and easy-to-understand concepts for students of Class 1 to Class 5. We started taking printouts of these materials along with test papers as well. Twice a week, we visit the houses of the students to provide the materials and collect the previous test papers. These tests help us understand if the student can grasp the study material well,” said Patole.“The material has a lot of illustrations and pictures that make the information easier to understand. Moreover, teachers help solve doubts when they visit us. During every visit, the teacher brings a question paper based on the previous day’s teachings,” said Rishabh Pawar, a Class 3 student from Varyachapada Zilla Parishad School.Thane Municipal Corporation conducts online admission for civic schoolsThane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) education department has shifted admissions online for the first time and is providing application forms on the civic body’s website. This has been introduced so that people need not step out of their homes for admissions.“We had already started our admission process before the lockdown began; we have now given this additional facility to those who may have missed out. Keeping in mind the current situation, we have gone online,” said Rajesh Kankal, education officer, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-teachers-go-the-extra-mile-to-help-their-students/story-lD22uM6j3pfP905bGYFglL.html
20-07-2020||City||Woman tries to buy phone online, loses ₹1.66 lakh||The NRI Coastal police have booked six persons for duping a woman of ₹1.66 lakh in an online fraud.The woman was trying to purchase a mobile phone worth ₹40,000 online. She then got a call from six persons who posed as executives and duped her. According to police, the complainant Vaishali Patankar, 45, is a Navi Mumbai resident and works at Sion Hospital as a counsellor. On July 7, she chose a phone online and agreed to pay ₹40,000 for it along with the accessories. She spoke to a woman, who identified herself as Ashwini. On the same day, Patankar paid ₹10,000 and transferred ₹21,450 as customs charges the next day. On July 9, the accused convinced her to transfer the GST of ₹30,000.When Patankar told them that she has paid more than the amount for the phone, the accused promised to refund the extra money during the delivery. She further paid ₹23,700 for ‘state and local tax’ over the next two days. On July 10, she paid ₹15,700 for shipping charges and on July 13, another ₹11,990 for customs charges. Next day, they asked for ₹17,854 for GST again.“Patankar still paid the new GST charges and another ₹23,980 towards delivery charges. As the week passed and Patankar continued to pay the amount asked by the accused. She was later asked to ₹37,000 as a five-year insurance cover. This time, she told them she does not require insurance,” said an officer from NRI Coastal police station.The accused, however, told her they will close her file if she does not pay for insurance, which was mandatory. She then asked to cancel her order, but they further demanded ₹27,990 as refund charges, in their last attempt to dupe her. The woman did not pay the insurance and refund charges, realising this is a never ending con.She approached the police on Friday after collectively losing ₹1.66 lakh to the week-long fraud. The NRI Coastal police have registered a case of cheating against the six persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-tries-to-buy-phone-online-loses-1-66-lakh/story-BQkUBGa2m2XIo8PPA3jAnL.html
20-07-2020||City||Farmers harried as Haryana govt withdraws subsidy on cotton crop insurance premium||Haryana cotton growers are a worried lot as their share of premium under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) has been increased from Rs 620 per acre to Rs 1,650 this time. This is the result of withdrawal of the subsidy Haryana provided on the premium. Under PMFBY guidelines, a farmer is required to pay 2% of the sum insured in case of kharif crop and 1.5% in case of rabi crop (5% for horticulture crop) as the premium and the balance is shared 50:50 by the state and the Centre. This year, farmers’ premium share under the government insurance scheme was hiked up to Rs 50 per acre for paddy, Rs 10 per acre for maize, Rs 40 per acre for bajra, Rs 1,030 per acre for cotton, Rs 8 per acre for barley and wheat, Rs 15 per acre each for gram and sunflower and Rs 130 per acre for mustard. Rajbir Sihag, a farmer from Bhiwani’s Miran, said he had paid Rs 2,480 as the premium for four acre of cotton crop last year, but this time, he had to cough up Rs 4,120 for the same area.“On one hand, the government is encouraging farmers to adopt non-water guzzling crops and on the other, it has increased the insurance premium for the cotton crop. We want the government to reduce the hiked amount. We have to invest a lot in cotton production and now, the Haryana government has put more financial burden on us by increasing the premium amount to Rs 1,030 per acre,” he added. Farm leader Ramandeep Singh Mann said the overall premium for the cotton crop has increased Rs 3,250 per hectare this time as compared to the last year. “It is quite unfortunate that the state government reduced its share in the premium for the cotton crop this time, due to which farmers will have to bear the brunt,” he added.Haryana agriculture joint director Jagraj Dandi agreed that the farmers’ share of premium for cotton crop under PMFBY has increased to Rs 1,030 per acre as the state government withdrew its 3% subsidy on the premium amount. “Cotton is a commercial crop and farmers are required to pay 5% of the sum insured as the premium. Earlier, the farmers were paying only 2% and the remaining 3% was being deposited by the Haryana government. This time, we have withdrawn 3% subsidy and the cotton farmers will have to pay 5% of the sum insured as the premium,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-harried-as-haryana-govt-withdraws-subsidy-on-cotton-crop-insurance-premium/story-NKio2KFHZSe07rvOFOjaCK.html
20-07-2020||City||For some Covid patients, cops fill in for their family||Amol Surve, a 39-year-old Ghodbunder resident who stays in Bangalore, was worried when his parents tested positive for Covid-19 back home. However, both his parents were admitted in hospital and taken care of by officers of Kasarvadavli police station, who also gave him timely updates about their health. Like Surve, many residents have lauded the efforts of the Thane Police to ensure the well-being of their loved ones, especially senior citizens and young children.Police officers in the commissionerate have helped the patients and their family members in various ways such as help them get admitted, keep a tab on their well-being, provide medicines, food and essentials. Residents said police officers have been going beyond the call of duty.Surve, whose parents stay in Patlipada area of Ghodubunder, said, “My parents, aged 66 and 72 years, tested positive 20 days ago. We don’t know the source of infection but I was worried about how they would manage alone. My mother was admitted in Vedant Hospital. Ever since they got admitted, Kasarvadvali police kept a check on their health. My father used to get calls every morning and evening from officers asking about his health and whether he needed anything, till the date he tested negative. We were really touched.”In another case, a 20-year-old woman, whose mother tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to a hospital, was staying alone at home in Diva. The woman, who did not wished to be named, said, “I was alone at home when my mother got admitted. Every day I used to get calls from Mumbra police officers. Once a woman officer also delivered medicine and food for me when I said there was nothing to cook at home. My mother was worried about me, but when I told her police were in touch with me, she was relaxed. “Police across the commissionerate in Thane, Kalyan and Bhiwandi are doing the needful and most residents have taken to twitter to thank then. Few senior citizens groups have sent thank you letters to Thane police for guiding them and helping those who were alone.In one such tweet, one user wrote, “@ThaneCityPolice such a wonderful gesture. Sandeep More from Bhiwandi Town (Kumbharwada) police station called and inquired about my family and my health, we talked in length and he also shared how Rajkumar Shinde DCP Zone 2 and Kokate (Sr PI) inquiring about our health.”Thane police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar said, “Our 35 police station officers are continuously taking care of people, solving their problems and simultaneously performing their duty. It is very important to help people on humanitarian ground.”Phansalkar added, “I am extremely proud of our officers who are going beyond their capacity and duty, from helping people to taking care of other Covid-19 warriors. There are 833 cops who have tested positive in Thane, but the others are working rigorously for the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-some-covid-patients-cops-fill-in-for-their-family/story-znp31kDlh97ioRDlOoyXxN.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||No easy route to recovery for patients: Fatigue even a month after discharge||Even as the city breached the one lakh Covid-19 cases mark on Saturday, its recovery rate is 70%, with over 67,000 patients recovering at home or recovered and back to their regular routine. For most, however, the side effects, ranging from physical to financial, continue.Several patients HT spoke to complained of continued weakness, body fatigue and heavy breathing. Others reported drastic or moderate weight loss. Lata Varghese, 69, a Vile Parle resident, who was discharged from the hospital on July 4, a week after getting admitted, said she continued to feel weak for 10 days after discharge. Varghese, a diabetic, was diagnosed with Covid-19 on June 28. “I was given medication while I stayed in the hospital and was also given vitamin tablets later, but I experienced weakness during the treatment and post discharge. However, with time, I am feeling better. We also had our follow-up with the doctor, who said my condition is improving. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also called thrice to check on my health,” she said.She said besides fatigue, she suffers from shortness of breath. “I breathe heavily at times if I speak continuously. Along with me, my husband, who is 68, also tested positive and was home quarantined as he was asymptomatic. However, we don’t step out at all, not even to buy essentials. We get everything delivered at home,” she added.RajiKumar Nadar, 39, a Goregaon resident, who was involved in food distribution work for the needy, tested positive on June 12. “My symptoms were mild, so I opted for home quarantine. But I lost around 7kg of weight in over 45 days. My body felt weak. With time, my health is improving,” he said.Nadar, a martial arts trainer, said he has resumed normal life, but avoids going out. Sunil Sawant, 56, a Borivli resident, who works in a milk production company, tested positive mid-May. “I only had fever that went in the days after my treatment started. I got admitted and was also discharged by the end of May, after which I was home quarantined. Thankfully, I have not experienced any problem. I have also resumed work. My family members continue to go out for essential work, as we feel we have to live with the virus,” he said.Ankush Chiplunkar, 31, a fitness trainer, who tested positive mid-May, has recovered physically, but the pandemic had left him financially dry. “I didn’t face any symptoms after my discharge. But it has been four months that I have no earnings. After my treatment, I was badly in need of money. So I went back to my native place in Solapur. The government should allow opening of gyms and fitness clubs with precautions.”In Mumbai, the number of recovered patients has been going up. As of July 18, 70,492 patients had recovered, of the total 100,350 cases in the city. This means, the city’s recovery rate has gone up to 70%. From 25,152 on June 12, the number of recovered patients went up to 34,576 on June 23, and crossed the 67,000 mark mid-July, and 70,000 on Saturday.Dr Samrat Shah, consultant internist at city’s Bhatia Hospital, said, “While the vast majority who contract Covid-19 will make a full recovery, we are likely to see more people with pulmonary fibrosis or persistent lung damage, following acute respiratory distress syndrome caused by Covid-19.’’He said, “Many will be severely affected for some time following severe infection, and some will need oxygen at home. Meeting such people’s longer-term health and care needs will pose a significant challenge. Covid-19 may also cause other illnesses such as non-specific symptoms to impairment of kidneys, heart, gastrointestinal tract, nervous system and clotting system. Some effects could be partly caused by clots in the small blood vessels supplying these organs. There is also likely to be an impact on mental health.”Dr Shah said that post discharge advice for such patients is to continue chest physiotherapy, increase effort tolerance slowly, take medications as per the advice of doctor, which could be long-term oral steroids, inhalers, home oxygen, etc.“Although the lungs can recover from severe Covid-19, they can also sustain long-term damage of varying severity. It is important to watch out for the condition in people who suffer from severe Covid-19. An early study of people recovering from Covid-19 found that such damage also improves in the first few weeks after discharge from hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-easy-route-to-recovery-for-patients-fatigue-even-a-month-after-discharge/story-MQGA9qFluhToHCyU704qjI.html
20-07-2020||City||Banker loses job, starts selling veggies||Having lost his job amid the Covid-19-induced lockdown, a 41-year-old banker from Kalyan is now forced to sell vegetables.Sachin Dhiware, a resident of Yogidham, Kalyan (West), lost his job on May 20 after working in a bank for over a decade. Dhiware, the only earning member in the family, then started selling mangoes for a living, during the summer months.“Despite being one of the best performers, I lost my job. I have to run the household and pay loans too. So, I started selling mangoes in the area. Post-summer, I planned on setting up the business of selling clean and fresh vegetables,” said Dhiware, who is a father of two children, aged eight and two, respectively.Dhiware met farmers, inquired about rates and also visited several markets. He also involved his three friends to join in.“I couldn’t manage the business alone, hence I asked my friends to join me. As soon as I opened a shop in my locality, immediately the civic body imposed a strict lockdown from July 2,” added Dhiware.However, due to the lockdown, there was a shortage in the vegetable supply in the locality. Dhiware then started the home delivery of vegetables. “Our team managed to deliver vegetables to around 30 people in the area, in last two days,” he said.Sneha Mahadik, a resident of Yogidham, Kalyan (West), said, “For almost 10 days there was no supply of vegetables as the vendors were not allowed to enter the premises. The only way out for residents was to order online. Dhiware’s service came to our rescue.”The team took the help of social media to spread the word about the business and managed to get customers for home deliveries. “Due to limitations on transportation we are selling the vegetables in one locality only. Though there is an uncertainty in this business, my target is to earn at least ₹3,000 a day so that I can keep up with the lifestyle which we had,” said Dhiware.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/banker-loses-job-starts-selling-veggies/story-FaSb6oVm7YnQP8FM3ZAKeN.html
20-07-2020||City||One-day-old baby found along Dombivli-Shilphata creek||A day-old baby girl was found abandoned along the banks of the Dombivli-Shilphata creek on Saturday. A fisherman found the baby and informed Shil-Daighar police who later took the baby to the hospital. The baby is in good health and the police have sent her to a home in Vashi.According to Shil-Daighar police, a fisherman called police after he saw a baby girl crying in the mudflats near the creek at Riverwood Park, Desai Gao, Shilphata.Senior police inspector, of Shil-Daighar, CJ Jadhav, said, “We have found the girl around at 2 pm. We immediately took her to the nearby hospital where the doctors said she was not sick or hurt. We have sent the baby to a children home in Navi Mumbai and have registered case against her parents under section 317 (abandonment) of the Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-day-old-baby-found-along-dombivli-shilphata-creek/story-lG2wFzh3R7TS8xY3Kqb9xO.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||7 arrested for selling remdesivir at ₹30K||Seven people of a gang were arrested from different parts of the city on Saturday for allegedly selling a single vial of remdesivir injection to customers for ₹30,000 – six times more than the actual price of the anti-viral drug which is used to treat Covid-19 patients.“The accused conspired to make easy money by procuring and selling the drugs at higher price to needy customers,” said Akbar Pathan, deputy commissioner of police (crime branch).Officers from crime branch unit 7, along with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials also seized 13 injections from the homes of the accused, identified as Rahul Bharat Gala, Vikas Angad Dubey, Bhavesh Ashok Shah, Ashish Gangadin Kanojia, Ritesh Rohidas Thonbare, Gurvindersingh Jasvindersingh Rathod and Sudhir Babu Pujari.“Gala and Dubey worked a medical store in Mulund, while Pujari worked with a medicine distributing agency in Ghatkopar. He gave injections to others to sell in the black market,” said inspector Satish Taware of unit 7.After receiving a tip-off, crime branch unit 7 officers sent a dummy customer and then conducted raids and nabbed Gala and Dubey from their homes in Mulund and Diva, respectively, and recovered seven injections. “On interrogating them, we learnt about Kanojia. On raiding his Antop Hill house, we found six injections. We found that Thonbare, Rathod and Pujari were also a part of the gang and arrested them,” said Taware.All the accused were produced in court and remanded in police custody till July 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/7-arrested-for-selling-remdesivir-at-30k/story-zUHm9XmEeFrLQXFemzwgZO.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||Some think coronavirus will go away by building temple: Pawar||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday taunted the Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi over news reports that the latter is going for ground breaking ceremony of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya in first week of August. Pawar said that some people may be of the opinion that the coronavirus will go away by building temple, hence such an event might have been scheduled. He said that for them (NCP) tackling coronavirus is more important as it is impacting the economy of the country as well small businesses. The NCP chief also said that they want the state and Central government to focus more on the existing health crisis.“For us, working to bring out people from the coronavirus crisis is more important. Some people may be of the view that the virus will go away by building the temple, and with that sentiment such programme might have been scheduled. I don’t know the exact reason behind this,” Pawar said in a press conference in Solapur. The NCP chief, however, did not named anyone in particular. “For us fighting the coronavirus crisis is more important as it is leading to lockdown that is impacting the economy, small businesses and others. We want the state and Central government to focus more on the existing health crisis,” the veteran leader said.The BJP slammed this jibe saying there was no need for cheap politics as Ram Mandir was about faith of millions of Hindus.“Everyone knows that Covid-19 is not going to go away by building of the Ram Mandir. They should focus on their state. Is coronavirus going to go away by buying expensive cars for their ministers, by not giving farmers loan waiver or black marketing of ₹20 masks for ₹200. There is no need for this cheap politics, Mandir is about the faith of millions of Hindus,” said BJP leader and former minister Sudhir Mungantiwar. The Shiv Sena, however, has welcomed the finalisation of the foundation laying ceremony date and said that it is not bothered whether party leaders are invited or not.Sena’s south Mumbai member of parliament (MP) and former Union minister Arvind Sawant said that the issue over invitation should not be politicised. “I do not know if there is any invitation or not. If it comes, Uddhavji will decide whether to go or not. For us, the Ram Mandir is a matter of happiness, therefore if we are invited or not invited is not a matter of respect or disrespect. We are directly connected to Lord Ram and Ayodhya,” he said, while speaking to a regional news channel.Sawant added that Shiv Sena is associated with the Ram Mandir movement since the beginning and its contribution is equally important. “How would we know if they (the organisers) would invite us or not? It depends on them (organisers). Lord Ram is a matter of faith, there is no need to give it a political colour. Bear in mind that we are the ones involved in laying the foundation for the Ram Mandir. The sadhus of Akhadas were fighting a legal battle, and [our contribution] is equally important,” he said.The parliamentarian added that Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited Ayodhya and also donated Rs 5 crore to the temple trust for the construction of Ram Temple. The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust on Saturday forwarded tentative dates — August 3 and 5 — for Ayodhya temple’s bhoomi pujan to the Prime Minister’s office. The decision was taken in a meeting called by the trust.Some reports also suggests that the Prime Minister is going to attend the ceremony on August 5.The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust was formed in February on the direction of the Supreme Court.In November last year, the Supreme Court had ruled that the then disputed land in Ayodhya would be given to a government-run trust for building a Ram Mandir and Muslims be given a five-acre suitable plot elsewhere in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/some-think-coronavirus-will-go-away-by-building-temple-pawar/story-EeljleW1v6pOibqjycoA5O.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||2 booked for sending rape threats to actor||The Mumbai Police registered a first information report (FIR) against two unknown Instagram account holders for sending obscene messages and threats to actor Rhea Chakraborty.On July 16, Chakraborty shared a screenshot of message that she received on Instagram where the users threatened to get her raped and killed. This comes as she is being blamed for actor Sushant Singh Rajpur’s death and many social media users accused her for using Rajput.She posted, “I was called a gold-digger…I kept quiet. I was called a murderer...I kept quiet. I was slut shamed....I kept quiet. But how does my silence give you the right to tell me that you will get me RAPED and MURDERED if I don’t commit suicide @mannu_raaut?”“Do you realise the seriousness of what you have said? These are crimes, and by law, no one, I repeat NO ONE, should be subjected to this kind of toxicity and harassment. I request @cyber_crime_helpline @cybercrimeindia to please take necessary action. ENOUGH IS ENOUGH,” she commented through her a post on Instagram.Following this, Rhea visited Santacruz police station and lodged a complaint against the accused on Saturday evening.Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police, zone-9, said, “On complaint of Rhea Chakravarty, an offence is registered at Santacruz police station against two Instagram account holders for sending obscene messages and threatening her.”Police registered a case under sections 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication), 509 (word, sound or gesture intending to insult the modesty of woman) of the Indian Penal Code and section 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act.Sources from Santacruz police station revealed, “We have written a letter to Instagram and sought details of the Instagram user who sent her the obscene messages and threat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-booked-for-sending-rape-threats-to-actor/story-n59punYYtAcGHVKAfpdRGL.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||City sees 89% spike in deaths in May||Contrary to the trends in March and April, the city saw a total of 12,963 deaths (both Covid and non-Covid) in May, 89% more than the 6,832 deaths recorded in May 2019, leading to questions from the Opposition as well as experts if all Covid-19 patients are being identified and whether a lot of the unidentified patients have died at home. Municipal commissioner IS Chahal, however, attributed the surge to the higher influx of patients to the city, reconciliation of figures and the Covid-19 cremation protocol.According to the state figures, Mumbai recorded 989 Covid-19 deaths in May. On June 16, the government added 862 backlogged deaths to the Covid-19 toll, of which some had occurred in May. Similarly, until July 3, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) added 751 backlogged deaths, some of which were from May, to the toll. However, even if one were to deduct the backlogged figures, the number of total deaths reported in Mumbai in May would remain significantly higher than the May 2019 figure.In March, the city saw 5,669 deaths, against the 7,155 deaths reported in the same month last year. Similarly, 5,536 deaths were registered in Mumbai in April, a decline from the 6,752 deaths recorded in April 2019.The data raises questions over the possible reasons for the increase in fatalities in the city, with some even alleging the city is witnessing a higher number of Covid-19 deaths than what are being registered. “When Covid-19 patients from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region or other parts of Maharashtra such as Ahmednagar, Jalgaon or Nashik were shifted to Mumbai for treatment during April, May and June, they were registered as Covid-19 cases in their respective hometowns. But if the patient died, he/she had to be cremated in Mumbai owing to the strict protocol for Covid-19 deaths and the patient’s death was counted in Mumbai. This was not the case before the Covid-19 outbreak, but now we have to abide by the safety norms,” said Chahal.The civic commissioner said 12,000-plus death toll in May comes from the crematorium records. “Our death records are not as per the Indian Council of Medical Research website, but from the crematorium records. I can give an example of a former Member of Parliament who the BMC airlifted from his hometown after he tested positive [for Covid-19]. He died during treatment in Mumbai and was cremated at the Chandanwadi crematorium. If you search for his name in ICMRs’s records, he will be registered as a Covid patient in his hometown, but his death is registered here,” said Chahal.Chahal, while pointing at the example of Sion hospital, said 54% of deaths at the hospital in May and June are of patients from other cities.“It seems logical that these death figures show there are undiscovered Covid-19 patients, whose deaths were attributed to other causes as they were not known to be positive. But even if that’s the case, why are the numbers high in May, and not in April and March, when our testing capacity was lower. It is still unclear,” said a senior doctor working with the Maharashtra government.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the task force of nine doctors appointed by the state in April to control the fatality rate in Maharashtra, said, “My feeling is March deaths and April deaths got pulled into May, which is why we see an artificial rise in May. Partly, the Covid-19 factor is also responsible. I do not agree that unidentified Covid-19 patients who died at their homes were counted as non-Covid deaths. Because of the lockdown, a lot of non-Covid patients, suffering from hypertension, diabetes, heart and other ailments did not access medical care in March and April and probably died in May.”Dr Joshi said such a trend was also witnessed in New York. “A lot of heart patients, who were not Covid-19 patients, died at home because they could not access healthcare as they were scared to visit hospitals. It is time the government focused equally on non-Covid healthcare, too,” he said.Public health expert Dr Sanjay Pattiwar said many elective surgeries in March and April were deferred and some patients, who were scheduled for surgery, subsequently died in May.Earlier this month, leader of the Opposition in Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, alleged the government has not accounted for around 600 Covid-19 deaths of patients who died outside hospitals.Earlier this week, Chahal told HT that BMC has initiated an investigation to find out the number of patients who died at home. “In March and April, test results were delayed by many days. A patient who gave his swab on April 14 got his result on April 22. He died before the test result came. Such deaths will also be examined and counted as Covid-19 deaths now,” the municipal commissioner said.On Sunday, Mumbai recorded 1,037 new cases and 64 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city now stands at 101,388, even as the toll reached 5,714. Currently, the city has 23,697 active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-sees-89-spike-in-deaths-in-may/story-B94w4EHv2BxtWhQsOL4RNJ.html
20-07-2020||City||Lockdown only in hot spots, containment zones in MMR||Containment zones and hot spots in the entire Thane district will be under strict lockdown till midnight of July 31, district collector Rajesh Narvekar announced on Sunday. While the Thane civic commissioner has already eased the lockdown for the rest of the city minus the hots pots, a similar decision was taken by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), where the lockdown is extended to May 31 in the 48 hot spots. Lockdown is also extended till July 31 in Bhiwandi’s 15 hot spots.Kalyan-Dombivli has the highest number of cases in the entire district. The twin cities had 15,907 positive cases as of Sunday, compared to 15,773 in Thane. KDMC recorded 427 new cases on Sunday and six deaths, taking the toll to 246. The city now has 6,131 active cases.The cases in Thane city, which was under lockdown since July 2, have decreased considerably, with the city recording 257 cases on Sunday, less than the daily average of 400 and 300 over the past few days. The total number of cases in Thane has now reached 15,773, while the toll reached 551, with four new deaths. A team of 50 civic officials was stationed in the market since wee hours of Sunday to ensure social distancing norms were not violated. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “We had kept a watch on the early morning markets, from 6am to 11pm on Sunday. Many people come out for shopping in the wholesale fruit and vegetable markets. We sealed four shops for violating social distancing and evicted 75 hawkers. Crowded markets will not be tolerated even if the lockdown is eased.” “The lockdown will continue in 48 hotspots, while the rest of the city will follow all the norms mentioned under the Mission Begin Again, in which markets and shops can remain open under odd-even system between 9am and 5pm. The non-hot spot zones will be controlled by ward officers and police department in order to ensure there is no crowding or violation of social distancing,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC.​In order to keep track of home-isolated asymptomatic patients, KDMC has set up a call centre through which patients are called for feedback. If urgent attention is required, the call centre connects to the health department. Around 70,000 calls have been made throughout the week.Lockdown didn’t show any major impact in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation where the cases continued to rise. A total of 4,100 cases have been reported in Navi Mumbai during the 16-day lockdown period announced by NMMC first from July 3 to July 13 midnight and then the extension to July 19 midnight. The daily average has been 255 positive cases. On Sunday, 288 new Covid 19 cases were reported, taking the total in Navi Mumbai to 11,426 cases. Three deaths were reported on Sunday taking the toll to 343. Almost 10% of those who tested positive on Sunday are children.Captain Partho Das, a city-based businessman, said, “Despite 16 days under lockdown, there has not been much result, as cases continue to rise.”Bhiwandi city recorded 35 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total to 3,098. There were no deaths, while the active cases are 661. Bhiwandi has 15 hots pots in which the lockdown will continue till July 31.The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC), which has a strict lockdown till July 22, is yet to decide on further lockdown. The city recorded 195 new cases on Sunday, taking the total to 5,626. The city has recorded 83 deaths so far and there are 2,159 active cases in the city.The Kulgaon Badlapur Municipal Council (KBMC) recorded 79 new cases on Sunday, taking the total to 1,913. No deaths were recorded in the city, while the deaths recorded till date stand at 29. In Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC) limits, 78 new cases were recorded, taking the total to 3,108 and toll to 118.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-only-in-hot-spots-containment-zones-in-mmr/story-eZeeWKYJssvrFb5zypioTN.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||HC refuses relief to institute seeking ₹42-L penalty waiver||In a setback to a Pune-based polytechnic institute, the Bombay high court (HC) has directed its management to pay ₹42.62 lakh as penalty, imposed by the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), for admitting 150 students without the approval of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), in 2007.The institute, which was established in 1993, initially recovered ₹21,000 as fees from students and admitted them. As per the rules, the college had to pay 200% of the tuition fee recovered from students as penalty to DTE for admitting the 150 students, which the institute did. However, as the final fee recovered by the college was ₹35,875, for each student, DTE demanded that the institute pay an additional ₹42 lakh as penalty. Aggrieved by the increased penalty, the institute approached the HC. However, the court observed that DTE exercised its right to recover the penalty on the entire amount collected as fees by the institute and hence rejected the institute’s claim to quash the demand of ₹42 lakh.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and VG Bisht, while hearing a petition filed by Sinhgad Technical Institution Society, was informed by senior advocate VP Sawant that the society ran a polytechnic institute by the name Venutai Chavan Polytechnic at Pune. In 2007, based on a government resolution to allow polytechnic institutes to run second shifts, the college had applied to the state authorities concerned for approval. The state had recommended the commencement of the second shift, and as the institute fulfilled the minimum eligibility criteria laid down by AICTE, the institute’s application for permission was forwarded to the apex body too.Even as the approval from AICTE was awaited, the admission process had started, and under the assumption that the AICTE would grant its approval, the institute admitted 150 students and recovered ₹21,000 as the fee amount prescribed by the Shikshan Shulk Samiti (SSS) for new institutes from the students and informed that they would have to pay additional fees when the final approval was received by SSS. The final amount recovered as fees was Rs 35,875.As the institute had admitted students before receiving all approvals, DTE recovered a penalty of ₹62 lakh from the institute to regularise the students based on the ₹21,000 collected towards tuition fees. However, after the final fee was fixed at ₹35,875, DTE demanded an additional penalty of ₹42 lakhs as per rules. Aggrieved by the additional penalty demand, the institute approached the HC seeking a declaration that the institute was not to pay in excess of ₹62 lakh as penalty.Additional government pleader Manish Pabale, however, argued that as the institute had recovered ₹35,785 as fees for academic year 2007-08, as per the rules, the institute had to pay 200% penalty for admitting students without getting approvals, and hence DTE was right in making the additional demand. He further added that the ₹21,000 fee was meant for new institutes and as the Sinhgad institute was established in 1993 they could not claim benefit of the same.After hearing the submissions, the court observed that there was nothing perverse in DTE’s demand and that it was justified. Hence, the court rejected the petition of the institute and allowed DTE to recover the penalty from the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-relief-to-institute-seeking-42-l-penalty-waiver/story-oEJsxpcBU4B6DxCMuLWpAN.html
20-07-2020||City||Jind shopkeeper hacked to death over cigarettes||Two unidentified bike-borne men killed a 65-year-old shopkeeper with sharp-edged weapons after a brief argument over cigarette price, police said.The deceased has been identified as Ratan Lal of Jind’s Narwana.Narwana Sadar station house officer (SHO) Mahender Pal said that the incident took place on Sunday evening when the shopkeeper was sitting outside his shop.“Two bike-borne men came there and asked him for cigarettes. When Ratan Lal demanded money from them, they attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. Following this, the shopkeeper raised an alarm. His family members rushed him to a hospital in Narwana, where the doctors declared him brought dead,” the SHO said.He added that they are checking the footage of a CCTV camera installed in the area.The police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and have launched a probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jind-shopkeeper-hacked-to-death-over-cigarettes/story-Vcvjm8NcO9UlW5MjrPukNN.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||Record 9,518 fresh cases take Maharashtra Covid-19 tally to 310,455||A day after crossing the grim 300,000 Covid-19 cases mark, Maharashtra on Sunday recorded its sharpest single-day jump of 9,518 infections, first in excess of 9,000, taking the tally to 310,455. It also recorded 258 more fatalities, taking the death toll to 11,854. Amid continued complaints of inflated private hospital bills, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that independent auditors have been appointed to verify bills of Covid-19 patients treated in private hospitals. The state breached the 9,000 mark in daily cases for the first time after clocking over 8,000 cases on each of the past three days. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 169,569 with 3,906 patients discharged on Sunday.Mumbai recorded 1,038 new cases to push the city’s tally to 101,388. The city also added 64 fatalities that took the death toll to 5714. The cities in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding Mumbai, contributed to 39% of the cases recorded on Sunday. The eight municipal corporations, excluding Mumbai, and three districts that fall in MMR added 2,751 new cases with Kalyan-Dombivli recording 495 cases. Kalyan-Dombivli is the worst affected in MMR with 18,115 cases, followed by Thane city and Thane district at 332 and 348 new cases, which pushed their respective tallies to 17,226 and 10,503. Vasai-Virar recorded 276 new cases, while Navi Mumbai recorded 298 new Covid-19 cases. Ulhasnagar added 198 new cases, while Mira-Bhayander added 135 fresh infections.On the “inflated” hospital bills, Tope, in a tweet on Sunday, said, “The bill of the patients admitted for Covid-19 will only be given to them after it is inspected by an auditor. For that, independent auditors have been appointed for all private hospitals.” He had gone to Solapur [city with the highest Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR)] to take stock of the Covid-19 situation on Sunday, along with NCP chief Sharad Pawar. At a press conference in Solapur, he was asked about the continued complaints by patients of being overcharged by private hospitals. “For the bills management, we requisitioned 80% beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. We have also capped charges at Rs4,500 for non-ICU bed and Rs7,500 for ICU ones. These are package rates, including for tests, etc; no hidden charges. Besides, 1,000 hospitals under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana provide free treatment,” he said.The minister or the government have so far not outlined what action it would take against the private hospital if found guilty of overcharging. In June, the NCP chief had first raised concern over overcharging by private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. Pawar raising the issue gained significance as the health department was with the NCP. Subsequently, earlier this month Tope said that the state government would appoint auditors to look into the complaints of inflated bills.Besides MMR, Pune recorded 1,812 new cases and 25 fatalities on Sunday, while its neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 851 new cases to cross the 10,000-mark to 10,507 confirmed cases. Pimpri-Chinchwad also reported 15 fatalities. Pune crossed 1,000 fatalities on Sunday as its death toll rose to 1,019. Nashik city breached the 6,000-mark with 471 new cases, taking the tally 6,015; it also recorded 10 deaths.Solapur city, another hotspot in the state, has the government and the administration worried with its high CFR. With 334 fatalities, Solapur city has a CFR of 8.63%, which is the highest in the state. The city recorded 71 new cases, that took its tally to 3,867.Tope visited Solapur to review the situation and said that he has directed the local civic body to expand the institutional quarantine facility to segregate asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients from densely populated areas. Speaking to reporters in Solapur, the minister also said that he has directed authorities to increase the number of beds with oxygen supply.“There would not be any shortage of hospital beds. I have instructed authorities to ramp up the infrastructure. I have also stressed on the need for institutional quarantine facilities to remove patients from densely populated areas. Additional beds with oxygen supply will be added in the next 15 days,” he said adding that these measures will help bring down the high CFR. The minister added that the state government has increased testing across the state, including in Solapur. He said that around 10,000 antigen tests will be carried out in Solapur in the coming weeks. Senior health department officials said that the antigen test, which provides faster results in comparison to the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test, will helpo curb the spread of the virus in the city.Tope reiterated the state government’s plan to start plasma therapy across all districts in the state. He said, “Plasma therapy has yielded positive results and there are many success stories and we want to start it in other parts of the state. The therapy would start in 18 medical college hospitals in the state soon.”So far, Maharashtra has carried out 15,64,129 tests and has an overall positivity rate (19.85%) for Covid-19. Currently, 754,370 people have been put under home quarantine and 45,846 people are in institutional quarantine, the state health department data said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/record-9-518-fresh-cases-take-maha-covid-19-tally-to-310-455/story-roR7cvXdcWJVLhcTgF2o2H.html
20-07-2020||City||Man shot dead in Ambala village||A 26-year-old man was shot dead while he was working in his fields in Khanpur Brahmana village on Sunday. His cousin Ramesh Kumar said, “Deepak was carrying fodder on his head when I saw the man going towards him and heard a gun shot. Later I found Deepak unconscious and took him to the civil hospital where the doctor declared him dead and stated bullet injury on the right side of his chest as the cause. He had an old rivalry with Atul alias Chinha and others of the same village.”SP Abhishek Jorwal said, “The family has named a group with whom they had an old dispute.”An FIR was registered against Vikas, Harnpreet, Manish, Krishn, and Rajesh under sections 302, 120-B of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act at Panjokhara police station.Youth succumbs to assault injuriesLalit, a 24-year-old Yamunanagar resident, who was attacked by an acquaintance on July 1, succumbed to injuries on Sunday. Gandhi Nagar police station in-charge said, “Lalit was discharged from the hospital a few days back but was admitted again after his condition deteriorated. We’ll add Section 302 to the FIR.”One of Lalit’s relatives alleged that he had told them that the incident took place when he had gone out with his friend on July 1. His friend got into a fight with accused Karan, who asked him to leave the spot. “When he was leaving, Karan attacked him with an axe from behind and Lalit retaliated by hitting him on his chest,” the relative said. SP Kamaldeep Goyal said, “We have taken fresh statements and are waiting for the autopsy report to initiate further investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-shot-dead-in-ambala-village/story-jSOwXgVTNKbVFJtm6kaKZO.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||Chandrapur airport project clearance stalled over tiger corridor concerns||The construction of the Chandrapur greenfield airport has hit a hurdle after the nodal officer of the Maharashtra forest department stalled clearances for the project recently over concerns for the tiger population in the area.The Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation (MADC), appointed by the state government in 2018 as the nodal agency to develop Vidarbha’s first greenfield airport catering to Q-400, A-320, and smaller aircraft, said that combined with Covid-19 related issues, stalling the project would mean an overall delay of 10 months for basic execution.Located at Murti village, 32km from Chaprala Wildlife Sanctuary, 38km from the Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) buffer, and 26km away from to the proposed 265 sqkm Kanhargaon wildlife sanctuary (KWS) in Gondpipri tehsil, the proposed airport across 340 hectares (ha) would lead to the destruction of 3,817 trees and diversion of 75 hectares (ha) of forest land. The area is part of a tiger corridor identified by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun.The decision to defer the clearances was based on a report by WII, which stated that the project may affect the connectivity of a tiger corridor and lead to an increase in human-animal conflict. “The proposed site is within the critical habitat and connectivity corridors of tigers. The present site may or shall not be considered for the construction of the proposed airport,” the report had said.Sanjeev Gaur, additional principal chief conservator of forest, and nodal officer, Maharashtra, said, “There is no question of issuing clearance at the moment. We have asked MADC to submit responses regarding any alternative site for the airport, and whether the mitigation measures suggested by WII, including the financial and administrative implications, are acceptable to MADC, and to what extent. Based on their response, we will appraise the Maharashtra government and the Centre correctly about the project and its impacts. As of now, it remains deferred.”HT had reported on June 29 that the Chandrapur forest department had recommended clearance for the project, while MADC claimed that they had already received stage-1 clearance (state’s nod) under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. However, the forest department clarified this. “I only received the proposal in the first week of July. Stage-1 clearance can only be granted once approval is issued by the state government,” said Gaur.MADC said a review of the entire project was underway. “There are no other alternative options for the airport as other areas are either already protected as sanctuaries, or have mines located close to them. This site, among four others, was chosen after considering all options,” said Gaurav Upshyam, senior manager (regional connectivity scheme), MADC. “A decision regarding acceptance of proposed mitigation measures will be taken by the state and MADC board. Details regarding feasibility, funds for each measure, and source of funding are being worked out. Once we have clarity, the revised proposal will be submitted to the forest department. An overall delay of five months has happened, another five months is expected.”Chandrapur district is home to around 170 of the state’s 312 tigers. WII’s report identified the presence of 12 tigers in a 20-30km radius around the proposed airport site, between Rajura reserved forest and KWS. There are 15 tigers and at least 23 leopards in KWS, which received the state wildlife board’s nod in December 2018 to be declared a sanctuary. The final notification is awaited.Among other mitigation measures, MADC has been asked to undertake the restoration of 17 forest patches with mixed plantations to ensure corridor connectivity. Overall cost of mitigation measures are yet to be determined by WII. The total project cost for the airport is ₹300 crore.“The best mitigation measure is to avoid the project in this area. Remaining mitigation measures are suggested in our report,” said Bilal Habib, WII scientist and author of the report.WHAT WII FOUNDThe Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, which studied the wildlife impact of the project, said the airport would hamper the corridor connectivity and enhance human-wildlife conflict. “The proposed airport site is well known for the wildlife value, especially for tiger conservation and its importance as a connecting corridor. Hence, the present site may or shall not be considered for the construction of the airport,” the report said.In case there is no alternative site for the proposed airport, the project may be constructed after undertaking the following mitigation measures:· Realigning the airport boundary· Restoration and strengthening of existing wildlife habitat along the corridor· Minimising likely impact of peripheral lights and noise levels· Minimising occurrence of food resource for wild animals in the boundary of the airport· Building underpasses and overpasses across roads passing through the existing corridor· Minimising extent of increased disturbance with this development within the landscape· Forest patches include private forests that need to be acquired· Undertake restoration of 17 forest patches to ensure connectivity of the corridor· Wildlife corridor usage to be monitored during the construction phase and for the next five years· MADC to accept any mid-term mitigation measure during construction and after airport by WII· A committee to monitor the compliance of suggested mitigation measures.· Overall cost of mitigation measures are yet to be determined by WII.(Source: Wildlife Study for Chandrapur Greenfield Airport by Wildlife Institute of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/chandrapur-airport-project-clearance-stalled-over-tiger-corridor-concerns/story-BVUo8oQlLo6JfhW2GoUs7K.html
20-07-2020||City||Magisterial probe ordered into body swap of two Covid victims at Amritsar hospital||A day after bodies of two COVID-19 patients got swapped at Amritsar’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), the authorities have launched a magisterial probe into the matter. The GMCH officials have also written a letter to state medical education and research department for suspending four staff members of the hospital for negligence in handling the bodies.Amritsar sub-divisional magistrate Shivraj Singh Bal will conduct the inquiry. On Saturday, a 37-year-old woman of Damganj area of Amritsar had died of Covid-19 at the GMCH. Soon after her death, her body was sent to mortuary and authorities were told to pack her body in the personal protection equipment (PPE) kit before handling the body to her family members.The same day, a 92-year-old man of Hoshiarpur district, who was also undergoing treatment at the GMCH, died and his body was sent to mortuary. The hospital authorities, after packing the bodies in PPE kits, put wrong labels on the caskets.On July 16, a 92-year-old man of Hoshiarpur district, who was also undergoing treatment at the GMCH, died and his body was sent to mortuary. The hospital authorities, after packing the bodies in PPE kit, put wrong labels on the caskets. The body of the Amritsar woman was packed and sent to Hoshiarpur in an ambulance and the body of Hoshiarpur man was sent to family members of the woman. Since bodies were packed in PPE kit and were kept in a box, no one checked it, unless the bodies were taken for cremation.Unknowingly, the family members of the woman had cremated the Hoshiarpur man on Saturday. This happened as hospital authorities put wrong name labels on the caskets.After the hospital authorities decided to suspend two staff nurses of the hospital and two class-4 employees, the staff members of the hospital raised objections.Narinder Kumar, president of class-4 employees’ union, said: “The doctors have the responsibility of handling the bodies to their families and this is not the assigned duty of staff nurses and class-4 employees. The doctors are responsible for this negligence and the matter should be probed by the higher officials. If the staff members will be suspended without any reason, the nursing and class-4 employees will boycott their duties in GMC Amritsar and Patiala.” A GMC doctor, requesting anonymity, said, “Body of the woman was brought back to GMCH and her family members were called for identification of the body. The family identified her and complained that her body had been damaged. Also, a gold ring and earring of the woman was missing from her body. The cremation of a woman held on Sunday by her family.” NO BODY MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE AT GMCAs per the guidelines of Punjab government, a body management committee was to be formed in state GMCs to handle bodies of Covid-19 victims, but no such committee was formed at the Amritsar GMCH.“The committee should have been formed to pack the bodies in PPE kits and to put tags on it. The government had asked to make a committee with doctors of the medicine department of GMC, staff nurses and class-4 employees, but to no avail,” said a GMC doctor, requesting anonymity.GMC principal Dr Rajiv Devgan was unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/magisterial-probe-ordered-into-body-swap-of-two-covid-victims-at-amritsar-hospital/story-Sb4bncFz3TVO6uWmfL0cCM.html
20-07-2020||City||Punjab govt launches probe into recruitment irregularities at PTU||The Punjab government has launched a probe into the alleged irregularities in recruitments at Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKG-PTU), Jalandhar. As per information, the technical education department had received a complaint from the technical teachers’ welfare organisation, stating that IKG-PTU vice-chancellor (V-C) Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma had illegally appointed his close aides to various posts at the university. It was further alleged that even the selection committee consisted of his close friends. The deputy director of the state technical education department issued a letter (documents with Hindustan Times) on July 16, stating that the board of governors’ chairman SK Salwan and vice-chairman Anurag Verma, who is also the technical education principal secretary, have decided to constitute a fact-finding committee to look into this matter. The committee comprises Guru Nanak Dev University V-C Jaspal Singh Sandhu and former GNDU V-C Jairoop Singh. ‘APPOINTMENTS DONE THROUGH PVT AGENCY’It was further stated that the V-C had appointed 150 persons, mostly from Himachal Pradesh, on contract basis by relaxing the norms. The recruitments were done through a private manpower agency after terminating the contract of an agency manned by the state government. The complainants stated that nearly 110 persons have been appointed as guest faculty with a fixed salary of Rs. 60,000 and paid leave even as guest faculty members are usually paid on an hourly or lecture basis with a remuneration of not more than Rs. 30,000 a month. “The V-C conducted the interview for the post of dean-cum-Professor at NIT Jalandhar in March this year. Some of the candidates were declared ineligible after which they staged a protest. But a few days before the interview, they were made eligible for the post which shows the corruption in the system. No representative of the government was part of the interview panel, which leaves no doubt that the interview was a parody,” the complaint read.‘IRREGULARITIES EVEN IN HIRING OF SECURITY MEN’Another complaint was filed by Hoshiarpur resident Arsh Kamal Singh Saini to the Prime Minister of India. The letter, later received by the Punjab technical education department, stated that PTU had been recruiting security personnel through a private company, SIS, even as the rules state that the recruitments have to be done through the government agency ‘PESCO’ (Punjab Ex-Servicemen Corporation). “The V-C wanted to please a private company for his personal gains and use this company as a platform to make appointments of his close ones,” Kamal had stated in the complaint. ‘V-C GOT HIMSELF A LAVISH OFFICE’It was further stated that even though the V-C already had an attractive office, he shifted to a new one, which cost the university more than a crore. Besides, the administrative officers of the varsity are provided free conveyance, which puts a financial strain on the university.ATTEMPT TO MALIGN OUR IMAGE: VARISTY OFFICIALWhen contacted, IKG-PTU spokesperson Rajneesh Sharma said, “This is an unprecedented attempt by anti-university and anti-government elements to malign the image of the university. The university already inquired about the identity of the complainant but no person of this name has been found on the mentioned address.” He further added, “The matter has already been clarified to the Punjab government through the department of technical education and industrial training. The university will provide support to every official or committee in terms of clarification on this,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-launches-probe-into-recruitment-irregularities-at-ptu/story-3vG0d8hSro65SIkxI4Tb8L.html
20-07-2020||Mumbai||Male tiger captured after killing 3 people in Chandrapur||A three-year-old male tiger (NT-1) was tranquilised and captured by the forest department at Talodi range, Brahmapuri forest division in Chandrapur on Sunday evening. Forest officials said the tiger was responsible for the death of three people over the past month. The latest death was reported on Saturday evening, near Visapur village. The state chief wildlife warden (PCCF) issued orders to capture the tiger on Sunday morning, and the animal was darted at 5.45pm. After a medical examination, the tiger will be transported to the Gorewada Rescue Centre in Nagpur and kept in captivity for the time being.“There was a threat to the safety of human life if the tiger was not captured immediately,” said Nitin Kakodkar, PCCF (Wildlife). Kulraj Singh, deputy conservator of forest, Brahmapuri said the first two kills were reported on June 18 and July 4 in Nagbhid range. “Attacks were at farmlands adjoining forests. A decision on releasing the tiger will be taken later.”The incident comes five days after another sub-adult tigress was tranquilised at a rice mill in Sindevahi town in Chandrapur on July 14 but released soon after at an undisclosed location.So far, four tigers, involved in the conflict, have been captured by the forest department this year. The first case was in May when a tiger from Brahmapuri was captured in Gondia, said to have killed four people across two forest divisions. The next two cases were in June where a sub-adult male tiger that killed five people between February and June, was captured from the buffer area of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve, and an adult tigress that had entered a house in Nagbhid range of Brahmapuri was captured on June 22. Both tigers captured in June died at the rescue centre, one due to old age and the other due to septicaemia. HT had reported on June 12 that the state chief wildlife warden had warned of increasing human-animal conflict cases in Chandrapur, which is home to over 170 of 312 tigers in Maharashtra. There have been 27 human deaths reported due to tiger attacks between January and July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/male-tiger-captured-after-killing-3-people-in-chandrapur/story-2Jets5bR78ic9shDY0qN6N.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Covid19: Delhi govt to add 600 more ICU beds by month end||The Delhi government is set to add at least another 600 intensive care unit (ICU) beds in three Covid-dedicated hospitals by the end of this month as part of its healthcare augmentation plan, a senior government official said on Sunday.“A detailed plan has been drafted for adding more than 600 ICU beds in Covid hospitals under the Delhi government by July 31,” said the senior government official.As of Sunday, Delhi had 2,166 ICU beds in Covid dedicated hospitals — both private (115 hospitals) and government (11). Of the total ICU beds, at least 555 were in three Delhi government hospitals --- Lok Nayak Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital. “The capacity of ICU beds will be increased in these hospitals. Once the new beds are added, the total ICU beds in these three Delhi government hospitals will be more than 1,155,” the official said.On June 8, Delhi hospitals – both private and government -- collectively offered a total of 582 ICU beds. The numbers have more than tripled since then, as the government roped in more private hospitals for Covid management and increased ICU beds in existing hospitals.Gagan D Bharti, manager of Charity Beds, a non-profit organisation that has been helping people in Delhi avail beds during the pandemic, said: “Delhi needs more ICU beds because only severe Covid cases are landing in the hospitals and a large number of them would potentially need ICU.”Dr Puneet Misra, professor in the community medicines department of AIIMS-Delhi, said: “At this juncture, the government should focus on reducing the Covid-19 mortality rate. For that, supportive treatment is necessary. ICU counts as supportive treatment. But it is essential to ensure that there is adequate number of trained doctors and healthcare workers who work in the ICUs. Handling patients in ICUs need special training. In Delhi, there was always a shortage of ICUs. The augmentation should be permanent in nature not just to handle Covid. It should be extended for regular medical emergencies also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-add-600-more-icu-beds-by-month-end/story-MCbU6R22eWQfx2y7RzGo9H.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Hutments washed away in overflowing drain near ITO; dramatic video goes viral||Over half-a-dozen hutments were swept away, portion of an under-construction building of the World Health Organisation (WHO) was submerged and drain water spilled on to the Ring Road, IP Marg and the stretch near Vikas Bhawan after heavy morning rain on Sunday caused a stormwater drain to overflow near ITO in Central Delhi, the police said. The force of the overflowing water was such that it took less than a minute for the jhuggis located along the banks of the drain to be swept away. On social media, videos of the incident were shared widely.Police said no lives were lost in flooding but several pet animals were swept away and a 36-year-old man narrowly escaped getting washed away with the water. “The children of our slum raised an alarm in the nick of time, because of which we were able to escape from our houses,” said Vishal, one of those whose houses were destroyed.The traffic police had to divert vehicles on the affected nearby roads to other routes such as Vikas Marg, Bhairon Road and towards Akshardham. The drain, known as Sen Nursing Home Drain, comes under the jurisdiction of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. On one side of the drain is a slum, Anna Nagar, while an under-construction building of the WHO is located on the other side. Anna Nagar has a mixed population of South and North Indians and most of them do odd jobs. The two sides of the drain, whose banks are cemented, are connected by an iron bridge. Vishal, who goes by a single name, said the drain overflows every monsoon in the last four decades, but it never did any damage. “We were relaxed on Sunday morning as well despite it raining heavily,” said Vishal. But around 8.15 am, the residents heard cries of local children and rushed out to see the water breaching the cemented banks, right along which many jhuggis had been erected. “We had barely managed to make it out when our houses were swept away. My motorcycle got washed away and others also lost their two-wheelers. One of my goats died while another was rescued by the fire officers,” said Vishal, a flower seller. While people managed to rush out in the nick of time, a man named Santosh Bhura happened to be carried away with the water current. “He had decided to stay in bed longer since it was a Sunday. When be tried to get out of the house, the wooden doors and windows collapsed on him. But our neighbours managed to rescue him,” said Anita, Bhura’s wife. The local residents blamed the construction of the WHO building on the other side of the drain for the mishap. “The basement parking lot they are constructing led to the incident. It weakened the soil below,” alleged Padam Kumar, one of the affected slum dwellers. Officials of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), who inspected the site, also said that the construction had some role to play in the mishap. “A team of DJB officials inspected the site where NBCC was executing digging work. It appeared that the NBCC had dug up the site too deep, which weakened the foundation of the shanties that got washed away in the heavy flow of water. The matter does not involve the Jal Board,” said a spokesperson for the DJB.But NBCC officials said they had been following all norms and constructing as per approval of the SDMC. “This is a low lying area and we have often told the authorities about water overflow in the drain. The DJB had been cooperative all along and they would use motors to flush out the water, but the drain would never be cleaned or desilted. That caused the problem on Sunday,” said an official who didn’t want to be identified. Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central district), said that there was no evidence so far of any negligence in the construction of the WHO building. No police case has been registered either. As the drain water began overflowing on Sunday morning, about two dozen workers constructing the three-level basement parking of the WHO building -- on a 7,000 square meter plot -- left the place. “The force of the water was so tremendous that it destroyed all barricades we had set up and submerged the entire parking lot that is about 12 metres deep. There is about 25 lakh cubic feet water in our premises now,” said the NBCC official. A SDMC spokesperson, meanwhile, said that the agency has deployed three super sucker machines with eighteen tankers, one suction-cum-jetting machines and two pumps on the spot to drain out the water. A team of the NDRF too waited on stand-by in case there was anyone trapped in the water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hutments-washed-away-in-overflowing-drain-near-ito-dramatic-video-goes-viral/story-GL10hFijaQ9FlgjncYV89N.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Waterlogged since 1950s: Why Minto Bridge is Delhi’s flooding constant||In a news report published in July 1958 in Hindustan Times, then municipal commissioner of Delhi PR Nayak said they have installed pump sets to prevent waterlogging under the Minto Bridge. The measure was undertaken as part of anti-flooding measures suggested by the Reddi Committee.Sixty-two years later, the civic agencies are yet to find a solution to the annual monsoon flooding of the railway underbridge, which according to late historian and chronicler of Delhi RV Smith, was built in 1933. A short but heavy spell of rain on Sunday inundated the underpass yet again, drowning vehicles and killing the 56-year-old driver of a mini truck.Also read: 56-year-old tempo driver drowns in waterlogged Minto Road underpassMuktesh Chander, senior IPS officer and a former Delhi traffic police chief, tweeted that he has seen the underpass flooding since his childhood. “Since my childhood I have seen almost every year, photographs of DTC bus submerged in water under Minto bridge during monsoon. Why can’t engineers, town planners & civic agency officials fix it? Let only one agency, whose name should be prominently displayed there, own & fix it,” Chander tweeted.The underbridge lies at the key traffic junction of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU) Marg and Swami Vivekananda Marg (formerly Minto Road) and leads to Connaught Place on one side and New Delhi station, Old Delhi and Darya Ganj on the other. Subhash Arya, who was a municipal councillor in the city from 1983 till 2017, said he has seen the underpass flooding since 1947, when he was just a five -year-old. “It has a deep slope and water from all the approach roads, including Swami Vivekananda Marg as well as from CP, flows into it. It has no outlet.”Arya said the underpass was a common flood point then too. “During the monsoons, it would get flooded and buses would get trapped. In 1967, the slope was widened to manage the water flow, but it didn’t help much. In 1980s, the stormwater drains were laid on both sides of the DDU Marg,” he added.So, more than 60 years later, why has no agency been able to fix the problem? It is because the bridge is a heritage structure, explained Jagdish Mamgain, who was the works committee chairperson of the erstwhile MCD. “All one can do is experiment with engineering solutions. The first pump was installed there in 1958, when flooding under the bridge became a huge issue in the municipal House,” he said.He added that during the 2010 Commonwealth Games, there was a scheme to add two more tracks to the bridge and level the road from beneath to raise its height, but it did not take off.In July 2018, when two DTC buses were submerged in the flooded underpass and 10 people had to be rescued, the Delhi High Court had directed all agencies concerned to coordinate efforts and prepare a plan to prevent such instances. A concrete solution to the problem, however, is yet to be found. Officials in the Public Works Department (PWD), which manages the road, said four suction pumps are installed at the underpass that are ready to be deployed throughout the day. Two of these pumps are in operation while the other two are on standby. “Sunday’s waterlogging seems to have been due a blockage in the main sewer line on DDU Marg. It seems that water came out of the main hose and flooded the road, a low-lying area. A detailed enquiry report will be prepared soon,” said a senior PWD official, who asked not to be named.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who holds interim charge of the PWD portfolio, said, “At all such points where waterlogging occurs frequently, steps are being taken to fix the issue and prevent waterlogging. All agencies have to work together in this task.” The DJB, which manages the sewer line on DDU Marg, said there was no blockage. “Had there been a blockage, the water would not have drained at all. We have inspected the sewer line, no blockage was found. It could only be because of the PWD pumps either not being functional or not being turned on at the right time,” a senior DJB official said.Experts said the agencies should prepare in advance since the problem takes place only during monsoon. “Often drivers fail to gauge the depth of water and try to cross over and get trapped. Till the time, a concrete engineering solution is found, all agencies including the traffic police should coordinate efforts and ensure better drainage of the stormwater and divert traffic as soon as the road starts flooding,” said Sewa Ram, professor and head of transport planning, School of Planning and Architecture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/waterlogged-since-1950s-why-minto-bridge-is-delhi-s-flooding-constant/story-EMM9oz0CvshDaiZ8qIQ9TJ.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Civic bodies, PWD say pumps and machines being deployed at flooding-prone points||With a short spell of heavy rain on Sunday inundating several arterial roads, uprooting 20 trees, causing portions of two buildings to collapse and washing away of over a dozen hutments by an overflowing drain, exposing the Capital’s poor monsoon preparedness, the three municipal corporations and the Public Works Department (PWD) said they have identified waterlogging spots and are deploying machines and pumps to drain water. While the three civic bodies said they had completed desilting of drains last month, the PWD said a few drains are left to be covered and that the coronavirus disease has delayed the cleaning of drains since resources had to be diverted to fight the pandemic.The PWD manages 1,260 km of major roads (which are 60-foot wide) along with drains on these stretches. All others roads are cleaned and managed by the three municipal corporations, the Delhi Cantonment Board, NHAI, and flood and irrigation department. North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s mayor Jai Prakash said, “We have around 24 railway under-bridges (RUBs) in our jurisdiction, which are prone to waterlogging. We are getting the permanent and portable pumps installed there checked and made a junior engineer responsible for each point so that even if water stagnates, it is drained out at the earliest,” said Prakash.The north corporation manages around 200km of drains along its roads.Civic officials said desilting of drains usually starts in March and ends by May end. But this year due to coronavirus pandemic the process of allotment of tenders was delayed and hence desilting began late in April and May.South Corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh said they have identified 36 major waterlogging-prone points. The South civic body manages around 180km of drains. “We have around 249 small and big drains. We have been monitoring the points prone to waterlogging and have got enough super sucker and jet machines to drain out the water,” she said. Officials in the East DMC said they have 21 permanent pumping stations and 150 portable pumps. “We had to use the portable pumps for the first time on Sunday on the PWD roads, as they did not have enough functional pumps to drain out rainwater,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named.PWD officials said they have deployed over 200 pumps across the major waterlogging-prone points. The officials said that around 1,200-1,500 labourers are engaged every year for desilting. This year, adequate workforce was not available since most of them went to their native places because of Covid-19 pandemic.“The lack of availability of labourers had delayed the desilting process. The desilting of drains was started in the last week of April. It picked up slightly in May and most of the drains have been covered except for a few, which need more cleaning,” said a senior PWD official, requesting anonymity. Residents of south Delhi neighbourhoods such as South Extension and Defence Colony said the desilting of Kushak drain -- a big stormwater outlet for several south Delhi localities -- is yet to be completed even though the monsoon has already kicked in.“There is an unbearable stench from the drain since it rained on Sunday. The government agencies must clean it before it causes waterlogging and accidents,” said Asha Gupta, a resident of Defence Colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civic-bodies-pwd-say-pumps-and-machines-being-deployed-at-flooding-prone-points/story-KbYwmKfeCh1AwprsCtBF8N.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Heavy rain triggers traffic jams in Delhi||The season’s heaviest rainfall so far caused traffic snarls in many parts of the city on Sunday along several stretches such as IP Estate Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, and Dhaula Kuan due to waterlogging and uprooted trees.The city traffic police released an advisory in the morning, asking commuters to avoid waterlogged roads and those in which trees has fallen. “Waterlogging reported at following places: IP Marg, Mayapuri Chowk, Panchkuian Road Gol Chakkar, Zakhira towards Inderlok under railway line, Apollo towards Ashram near U-Turn, Modi Mill towards Lala Lajpat Rai Market,” the traffic police tweeted in the morning.At least 20 trees were uprooted across the city, throwing traffic into disarray across several key stretches, including Ring Road near the World Health Organization (WHO) office, near which at least six shanties in a slum cluster collapsed due to the inundation.As of Sunday evening, traffic has been opened up in all the stretches, except for Ring Road near the IP flyover. “Motorists are requested to check the traffic updates while planning their trip especially when it rains,” Delhi Traffic Police said in a statement on Sunday evening.The fire department said it received reports of trees being uprooted in areas such as Max Mueller Marg, Malcha Market, Deepali Chowk, Shivaji Stadium, Jwalaheri Market, Aurobindo Marg, Shanti Van, Aurobindo Chowk, Hansraj Gupta Marg, Hindu Rao roundabout towards Baraf Khana roundabout, and Mathura Road near Supreme Court gate number eight.Traffic police officers said, it was fortunate the rains were reported on a Sunday, when there is usually lesser traffic on the road.”I was travelling towards Connaught Place via Vikas Marg. There was heavy traffic in Laxmi Nagar since some pipeline work is going on right on the main carriageway, leaving little space for vehicles. Also, there was a traffic jam from the Vikas Marg red light till the main ITO intersection. I had to turn right on the Ring Road and reached CP through Ranjeet Singh flyover,” said Anand Kumar, a graphic designer, who lives in Surajmal Vihar.Rain affected traffic movement in areas such as Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, Ring Road towards Bhairon Road, both carriageways of Ring Road under Dhaula Kuan flyover, both carriageways Gurugram Road - Pared Road Road, near Mundka Metro Station, Minto Road, Vinay Marg, Moolchand underpass, and Barakhamba Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rain-triggers-traffic-jams-in-delhi/story-oYpzFeF5Z4HxqoKJGGnH8K.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal calls for concerted efforts to tackle flooding in Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday all agencies must work together to clear waterlogged parts of the city, after a spell of heavy rain flooded several areas in the national capital.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress blamed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government, accusing them of shoddy work that led to waterlogging, especially at Minto Bridge, where a person drowned in the inundation. Kejriwal tweeted, “This year all agencies, which include the Delhi government and the municipal corporations, were completely invested in managing corona. They have faced a lot of difficulties due to Corona. This is no time to get into any blame game. All agencies must join hands in fulfilling their responsibilities. We will make all efforts to clear areas where waterlogging is reported at the earliest.”In another tweet, he said, “I’ve been with agencies since this morning and was monitoring the process of removing water from there. There are several such areas in Delhi which are being monitored. We shall send pumps immediately to areas in which waterlogging is reported.”The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in turn lashed out at the Delhi government. Attaching photographs of a bus submerged at Minto Bridge and of other waterlogged areas in Delhi, Badarpur MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi Assembly, tagged Kejriwal on Twitter and asked him about his promise to make Delhi a world-class city. “@ArvindKejriwal ji, what happened to your claim of making Delhi at par with Paris and London? In a short spell of rain, Delhi roads are flooded with water. Who is responsible for the death of the person (at Minto bridge)?” Bidhuri tweeted.The BJP said the situation at Minto Bridge could have been averted had government agencies like the Public Works Department (PWD) and the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) taken timely action.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “It is very unfortunate that a person lost his life due to waterlogging. We don’t want to indulge in any blame game, but it is clear that the Delhi government didn’t do its job properly.”He added, “The entire Minto Bridge area is under the Delhi government’s PWD. They didn’t start the pump on time, due to which it led to waterlogging at the bridge. The excess water is pumped into a DJB drain, which was clogged. We have been raising the issue of cleaning drains for a long time. If PWD and DJB had done their job on time, this tragedy could have been averted.”Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia asked BJP leaders to not pin blame and instead “coordinate and cooperate” with the government to tackle the issue.Sisodia said, “I want to tell BJP leaders that this is not the time to engage in politics and they should issue directions to agencies under them to focus on coordination and cooperation that is needed to tackle this issue. Delhi has witnessed focused efforts of agencies in Covid management. Together, the government and municipal agencies can handle this problem (waterlogging) too. I urge senior BJP leaders to introspect.”Aam Aadmi Party’s national spokesperson Raghav Chadha, said de-silting of drains in the city got delayed this year because of Covid-19 crisis, but added it was “unfortunate” that the BJP sought to make it a political issue.Chadha, who is also the vice-chairperson of the Delhi Jal Board, said, “It is unfortunate that several BJP leaders have engaged in a blame-game and they are making the issue political. We chose not to engage in politics over the issue…. Drains that come under the jurisdiction of the Delhi government and the municipal corporations are cleared before the arrival of monsoons, especially in April. This year, all agencies were invested in Covid management, so work concerning drains either got postponed or delayed. Agencies could properly get into clearing and de-silting drains only by June. The current issue is being monitored personally by the CM.”The Congress said the BJP-led civic agencies and the AAP government are to be blamed for the mess. “They are just blaming each other and trying to shrug the responsibility. Both parties are to be blamed for the present crisis, as they are in power in the municipal corporations and at the Delhi government,” said Anil Chaudhary, Delhi Congress chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-calls-for-concerted-efforts-to-tackle-flooding/story-AcT0GShD06eYuJij4t2aAI.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||56-year-old tempo driver drowns in waterlogged Minto Road underpass||A 56-year-old man drowned in the waterlogged Minto Road underpass near Connaught Place on Sunday morning and 10 others stranded on submerged roads and underpasses were rescued by different agencies across the Capital as the city received its first heavy spell of monsoon showers this year. Firefighters rescued three people from the Minto Road underpass where, they said, water was at least 8 feet deep. Besides the tempo which the victim, Kundan Singh Mehra, was driving, a DTC bus and two auto-rickshaws had also submerged. But fire officials said they never got to know that a man had drowned there.Mehra sat on his submerged mini truck for several minutes before his death, showed a small video clip which was authenticated by his family. However, it doesn’t show him falling into the water. Also read: Delhi runs for cover as record July rain hits city“There were motorists on both sides of the underpass and some of them even recorded Mehra sitting on top of the vehicle. But no one tried to rescue him or even alert the authorities,” said Mehra’s cousin, Pritam Singh. Mehra belonged to Pithoragarh district in Uttarakhand, where his wife and two children live. He lived in the parking lot of Shankar Market in Connaught Place. Mehra took up odd transportation jobs, mostly from New Delhi railway station to other parts of the city. “For the past few weeks, he had been hired temporarily by a contractor who provides food to CRPF personnel deployed in the city,” said Singh who lives in Ghaziabad. Singh owns the tempo that Mehra drove. Rajender Dubey, assistant commissioner of police (Barakhamba Road), said the initial probe revealed that Mehra had started from New Delhi railway station towards Connaught Place when he got stranded in the water collected under the Minto Road rail bridge. “He tried to manoeuvre his vehicle through the water, but couldn’t make it,” he said. Mehra’s cousin said he received a call from an employee of a public toilet near the underpass around 8am, informing him that his brother was trapped in the water and was sitting atop the tempo. “The man who called me had worked for me in the past, so he knew Mehra,” said Singh. By the time Singh could send some drivers from the nearby taxi stand to help Mehra, the stranded man couldn’t be spotted anymore. The fire department, meanwhile, had received a call for help around the same time. “We were informed that some people were trapped after a bus and two auto-rickshaws were stranded in the underpass. We rescued the bus driver and conductor and an auto driver, but no one told us that a fourth man was also stuck in the water,” said Atul Garg, director of Delhi Fire Services.It took the firefighters about 90 minutes to carry out the rescue operation as they had to use ladders to save the stranded men. Mehra’s body was finally spotted by a lineman working at the yard of the New Delhi railway station nearby. “He swam in the water and retrieved Mehra body. Mehra’s tempo was found near the stranded DTC bus,” said ACP Dubey. Mehra’s cousin, Singh, said that he has been seeing the underpass get flooded every monsoon for the last 32 years he has been in the city. “We have reached the moon, but aren’t able to solve the problem of an underpass. I hope my cousin’s death will not be wasted and the government can find a permanent solution to this problem,” said Singh. Police said there were no external injuries on Mehra’s body and while they await the autopsy report, they have initiated inquest proceedings into his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/56-year-old-tempo-driver-drowns-in-waterlogged-minto-road-underpass/story-sKnwqkAHiUVGnfPh9OM1cO.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi runs for cover as record July rain hits city||The national capital, which was nearly parched since monsoon arrived in the city on June 24, received spells of “heavy” monsoon showers for around three hours on Sunday early morning, which threw traffic into disarray, led to the collapse of several shanties, and claimed at least two lives. The Safdarjung, Delhi Ridge and Lodhi Road observatories recorded 74.8mm; 86mm and 81.2mm of rainfall respectively.In fact, Safdarjung recorded the highest rain in a day for July in five years. On July 11, 2015, Safdarjung station had recorded 93.8mm rain. The all-time rain record for July in Delhi is 266.2 mm recorded on July 21, 1958, according to data with the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi.“Moderate category rain is expected again on July 20 night or July 21 early morning,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.At least two deaths were reported due to Sunday’s rains. A man died after falling into water in south-east Delhi, and another man drowned in the flooded Minto Road underpass. The first death took place in Gandhi Camp in nearby Srinivaspuri. Jalil, 28, was standing outside the same shop when he suddenly fell into a pool of water.  “The rain had led to the accumulation of three feet deep water outside the shop,” said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east). Jalil too was brought dead at a hospital. “The reason behind his death is not clear. We’ll know more after we receive his autopsy result,” said the DCP, adding that inquest proceedings have been initiated.An eight-year-old boy was reported to have drowned in the Yamuna, but the police could not immediately confirm if the death was due to the rains.Reports emerged from across the city of at least 20 trees being uprooted, shanties collapsing, and vehicles being submerged, slowing down traffic to a crawl on major stretches. Six people were evacuated from Zakhira underpass in southwest Delhi, after a cluster bus and a tempo submerged there. Two buildings collapsed in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar and Shanti Mohalla in Gandhi Nagar. Shanties, trees, shops along the banks of a storm water drain in ITO near the World Health Organization building were washed away in the flow of water.The Delhi Traffic Police reported heavy waterlogging at Minto Road, Azadpur underpass, South Avenue Road, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Azad market, Moolchand underpass and near Batra Hospital among others.Many residents shared on social media videos and pictures of rainwater gushing into their houses and vehicles wading through waterlogged roads. Police officers said one of the three domes of the 197-year-old Mubarak Begum mosque in Hauz Qazi collapsed around 7am on Sunday. “It got damaged due to the rain. No one was around it when it happened, and there have been no injuries due to the damage,” said an officer who asked not to be named.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the Delhi government is closely monitoring the situation following waterlogging in parts of the city and appropriate steps will be taken to cover the losses due to heavy rains. “The situation is being constantly monitored and we are in touch with our engineers and taking the report,” he told reporters.Experts said that while the rain on Sunday in Delhi was “heavy” but the damage it caused was disproportionate to the amount and intensity of rain.“The topography of Delhi is such that we should never see flooding here. It is west of Yamuna river and the topography is undulating, making it favourable for drainage. The reason we see such flooding even after a couple of hours of rain is because we are not allowing the water to find its own path. We have not taken care of the natural drainage — there are people living right on the drain. So when the drain overflows it will damage the houses in its way. It’s also a sad commentary on the state of housing for urban poor. What happened to Delhi’s drainage master plan? Crores have been spent on it. Why is it not being implemented?” asked Manoj Mishra, convenor of the Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan.After the rains, Safdarjung observatory has got 122.7 mm rainfall in July so far, 8% more than the normal of 114.1mm, according to IMD data. The Lodhi Road station has recorded 137.1 mm rainfall in July so far, 20% more than the normal.IMD has issued an orange category warning for all of northwest India on July 20 and 21. An orange warning implies that disaster management and local authorities should prepare for heavy rain or flooding related emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-runs-for-cover-as-record-july-rain-hits-city/story-B2BXk8OmNyo1LIKtZ9W1vN.html
20-07-2020||Noida||Noida: RWAs, social groups asked to help admin set up Covid-19 testing camps||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has asked social groups —such as apartment owners associations and residents’ welfare associations — to contact them for setting up of camps in their respective housing societies for Covid-19 testing. The move, officials said, will help them identify infected patients early and treat them properly with the final goal of reducing the death rate in the district. “Apartment owners associations, residents’ welfare associations, village heads or other such groups can approach the incident commanders to organize the camps to conduct test of suspected residents in their societies. We want to ensure that a patient gets treatment as early as possible under this scheme as it will help us in containing this disease,” said Narendra Bhooshan, CEO of Greater Noida authority, who is nodal officer for Gautam Budh Nagar district.The administration has been focusing on early detection of cases in Gautam Budh Nagar to stem the spread of infection, which crossed the 4,000 cases mark on Saturday“We will organise camps for antigen tests not only in containment zones but also in other areas as well. We have appealed to apartment owners associations and residents’ welfare associations and village heads to come forward and ensure all suspected or vulnerable people get tested. If need be then RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) tests will also be done for re-confirmation, so that treatment can start promptly,” said Bhooshan. On Saturday a total of 3,365 people were administered the antigen tests, out of which 57 tested positive. All those who tested positive were given a second RT-PCR test. “We are daily conducting at least 3,000 antigen tests at camps, hospitals and other places. Our focus is to reduce the death rate to less than 1% in our district. And we can do that only if the residents support us and volunteer for testing,” said Bhooshan.The Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that they are roping in the social groups via incident commanders and health officials. “Apartment owners associations, residents’ welfare associations and other social groups can express their views and give suggestions on our portal,” said Suhas LY district magistrate GB Nagar.“We got an antigen camp conducted at our society where 75 people got their tests done. All of them tested negative. Everyone who got tested did so voluntarily. We feel some people fear getting tested. We appeal to such residents to not be scared and willingly step forward to get tested for their own safety,” said Rajiva Singh, president of Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-rwas-social-groups-asked-to-help-admin-set-up-covid-19-testing-camps/story-JUUGojIDLMJnkHctbv82pL.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh likely to get heavy rain from July 20||Heavy rain of up to 60mm has been forecast for the city by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) from Monday, with heavier spells in the next few days.“The rain will be a result of the confluence between monsoon winds and Western disturbances. So, storms with gusty winds of over 45 km/h are likely along with rain, which will intensify on Monday and Tuesday (over 70mm). From Wednesday, light to moderate rain up to 30 mm is likely to continue in the city,“ IMD officials said on Sunday.Maximum temperature rose from 33.5°C on Saturday to 34.5°C on Sunday while the minimum temperature dipped from 28.7°C on Saturday to 28.1°C on Sunday. In the next three days, maximum temperatures will remain between 29°C and 32°C while the minimum temperature will remain between 24°C and 25°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/city-likely-to-get-heavy-rain-from-today/story-c29QjWHjRtJPbvo2zv6rjK.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP treasurer, CMCH associate director among 69 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana district on Sunday reported 69 fresh Covid-19 infections and four deaths. With this, the number of positive cases in the district has reached 1,770, and death toll 47. Currently, there are 550 active cases.Treasurer of Punjab unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Gurdev Sharma Debi, who was suffering from cough, cold and fever for nearly a week, tested positive, following which he was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H).Dr Satish, BJP spokesperson, said all party offices in the state will remain closed till July 31 amid the outbreak.Earlier, Congress councillor from Ward No 88, Manpreet Singh, and former youth Congress district president, Rajiv Raja, had tested positive.Besides this, Moses Prashant Rao, 49, associate director of Christian Medical College and Hospital, tested positive.A clerical department employee of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) also tested positive.TWO REFERRED TO CIVIL HOSPITAL DIE IN TRANSITTwo patients, a 72-year-old woman from Janakpuri, and a 55-year-old man from Islam Ganj, who were referred from Mohandai Oswal Hospital and DMC&H, respectively, to civil hospital were declared dead on arrival.As per the statement issued by the health department, both patients were suffering from comorbidities and died on their way to the hospital. It was not mentioned as to why they were referred to the civil hospital.When asked, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “We have asked both hospitals to state the medical intervention, which was not available with them due to which the patients were referred to civil hospital.”Despite repeated attempts, Dr Rajesh Mahajan and Sarita Kumari, in-charge of Covid-19 units of DMC&H and Mohandai Oswal, respectively, were not available for comments.Also, a 41-year-old man from Lohara, who was suffering from chronic lung disease, and a 55-year-old man from Bhamia village died at Government Rajindra Hospital in Ludhiana. As many as 11 patients were tested positive in Ram Nagar near Sangeet Cinema. The area has been declared a micro-containment zone. PAU STAFFER, HUSBAND TEST POSITIVEA senior assistant at the School of Business Studies, PAU, and her husband, residents of 12/21 PAU campus, also tested positive. The vet varsity has asked all those who have come in contact with or worked with them to quarantine themselves in their homes and not come for work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-bjp-treasurer-cmch-associate-director-among-69-test-positive-in-ludhiana-dist/story-DUpVLFWATKUnaisps0lOrO.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid cases in Chandigarh jump from 600 to 700 in five days as 26 new infections surface||With 26 new Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh crossed the 700 mark on Sunday, just five days after it recorded 600 cases.Earlier, the jump from 500 to 600 had taken place in just six days (from July 8 to 14), indicating a swift spike in infections. Of the 717 confirmed cases now, 217 remain active. As many as 488 persons have recovered and 12 have succumbed to the virus.As many as eight members of a Dhanas family, including three children, two men and three women, were found positive on Sunday. They are family contacts of a previously positive case.Three male patients, aged 52, 56 and 10, are from Sector 39, while two women, aged 30 and 58, are from Sector 30.Two men, aged 67 and 50, were found positive in Sectors 19 and 20, respectively, and two women, aged 54 and 25, in Sector 46. A 48-year-old man is from Daria. Samples of his three family members have been taken.A 32-year-old man was found positive in Sector 32. He is a community contact of a positive patient in Haryana. A 48-year-old woman is from Sector 7. Samples of her four contacts have been taken.Three women – a 78-year-old is from Sector 48, a 48-year-old is from Mauli Jagran, and a 33-year-old is from Sector 42. Two men, a 45-year-old and a 56-year-old, are from Sector 45, while a 36-year-old man is from Sector 42.NINE TEST POSITIVE IN PANCHKULAPanchkula confirmed nine new Covid-19 on Sunday, eight of them males. The district now has 251 confirmed cases, with 116 still active. Among the remaining, 134 patients have been discharged, while one has died.The male patients include a 55-year-old from Sector 9, a 57-year-old from Sector 7, a 48-year-old from Sector 26, a 50-year-old from Department of Medical Education and Research, Sector 16, and a 40-year-old. Besides, and three men, aged 24, 42 and 55, and a 50-year-old woman are from Ashiana, Phase 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-cases-in-ut-jump-from-600-to-700-in-five-days-26-new-infections-surface/story-k86e91qsJB00WVMB1SeyQL.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Woman and her two kids found murdered at home, missing husband is a suspect||A 28-year-old woman and her two minor children were killed at their rented home in outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar on Sunday morning. The police are searching for her husband, who is currently missing. Police did not comment who could have murdered the three but the woman’s father said that his son-in-law had killed the three of them.A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (outer district), said that a “blunt object” was used in the murders, but refused to identify the weapon. “We have seized the weapon and are searching for the suspect,” said the DCP. The murdered woman, Preeti Gupta, lived with her husband Gagan Kumar, a nine-year-old daughter and a five-year-old son in a rented house in Shiv Ram Park of Nihal Vihar. Kumar was a marble contractor while Gupta was a homemaker. “Theirs was a love marriage 10 years ago, but Kumar would abuse my sister. He was a drunkard who earned little and spent most of the money on alcohol,” said Gupta’s brother, Paras, who lives in the same neighbourhood. Preeti’s father Ram Chandra said, “On Sunday morning, when my wife tried to reach our daughter over the phone, there was no response. After sometime, I decided to visit her house and check on her,” said Chandra, adding that when he visited his daughter’s house around 11.15 am, he found the door ajar and the air-cooler switched on. “I walked into my daughter’s bedroom and found her lying on the bed. My two grandchildren were also lying on the same bed,” said Chandra. “It was dark in the room, but I soon realised that they were bleeding,” said Chandra. He raised an alarm and soon neighbours rushed into the house even as someone alerted the police. The trio was taken to a hospital, but they were declared brought dead. “I couldn’t see the murder weapon around and the police won’t tell me what was used to kill my daughter and grandchildren,” said Chandra. Chandra accused his son-in-law of killing them. “During the lockdown, Kumar has sent away all three of them to live with me. If he couldn’t keep them, he could have sent them to live with me forever. He didn’t have to kill them,” said Chandra. The police, meanwhile, have registered a murder case and have begun searching for Kumar who hasn’t been seen around ever since the triple murders came to light. “We’ll be able to share more details once we have nabbed the suspect,” said DCP Koan, refusing to share the possible motives behind the killings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-and-her-two-children-found-murdered-at-home-his-missing-husband-is-suspect/story-GN4rQvK8idn3ZVjxilrijJ.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rising cases in Panchkula’s govt offices prompt admn to start random sampling||With more Covid-19 cases cropping up at government departments in Panchkula district, the health department has decided to conduct random sampling at government offices from Monday.So far, 13 employees of Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER), Sector 16; and 20 personnel from ITBP and five from CRPF have tested positive for Covid-19. One employee of the CBSE office and three from HBSE office were also found positive.As many as 12 family members of two of the DMER staffers have also been infected.“There are at least 50 government institutes in Panchkula. To begin with, we will take five samples from each office,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.“Most of the government offices have working chambers, with 3-4 staffers in one chamber. The main risk of infection arises from movement of files, as these pass through many hands,” she said.Further, they are going to write to the deputy commissioner to pass an order regarding safety measures to be followed in government offices and to de-congest work spaces, Dr Kaur added.Initially, the health department will collect sample of Group-D employees, as they have the highest movement in offices to tackle tasks like moving files and arranging refreshments. Dr Kaur said, “We will also write to CRPF and ITBP to set up Covid Care Centres on their premises. The health department will support these centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rising-cases-in-panchkula-s-govt-offices-prompts-admn-to-start-random-sampling/story-mnDWgX3tLpcsd9FfFbqndN.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to make final bid to auction Sector 41 fish and meat market shops on August 28||The municipal corporation (MC) is making a final attempt to auction shops at the Fish and Meat Market in Sector 41, failing which it is likely to be used for general trade.The civic body, which has over 10 years failed to sell or auction 32 booths and a chill room in the market, has invited bidders to participate in an open auction for the sites.Converting the market for general trade was recommended by the MCs gaushala committee in June this year.It (committee) “discussed the issue as in the previous several attempts the MC did not get any takers for the shops,” said Shakti Parkash Devshali, councillor and member of the committee.The committee’s proposal was presented at the general house meeting in June, which decided that a final attempt be made to auction the shops or recommend change of usage to the UT administration. “The market was built with Central government funds, which specified its purpose so the Centre’s approval will be required. That’s why a final bid is being made for the auction,” said Devshali.FAILED: CUTTING PRICE, OFFERING ON RENT, REDUCING RENTDeveloped as a fish market in 2006 at a cost of Rs 5 crore by the UT administration, the market was handed over to the MC in 2009. Later, however, to attract more retailers, meat and poultry products were added.Initially, the MC offered the shops for Rs 60 lakh each, but as no buyers turned up authorities decided to rent them at Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000 a month. Poor response forced the MC to cut the rent price to Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000, but even then no tenants turned up. “The condition of the market is deteriorating because of disuse. There are complaints of theft of different civic and electrical installations at the shops. Also, garbage has been dumped at many places by local residents,” said a senior MC official requesting anonymity.NO E-AUCTION THIS TIMEE-auctions in the past too haven’t succeeded for MC so this time it will be hoping its open auction works.It will be held on August 28 at 11 am at the market. The booths will be given initially for five years and extension given for a maximum of 10 years.For booth number 1 to 24 measuring 21.21 measuring square metres each, the minimum reserved monthly licence fee is Rs 12,000 each. From number 25 to 30, measuring 19.02 sq m, it’s Rs 10,000 and for booth number 32-33 measuring 39.51 sq m, it’s Rs 15,000. The chill room measuring 35.31 sq m area has a minimum fee of Rs 10,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-to-make-final-bid-to-auction-sec-41-fish-and-meat-market-shops-on-aug-28/story-AaCantwWY8K6c8UizK2KGN.html
20-07-2020||Pune||No dhol-tasha in 2020, silence on Pune streets in run-up to Ganesh fest||The Ganesh festival each year is preceded with the sound of drums (dhol) and cymbals (tasha) clanging, as troupes (pathaks) begin practicing a month before the Ganpati idol is welcomed into homes on the first day (August 22) of the 10-day festival. Every day after the installation of the idol, the dhol-tasha pathaks perform, with the final day, the visarjan (immersion) a climatic eruption of dhol-tasha displays, choreographed, and, for most, an eight-hour performance marathon.This year there is silence.Not a single road or area in Pune has the practice sessions going on. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, there will be no public celebration of the Ganpati festival.The Maharashtra Dhol Tasha Mahasangh, the umbrella body governing dhol-tasha pathaks in Pune, has instructed all pathaks to not hold practice sessions or perform during the festival this year for safety reasons. Pathaks, instead, have been engaged in social activities during the lockdown to help society.“This year there are no dhol-tasha pathaks practising anywhere in Pune. The priority for all is safety and so we have decided not to be involved in any kind of public celebration or immersion procession during the Ganpati festival. In fact, most of our prominent pathaks are doing social work - distributing food packets or providing ration kits to the needy. These members contributed funds from their savings. Also, 700 members have donated blood so far in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. We have also provided ration kits to 250 families of members of music band groups in Pune, as they are completely dependent, financially, on their work,” said Parag Thakur, president of the mahasangh.Members from all walks of life are in these pathaks, from college students, and IT professionals, to doctors, business owners and even senior citizens.There are 170 pathaks with 25,000 members in Pune district and in the state, at least 500 pathaks.“There is a bit of edginess among members as they are not able to come together to practice and play for their beloved Bappa this year,” added Thakur.Ashutosh Deshpande, president of Shiv Mudra Dhol Tasha Pathak, one of the prominent pathaks in Pune, said, “It is unfortunate that the Covid-19 pandemic has changed things across the globe. Our members are bit sad as they are not able to perform this year for Ganpati Bappa, but they are aware of social safety. From the contribution of members we have donated to needy organisations during the lockdown. We have plans to work with Ganpati mandals this year, as our members want to volunteer to raise awareness, if needed. There are 600 members in our pathak and we began in 2005.”Karan Salunkhe, a student who plays in one of the pathaks, said, “We want to do something for society. Wherever it is needed, we will go as volunteers during the 10 days of Ganpati and help mandals to create awareness about Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-dhol-tasha-in-2020-silence-on-pune-streets-in-run-up-to-ganesh-fest/story-w0dBiWP2I6bIVSdwFrqXEN.html
20-07-2020||Pune||3.65 lakh industrial workers turn up for work during current lockdown: Pune MIDC||At least 3.65 lakh employees working at 17 Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) areas of Pune region reported for work on a daily basis since the lockdown started on July 14. The industries which functioned smoothly comprised information technology industries, industrial establishments, micro, small and medium enterprises and agricultural processing industries.Ajit Deshmukh, MIDC regional officer, said, “Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham had asked the human resources department of all companies to submit details of all the employees and certify it with the respective police stations under which their companies were located. The HR managers reached out to the police station, handed over the application containing names of the employees and got the document certified. In the last four days of lockdown, there has not been a single complaint of any company regarding their employees facing issues related to travel,” he said. According to rules, companies were given the option of working with 15% staff capacity and also allow work from home, if the employees choose to opt for the latter.The HR and police department have made it mandatory for company employees to carry the company’s identity card and the vehicle pass provided by the company must be prominent displayed on the vehicle of the batch of employees while they travel to work and return home.District collector Naval Kishor Ram, said, “Our aim has been to make the employees work and remove the fear of depression. We created the necessary conditions for boosting the industry and the entire plan was designed to provide support to the industry.”The administration had also stated that if an employee tests positive for Covid, then, all staffers of the company would have to necessarily undergo the Covid tests at their own cost. The administration had further instructed them that the said company or establishment must be shut and restart the operations only after completion of all tests and santisation of the company premises. Company employees living outside containment zones only have been permitted to work.Ganesh Bhosale, CEO of Sairtech, an Indapur-based agro processing unit, said, “We functioned to the utmost capacity with the support of the Pune police, PCMC police and the administration. This will lead to growth and strengthen the local economy.” Working smoothlyStatus before April 20No. of units in production which were open: 125Total employees reporting to work: 24,608Status after April 20No. of units in production which were open: 2,648Employees reporting to work: 1,52,308Status as of July 18No. of units in production which were open: 2,773 of the total 4,629Employees reporting to work: 3,65,487Industrial areas are located inIndapurKurkumbhPimpri-ChinchwadChakan (Phase 1 to 4 )PatasJejuriBhigawanTalawadeKharadiKhedBaramatiRanjangaon (Phase 1 and 2)Talegaon (Phase 1 and 2)Pandare||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/3-65-lakh-industrial-workers-turn-up-for-work-during-current-lockdown-pune-midc/story-J5IgBpk3UbljF4yW1weXjI.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Staffers of Panjab University’s HRDC await three months’ salary||Staffers of Panjab University’s human resource development centre (HRDC) haven’t received their salaries for the last three months.This includes faculty member and some non-teaching staff. They have raised the issue with the university, but to no avail. Jayanti Dutta, deputy director of the centre, who has not received her salary since April, said, “Since University Grants Commission (UGC) has not reimbursed the funds to the centre since March, we have not received our salaries since April. It’s not a large amount for the varsity and they can disburse our salaries till the funds are received.”“There are no guidelines or rules which allow stopping of salary to the staff in case of non-receipt of UGC grant,” she said.The HRDC was established in 1987 at PU by UGC to provide in-service training to college and university lecturers. The centre receives funds from UGC for all its activities, including salaries of staff.The staffers have even written to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, but no step has been taken so far. The letter said that receiving UGC grant should not be linked to payment of salary, since HRDC is a part of the university and grants are received only on reimbursement basis.Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) also wrote to the V-C with regard to this. “The faculty and staff at HRDC have not been paid salary for the last three months, causing enormous problems in an already difficult situation. It is therefore requested that necessary steps may be taken to release the salaries,” PUTA’s letter said.SK Tomar, director of PU’s HRDC, said, “The salaries have been delayed as funds have not been disbursed by UGC. We had already sent them this year’s proposal and tentative utilisation certificate, and hope to receive the grant by August.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/staffers-of-panjab-university-s-hrdc-yet-to-receive-salaries-for-last-three-months/story-bkdWbVB1BGStxrXGRsaMfO.html
20-07-2020||Pune||PCMC collects Rs 1 crore in fines from lockdown violators||The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and the Pimpri-Chinchwad police have jointly collected Rs 1 crore in fines in the last five days from lockdown violators in the city.The two-phase lockdown began on July 14 midnight and the PCMC police and civic body have been very strict on the implementation of lockdown guidelines.Commuters in PCMC were fined for not carrying e-passes and travelling with a pillion driver. The strict police enforcement was maintained in every ward in the first five days.“The PCMC police and the civic body have jointly collected Rs 1 crore in fines in the last five days. We don’t like to fine people but we have to be strict against people who don’t follow guidelines. If required, we will be stricter against the people in future,” said Shravan Hardikar, PCMC municipal commissioner during his Facebook live session.For the next 5 days as well, civic body and police will be on strict duties to maintain lockdown guidelines.“We have got strict orders from top officials to fine people who break lockdown guidelines. Many are not carrying e-passes and we are penalising them. The police station wise data of how many people were fined will be out soon,” said Satish Nandurkar, police inspector, who was on duty at MIDC Bhosari with seven more sub-inspectors.“The police are very strict this time and they are not listening to any excuses. Even a few of my friends were penalised,” said Rohan Vyas from Bhosari MIDC who was caught for not wearing a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-collects-rs-1-crore-in-fines-from-lockdown-violators/story-y7GiXDXS6tbrgCnCT6I5BI.html
20-07-2020||Pune||March to June: 2,774 non-Covid deaths in PCMC; residents allege mediocre treatment||The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has registered 2,774 non-Covid deaths between March and June.Since the past few days, there have been complaints from residents that non-Covid patients are not being provided adequate treatment, care at PCMC hospitals.Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC denied the charge and said that proper attention is being given to non-Covid patients.“We are giving attention to non-covid patients as well. In Yashwantrao Chavan Hospital and private hospitals other patients are also treated on priority,” Dr Salve said.“In YCMH, we have made special arrangements for non Covid patients and we have made sure that they are protected from coronavirus,” said Dr Rajendra Wable, dean of Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH).Most deaths among the 2,774 have occurred due to heart attacks and some due to kidney failure and brain stroke.Month/ Non-Covid deathsMarch: 692; April: 666; May: 691; June: 725;Total: 2,774||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/march-to-june-2-774-non-covid-deaths-in-pcmc-residents-allege-mediocre-treatment/story-mRq7sG5iu6s58jodHHIUEI.html
20-07-2020||Pune||102 deaths in 8 days; toll crosses 200 in PCMC||With 27 deaths occurring on Sunday, a total of 204 people have died due to the Covid-19 infection in Pimpri-Chinchwad.The twin cities have seen a rapid growth in the numbers since the past one month and as per Saturday’s PCMC health department data there are a total of 11,106 Covid positive cases, 204 deaths and 6,757 patients have been cured.On April 12, the first death due to Covid was reported in PCMC. Although the PCMC has the lowest mortality rate in the state with 1.42 per cent, the industrial city has registered 102 deaths in the last eight days from July 11 onwards.The mortality rate of Pune is 3.52 per cent and Maharashtra are 3.96 per cent respectively.Most of the deaths have been recorded among the age group above 60 while there have been zero deaths in the 0-10 age group.“The patients that passed away had been admitted very late to the hospital and they did not respond to the treatment as other patients are responding,” said Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.The civic body has begun using the antigen detection test that tests 3,000 people in a single day.“Early detection of Covid helps patients to recover early and currently our aim is to increase more tests per day,” added Salve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/102-deaths-in-8-days-toll-crosses-200-in-pcmc/story-4GioqK4k3ylE8XEx6iUEBN.html
20-07-2020||Pune||11,106 positive Covid cases in PCMC; focus on increasing number of beds||With the number of positive cases crossing the 11,000 mark, the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has resolved to increase the number of beds for Covid-19 patients.As of Saturday, the PCMC reported a total of 11,106 Covid positive cases, 204 deaths and 6,757 cured patients.The PCMC is firm on increasing the number of ICU beds, ventilator beds and oxygen beds as they are more beneficial for Covid patients.There are around 1,200 Covid care beds in 17 private hospitals within the PCMC limits.“The number of beds will be increased soon, the civic body will be taking help from private hospitals along with the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital,” said Anna Bodade, PCMC assistant municipal commissioner.The civic body is also planning to make a system which will provide an update about the number of Covid patients, including setting up of call centres and ward rooms in all 32 ward offices.Currently, the PCMC has 175 ICU beds with ventilator support and 629 beds with regular oxygen support while a total of 4,000 beds have been kept reserved for Covid patients.“Our top priority is increasing ICU beds, ventilator beds and oxygen beds. We are also giving home isolation to people who have mild symptoms which will keep beds empty in the hospital,” added Bodade.Meanwhile, PCMC municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar has appealed to not fear the numbers.“Although the number has crossed 10,000, one must take note that out of these around 8,100 to 8,200 people were those who had not shown any Covid symptoms but they were only carriers of Covid-19 and now they are totally cured. People should not fear Covid-19 and one must trust that it is curable,” said Hardikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/11-106-positive-covid-cases-in-pcmc-focus-on-increasing-number-of-beds/story-wk3KSmAhP0ma44a5uYU7aK.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||A Sikh rock ‘n’ roller from 60s who earned sobriquet ‘Indian Elvis’||The voice on the telephone line from Mumbai is incredibly youthful and one wonders if one is speaking to a man all of 86 who sang and danced his way into the hearts of people through the fabulous ‘50s and the swinging sixties. “Well I may be a few years away from 90, and had a hip surgery following an accident, but you can guess by my voice that I am young in heart and soul,” says Iqbal Singh Sethi with a chuckle.He certainly strikes the right note and one is reminded of the tall and handsome turbaned Sikh singing and dancing with gusto in the 1960 Bollywood blockbuster ‘Ek Phool Chaar Kaante’, a romantic comedy that starred Waheeda Rehman and Sunil Dutt, hard pressed into wooing his beloved’s four fussy uncles. His performance in the nightclub number ‘Beautiful baby of Broadway’ penned specially for him by Hasrat Jaipuri won accolades. “Actually, the original lyrics by Jaipuri were ‘Bombshell baby of Bombay’ but the censors objected and so the title line was replaced Beautiful baby of Broadway,” he recalls.How did this happen? It is an incredible story indeed for he moved as an 11-year-old boy with his parents from Rawalpindi to Pune where his father Gopal Singh Sethi served in the Punjab Regiment and was a decorated soldier. “I completed my schooling from Pune and joined the British Indian Navy in 1949 as an ensign that gave me a chance to travel the world and there I discovered the singer and dancer in me,” he says. In fact, during a romance with a lass from Southampton, who was a very good dancer, he got initiated into rock and roll, the Elvis way. He was a junior sailor, an engine-room class II mechanic, in a coastal minesweeper, one of four commissioned in August, 1956. The vessels sailed to the Royal Navy minesweepers base at Hythe, where he became a favourite at the port town dances and would go on to win the top spot at the South of England rock ‘n’ roll championship.Of course, the stardom lasted a short while as the naval authorities gave him the choice of leaving films for good or face a court martial for acting without permission. Sethi turned down the film offers that flooded him. “I have no regrets because the navy gave me so much. I attended Queen Elizabeth’s coronation in 1953, trained as an engineer and was decorated with service medals.”After retiring from the navy, he did managerial jobs with reputed firms, including long years as works manager with Tata for Maruti Suzuki. Besides, he remained a caring husband to his late wife Parduman Kaur and anchor to his three daughters and a son as well as doting grandchildren. However, old timers still recall the young turbaned navy ensign doing his ‘frantic Presley thing!’A small post in a WhatsApp group leads onto a Facebook page maintained by his second daughter, Arvinder Sethi Sandhu, titled ‘Iqbal Singh Sethi my daddy’. He says he is happy to be chatting with a Chandigarh reporter for this city is home to his late wife’s brothers and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/a-sikh-rock-n-roller-from-60s-who-earned-sobriquet-indian-elvis/story-ByBe9NFOyZONECqBlc0OQL.html
20-07-2020||Pune||Why PMC’s contact tracing system: stretched and willing, but not able||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) contact tracing ability is being severely tested thanks to a variety of factors all coinciding at the same time.An increase in the number of Covid care centres has stretched the civic staff. Rapid antigen tests have increased the number of positive cases being reported, with the city now recording at least 1,500 fresh positive cases daily.There is also a delay in the civic system’s positive Covid data reaching each ward.While the state’s average contact tracing is 21 per positive person, the Pune civic bod was operating on a number of nine persons traced per positive person, which has now gone up to 13.It is still not enough and at least three cases that HT contacted showed no contact tracing done. A man in his mid-30s, living in Yerwada, tested positive for Covid-19 through the rapid antigen detection testing kits on July 13.The patient said, “Soon after I got the result I left the Covid care centre, but there was no stamp or any guidance about what I should do next. I home isolated myself on my own. The PMC has no record of me and has not reached out to my family or anyone for contact tracing.”Another person living on Sinhgad road who tested negative but his roommate tested positive, said, “The PMC did not contact any of us for further contacts. Even though only the two of us were sharing the room it is quite possible that my roommate may have infected others when he went outside. The civic body only fogged the premises around our room. The PMC did not contact my roommate and ask him who all he met in the past two days.”A 62-year-old male tested positive from Hadapsar on July 16 at a private hospital, but the family of the patient, which also includes a high-risk patient, were never contacted. One of the relatives said, “Till July 18, the civic body did not contact us until we contacted them. The next day when we voluntarily went to the Covid care centre at the PMC school in Hadapsar, there were close to 500 people there. The centre was supposed to start at 10 am, but till 12 noon, not a single person was tested.”Dr Sanjay Dabhade of Jan Aarogya Abhiyan said, “The PMC must trace every person who might have come in contact with a positive person two days prior to the symptoms appearing; now that the results are coming in within two-three days, contact tracing needs to be backdated even more Without much contact tracing, it is impossible to break the chain and with Pune reporting an alarming number of cases daily. Only more testing, tracing and isolation will help control the cases.” What the PMC says:Dr Vaishali Jadhav from the PMC’s health department said, “Earlier I had a staff of 1,200 people, but now, due to multiple centres working, the staff is divided and I only have 500 people left working for me. However, we still try to do aggressive contact tracing. With regards to the Hadapsar ward, the civic doctor is currently not feeling well and I am not able to find another doctor to replace her. With regards to the rapid antigen testing, this is a new phenomenon and we are still getting used to it. However, we have asked our staff to collect the contact details of the patient as soon as the result comes in. It is time now that people must reach out to the civic body if they get to know that they have come in contact with any positive patient. Once a person is positive, the reports are compiled by the Smart City unit and is then sent to us. It takes three days for us to get the list, which is then sent to the respective wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-pmc-s-contact-tracing-system-stretched-and-willing-but-not-able/story-nnE3BbQ09sV0RBMqS83ofP.html
20-07-2020||Pune||APMC’s grocery market to reopen on July 20, fresh produce market on July 21||As the municipal commissioner and district administration has allowed relaxations in the second phase of the 10-day lockdown, Pune Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) has decided to reopen the wholesale grocery market from Monday (July 20) and vegetable and fruit market from Tuesday (July 21).BJ Deshmukh, administrator, Pune APMC, said, “As the district administration has allowed relaxations in the second phase of lockdown, the wholesale grocery market would function from Monday from 8 am to noon.”“We will have to inform farmers a day prior for operating the vegetable market,” said DeshmukhAs the district administration had announced the lockdown in the Pune city from July 13 to July 23, the APMC had closed its wholesale markets.Deshmukh said, “Farmers are allowed to send the vegetables and fruits to the market from the previous night, but the sale and purchase business will be allowed only during the restricted timings. Also, all necessary precautions should be followed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apmc-s-grocery-market-to-reopen-on-july-20-fresh-produce-market-on-july-21/story-dasR14j8si8RYMkGipmnVL.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||In rush for alcohol, food, residents give social distancing a go-by at Chandigarh’s Sector 8 market||Ever since the lockdown restrictions have been lifted, Chandigarh’s Sector 8 market is drawing huge crowds with people ignoring social distancing and other safety norms, which has local residents worried about Covid-19 transmission.“Every evening from 6pm onwards there is chaos outside my house and being a senior (citizen) I have no option but to stay indoors all the time. People get food from the markets and drive towards the residential area where they drink alcohol too. We feel unsafe,” says Capt GS Ghuman (retd), vice president, Chandigarh Senior Citizens’ Association, who lives near the market.Though there is a beat box near the market, police personnel do not appear to be too keen to penalise people for not wearing masks and flouting other safety norms, says RS Gill, president, Sector 8 Resident Welfare Association (RWA). “Many youngsters from other sectors come here and cause law and order problems in Sector 8. With so many people crowding the place in the evening it’s hard to imagine that any sort of lockdown has been imposed in the city.”On managing the crowds, a traffic police official says, a “Only one-way traffic is allowed on the roads outside the market at around 5:30 pm. To manage traffic congestion we see to it that cars are parked at the designated space and not by the road.Naveen Singhal, general secretary of the market, insists that shopkeepers are following rules. “It’s not just youngsters, even many families sit in their cars and enjoy a meal and snacks to ensure social distancing rules are maintained. Teams from the police and administration arrive here at 5 pm so most people stick to the rules,” he adds. Local area councillor Maheshinder Sidhu adds that people need some respite after the lockdown and are flocking to the market more often now than in the past. “Since children are stuck at home, many parents bring them here for an outing. They mostly sit in their vehicles so social distancing is maintained here in a way.” Sidhu says he will ask the police to remain more vigilant and book those who are not wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rush-for-alcohol-food-no-one-gives-a-toss-for-social-distancing-in-sec-8-market/story-Ac5xRx1Ahh8mIutGVg0iHN.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||MC Kharar drive to remove illegal hoardings on July 20||The municipal council of Kharar will start a drive on Monday to remove around 25 illegal hoardings on National Highway-21 and other areas due to which it is incurring losses of around Rs 1 crore every year in rent money.Sangeet Kumar, MC executive officer, has written a letter to Himanshu Jain, subdivisional magistrate, asking that police be deployed to carry out the drive. A team of six officials will be on the job, it has been learnt.A drive planned earlier by the MC in March was cancelled due to the intervention of director, local bodies, Punjab, following which a lockdown was imposed because of the Covid-19 outbreak.“I have already instructed the civic body to remove all illegal hoardings in the ambit of the MC area and now they are holding a drive on July 20, for which we will be providing them police support,” Jain said.The MC is losing lakhs of rupees in advertising revenues because of the hoardings installed illegally, with housing societies the main offenders. These include Gold Homes and Golden homes, both on the Kharar-Landran road and Yakshi Wedding Collection on the Kharar-Mohali Road. Pratap Infra alone has set up around 10 hoardings.The sites are being sold to advertisers for an estimated Rs 60,000 per month, causing huge losses to the government exchequer.According to Sangeet Kumar the rights to remove the illegal installations were with the agency contracted for the task. “ We have provided them the team and police force for holding a drive on July 20,” he said. MC allots tenders for 40 sites in Kharar, but this year it contracted the work for Rs 3.25 crore for nine years. However, as many advertisers use the illegal hoardings it losing around Rs 1 crore every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-kharar-drive-to-remove-illegal-hoardings-today/story-U0IhNgTGimki9OjRC9UqON.html
20-07-2020||City||Thieves sedate barking stray dogs, steal ₹9 lakh from PNB ATM in Mohali||Two unidentified men broke into an automated teller machine (ATM) of Punjab National Bank (PNB) in Gharuan village of Kharar after sedating barking stray dogs and fled with Rs 9 lakh in the early hours of Sunday. It’s for the third time in a little over a month that a PNB ATM has been targeted.Police believe the men drove up in a Chevrolet Cruze car at around 2.30am and sedated barking stray dogs at the spot.They then broke open the ATM with a gas cutter and made off with the cash.Gharuan station house officer (SHO) Kailash Bhadur said there was no guard at the ATM and the CCTV cameras inside the kiosk were damaged by the miscreants. “We have called an expert to help us scan the images in the camera. We are hopeful of cracking the case soon,” he said.A case under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house), 457 (house breaking by night in order to commit offence), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs 50) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Gharuan station.On June 9 this year, five miscreants targeted a PNB branch ATM at Dappar and decamped with the cash dispenser containing Rs 16 lakh. On July 2, all five accused were arrested.On June 17, two armed men fled with Rs 4.79 lakh in a daylight robbery at the PNB’s all-women branch in Phase 3A, Mohali. It took the duo just two minutes to orchestrate the crime as they entered the bank during the lunch break at 1.43pm and left by 1.45pm. There was no security guard deputed outside the branch situated on a secluded stretch near Hotel Cama. On July 12, both the miscreants were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/miscreants-break-into-pnb-atm-in-gharuan-steal-rs-9-lakh/story-FUVg3O1RxFIatIAn5x9bIO.html
20-07-2020||Gurugram||Women in slum areas stitch masks to support their families||Lending a helping hand to the families living in the slum areas of Delhi, a not profit organisation has come forward to help those who have lost their jobs, through a project. Little India Foundation, a trust that are supporting 26 slums in the Capital, has brought together around 20 women to make affordable cotton masks. “Earlier, we were distributing food and ration to the families living in slums and then we got to know about them losing jobs due to Covid-19. Then founder Saleem Khan decided to take upon the food project a little further, and extend it to for the cause of employment generation. We thought this would not just make them self-reliant, but confident too! We are teaching them the basics of stitching with help from our managing director, Suman Arya. We have also provided them sewing machines and fabric and in turn for their skills and hard work, we paying are them as well,” informs Harsimar Chawla, additional deputy director of the trust. During these testing times, women have come forward to shoulder the responsibility of supporting their families, financially. Sahnaaz, one of the women who has been stitching masks as part of this project, says, “My husband used to work as a bus driver with a school, but due the pandemic he has lost his job. Although we are getting ration but there’s nothing like a job security because we have to look after our kids’ future as well... I have learnt to stitch masks and the money I receive in return gives me confidence and a sense of empowerment to be able to do something for my family.” Hindustan Times reader, Sujata Aurora, who posted about this initiative on social media, has been bringing smiles on the faces of these women, by buying and distributing their masks. Aurora says, “We need to take collective responsibility to support them. I would also like to request others to support them.”The masks made by these women can be ordered in bulk. “The cost of each mask is ₹15 and the delivery charges are ₹250. One can call at +91-9560688867 to order these masks, and there should be a minimum order of 100 masks. As we aim to put the lives of these women back on track, any support at this time will help them to live with dignity,” says Saleem Khan. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/women-in-slum-areas-stitch-masks-to-support-their-families/story-eLxlnM2VZFGYvU8hOvTmmJ.html
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Non-bailable warrants issued against suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur||A special CBI court on Thursday issued non-bailable arrest warrants against suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur, accused in a Rs 5-lakh graft case.The inspector, along with an alleged conduit, Bhagwan Singh, was booked under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act on June 29 on charges of seeking Rs 5 lakh bribe from a Manimajra resident, Gurdeep Singh. Gurdeep had told CBI that he had already paid Rs 2 lakh to Kaur for not lodging a cheating case against him and was to pay Rs 3 lakh more.On Thursday, CBI’s public prosecutor KP Singh moved an application seeking non-bailable arrest warrants against Kaur, former SHO of the Manimajra police station.Allowing the application, special judge, CBI, Sushil Kumar Garg ordered: “In view of circumstances mentioned in the application, non-bailable warrant of arrest be issued against the accused Jaswinder Kaur returnable on July 20.”“Returnable on July 20” entails initiation of proclaimed offender proceedings if she is not arrested by then.In its application, CBI had stated that Kaur “deliberately and intentionally absconded” despite being asked twice to join the investigation.The agency stated that she created false evidence in a DDR at Manimajra station that she had returned from CBI office, Sector 30.“The SHO took the complainant’s signatures under pressure on a blank paper and a compromise statement was written on it later. One of the constables, Sarabjit Singh, even revealed this in his statement before the judicial magistrate and the CCTV footage of Manimajra police station from June 21 corroborated Sarabjit’s statement,” CBI had said.Stating all these findings, the agency prayed for non-bailable arrest warrants, which was allowed by the court.On July 10, the court had denied anticipatory bail to Kaur, who had claimed false implication and that the amount recovered was actually compromise money and not bribe.The case so farJune 29 FIR registered against Manimajra SHO Jaswinder Kaur and others by CBIJune 30 Suspended on account of false DDR entry made by her at the Manimajra stationJuly 9 Files anticipatory bail applicationJuly 10 CBI court dismisses her pleaJuly 16 CBI court issues non-bailable arrest warrants||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/non-bailable-warrants-issued-against-suspended-sho-jaswinder-kaur/story-fmZ0zRNgA4aKpX8O8Z4NHI.html
20-07-2020||Delhi||Unlock Delhi monsoon: Is your favourite pakoda joint cooking?||Experiencing the humid air, we can safely say that monsoon has arrived in the Capital, and so has the craving for pakodas (fritters)! Delhi’s favourite go-to monsoon eateries have been getting phone calls from pakoda lovers, asking when are the shops planning to resume operations. Prateek Dhingra, owner of Sarojini Nagar’s Khandani Pakodewala, says, “As soon as it starts drizzling, our phones start ringing with customers calling to demand pakodas. We are getting calls from morning to evening! Par abhi medically halat itni achchi nahi ki hum kaam dobara shuru karein. I have to think about my staff’s health who have been with us for 30 years.”Dhingra says they did open in unlock 1.0, but decided to halt business because people coming in to collect orders weren’t following government guidelines. “The problem is that when we tried to open post lockdown, customers couldn’t maintain social distancing, which we feel is very important for everyone’s health at this point. Therefore, we decided to re-strategise, and hopefully we will soon reopen again.” Khandani PakodewalaWhere: Ring Road, Sarojini NagarWhen: Plans to reopen in AugustSpeciality: Onion Pakoda, Paneer Pakoda, Gobhi Pakoda and their in-house Chutney Price: ₹12/pc, ₹15/pc, ₹12/pc, respectivelyAnother staple joint for pakoda maniacs is Sitaram Pakodewala in Lajpat Nagar. “Monsoon is the peak season for our business. Last year we had 30 delivery riders waiting to collect orders at any given point while we attended walk-in customers at the store. Every other day I receive so many enquiries on when will we restart functioning,” says Vikas Pawar, owner of the joint, adding, “We had planned to wait till mid-July before resuming operations. Sabse pehle to delivery open karenge taki hum customer aur apni, dono ki safety ensure kar sakein. Jo ladke delivery ke liye khana leke jate hain, unke temperature bhi check honge. Koi laparwahi nahi sahi jayegi.” Sitaram Pakodewala Where: Lajpat NagarWhen: 10am to 9pm (Monday closed)Speciality: Onion pakora, Gobhi pakoraPrice: ₹280/per kgAnd then there are some popular eateries who have restarted business. Take for instance Ganesh Restaurant in Karol Bagh, which is famous for its fish pakoras! “We use a variety of fishes for our pakoras, according to the season. Day by day our sale is increasing. Monsoon ho aur dilliwale pakora na mange aisa to ho hi nahi sakta! Customers keep calling us to place orders, and the demand for non-veg pakoras, specifically for our speciality, fish pakora, is very high,” says Deepak Kumar, owner of the shop, adding, “We are not taking any chance so we keep sanitising our premises, and are maintaining all hygiene standards. We have even separated our kitchen, and do regular temperature checks of our staff.” Ganesh Restaurant Where: Karol BaghWhen: 2pm to 11pm (Tuesday closed)Speciality: Fish Fry (boneless) pakodaPrice: ₹460/250gmAuthor tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-delhi-monsoon-is-your-favourite-pakoda-joint-cooking/story-r0lNsSzKIJ0LHqRaBZUW2K.html
