21-07-2020||Gurugram||Pvt lab says 16-20% sero-prevalence in Gurugram, health dept distances itself from data||The district health department on Tuesday distanced itself from data published by a private laboratory, which claimed that 16 to 20 percent of all samples tested from three neighbourhoods in Gurugram showed presence of antibodies for SARS-Cov-2. Officials, including the district chief medical officer (CMO), said that the private laboratory in question has not been authorised to carry out any seroprevalence studies in Haryana (or Gurugram), and that the data itself ‘did not have a scientific basis’.Arokiaswamy Velumani, founder and managing director of Thyrocare Technologies Limited — a chain of diagnostic laboratories based in Navi Mumbai — had published the survey data via his Twitter handle on July 17. In his tweet, Velumani said that for every Covid-19 related death in India, 10,000 people have been “silently immunised”, based on test results of 53,000 samples collected from 87 pin codes across India (including Gurugram).While nationally, Thyrocare’s data claims an average 15 percent seropositivity rate, the figures in Gurugram ranged from 16.8 percent (in Narsinghpur), to 18.4 percent (in Chakkarpur) and 20.8 percent (in Arjun Nagar) — all areas which have been classified by the district administration as ‘hotspots’. Health department officials, however, remained sceptical about these numbers.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “We cannot comment on the accuracy of the data. We do not know what sample size or design the lab has used in Gurugram, and we have not given permission to Thyrocare to carry out such kind of testing. There is a major ethical oversight in publishing data from commercial tests as part of a clinical study. If any private entity wants to carry out such an exercise, let them take permission and follow ICMR guidelines for sero-surveillance. We will refer this matter to the state government who will take further action, if necessary.”Velumani, however, has clarified that Thyrocare’s data is based largely on commercial tests. “About 85 percent of the tests carried out were done commercially, for corporate clients. It is not part of any study or clinical trial. The tests have all been carried out at our laboratory in Mumbai, which is accredited by ICMR and NABL. The samples are transported through an established cold chain system to maintain the integrity ,” Velumani said. Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram, said that the state health department is in the process of carrying out its own sero-prevalence study, in keeping with the ICMR’s guidelines. “Given that Thyrocare’s sample only consists of paying clients, the results would naturally be skewed. The sample population for sero-prevalence studies need to be carefully calibrated,” Sharma said.As of July 21, the state health department has tested 1,544 people as part of its ongoing sero-survey, which found that 11 percent had developed antibodies against the virus. The largest proportion of sero-positive diagnoses have been attributed to Sonepat, where 60 of 350 blood samples collected were sero-positive. The maximum number of antibody tests — 454 total — were done in Gurugram, out of which 56 were confirmed positive to have Covid-19 antibodies. Likewise, in Faridabad, 209 tests were conducted with 28 people testing positive. In Ambala, 176 people were covered under the survey, out of which 27 were found to be positive. Panchkula reported the least number of positive cases. Out of 355 tests conducted, nine were found to be positive for Covid-19 antibodies there.A senior epidemiologist based in Gurugram, however, was reluctant to dismiss Thyrocare’s data entirely. “The ethical considerations is for the government to comment on. As far as epidemiological value is concerned, it may be worth the health department’s time to look into what the data indicates. Narsinghpur, Chakkarpur and Arjun Nagar are densely populated areas that have reported a disproportionately high number of cases. Sero-prevalence of 16 to 20 percent in this areas is not implausible, if the sample size was big enough,” said the epidemiologist, who did not wish to be quoted as they had not seen Thyrocare’s raw data.Malini Aisola, co-convener of the All India Drug Action Network said, “ICMR has clarified that the utility of antibody testing at this stage is limited to sero surveillance. Can Thyrocare explain what permissions it had for the sero-surveys and why it was charging for tests? Who was leading the studies and what was the design? The commercialisation of antibody testing is a direct consequence of the absence of any governmental guidelines for private labs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pvt-lab-says-16-20-sero-prevalence-in-gurugram-health-dept-distances-itself-from-data/story-265qYKX4XhRPeMVc5HrKEO.html
21-07-2020||Delhi||HC notice to Delhi govt over stoppage of pension to 12,000 widows during lockdown||The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought the response of the Delhi government on a plea contending that the pension disbursed to around 12,000 widows has been discontinued during the Covid-19 lockdown period (March to June), with the woman and child development department offering no valid reason for the move.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued notices to the authorities seeking to know their stand by August 26. The plea, filed by social worker Harpal Singh Rana, has also sought that the pension amount of ₹2,500 per month be released urgently after due verification of pensioners.Rana said the reply to queries filed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, showed that the pension of over 12,000 widows was discontinued on “on fake, flimsy and unfounded grounds”, like “address not found”, “Aadhaar card not linked with bank account”, and “updated pass book copies not on file”, among others.The plea contended that most pension beneficiaries have been residing at the same address that they had provided in their applications.The women are also being denied the one-time financial assistance of ₹3,000 that was being given to them under the Ladli Yojna for marrying off daughters. The plea sought that a fresh application for pension or any other financial assistance be disposed of within the stipulated 45 days and, if the application is rejected, the reasons be also communicated to the applicant.The plea filed through advocates Akhil Rana and Utkarsh Sharma also sought that the applicants seeking benefits under the Ladli Yojana as well as financial assistance for getting their daughters married, may be allowed to submit their applications online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-notice-to-delhi-govt-over-stoppage-of-pension-to-12-000-widows-during-lockdown/story-0BleSHCWHAURQSPYebB2GN.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Don’t take part in Opposition’s meetings, state directs officers||Maharashtra government on Tuesday issued a government resolution (GR) stating that it is not expected of the government officials to be a part of the meetings and officials visits organised by the leaders of Opposition (LoP) in the state legislature. The decision by the Uddhav Thackeray-led government overturned the decision taken by the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis-government in August 2018, which had made it compulsory for state officials to remain present in such meetings called by LoPs and member of parliament (MP), members of legislative Assembly (MLA) or members of state legislative council (MLC).The decision also comes after the leader of Opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis toured Raigad and Ratnagiri districts after Cyclone Nisarga and his visits to various parts of the state to review the Covid-19 situation. Leader of Opposition in the legislative council Pravin Darekar too has visited various Covid care centres and hospitals. The GR issued on Tuesday directed officials to follow the guidelines issued by the Fadnavis government on March 11, 2016. “The ministers in the government have the powers to oversee the administrative work of a department, organise meetings of the department-concerned, or call them for meetings, and give them orders or instructions after due consultation. However, leader of Opposition in the Assembly and legislative council, who have the rank of a minister, do not have these powers. Therefore, government officers are not expected to be a part of the meetings or visits organised by such non-governmental members, MPs, MLAs, MLCs,” the GR stated.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has criticised the decision and said it is akin to strangulating democracy. BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that instead of taking the Opposition along at a time of such a calamity, the government has decided to “ban” the meetings organised by the Opposition.In a statement, the BJP spokesperson targeted chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and said, “In these times [of pandemic], it was expected of the ministers to tour the state and check the ground realities. But the chief minister is not showing the courage to even roam in Mumbai. In this scenario, the Opposition has to see the measures adopted and bring its shortcomings before the government. It seems that the chief minister fears that the shortcomings of the government will come to light by the tours of Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, therefore, the government has taken the decision that would dent the democracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-take-part-in-opposition-s-meetings-state-directs-officers/story-M1rTO8ELawBpK0d8SfqnyJ.html
21-07-2020||City||UP govt issues revised discharge policy for Covid patients||The Uttar Pradesh government late on Tuesday night issued fresh guidelines for discharge of different categories of Covid-19 patients — those under home isolation, mild asymptomatic patients in Covid facilities, patients having mild symptoms and those having moderate and severe symptoms.The directions issued by Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health), said that asymptomtic patients in home isolation will be considered as recovered if they do not show any symptoms in 10 days. Such patients will be shown as recovered on UP portal and will further have to remain in home isolation for eight more days.“In case they show any symptoms they will be referred to a Covid facility. The other category of mildly asymptomtic patients in Covid facilities will be discharged on tenth day from the date of initial test or seventh day from the date of admission, whichever is later, if they do not show any symptoms,” the guidelines, said.The guidelines for mild category patients — who suffer from mild fever, cough — state that a follow up test of such patients will be taken on eighth day (of the first sample) with the help of TrueNat machine.Such patients will be discharged if found negative in the follow up test, under any of the three conditions – tenth day of the first sample, tenth day of the symptoms or if such patients remain without fever for three consecutive days.“But, after discharge, such patients will remain under home isolation for seven days,” the guidelines, said.The followup of mild as well as severe category patients will be taken up after three days if they show no symptoms or on twelfth day of the first diagnostic sample. In case the follow up sample turns negative, such patients may be discharged but they will have to remain in home isolation for seven days.The guidelines also said that patients will be discharged if they fulfil certain conditions of not showing any symptoms; if they remain without fever for three consecutive days and if they have oxygen saturation level of above 94%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-govt-issues-revised-discharge-policy-for-covid-patients/story-WandxR4DDan36qSf2GexgP.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Decision on subsidy to dairy farmers soon: State||The state government is likely to launch a subsidy scheme to provide relief to milk producer farmers in the next few days, following protests by them across the state. The meeting held by the dairy farmers representatives with the dairy development minister Sunil Kedar on Tuesday, however, did not lead to any firm assurances or announcements by the government.As a result of the lockdown and commercial-industrial shutdown, more than 20 lakh litre milk in the state remains unsold daily. It has resulted in fall in the procurement price, below the government rate of ₹25 a litre for cow milk. Milk producers and the organisations representing them have been protesting across the state over the last two days, demanding cash subsidy of ₹5-10 for a litre of milk and ₹50 a kg for the export of the skimmed milk powder (SMP) produced out of the excess milk.Farmer organisations have been protesting by emptying the milk containers on roads, demanding government subsidy in the wake of the dropped rates and fallen demand owing to the lockdown.“We have been purchasing the excess milk from the farmers to ensure that they do not suffer any losses due to the fall in the demand. We have purchased 5.80 crore litres milk in more than three months and have converted it into 3500 metric tonnes of SMP by spending around ₹200 crore. We have heard the demands of the milk producer farmers and are positive about relief to them. The final decision over the new scheme for the milk producer farmers will be taken by discussing it in the state cabinet,” said Kedar.The organisations representing the farmers were divided over the demands. The per litre subsidy ranged between ₹5 and ₹10, while some of them demanded subsidy on SMP. “The subsidy never reaches the farmers. The milk unions, federations and private brands get benefited out of such schemes. We have demanded the SMP produced out of the excessive milk be distributed to the poor people through the fair prices at rationing shops,” Raghunath Patil, state chief of Shetkar Sangathana said.Ajit Nawale of milk producers Sangharsh Samiti said that they have demanded the subsidy of ₹10 be credited directly into the accounts of the farmers instead of giving it to the milk collecting bodies. He said that they also have demanded an intervention scheme to ensure that the farmers get at least ₹30 a litre as procurement price. Nawale said that the protest will continue until the firm decision is taken by the state government.Previous Fadnavis government had announced a subsidy of ₹5 a litre for procurement of the milk and ₹50 a kg for the export of the SMP. The farmers have, however, alleged irregularities by the milk collecting unions, federations and private brands depriving farmers of the benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/decision-on-subsidy-to-dairy-farmers-soon-state/story-K07f2HvuowvoCa9ILOd9hJ.html
21-07-2020||Noida||Jaypee homebuyers want work on stuck projects expedited||The Jaypee Group homebuyers demanded that top officials intervene to finish stuck housing projects as the state-owned NBCC India is unable to get the flats delivered. The NBCC India, which has been finishing the incomplete flats, has stopped the work since March, troubling flat buyers.The homebuyers have written to NBCC executive director Yogesh Sharma, resolution professional Anuj Jain and other officials concerned seeking their attention to buyers’ grievances.“The corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) of Jaypee Infratech Limited was one of the longest insolvency litigation since Indian Bankruptcy Code, 2016, came into being. The CIRP against JIL started in August, 2017 and the permissible time was extended several times by the Supreme Court till March 2020. Even during the time of this process, the finishing or construction work and sub-lease deed work continued. But now since NBCC came into management, construction and sub-lease deed work has stopped,” said colonel (retired) SK Nagrath, president, Jaypee Aman owners’ welfare association.On March 3, 2020, the national company law tribunal approved state-owned NBCC’s resolution plan, a blue print that has details as to how it will finish and deliver the stuck flats. NCLT also noted that ₹750 crore, deposited with the Supreme Court by the Jaiprakash Associates Limited, should also be used for construction purposes.Since then, the NCLT appointed resolution professional Anuj Jain, NBCC officials and other top officials involved are busy handing over the control of debt-ridden realty major from resolution professional to NBCC, said officials.“Our grievance is that since this process of handing over control started in March 2020, construction work and sub-lease deed work stopped without any valid reasons. We are running from pillar to post but nothing is happening. Those buyers who want to execute their sub-lease are suffering and delivery is getting delayed further,” said Raghwendra Pratap Singh, a buyer of Jaypee Aman.According to the NCLT officials, at least 2,200 flats are ready for registry (sub-lease deed). But since March, only four or five sub-lease deed has been taken place, said the officials quoted above.“Nobody is there to inform us as to what is happening and why the construction is not happening. The contractors have not been paid for a long time. As a result, buyers are suffering because our flats will get delayed further,” said Sachin Sharma, a buyer of Wish Town project’s Classic tower. “Since the control of the realty firm is being transferred to NBCC, it takes time to decide and appoint a new authorised person who will execute the sub-lease deed on behalf of the developer with buyers and the respective authority. Reading, documentation and formation of new rules take long time. The sub-lease deeds stopped in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. And later, even buyers were afraid to execute the sub-lease due to infection fear. And our staff are also reluctant,” said an NCLT official, requesting anonymity.NBCC executive director Yogesh Sharma did not reply to repeated calls seeking his comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/jaypee-homebuyers-want-work-on-stuck-projects-expedited/story-ugon3opRc3KWOB8Wgd868M.html
21-07-2020||Noida||Noida waterlogged as authority scrambles to clean main drain||Most of the low-lying sectors in Noida are waterlogged since Sunday when it started raining as the Noida authority is yet to clean the main irrigation drain ahead of the monsoon. Tuesday’s showers did not cause much inconvenience as it was not as heavy as on Sunday.After missing the June-end deadline to clean the drain, the Noida authority on Tuesday started the de-silting work on war footing, but by then most areas have been inundated since Sunday when it began raining.“On Sunday, it rained heavily and led to severe water-logging, exposing once again the Noida authority’s tall claims that it had de-silted big and small drains to ensure that no water-logging takes place this monsoon. Rain water entered houses in sectors 28, 29, 31, 34 and 12, among other low lying areas. The sad part is that the authority is yet to de-silt the main irrigation drain that causes water-logging as it remain choked with plastic and silt,” said Sanjeev Kumar, Sector 51 residents’ welfare association and vice-president of the Federation of Noida Residents’ Welfare Association (FONRWA).The 17km Irrigation drain, also known as Kondli drain, begins from Delhi’s Ashok Nagar and merges with Yamuna at Sector 168 after passing through multiple residential sectors in Noida. the city’s smaller drains are connected to this main drain that carries sewage as well as storm water from Delhi and Noida areas. Slum clusters and vendors throw plastic and other kinds of waste into the drain causing it to choke and thereby causing water-logging in the city.“Most drains that empty into irrigation drain are full of filth, plastic waste and mud due to poor cleaning. When it rained heavily on Sunday, the rain water could not drain away into Yamuna and instead caused water-logging, to the extent that water entered several houses in low-lying areas,” said Arun Singh, a resident of Sector 34.There are 75 main drains and 44 small drains across Noida, which works to about 300km of drain length that the authority has to maintain. The authority started de-silting of drains on June 9 with a deadline to finish the job by end-June. But the cleaning work could not be finished within the stipulated deadline due to a delay in tendering amid the Covid 19 pandemic, said the Noida authority officials. “Every year, the Noida authority has the same excuse -- that the tenders got delayed. It spends a huge amount on cleaning drains but water-logging still ends up troubling residents,” said NP Singh, president, Gautam Budh Nagar district development RWAs (DDRWAs).The Noida authority has sanctioned ₹5 crore this year to de-silt the irrigation drain and a similar amount is spent annually for cleaning this drain.“It will take 20 more days to clean the irrigation drain and the work is on in full swing. We aim to de-silt it by August 10. Water-logging took place on Sunday because the irrigation drain was choked. But we had properly cleaned all smaller drains. We have also placed pumps to empty out the water from 25 low-lying areas. I am sure residents will not witness water-logging in the future as our staff are on standby,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer, Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-waterlogged-as-authority-scrambles-to-clean-main-drain/story-aMQNRkQzmJGhhOp81gAshJ.html
21-07-2020||City||Uddhav will attend Ram Mandir ceremony: Raut||iShiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will go to Ayodhya for the bhoomi pujan ceremony of the Ram temple, Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday. The Rajya Sabha MP added that Thackeray has received an invitation and the final decision would be taken by the Sena chief.Raut also refuted rumours that there are differences over the Ram temple issue with the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi allies in the state. He said that NCP chief Sharad Pawar has not criticised the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, and three parties have different ideologies, but work on a Common Minimum Programme (CMP).“The moment that we all were waiting for has come, but due to coronavirus [outbreak], not many people would attend. Around 250-300 people are going to be invited. The Prime Minister is going to be there for the first time. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will attend, but so far, the details of the programme have not come. It is known that the bhoomi pujan is in the first week of August.”Raut added that Shiv Sena shares a “sentimental, religious and national ties” with the Ram Mandir movement.Thackeray attending the foundation-laying ceremony of the Ram Mandir could create issues with the MVA. On Sunday, Pawar took potshots at the Centre. “Eradication of Covid-19 is the priority of the Maharashtra government, but some people think constructing a temple will help in its mitigation,” Pawar had said. Echoing Pawar, Maharashtra minister and Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat alleged that the BJP was using the issue to divert attention from the Modi government’s failure to take effective measures to combat the Covid-19 situation.Dismissing the rumours about a rift over the issue, Raut said, “Sharad Pawar has not criticised the construction of the Ram Mandir. When the Supreme Court gave its judgement, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi [Vadra], Sharad Pawar had welcomed it. He (Pawar) has expressed his opinion on what should be the priority in the current Covid-19 situation. This is a government of three parties, and nowhere in the MVA’s formation, it is written that we have to have a consensus on an issue. As a government, it has to be run with unanimity to implement the programmes for the people as per the CMP.”Raut said that there are no issues within the MVA over Thackeray’s plan to visit Ayodhya. “This is not a political or a religious issue, but a matter of national pride. It is being implemented after the Supreme Court’s orders. The CMP will remain our guiding light to run the government. Whether to go to Ayodhya or not is not an agenda in the government,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uddhav-will-attend-ram-mandir-ceremony-raut/story-I5Ug5ZFcDhZvDtnQKKNSYI.html
21-07-2020||Noida||Covid-19 home isolation in Noida only after clinical assessment, separate help desk soon||With the Uttar Pradesh government allowing asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients to remain in home isolation, the district administration said it is setting up a separate home isolation desk to identify such patients.The separate desk, for which officials are being deputed, will assist and guide asymptomatic patients on home isolation do’s and don’ts, as well as provide them regular consultations, including the schedule for retaking the Covid-19 test.The state government on Monday allowed home isolation of asymptomatic patients, while earlier any positive patient had to get admitted to government hospitals, paid private Covid hospitals or remain at paid facilities in hotels.One of the major Covid-19 affected district in the state, Gautam Budh Nagar has 979 active cases as on Tuesday, while 3,274 patients have been discharged and 40 had died. The city has over 3,000 beds facility in different designated Covid-19 hospitalsHowever, officials said they will not be taking any risks, and that a rigorous assessment of patients will be done before a call is taken on allowing them to remain in home isolation. Health officials also said unlike the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s guidelines, which allows even mildly symptomatic patients to isolate at home, only asymptomatic patients shall be allowed in to remain in home isolation in Noida – as per the state government orders -- and that too after rigorous clinical assessments.“We are implementing a new model, taking into account all risk factors and each individual’s health. We are setting up a separate home isolation desk at out integrated command and control centre. A team of nine officials will man the desk. We are also exploring technological solutions to help qualifying patients. We have received several ideas on this, and will look into all of them,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.Now, there will be two types of Covid-19 monitoring in the city, to be done by two different teams. While the first team will continue monitoring containment zones, the second will focus on home quarantined patients.Currently, the district administration is brainstorming the clinical evolution of patients in a bid to ratify the eligibility of those who turn Covid-19 positive.“We are brainstorming to get the right model on deling with patients. What’s most important here is that we need to assess the symptoms, we need to understand the risk factors involved and then take a call. That means after a person tests positive, a thorough clinical assessment will be done by doctors, who will consider all symptoms and risk factors before deciding on whether that person is eligible for home quarantine,” Suhas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-home-isolation-in-noida-only-after-clinical-assessment-separate-help-desk-soon/story-iK8T4fW3JyYNq9vdK0E8qM.html
21-07-2020||City||Two injured as mini-truck with Delhi Police written on it hits motorcycle; driver flees||Two men were injured in an accident near Pari Chowk on Monday afternoon after the motorcycle they were travelling on was hit by a mini-truck with “Delhi Police” written on the front. After the accident, the driver of the mini-truck abandoned the vehicle and fled the spot.The injured were identified as Pawan and Virendra, who were on their way to Pari Chowk for work when the accident took place. Police said according to eyewitnesses, their motorcycle was hit from the side by the mini-truck after which they both fell of the motorcycle. They were rushed to a nearby hospital by onlookers.“The vehicle had Delhi Police written on the front and appears to be registered with that force. However, we will know more once we receive details from them. Everything is being documented and details will be shared with the Delhi Police after which we would be able to find out more about the vehicle and the driver,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.He said when the police team reached the accident spot, the driver had abandoned the vehicle and fled. It was seized and brought to the Surajpur police station. Police suspect that the driver was alone in the vehicle and was probably returning after dropping off inmates at Luksar jail. Police said they are waiting for the Delhi Police to confirm the details. A spokesperson for the Delhi Police said they will look into the matter once they receive more details from Noida police.Police is also verifying the cause of the accident by going through the CCTV footage. Both victims sustained head injuries and are in the intensive care unit. A complaint was filed by Virendra’s brother at the Surajpur police station against the unidentified driver who was booked under sections 279 (rash driving), 338 (causing grievous hurt) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code.A search is on for the errant driver, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-injured-as-mini-truck-with-delhi-police-written-on-it-hits-motorcycle-driver-flees/story-oj4N31Gn0n4932m478YSqL.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Status of mangrove land in Goregaon changed in 2018 to facilitate development: State||The state government informed Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday that the status of 400 acres of land with mangroves at Pahari village in Goregaon was modified to allow development, as per modifications made in April 2018 to the Development Control Regulations (DCR) of 1991. Certain portions of the reserved land have been allotted to the Metro car shed and the Maharashtra National Law University’s (MNLU) campus. The matter will be heard next on August 5.A public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Conservation Action Trust (CAT) drew attention to 400 acres that are reserved as residential and special development zone in the Development Plan of 2034.CAT’s advocate Sharan Jagtiani informed a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Madhav Jamdar on Tuesday that in 1996, the ministry of environment and forest had given clearance to a residential and recreational project in the area, which led to large-scale destruction of mangroves between 1996 and 2002. Following this, a committee confirmed in 2003 that debris had been dumped on the mangroves. A second committee submitted in 2018 that no mangroves had been destroyed after 2005. The PIL sought directions to restore the land to a green zone by replanting mangroves.Advocate Dr Milind Sathe appeared for an intervenor who owns the land and submitted that the PIL was not maintainable as DCR 1991 had been modified in April 2018, opening the land up for residential and development purposes. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni concurred with Dr Sathe and said changing the status of the land parcel was a legislative decision over which the court did not have jurisdiction.In light of the submissions, the court has asked all parties to file affidavits regarding their stand within a week and directed the petitioner to file a rejoinder in three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/status-of-mangrove-land-in-goregaon-changed-in-2018-to-facilitate-development-state/story-01vWiz6zLfjwXNr5XUrWNN.html
21-07-2020||City||Former landlord held for sexual assault on pregnant woman||A 24-year-old pregnant woman has alleged that she was sexually assaulted by her former landlord at her home under the Ecotech 3 police jurisdiction on the night of July 19. The suspect was arrested by the police on Tuesday.The two-month pregnant woman said the suspect was her landlord when she and her husband lived in an area under Sector 39 police jurisdiction.“He started harassing me sexually and we moved to Ecotech 3 last year. Soon after, he traced me to my new address and continued to harass me,” the woman said.She had separated from her husband and has been living alone at the new address.“On July 19, he came around 10pm. Most of the other tenants have gone home during the lockdown and only a few people live nearby. He assaulted me sexually and started beating me. When an elderly neighbour heard me crying, he left and she helped me. After that, I contacted the police. During our struggle, I had crashed into the door and started bleeding,” the woman said.Police said the woman was provided medical attention immediately as she had sustained some injuries in the scuffle and that her condition was stable.“A case had been registered on Monday and the suspect was arrested on Tuesday,” said station house officer, Ecotech 3 police station.The suspect was identified as Neeraj Bhati (36), who is married and lives in an area under sector 39 police jurisdiction. Police said that the woman had tried to cut off contact with him earlier but he had threatened her saying he would release her objectionable photos.Bhati was booked for rape and criminal intimidation (sections 376, 323, 504 and 596 of the Indian Penal Code). He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-landlord-held-for-sexual-assault-on-pregnant-woman/story-C6WwsnDSeQzEAQi1wPvfkJ.html
21-07-2020||Noida||Wanted criminal nabbed following encounter||A man was arrested early Tuesday morning following an encounter in Sector 82, the police said, adding that he was wanted in a murder case.The suspect in his early thirties has been identified as Rinku aka Ranjeet Tomar, a native of Meerut, who was carrying a reward of ₹25,000 on his head, the police said.Ranjeet was arrested by the Sector 39 police. According to police officials, Ranjeet and his accomplice were on a motorcycle when they were stopped for checking near Sector 82 service road.“However, they tried to flee. When a police team followed, they fired on them. In the retaliatory firing, Ranjeet was injured in his leg while his accomplice managed to flee. A search is on for him,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.The suspect was sent to the district hospital for treatment. Later, when he was questioned, it was found that he was wanted in a 2019 murder case, the police said.In June last year, a missing person’s complaint had been filed at Sector 39 police station of a man named Saurabh Tomar. It was later converted into a kidnapping case which eventually became a murder case in which six people were booked, the police said. Five of them, including Ranjeet’s wife, had been arrested last year while Ranjeet, the prime suspect, had been at large, they said.The police officials said that Ranjeet and Saurabh were friends. However, Ranjeet alleged that Saurabh showed undue interest in his wife and even threatened him following which he, along with his friends and relatives, hatched the plan to kill him. Saurabh’s body was disposed in a drain in Meerut, said the police.A stolen motorcycle and a countrymade pistol were recovered from the suspect. He has several criminal cases, including robbery and attempt to murder, registered against him going as back as 2015 and was also wanted under the gangster act, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/wanted-criminal-nabbed-following-encounter/story-MR0ATslOABiqIFFWnlKavN.html
21-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad moots bed pooling in Meerut division to reduce deaths due to Covid-19||Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the district administration has written to the state health department for allowing pooling in intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients in Meerut division. Under the new concept, the medical colleges will be identified where the patients requiring ICU beds can be shifted if they find no bed available in home district. The officials have sent a proposal for inclusion of other districts such as Hapur, Gautam Budh Nagar and Meerut, which are all part of Meerut division.According to the officials, Ghaziabad may need about 100 to 150 ICU beds as cases are rising in the district. At present, the district has only 33 ICU beds in government facilities and another 13 ICU beds reserved in private hospitals, they said.“We have written for allowing bed pooling system under Meerut division so that patients requiring ICU beds can be shifted to the medical colleges where beds are available. During the recent visit of Niti Aayog member, Dr VK Paul, we requested for allowing us to reserve some beds in Delhi hospitals for our patients. We will follow it up. As per our estimates, we require about 100-150 ICU beds so that there is no fatality as Covid-19 cases are rising,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate.The Ghaziabad district till July 21 reported 64 Covid-19 related deaths, of which 51 have taken place in June. According to official records, the case fatality rate went up to 3.9% in June, while it came down drastically to 0.2% during July 12-20. The present mortality rate in the district is 1.55%.On Tuesday, Ghaziabad reported 79 new cases, taking the total to 4,126. The number of active cases is 1,282, according to the state health bulletin.According to official figures, of 63 deaths till July 20, 39 were male patients. The officials said that one fatality took place in age group 0-20 years, while 14 deaths were in 21-40 years group. However, maximum 30 deaths took place in age group 41-60 years while 18 patients aged over 60 years had died.“We have made an analysis of the deaths. The prime reason for most deaths in age group 41-60 years is that most of them were suffering from comorbid conditions. Overall, about 90% cases suffered comorbid conditions which resulted in fatalities. Overall, 16 cases also suffered influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) conditions,” Pandey said.“To counter the fatality rate, we have also streamlined testing, early detection and speedy referral. With rising number of cases, we require more ICU beds and we expect that bed pooling system will be given go ahead soon,” he added.According to official figures, till July 19, age group 0-20 years had share of 11.67% in the total 3,978 positive cases, 21-40 years had 46.91%, 41-60 years had share of 31.86% cases while those over 60 years had share of 9.56%. “The age group 21-40 years has major share in number of positive cases as this age group is the one who moves out frequently for offices and attending other works outside,” said an officer from the district health department who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-moots-bed-pooling-in-meerut-division-to-reduce-deaths-due-to-covid-19/story-0PWRElXFVp7EBbFEcBTkxM.html
21-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad prepares plan for implementing home isolation; hotel isolation may take a beating||A day after the Uttar Pradesh government allowed home isolation for asymptomatic patients of Covid-19 under specific conditions, the Ghaziabad administration on Tuesday started preparing an action plan to implement the new isolation system in the district. District administration officials said that they will chalk out finer points related to communication with patients, referral system in case of health complication and enforcement of home isolation guidelines. The officials said that the action plan for home isolation will be rolled out by Wednesday.According to the officials, the move is also likely to release burden on L1 category hospitals while there will be need for more L2 hospitals which the district has only one at present. “The government has given broad guidelines and now we are trying to fine tune different services and probable outcomes of home isolation. The entire plan will be drafted by Wednesday, and then we will start with home isolation. As per our estimates, those admitted to L1 category facility will opt for home isolation instead of hotel isolation which was recently allowed. Today, three-four hotel owners arrived and withdrew their offer for hotel isolation,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate.The state government on July 17 had rolled out the hotel isolation scheme for asymptomatic patients, with Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 per day charges. The scheme was launched in Ghaziabad and Lucknow. The government named two hotels in Bajaria area of Ghaziabad for the purpose. With home isolation scheme now rolled out, the hotel association members feel that hotel isolation will take a hit. “We feel that there will hardly be any takers for hotel isolation scheme. People will rather opt to stay at home isolation rather than spending money on hotel isolation. We were expecting that it would provide us some income as our customers have drastically reduced to 5-10% in the past two months,” Manoj Gupta, general secretary, Bajaria Hotel Owners’ Association.“Even if patients opt for hotel isolation, they will be very less in numbers,” he added.Meanwhile, the district officials also held a detailed meeting on Tuesday and discussed several proposals. According to sources, the officials have planned that several teams of doctors aged over 55 years, who are not allowed active Covid-19 duties as per government directions, will be formed in the district control room to take up health status of home isolated patients on daily basis.“Each team will be assigned a group of patients in home isolation for taking up their health status daily. Further, we are also considering that a patient will be called for physical examination to ascertain his health status. He/she will also have to disclose history of his/her previous ailments and details of the care giver,” said an officer from the health department.“The patient is also expected to click photograph of his house on his mobile phone. We may also seek details of about three-four of his neighbours to ascertain if the patient has available facilities in his house or not,” the officer, requesting anonymity, added.The state government has allowed home isolation with certain conditions -- an undertaking of compliance of guidelines will be submitted by the patient; consulting doctor will declare patient as asymptomatic; patient to ensure 24 hours availability of care giver; minimum two separate toilets and separate home quarantine facility should be available at home and patient will have to purchase a medical kit having pulse oxymeter, thermometer, mask, gloves, among other things.The officials expect that the number of patients in L1 category hospitals will also come down as the home isolation is implemented. “In this context, we will now be converting our L1 facility at ESIC Hospital, Sahibabad, into L2 category hospital. The facility has 76 beds. The health department will make arrangements,” Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-prepares-plan-for-implementing-home-isolation-hotel-isolation-may-take-a-beating/story-4TFCfcBAM9libJmEBThkvN.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||HC dismisses bail plea of suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of Jaswinder Kaur, a suspended station house officer of the Chandigarh police under Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) investigation in a case of alleged corruption. Kaur had moved the high court after a Chandigarh trial court dismissed her bail plea and issued non bailable warrants against her last week.The police officer with a conduit, Bhagwan Singh, was booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act on June 29 for allegedly seeking a Rs 5 lakh bribe from Manimajra resident Gurdeep Singh for not lodging an FIR against him in a cheating case.“Being a member of a uniformed service, the conduct of the petitioner... leaves a lot to be desired. It is for the petitioner to face the investigation and prove her case. The failure of the petitioner to join the investigation and her reticence in coming forward even now disentitle her from seeking relief at this stage,” the bench of justice Sanjay Kumar said while dismissing her plea.The bench also observed that the allegations levelled against Kaur were serious in nature and her interrogation and cooperation with the CBI would be ‘utmost necessary’.The court said it would be premature to go into the merits of the matter at this stage when investigations were yet to be completed. “Suffice to state that the admitted conversation between the petitioner and Bhagwan Singh, the co-accused, is enough to warrant investigation into the allegations made against the petitioner.” The court also took note of CBI’s submissions that Kaur, who was asked to attend the CBI office on June 30 but did not turn up and made a false entry in the Daily Diary Register at Manimajra police station stating she had returned from the office. CBI also claimed that Kaur was untraceable.On Monday too, the high court had sought a personal affidavit from the Chandigarh director general of police (DGP) in an alleged false case of drug dealing filed by Chandigarh police against a witness in a graft case involving Kaur. An FIR had been registered at the Sector 39 police station on June 19 against the witness in the case filed in 2017, involving the suspended SHO. The petitioner had demanded CBI probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-suspended-sho-jaswinder-kaur/story-EtZBNMRGE0z2fsCB689WTN.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Token system at Sukhna, other popular spots likely||In a bid to stop overcrowding of public spaces such as the Sukhna Lake, parks and shopping malls, the UT administration is exploring the feasibility of starting a token system for restricted entry.Health and administrative officials are getting jittery with the heavy rush at the lake, especially on weekends, and parks following easing of lockdown restrictions imposed after the Covid-19 outbreak, with social distancing and other safety norms going for a toss.Confirming the UT move, Manoj Parida, UT adviser, says, “We will discuss in the war room meeting the restrictions that can be imposed on the number of people and might introduce a coupon system for people’s entry.”Ruling out a complete ban on crowds, however, Parida adds, “These are open spaces, better suited for social distancing. If we ban this than people don’t have any alternative for exercise, as gyms and other indoor exercise spaces are already banned. Also, a ban on parks, open spaces hasn’t happened anywhere in the country or even the world after lockdown restrictions have been removed.”Medical experts to be consultedThe administration will first consult medical experts on the number of the people that can be allowed at public areas after which it will regulate entry. “At the entry, officials will issue one coupon per person, on a first come first serve basis, till the stipulated limit is exhausted,” adds Parida.Local area councillor Maheshinder Sidhu, a regular at the Sukhna Lake, says the crowds have doubled since the period before the Covid-19 outbreak. “The number of youngsters coming to the lake has increased as gyms are shut. They do strenuous exercises and rarely wear masks. Even while jogging they don’t cover use face masks,” he adds. “Since people are walking in both directions it is also hard to maintain a six-foot distance,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/token-system-at-sukhna-other-popular-spots-likely/story-6YHOuY75lzRjMagoFmy0OP.html
21-07-2020||City||Cong MLA hits out at Moga SSP over shopkeepers’ arrests||A day after several shopkeepers were arrested and fined for allegedly violating lockdown norms here, Congress MLA Dr Harjot Kamal on Tuesday lashed out at SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill, claiming that the Moga police failed to maintain law and order in the district.He said the crime graph had gone up in the past few months. “A few days ago, a trader was shot dead in broad daylight, but the police failed to nab them despite having checkpoints all over the city. A youth was also shot at in Buttar village recently, but no arrests were made. Due to police’s unprofessional approach, a constable was killed in an exchange of fire at a village here last month,” Kamal added.The police had on Monday arrested over 50 shopkeepers for staying open past 8pm and issued fines of ₹2,000 each. This had sparked a row between the MLA and SSP after the latter refused to release the shopkeepers on the Kamal’s request.Stating that the police used abusive language against the shopkeepers, Kamal said, “I condemn the police’s behaviour. The shopkeepers could not close on time due to harsh weather.”“The MLA had contacted me on Monday and all the shopkeepers were released,” said Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans.Despite repeated attempts, SSP Gill could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-mla-hits-out-at-moga-ssp-over-shopkeepers-arrests/story-kn71X177YcMXW5hphcYk8I.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two stalking cases reported from Chandigarh||Two stalking cases were reported from Chandigarh on Tuesday. In the first case, a man was arrested for allegedly stalking a 16-year-old girl. The accused has been identified as Ajay, 19, a resident of Daria, Chandigarh, who works as a labourer in Transport Area, Sector 26. The girl’s father stated in his complaint that on Monday, the accused barged into their house and proposed marriage to his daughter. But, when she refused, the accused threatened to kill her. The girl also told her father that the accused had been following her for last three months and pressuring her to get married.A stalking case was registered under Indian Penal Code at Industrial Area police station and the accused was arrested. He was produced before a court that sent him to judicial custody.Sector-43 man booked for stalking Lt Col’s wifeIn another case, a man was booked for stalking a Lt Colonel’s wife. The accused has been identified as Sandeep Singh Pannu, a native of Faridkot, currently living in Sector 43, Chandigarh. The woman stated in her complaint that the accused had been calling her from different numbers and threatening her. She told police that in August 2019, she had lodged a complaint of stalking against Pannu, following which a case was registered that is pending in the district court. The woman said that the accused was harassing her again by calling from different numbers. The complainant said the accused had abused and threatened her, and was forcing her to retract the allegations she made last year. A fresh case has been registered under IPC at Sector 36 police station. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-stalking-cases-reported-from-chandigarh/story-gtWjcaTuzLD9gYdYJkhJcJ.html
21-07-2020||City||PSEB Class 12 results: Ludhiana drops by 13 positions among all districts||With a pass percentage of 89.99%, Ludhiana district has slipped from last year’s seventh to the 20th position among all districts in the Class 12 examinations conducted by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) in March.A total of 29,142 of the 32,384 students, who took the exams, have passed in the results declared on Tuesday. Last year, the district had achieved 90.83% results.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the board had cancelled the exams after March 18. Therefore, it calculated students’ scores based on the average of the top three best scores in four subjects.The same formula was applied in the case of students, who appeared in exams for division improvement in more than one subject.In 2018, Ludhiana pass percentage was 78.5%, a significant improvement from 64% in 2017. It was 74.58% in 2016, 76.71% in 2015 and 78% in 2014.“Ludhiana is a huge district, with a large number of students taking the PSEB exams. Students from government schools have scored well in exams, which is a great achievement. I congratulate all meritorious students and teachers for their performance,” said Swaranjit Kaur, district education officer, secondary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pseb-class-12-results-ludhiana-drops-by-13-positions-among-all-districts/story-6OF3NF3ELGjNUufSfbGZrJ.html
21-07-2020||City||Mayor inspects ward No. 28 after residents complain of sewer overflow||With residents and councillor of ward number 28 raising a hue and cry over clogged sewer lines in different parts of the ward, mayor Balkar Sandhu along with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor Paramjit Singh inspected the area on Tuesday. The councillor and the residents of Prem Nagar, Durga Colony, New Durga Colony and nearby areas of Dhandari Khurd in ward 28 said that they have been forced to live in unhygienic conditions due to lackadaisical approach of the municipal corporation (MC) in dealing with the problems of choked sewer lines.A resident of New Durga colony, Kundan said, “The MC has failed to act despite several complaints by the residents. We have been facing the same problem for the last two years. Dirty sewer water remains accumulated in the streets and there is always a fear of water contamination. The roads are in pathetic condition but authorities are not paying any heed to the problem.”The residents said that the health department had found a ‘huge’ amount of larvae of Culex mosquitoes, which can spread Japanese encephalitis (an infection of the brain) and West Nile Virus, in stagnant dirty water at different locations of ward number 28. Councillor Paramjit Singh said, “I had asked the mayor to visit my ward and look at the pathetic conditions in which the residents are forced to live in. The authorities have failed to find a solution to the problem despite repeated complaints and requests given by the residents. A disposal point needs to be established in the area so that the accumulated water could be pumped out. I have also asked the mayor to establish a railway underpass for connecting Dhandari Khurd with Dhandari Kalan as residents in a bid to cross the tracks, put their lives at risk by scaling the safety walls established around the railway tracks.”Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “I have directed the MC officials to find a solution for the problem at the earliest. Also, a disposal point would be established as demanded by the councillor.”Mayor, MC chief inspects ongoing work of Jagraon BridgeSandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also inspected the ongoing work of Jagraon bridge reconstruction on Tuesday. Sandhu said, “The officials and the contractor have been asked to expedite the work on the project and the work of constructing the retaining wall and approach road by MC would be completed by mid-August.As per the MC officials, the bridge would be opened for movement of traffic by September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mayor-inspects-ward-no-28-after-residents-complain-of-sewer-overflow/story-QvK286oxP9k6Nm4a4ZuK4I.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM seeks skill development push from IIT, IIM in state||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday paved the way for closer cooperation of his government with the state’s premier institutes IIT Ropar and IIM Amritsar in the area of skill development.He held two separate video conferences with the heads of the two institutes in this regard.During the said interactions, the state government signed three MoUs with IIT Ropar. Under the deal, the IIT’s technical education department will become the academic mentor for the state’s engineering colleges in Gurdaspur and Ferozepur, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Skill Institute in Shri Chamkaur Sahib, five government polytechnics and 10 government industrial training institutes.Technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the IIT will also help the state in developing one-model ITIs and polytechnics.The CM urged IIT to help the state in the manufacture of small devices for controlling water wastage in irrigation, in response to which Prof Das extended the institution’s full support.IIM Amritsar also extended support to the state government in promoting skill development and its director Prof Ramamoorthy Nagarajan said the institute would be organising various short-term courses for officers, including excise, business management, taxation etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-seeks-skill-development-push-from-iit-iim-in-state/story-2MNDXGAmGd7REk0Du8YfPN.html
21-07-2020||City||Pune crosses 40,000 positive Covid cases’ mark||Pune crossed another grim milestone, of 40,000 progressive positive cases, with 1,512 fresh positive Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, taking the progressive positive count to 40,715.Also, 30 deaths were reported in the city which takes the Covid-19-related death toll to 1,035. In addition, seven deaths of residents from outside Pune Municipal Corpration (PMC) limits were reported in city hospitals.Currently, there are 15,434 active cases in Pune undergoing treatment for Covid-19, of which 616 are in critical condition; 99 on ventilators, while the others are in ICUs or being treated with non-invasive ventilators. Of the 40,715 positives reported in the city, 24,246 have been discharged after being declared as cured, of which 805 were discharged on Tuesday.A total of 6,222 samples were collected within 24 hours taking the total sample count to 2.15 lakh.These samples also include those tested with rapid antigen detection kits. District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “We should not be concerned about the number of increasing cases now. The more people are detected at an early stage, only means that we are able to quarantine them effectively at an early stage. Also we are now focusing more on treatment of critical patients and improving on the case fatality rate, which is now lower than 3 per cent. We are preparing the infrastructure and other necessary things, considering community transmission.”Shantanu Goel, additional municipal commissioner, who is in charge of erecting Covid care centres, said, “Cases are increasing rapidly. Most of the patients are asymptomatic. These patients need institutional quarantine facilities and so we are creating enough beds. The PMC is even acquiring more beds from private hospitals to increase our strength. As testing increases, we are getting early detection.”Out of the 30 deaths reported, two were reported from the COEP’s covid care centre - an 80- and 90-year-old - both males from Bibwewadi. The cause of death is reported to be Covid-19 without any reported co-morbidities.This is the third death reported from a Covid care centre in the city till date.The remaining deaths include 10 from Sassoon General Hospital; three from the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital; two each from Rising Medicare hospital, Noble hospital and Ruby Hall Clinic.One death each has been reported from Symbiosis hospital, Jehangir hospital, AICTS, Deoyani Multi-speciality hospital, Kashibai Navale hospital, Naidu hospital, KEM hospital, Vinod Memorial hospital and Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital.Of the deaths of patients who are from outside the PMC limits, four were reported from Sassoon and one each from Noble hospital, Deenanath Mangeshkar and Jehangir hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-crosses-40-000-positive-covid-cases-mark/story-u4bi3jNxJfBnInwxvput7L.html
21-07-2020||City||Burglars target chemist shop in Khanna, decamp with ₹1.25 lakh cash, face masks||Burglars targetted a chemist shop in Khanna and decamped with ₹1.25 lakh in cash and face masks on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The incident was captured in the CCTV camera installed at the shop. The police are scrutinising the footage to get clue of the accused. Rakesh Jindal, owner of Jindal Medicos said that when he came to his shop on Tuesday morning he found the shop was ransacked and ₹1.25 lakh missing from the cash box besides five branded masks. He immediately sounded to the police.Deputy Superintendent of Police (investigation) Manmohan Sarna said that an inquiry has been initiated in the matter. A case has been registered against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/burglars-target-chemist-shop-in-khanna-decamp-with-1-25-lakh-cash-face-masks/story-yE4UgEeFN4zHnFxG95rTrN.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege case: HC notice on plea against challan by Punjab Police SIT||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday put the Punjab government on notice over a plea challenging the challan submitted by Punjab Police in a 2015 FIR registered for hurting religious sentiments and theft of a ‘bir’ (holy book) from a Faridkot gurdwara.A response has been sought from the government by August 18.The petition has been submitted by Sukhjinder Singh alias Sunny, a follower of Dera Sacha Sauda, who is among the accused persons against whom the challan was filed.The special investigation team (SIT) probing the sacrilege case had on July 6 added a challan into the FIR registered for the alleged theft of bir of Guru Granth Sahib from the gurdwara of Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in 2015.Sunny has challenged the challan report presented by the police and accepted thereof, by virtue of which a notice was issued to accused persons, including him, by the Faridkot judicial magistrate.It has been argued that the probe of the sacrilege cases, including the said FIR, has been handed over to the CBI and proceedings of the same were underway at a court in Mohali. However, the SIT still conducted an investigation and submitted a challan. Two agencies can’t launch a parallel probe in an FIR, the petitioner has said, also leveling allegations of malafide and claiming that the SIT probe has been done to please the political bosses in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2015-sacrilege-case-hc-notice-on-plea-against-challan-by-punjab-police-sit/story-UZZWNvPoPle7MeggdHqg0L.html
21-07-2020||City||Stop dumping waste in Buddha Nullah by Sept 30 or face action: PPCB tells dairy owners||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has given an ultimatum to around 24 dairy owners of Bhamiyan Kalan village to stop dumping waste in Buddha Nullah by September 30 or be ready to get their power connections snapped. The dairy owners appeared for a hearing with the PPCB member secretary, Krunesh Garg through video conferencing on Tuesday, following which the dairy owners were directed to stop dumping waste and cow dung in the stream, or face action.On the condition of anonymity, a PPCB official said warnings and notices had been issued earlier too but despite that many dairy owners were still dumping the waste into the nullah. On the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the PPCB has started tightening the noose around the violators. Earlier the municipal corporation commissioner Pradeep Sabharwal had also pointed out that PPCB should take action against dairy owners outside the MC limit. PPCB superintending engineer Sandeep Bahl said, “The dairy owners have been given time till September 30 to make necessary arrangements to stop dumping waste in the stream. If they fail to do so, the PPCB would write to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and the drainage department to snap the electricity and disposal points respectively.”Dairy owners said that they are ready to find a solution but need support from the state government and PPCB.Chairman of dairy owners association, Deepak Khaneja said, “Even we do not want to pollute the stream. We are even ready to get the nullah cleaned, but PPCB should help us to come up with a solution.”“We are also ready to set up a treatment plant and have demanded that PPCB should get us a subsidy like that being provided to dyeing owners within the city limits for setting up Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETP). But the PPCB officials are not providing any help, said Khaneja adding that they are filing a petition against the PPCB in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stop-dumping-waste-in-buddha-nullah-by-sept-30-or-face-action-ppcb-tells-dairy-owners/story-OEVYPTHWw2VZ9UjifEWyJM.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Look into threat of life to two female live-in partners: High court to Mohali SSP||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday directed the Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) to look into claims of security threat to two women putting up as live-in partners.They had approached the high court alleging threat to their life and liberty at the hands of their parents.The duo told the court that they were both aged above 18 and liked each other. “They are in a live-in relationship for the last six months and residing in a common accommodation. They are well aware of the fact that their relationship is not in the nature of marriage as they belong to the same sex,” their lawyer told the court, adding that now both of them were receiving serious threats from their family members. An application in this regard was sent to SSP Mohali, but the official had not acted, it was further informed. “Social ethos, outlook and the philosophy appears to be evolving amongst gay couples so as to gather courage and openly come out of their closets, even though gay marriage is not yet legitimate as per the applicable marriage laws in the country,” the court said adding that therefore, they opt for live-in relationships.The court said whatever the case may be, the women were entitled to protection of their lives and liberty as envisaged under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, regardless of the nature of relationship between them. “Assuming, they were living simply as friends together, even then they are constitutionally entitled to live in peace. Legitimacy of their relationship with each other, therefore, is of no consequence vis-à-vis their right to life and liberty,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/look-into-threat-of-life-to-two-female-live-in-partners-high-court-to-mohali-ssp/story-IVJny6wG0eqAPFD0SHP0WI.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Opposition demands no confidence motion against BEST chief||In a letter to Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, opposition party leaders in the civic body have demanded a no confidence motion against Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) general manager Surendra Kumar Bagde. The party leaders alleged that the BEST chief has failed to attend complaints of exorbitant electricity bills being issued to the consumers in these stressful times. Ravi Raja, leader of opposition party, said, “At a time when people are stressed with the financial burdens in this pandemic, the BEST is sending erroneous electricity bills. The general manager of the undertaking is not even meeting any of the public representatives on this matter. We have demanded that the motion be brought in the general body meeting.” Since actual meter reading was suspended in March, consumers were being billed on an average of the previous three months. The undertaking supplies power to 10 lakh consumers in the island city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/opposition-demands-no-confidence-motion-against-best-chief/story-4DpE6gxTviPDvY2q4kyRwN.html
21-07-2020||City||Kotkapura firing: Court issues arrest warrant against ex-DSP||The court of duty magistrate Ekta Uppal here on Tuesday issued an arrest warrant against then deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Baljit Singh in the Kotkapura firing incident in 2015.The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing incidents on Monday moved an application in the court seeking Baljit’s arrest in the case.The SIT had summoned Baljit to join investigation on a couple of occasions, but he had failed to appear. Fearing arrest, he had moved an anticipatory bail petition in the district and sessions court last week, but it was dismissed.Also, Baljit was named as an accused in another FIR (number 129) registered in 2018 in connection with the Kotkapura firing episode, but was granted bail in the case.EX-KOTKAPURA SHO IN COP CUSTODYThe court of duty magistrate Chetan Sharma on Tuesday sent former Kotkapura SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher to two-day police custody in Behbal Kalan police firing case. He was presented before the court on production warrant.Last week, the SIT had named Pandher for criminal conspiracy in the Behbal Kalan incident. Pandher was arrested on June 25 for his alleged role in tampering with the evidence in the Kotkapura firing case. Presently, he is in judicial custody.As per information, the SIT wants to cross interrogate Pandher and Baljit, which they believe will help in revealing the names of more people involved in these incidents. SIT officials said as they have secured police custody of Pandher, they are conducting raids to nab Baljit too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kotkapura-firing-court-issues-arrest-warrant-against-ex-dsp/story-kzV1ejXR9URRXwiVUtHdoN.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Day 1 of online admissions to Class 11 in Chandigarh govt schools marked by technical glitches||: The online admissions for Class 11 to 40 Chandigarh government schools started off with some technical glitches on Tuesday with many students complaining that they were unable to access the website. Despite this, 2,800 candidates registered on Day 1. Talking about the issue, district education officer (DEO) Harbir Singh Anand said, “There was a technical fault initially, as a large number of people tried to access the website. It was sorted out within a couple of hours.” The online registration process will be open till July 30. Director of school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, added that there will be ample time for students to apply in the coming days.As many as 12,500 seats are available at government schools in four streams- science, arts, commerce and skill courses. As per the prospectus, provisional merit list will be out on 7 August, while the list indicating allotment of schools and streams after taking objections of students, will be out on August 13. The details for counselling will be notified later.Candidates have to submit online registration forms with scanned documents as per details mentioned in the prospectus. To help students complete the process, admission help desks have been set up in 20 government schools. The desks will be operational from 9am to 1pm on all working days.The online prospectus is available at www.chdeducation.gov.in and www.nielit.gov.in/chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/day-1-of-online-admissions-to-class-11-in-chandigarh-govt-schools-marked-by-technical-glitches/story-URt6dB7GFWxHsgEkSXLNCN.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Maratha quota won’t affect OBC reservation: Thackeray assures community leaders||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray assured that the reservation for the Maratha community will not impact the people of the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). In a meeting with OBC leaders on Tuesday, Thackeray said that he has spoken to the advocate general over the issue and that he would not let “injustice” happen with the community.The hearing in the Supreme Court over a batch of pleas challenging Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs will commence from July 27. Thackeray, in the meeting, said that the community should remove any doubts in their minds that if the Supreme Court upholds the High Court decision on the Maratha reservations, their rights would be impinged upon.“The Maratha reservation case is on in the Supreme Court. There is a fear among the OBC community that if the SC upholds the verdict of High Court then the reservation for OBCs will be impacted. I have spoken to the Advocate General and the reservation for the community will not be affected due to reservation for the Maratha community,” Thackeray told the leaders of the OBC community, including his cabinet colleagues.Cabinet minister and members of the community Chhagan Bhujbal and Vijay Wadettiwar, along with Prakash Shendge and Haribhau Rathod of the OBC-VJNT Sangharsh Samiti were present in the meeting. Thackeray also assured the leaders that the issues of the community are not being ignored and that the government stands with the community on their rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-won-t-affect-obc-reservation-thackeray-assures-community-leaders/story-amAj0fHtSCSJJ0nE3S2udL.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University panel suggests uniform code of conduct for online classes||A Panjab University subcommittee has suggested that there should be a uniform code of conduct for all students during online classes for which they must sign an undertaking of adherence,The subcommittee was constituted by a committee formed by the syndicate to make suggestions regarding issues related to online teaching. The panel has also prepared a draft undertaking which students will have to sign if it gets approved. The recommendations made by the subcommittee are subject to the approval of the main committee, before a final call is taken. According to the draft, students will not be permitted to record online classes without permission and may face termination from the programme in case of any violation.According to PU’s academic calendar, online classes for ongoing courses will start from August 3 in the varsity’s teaching departments, its regional centres and affiliated colleges.Former vice-chancellor of Panjab University, Arun Kumar Grover, said, “I personally feel it is an unnecessary step which may increase psychological pressure on students.”The subcommittee has also suggested that unique IDs should be created for all students for authentication and monitoring. Moreover, they have suggested that there should be a nodal officer at the department level to handle grievances of students and teachers related to online teaching.Also, the panel suggested that there should be a provision for recording lectures for future use and regular faculty members should be trained regularly to keep them up to date with various tools of online teaching. Online classes should be held on the basis of a proper time table approved by the heads of the departments, the panel suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-panel-suggests-uniform-code-of-conduct-for-online-classes/story-2aHVxICw2a0gqnGU5kTBuM.html
21-07-2020||City||Bihar cracks whip on pvt hospitals refusing Covid patients||PATNACracking the whip on private hospitals in the state reluctant to treat Covid-19 patients, the Bihar government Tuesday authorised district magistrates to identify such health facilities in Covid management in their respective jurisdiction while Patna health adminsitration notified 290 beds for Covid patients across 18 private health facilities in the state capital.The decision to force private hospitals into Covid managment was taken at a meeting chaired by chief secretary Deepak Kumar.“The government has authorised district magistrates to identify private health facilities in Covid management,” said Anupam Kumar, secretary, Information and Public Relations Department, Bihar, during the media briefing on Tuesday.Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore Chaudhary on Monday issued an order notifying 290 beds for Covid-19 patients across 18 private health facilities in the state capital.He said the government had to force the reluctant private facilities into treating Covid-19 patients. “The private facilities will have to treat Covid-19 patients in times of pandemic. If they do not, we will lodge FIRs against them. The government can even take over their hospitals, along with their staff and doctors and force them into treating Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Chaudhary.Among the 18 private centres the Patna district administration had asked to keep isolation beds for Covid-19 patients are Hitech Emergency, GS Neuroscience (10 beds each), Arvind Hospital (13), Medical Magadh Hospital, Dr Bimal Hospital & Research Center (25 beds each), Heart Hospital (14), Murlidhar Memorial Hospital (10), Anup Institute of Orthopaedic, AS Nursing Home (4), Paras HMRI Hospital (30), Curris Hospital (18), Mahavir Vatsalya Hospital (14), Palm View Hospital, Midversal Hospital (12 each), Ruban Memorial Hospital, Patliputra Colony (40), Tara Hospital, near Gandhi Maidan (9), Buddha Cancer Centre (7) and Nestva Hospital (12).These hospitals have 1,254 beds in total, with 343 ICU beds, of which 72 had ventilator facility in them, according to the order issued by the Patna civil surgeon.“As of now, we have asked private hospital to allot 25% of their total beds for management of Covid patients. Going ahead, if need arises, we will ask them to convert the entire hospital into dedicated Covid facility,” said Dr Chaudhary.Despite the Patna district administration having issued the order on Monday, with explicit instructions to the management of private hospitals to begin Covid-19 isolation facility with immediate effect, most of these facilities were yet to begin admitting such cases on Tuesday.Earlier, the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), which has large facilities Bihar, had complained firsrt to the Bihar government, and a week later to the Centre, that private hospitals emplanelled by the PSU were refusing to treat its employees who had tested postive for Covid-19.In addition to better management of its healthcare facilities, the central team, which was here for two days beginning Sunday, had asked the state government to increase the number of beds in view of the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases.As on Tuesday, Bihar reported 28,564 Covid-19 cases, with case doubling rate of 12 days. If infections were to grow at this rate, Bihar could cross 1 lakh cases in less than a month, for which the state had to be prepared, the team had pointed out during its discussion with senior state functionaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-cracks-whip-on-pvt-hospitals-refusing-covid-patients/story-WkNh3Aq49SfEjXHMpSodxN.html
21-07-2020||City||Rahul’s tweet raises heat in poll-bound Bihar||PATNAA tweet by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday, claiming the Covid-19 pandemic had spiralled out of control in Bihar and taunting the NDA government in the poll-bound state on its “good governance” claims, set off a war of words, with the ruling JD(U) and BJP attacking the former Congress president and asking him to set his “own house in order”.Assembly polls in Bihar are due later this year.“The coronavirus pandemic situation in Bihar is critical and has spiralled out of control of the state government. Unattended bodies lying in hospital wards expose the claims of good governance ofBihar,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi while tagging a Hindustan Times report that undelined how a central team had flagged gaps in Bihar’s infection control policy during its two-day visit to the state that ended Monday.A member of the three-membet team led by Luv Agrawal, joint secretary in union helath ministry, said he was aghast to see free movement of people in the Covid wards at Patna’s NMCH, a dedicted hospital to treat Covid-19 patients. “This is like creating super spreaders. The hospitals must not allow spread of infection, else it will become a dangerous cycle,” he was quoted as saying during his interaction with a healthcare professional at the NMCH.Dr Neeraj Nischal of AIIMS-Delhi, who was also part of the central team, said foremost importance had to be given to the hospital’s infection control policy and for this arrangement be made for proper training to staff and doctors.Meanwhlile, enraged by Gandhi’s tweet attack, deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi said, “Rahul Gandhi should think about the tag of political tail that his party carries in Bihar.”“As far as Corona is concerned, Bihar government is alert on this front. Now more than 10,000 tests are being done and beds have been increase,” said Modi.BJP’s spokesperson Nikhil Anand said, “Rahul Gandhi is spreading Verbal Corona in India.”JD (U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan said, “He (Rahul) should first go and assess the situation in Congress-ruled states,” said .The Congress and its allies in Opposition, however, defended Gandhi. “Bihar is paying the price of complete negligence by the state government .For the past four months, the state machinery is into the election mode and people have been left to the mercy of God. People are running for pillar to post for tests; patients are left unattended. Videos going viral clearly suggest health facilities of Bihar and situation of hospital where people are dying because of lack of food and oxygen. Bodies are left lying in the hospital unattended with the patient,” said state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha.Opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav alleged that the state government was concerned more about holding elections on time and less about lurking threat to life to one and all.The RJD leader had also tweeted a video of the NMHC, where body of a Covid victim was lying in the isolation ward along with those undergoing treatment.This is not the first time that Gandhi has targeted Bihar government. During his virtual meeting with state Congress leaders on July 4, he had said that people of Bihar have become fed up with Bihar government’s work and policies. “People want change. The need of hour is that all opposition forces get united so that people of state can live a peaceful life,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rahul-s-tweet-raises-heat-in-poll-bound-bihar/story-0Hbz1rBEGOJops4sxNPXKL.html
21-07-2020||City||Covid-19 fear: Passport appointments see 70% decline in Jalandhar||As the fear of contagion continues to grow in the district, the regional passport office here has witnessed a sharp decline in the number of applications under fresh/normal and tatkal categories.Jalandhar regional passport office, which caters to the NRI belt of the state, has recorded a dip of 70% in per day appointments after the reopening of centres from May 26.Earlier, the passport office and three Sewa Kendras used to collectively receive around 790 appointments daily. However, due to Covid-19 scare, only 250 appointments are being made in a day now.After the Union external affairs ministry’s direction, the passport office had reduced appointments for application submission by 50%, limiting the same to 390 applications, owing to the pandemic.A passport officer said despite appointments, sometimes applicants do not turn up for submitting documents or fees and reschedule their visits for later dates. This is probably because of the restriction on the number of times an appointment can be rescheduled has been relaxed to three times per appointment, beyond which fresh payment has to be made for an appointment, the officer added.“These days, we have been receiving 250-270 appointments every day. People are scared to come out of their homes and that is a prime reason behind the steep dip in passport applications in Jalandhar,” said regional passport officer Raj Kumar Bali.He said due to the low footfall at Sewa Kendras, some staffers have been deputed at the main office to clear the pending workload.Officials said lesser applications were received this year as tours were cancelled following the coronavirus outbreak and students postponing their plans to study abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-fear-passport-appointments-see-70-decline-in-jalandhar/story-CcE0nCO80igfWCPArDjmWL.html
21-07-2020||City||Agri ordinances: Protests held outside Cong MPs’ houses in Amritsar||Protesting against the agriculture ordinances introduced by the Centre, hundreds of farmers gathered outside the residences of Congress MPs here on Tuesday. However, no social distancing was followed by them.Kisan Majdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) district president Lakhwinder Singh led the stir outside MP Gurjit Singh Aujla’s house, where they raised slogans against the Centre and Punjab government.The protest outside Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa’s residence was led by Tarn Taran-based farm labourer leader Sukhwinder Singh Sabran.“The ordinances are not only anti-farmer, but also against the interests of arhtiyas and labourers of Punjab and Haryana. Already, only 6% of agriculture produce is being purchased by government agencies while the rights to pick up 94% of it have been given to private players. Due to this, the yield is being bought on low rates as compared to the MSPs.”KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “The government is planning to sell the assets of the Mandi board by privatising the agriculture sector, but we will never allow this.”The farmers demanded revocation of the ordinances, besides loan waiver for all. During the protests, they also asked the Centre to implement the Swaminathan Commission report.Meanwhile, MP Aujla said the farmers’ demand is genuine. “I will raise this in parliament. Congress has already been opposing the ordinances. Farmers should protest outside the residences of Akali-BJP MPs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agri-ordinances-protests-held-outside-cong-mps-houses-in-amritsar/story-OYDyjpu4Hb55ducqVTyhOM.html
21-07-2020||City||PSEB Class 12 results: Mohali schools record highest ever pass percentage of 93.1%||At 93.6%, Mohali schools have recorded the highest pass percentage ever in the Class 12 examinations conducted by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB).As many as 6,410 of the 6,881 students, who took the exams in March, have passed, an increase of 3.3% from last year’s 89.86%.However, Mohali dropped by three positions among all districts in terms of performance. Mohali is at the 11th position in the state in the district-wise performance, whereas it was placed 8th in 2019.Ropar district has topped the list this year by achieving 96.93% results. Faridkot and Ferozepur, with 96.61% and 95.68% pass percentage, respectively, are second and third.In 2018, Mohali had ranked ninth, when the pass percentage rose to 71.80% from a dismal 56.64% in 2017. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the board had cancelled the exams after March 18. Therefore, it calculated students’ scores based on the average of the top three best scores in four subjects.The same formula was implemented for students who appeared in exams for division improvement in more than one subject.A total of 80 schools, including 46 government schools, in Mohali are affiliated to PSEB. According to the data provided by the board, 19 schools have achieved 99% results.“This year, we were hoping to figure in the top five districts, as the teachers and students worked really hard. But, we are happy that our overall pass percentage of 93.16% has beaten all records in the past five decades,” said Himat Singh Hundal, district education officer (DEO).PSEB chairman Krishan Kumar said, “For the first time, Mohali has witnessed a pass percentage of 93.16%. We worked on enhancing teachers’ ability through capacity building and regular monitoring of students’ performance in each subject. Teachers paid extra attention on students weak in certain subjects, which helped produce better results,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pseb-class-12-results-mohali-schools-record-highest-ever-pass-percentage-of-93-1/story-ETX6uPf4oRBGP4mALTb0II.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to establish chair in Sushma Swaraj’s name||Panjab University will establish a chair in the name of Sushma Swaraj, former external affairs minister and alumnus of the varsity.Swaraj, who died of cardiac arrest in August last year, graduated from PU’s department of laws in 1973. PU has constituted a committee to identify the department where the chair will be established. The panel is headed by former vice-chancellor, KN Pathak, and includes seven other members.The committee has been asked to suggest a vacant position of professor either in the law, political science or sociology department. A meeting of the panel was held on Tuesday.A member of the committee said, “We have suggested that the chair be set up under faculty of laws, since she is the alumnus of the same department.”After her death last year, the matter was also raised in the senate meeting. PU senator Rajat Sandhir at the time had suggested and written to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar suggesting that girls’ hostel number 11 be named after her.“The post will be advertised and applications will be sought. This is to honour her service for to country,” said another member of the committee.Swaraj had enrolled at PU in 1970 for a three-year law degree after completing her schooling at her hometown in Haryana’s Ambala district. Former chairperson of the PU’s department of laws, DN Johar, who taught Swaraj, had also suggested that a chair be established in her name. While recalling Swaraj’s days in PU, Johar said, “I started my career with her batch in 1970. She was an active student, an excellent debater and good at mooting. She aimed to be a legal practitioner and serve people, which she did till her last day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-establish-chair-in-sushma-swaraj-s-name/story-egy0OLCxUtdGtqblVJCytI.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||HP man held for illegally transporting liquor in Panchkula||A resident of Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh, was arrested on Monday evening for allegedly transporting liquor illegally. The accused has been identified as Oshaant Kumar.Police said they got a tip-off that the accused is coming from Manimajra in his vehicle (Ashok Leyland) and is taking liquor illegally to Nalagarh, Himachal Pradesh.Based on the tip-off, they set-up barricades on the Panchkula–Pinjore highway. Police said the accused tried to escape, but was apprehended, and on checking his vehicle, 60 liquor bottles that were meant “for sale in UT Chandigarh only” were recovered.A case was registered against Kumar under Section 61 of the Punjab Excise Act at Chandimandir police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-man-held-for-illegally-transporting-liquor-in-panchkula/story-YLvtbmATFa3BvbQxs4S5NO.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Plans afoot to rope in hotels for isolating asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana district administration has initiated the process to rope in hotel owners who are willing to offer isolation facilities to asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients on their premises.For this, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma has deputed three nodal officers, including Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority’s (GLADA) additional chief administrator, Bhupinder Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Sachin Gupta, and senior medical officer (SMO) Hatinder Kaur. The nodal officers will be coordinating with willing hoteliers so that all guidelines are followed and proper security arrangements are made at the hotels.A health department official, requesting anonymity, said the decision has been taken as some financially well-to-do patients do not want to be stationed in government isolation facilities. “We have been facing this problem a lot as the patients belonging to high income groups have been pressuring us in one or the other way to avoid getting isolated in government facilities. They want the health department to allow home isolation, but that is not a good idea, as we won’t be able to monitor them,” the official said.GLADA ACA Bhupinder Singh said, “We are coordinating with hotel owners and a few have also shown interest. The willing patients will be shifted to isolated rooms in hotels and will have to pay for their stay. They will be provided three meals a day.”The administration had started the exercise few months back as well, but the facility could not be started. Now, hoteliers are also showing low response to provide the facility as restaurants and hotels have been allowed to operate by the government and regular customers will avoid visiting the hotel if positive patients were staying there. President of hotels and restaurants’ association, Amarvir Singh, said, “The administration had approached us around two months back, and at the time, many hoteliers were ready to offer their premises as isolation facilities. But, the officials did any follow up. Now, hoteliers will not be willing to provide the facility, as regular customers would not visit the hotels and restaurants if positive patients were staying there. No official has approached us regarding the same till now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/plans-afoot-to-rope-in-hotels-for-isolating-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-in-ludhiana/story-Ge1N9wG3LL0nSOfvOCFinK.html
21-07-2020||City||Four booked for murder bid on Panchkula man||As many as four men were booked in an attempt to murder case for opening fire at a Panchkula man on Monday night.The victim, Kulkeet Nag, a resident of Kharak Mangoli, Panchkula, told the police that his brother ran a shop near their house. On Monday night, he was walking towards the shop to bring water for his brother and three others having dinner with him.On the way, he saw four men also walking towards the shop, which he found suspicious and stopped. As the men noticed him, one of them opened fire at him, but Kulkeet escaped narrowly as the bullet landed near his feet. When he raised the alarm, the men fired another shot in the air and fled the scene. On his complaint, police have registered a case under Section 25 of the Arms Act, and Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against Rinku, Vishal and their two unidentified accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-booked-for-murder-bid-on-panchkula-man/story-MFk9mZD6TIMCAT4uDbT38J.html
21-07-2020||City||Ticketless passengers on Amritsar-Ludhiana train expose laxity in checking amid pandemic||Two ticketless passengers caught deboarding from an Amritsar train at the Ludhiana railway station on Tuesday has exposed negligence in checking passengers.The passengers, who were fined Rs 940, claimed they boarded the Golden Temple Express in Amritsar, but were neither asked for a ticket while getting on the train nor during the journey.Since trains resumed amid the Covid-19 pandemic, railway staff were directed to ensure that only passengers with confirmed tickets are allowed to travel on trains.On Monday night, as the two passengers deboarded the train in Ludhiana, they stayed back at the platform to avoid thermal screening and getting caught.However, finding their presence suspicious, ticket checking staff asked for their tickets and discovered they had none. Following this, the duo was fined for travelling without tickets.Sushil Kumar, who heads the thermal scanning team at the station, said they received a list of passengers one hour before the arrival of any train. “Once the passengers deboard, their details are matched with the list and they undergo thermal scanning,” he added.If the passenger is not on the list, their ticket and photo identification card are checked, and the team makes a note of their details.Senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) Chetan Taneja said a strong checking system was in place at all railway stations. “I will probe how the passengers managed to travel without tickets,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ticketless-passengers-on-amritsar-ludhiana-train-expose-laxity-in-checking-amid-pandemic/story-gf0TPvQWSdWJfXkDhE8ODO.html
21-07-2020||City||Phagwara Improvement Trust junior assistant held for tampering with govt records||The vigilance bureau has registered a criminal case against Sandeep Mittar, a junior assistant at the Phagwara Improvement Trust, for tampering with government records.A case has been registered against him under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 466 (forgery of record of Court or of public register) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.Acting on a complaint that Mittar had tampered with government records for Rs 50, 000 slips to register a plot. During investigation, the records of three earlier registered plots were also found to have tampered with by the accused misusing his post, said Kapurthala DSP Ashwani Kumar, who conducted the raid and arrested Mittar on Tuesday. Further investigation is on, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/phagwara-improvement-trust-junior-assistant-held-for-tampering-with-govt-records/story-EdZpRLoGJB1zv2eKxcH5pM.html
21-07-2020||City||4 buffaloes electrocuted in Vasai||Four buffaloes which were grazing in a field in Baphane village in Naigaon (East) were electrocuted after they came in contact with a live electric wire on Tuesday morning. The four carcasses have been sent for post-mortem and its report is awaited, said a Waliv police officer.Prashant Mhatre, owner of the cattle, has registered a complaint with the Waliv police which are investigating the case. Mhatre said, “Around 20 buffaloes owned by him, had gone to an open field for grazing at Baphane village in Naigaon (East). Four buffaloes came in contact as live wire that had fallen on the field and they were electrocuted.” Officers from the MSEDCL are now probing as to how the wires were found dangling in the field. They will submit a report to the Waliv police. “I will be demanding compensation from the MSEDCL for the loss of cattle, as each buffalo costed around ₹80,000 said Mhatre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-buffaloes-electrocuted-in-vasai/story-kDoh8lBIDaHoJJKc3kLRTM.html
21-07-2020||City||NHAI pulled up for waterlogging near Aggar Nagar on Ferozepur Road||After several complaints of water accumulation near Aggar Nagar area on Ferozepur Road, here councillor Mamta Ashu on Tuesday pulled up the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials for their failure to redress the problem.Waterlogging in the area was not only causing inconvenience to the public but also leading to accidents, besides damaging roads. On behalf of Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, his wife and MC councillor Mamta Ashu today visited the site of elevated road project near Aggar Nagar on Ferozepur Road, here. She also interacted with the officials of the NHAI and directed them to ensure that there is no water accumulation on the road.Ashu was accompanied by MC councillors Pankaj Kaka, Seema Kapoor, senior Congress leader Sunil Kapoor, SDM Ludhiana (West) Amrinder Singh Malhi, among others.She said that if the issue is not redressed now, it might lead to bigger problems in the future and resolving all problems of the residents is their foremost priority. She added that this project is being monitored by Bharat Bhushan Ashu and his team on a regular basis.Later, she also visited the under-construction Leisure Valley near DAV Public School in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar and issued necessary directions to the staff. She also visited the underpass along the Sidhwan Canal near Ferozepur Road, here and directed the PWD (B&R) officials to get the gutters cleaned properly so that there is no water accumulation there. She told the senior PWD (B&R) officials that she would again visit this site shortly and warned of action if there is water accumulation during the rainy season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nhai-pulled-up-for-waterlogging-near-aggar-nagar-on-ferozepur-road/story-4Tc1HPpVgmocQk1CQVy7wJ.html
21-07-2020||Pune||Pune regional passport office suspends online appointments||The Pune regional passport office after directions from the state government has stopped releasing appointments for the remaining days of the lockdown period taking into consideration the possible crowding at the passport seva kendra in Mundhwa.Taking into account the rising number of Covid-19 patients, Vikram Kumar, the newly appointed Pune municipal commissioner declared a 10-day lockdown. The lockdown ends on July 23.According to Pune regional passport officer Anant Takawale, the passport department was informed by the state government to stop appointments. “As of today the 520 appointments being given every day have been closed till further orders. In this case, the state government is the authority which took the lockdown decision and we are following its orders,” Takawale said. Despite the state government’s appeal to stay indoors many were found crowding the passport office after it opened after the previous two-month lockdown.“We have been following all the social distancing norms of the state government for Covid-19 and every effort is being taken for the safety of the applicants and the staff,” Takawale added.In March, after lockdown 1.0 announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, all the passport offices in the country halted appointments. In May, the passport appointment was restarted in states which were out of red zones.Since Maharashtra fell under the red zone category, the passport offices were shut and centres began functioning only during the second week of June after due permission was given by the state government. Initially, in each of passport centres, a lot of only two hundred appointments was released as it was aimed at maintaining social distance norms of the state government.However, in phases, the number of appointments went up to 700 in the month of July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-regional-passport-office-suspends-online-appointments/story-oPD4eLdqUYJN8UBi1VuZaM.html
21-07-2020||Pune||Water for Wagholi: Rs 22-cr pipeline project kicks off||The work for laying a dedicated water supply line for Wagholi has started after a follow up of more than two years by local residents. The Rs 22 crore worth 5 million litres per day (MLD) water pipeline project will solve the decade-old water crisis in the area.HT had highlighted the crisis two years ago, despite paying taxes to the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) the residents of Wagholi were subject to buying water and the residential societies’ total expenditure for water was more than Rs 50 crore annually.This included the bills of private water tanker owners.The water crisis issue was taken up with the previous government by the Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA) who presented tabulated data of purchase of water from private water tankers at exorbitant costs. The WHSA pointed out that when residents were paying taxes regularly, then a dedicated water supply line must not be denied to them.WHSA had even complained to the police department that the citizens were being forced to buy water at a very high cost from private sellers and had demanded that their problem be solved at the earliest.Despite an approved work order, no progress on the construction was made for eight months. The villagers, elected representatives and residents of housing societies had demonstrated outside the Pune Metropolitan and Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) office seeking an early start of the project. The PMRDA authorities said that 5 MLD water supply scheme would cater to the rising needs of the burgeoning population of the area.WHSA director Sanjeev Kumar Patil said that the water crisis had created lot of difficulties for the residents of over 200 residential societies in the area.“The water tanker operators were charging huge sums and each of the society has been bearing an amount ranging between Rs 5 to 6 lakh per month as water bills. The residents thought that when they were paying over Rs 60 lakh as taxes then why was a dedicated water pipeline being denied to them. We took up the issue with the highest level of government and the work was finally sanctioned and now has started,” he said.Wagholi gram panchayat rural development officer Anil Kumbhar said, “ The PMRDA has sanctioned Rs 22 crore for the water supply line laying project and the work is likely to be completed in the next one and half year time.”The Wagholi gram panchayat is entrusted with supervisory and executive control exercised by the Pune Metropolitan and Regional Development Authority (PMRDA), the parent body looking after the gram panchayat. The area residents require 2, 70, 00,000 litres per day while the water supplied by panchayat is only 20, 25,000 litres per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/water-for-wagholi-rs-22-cr-pipeline-project-kicks-off/story-Mtdcpe2SJubD8bmRfiIxyI.html
21-07-2020||Pune||Shut for four months, fitness industry struggles to stay afloat in Pune||Gymnasiums and fitness centres in the city have been shut since March 2020, which has left trainers and coaches unemployed for the past four months.There are almost 3,000 gyms among which 1,500 are micro gyms in Pune which has remained shut, having a huge impact on the financial status of the owners of the gyms and fitness trainers. The sports fraternity and fitness lovers are waiting for the gyms to reopen. The fitness industry has suffered a total loss of approximately Rs 30 crore in the past four months. The monthly revenue of a small gym is Rs 1.5 to 2 lakh per month while the large fitness centres earn Rs 8 lakh to 12 lakh per month.Nilesh Kale, president of the Pune fitness association said, “I have appealed to the government to give us guidelines which we can follow and reopen gyms but we have been ignored for months. PMC is not responding to our appeals and requests. We also pitched them with necessary guidelines and asked them to modify them according to their norms yet there was no response. We will protest soon if they do not allow gyms and fitness centres to reopen.”Kalyani Jada, the owner of AJ’s Warriors fitness claims her request to reopen the business was treated as a joke at the PMC office.“I went to the PMC office and when I requested for the fitness industry to be back in business, the PMC officials overthrew our request with humour. Many gym trainers and owners are committing suicide due to zero income. We have to extend member’s subscription as they have paid for a quarter or annual membership even though we suffered the loss of 15 lakh rupees in the last four months. We are ready to reopen with all the precautions,” Jada said.Kaustubh Shegde, gym trainer said he has had no income for the last five months“The fitness industry focuses on mental and physical health and yet it is categorized in the entertainment industry by the government even when mental and physical immunity should be on the highest priority in the Covid-19 situation,” Shedge said.The owner of RC fitness club Rupesh Chavan in Wagholi said that survival is a basic challenge at the moment.“I think gyms and fitness centres definitely help increase immunity hence should be permitted to reopen as salons and hotels are now open. We are helpless and also out of money and hence for us, survival is a basic challenge that we are facing every day. Gyms in Pune are paying Rs 3 crore for light bills hence we are worried about the losses we will have to face in future,” Chavan said.“I am eagerly waiting for gyms to reopen as working out from home is not giving me satisfactory results. However, I will not join a gym unless and until I feel safe. I have paid Rs 4,500 for three months and I have been assured that my membership will be extended after Bios gym reopens,” said Kunal Korad, a member of Bios gym.Chinmay Chavan, La fit gym member, “I have not received any update from the gym and I paid for a six-month membership for which I paid Rs 8,000 in March I am hoping for an extension in membership”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/shut-for-four-months-fitness-industry-struggles-to-stay-afloat-in-pune/story-2gk2aROU4WQZYxBeb49XkM.html
21-07-2020||Pune||Milk protests intensified in Kolhapur, Sangli||The Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti commenced the second day of protests against low milk price in the state by pouring milk over the Shiv Ling at a temple in Udgaon village in Kolhapur.Besides Udgaon, the protest was observed in multiple forms at Shirase, Dhamod, Koulav, Bargewadi, Bhopalewadi, Ghotawade, and Awali villages of Kolhapur in response to the protest started by Shetti.“We prayed to god to help milk traders out of this recession. We prayed to god to bless the Centre with the sense to suspend GST on dairy and products. We also prayed that the government cancels its decision to import 10,000 litres of skimmed milk. We hope the Maharashtra government takes the decision of giving help of Rs 5/litre directly to the accounts of milk traders,” said Shetti while speaking to media representatives.In Sangli district, protesters spilled milk from tankers along the Pune-Bengaluru highway as a mark of protest. The action was replicated by protesters in Shirase village and various other parts of Kolhapur and Sangli.When questioned about the spillage as a wasteful form of protest, Shetti put the onus on the protesters and justified the action.“What is waste really? A bottle of drinking water is Rs 20 per litre while milk, which is considered to be ambrosia among food, costs Rs 17 per litre - Rs 3 per litre less than water. That way, the rainwater - which is the purest form - that flows in gutters should also be considered as wastage of resource,” said Shetti.“At any point of time, the milk business is of no benefit to the farmer. It is hardly a source of livelihood. Milk prices has been a long-standing issue among farmers. The price, moreover, is not controlled by the farmer, but by the customer and the supply-demand. Fortunately, large-scale milk trade is highly organised compared to grains and vegetables. It is Rs 60,00,000 crore business. What ails the industry is a problem much deeper that demands long-term solutions like market intervention operation and not short-term solutions like providing subsidy. It is high-time the government takes up the issue else these protests will keep happening regularly. If the Gujarat government is giving Rs 160 lakh crore subsidy to one of the biggest players in the country like Amul, it is disappointing. For such a big and established organisation, why did the need for subsidy even arise? That is the question,” said DV Ghanekar, managing director of Gokul Dairy.Of the 10,81,000 litres supply of Gokul Dairy on a daily basis, 39,000 litres of milk could not be sent out due to various reasons including the protest. The tankers going to Mumbai and Pune were granted police protection, according to Ghanekar.“At any given point, there are 50 tankers in Mumbai, 50 on roads and 50 in the dairy. The ones on the roads have been given police protection,” said Ghanekar.On Monday, a group of political parties including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Republican Party of India (Athawale) (RPI(A)), Shiv Sangram, among others and members of Ajit Navale-led All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) had also held protests in parts of Ahmednagar and Sangli on Monday. The members of Ajit Navale-led All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) had also held protests in parts of Ahmednagar and Sangli on Monday.According to a statement issued by the group of parties led by the BJP, on Monday, BJP Pune city chief Jagdish Mulik demanded Rs 10/litre as remuneration in the bank accounts of milk traders as against Rs 5/litre demanded by Shetti.When asked about the difference in the demand of two groups of protestors for direct benefit for the farmers, Mulik said, “We are asking for Rs 10/litre and Rs 50/kg of milk powder to be given directly to the farmers. I do not know about the others, but we have spoken to the farmers and stakeholders to come up with the figure. We have given them a time of 10 days to come up with ways to make it happen or else we will intensify our protest.” However, Mulik said that the party has not yet decided the mode of expressing intensity of their protest.The BJP members have warned of intensified protests on August 1 if their demands are not met by July 31, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/milk-protests-intensified-in-kolhapur-sangli/story-62hRGI3hzJg0f3COQ6x4SK.html
21-07-2020||City||Two mobile phones, tobacco seized from Ludhiana Central Jail inmates||A day after a head constable deputed at Ludhiana Central Jail was arrested for carrying narcotics into the premises, the staff has seized two mobile phones and 64 packets of tobacco from three inmates on Monday.The police have been establishing a link between the head constable and inmates, as they suspect that the cop supplied tobacco and mobiles to them. The accused have been identified as Harsimran Singh, Sunny and Suraj Kumar.Assistant jail superintendent Shiv Kumar said that during special checking on Monday, they seized two mobile phones and 64 packets of tobacco from their possession. They have written to the police for lodging an FIR in the matter.ASI Tajinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 42, 45, 52A (1) of the Prisons Act has been registered against the accused. The accused will be brought on production warrant for questioning to know how they managed to procure the confiscated items in the prison.On Sunday, during a special checking, the jail staff recovered eight packets of tobacco hidden in the cop’s shoes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-mobile-phones-tobacco-seized-from-ludhiana-central-jail-inmates/story-I9RhyiseiWNSjlGmLRrE1H.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Arrange cash-credit limit for paddy procurement: Punjab CM to finance dept||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Tuesday, directed the finance department to arrange cash-credit limit in time to ensure timely payment to farmers in the 2020-21 kharif marketing season.While reviewing preparations for the purchase of paddy in state, which is likely to start from October 1, the CM said payment to farmers should be done within 48 hours of procurement, as was done in the rabi marketing season.He directed the food department to coordinate with the Centre and ensure that cash-credit limit is released in time.He asked chief secretary Vini Mahajan to coordinate with the authorities concerned and open more mandis to ensure social distancing amid Covid-19 pandemic so that paddy procurement can be handled effectively.He directed the state food department to ensure seamless and hassle-free procurement of paddy so that farmers do not face any hardships.The CM asked the food and civil supplies department to explore possibilities of reusing once-used gunny bags and plastic bags after state food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu informed him that due to covid restrictions, jute mills in Kolkata are not functioning at full capacity thus affecting the supply of gunny bags.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/arrange-cash-credit-limit-for-paddy-procurement-punjab-cm-to-finance-dept/story-KiwOCZlCOuGaL4oSpFbdsM.html
21-07-2020||City||BJP demands restart of developmental works||PUNE: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Tuesday met Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and appealed to him to restart developmental works in the city as part of the Covid-19 plans.Pune member of parliament Girish Bapat, mayor Murlidhar Mohol, BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik, member of legislative assembly Bhimrao Tapkir and Siddharth Shirole discussed various issues with the civic chief.Bapat said, “Almost all major development works have come to a standstill in the last four months because of the Covid situation. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) must need to restart metro, flyovers at Chandani chowk and other places, medical college, bus procurement and equal water distribution projects.”The MP said that despite the Centre releasing funds to Maharashtra to tackle the pandemic situation, Pune is yet to get its due share.“The central government has given a special package of Rs2,059 crore to Maharashtra. PMC also spent more than Rs200 crore under the Covid-19 plans. Yet, the state government has just released Rs3 crore for Pune. BJP is demanding a financial assistance package for small business owners who are badly affected due to the virus situation,” Bapat saidBapat said that leaders of all political parties should join hands to handle the present pandemic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-demands-restart-of-developmental-works/story-8jRus1X3KoK68d79KhSIxJ.html
21-07-2020||City||Two more cops from Gharuan police post positive, 23 fresh Covid-19 cases in Mohali||Two more policemen from Gharuan police post were among the 23 new Covid-19 cases confirmed in Mohali on Tuesday, taking the district count to 574.The two male constables are aged 46 and 47. On Sunday, three other cops had tested positive, following which public dealing was suspended at the police post. Among the other patients, four men, aged 55, 49, 37 and 22, are from Sectors 69, 126, 94 and 66, respectively.Three men, aged 59, 14 and 8, were found positive in Phase 6.A 26-year-old woman is from Phase 9 and a 40-year-old from Phase 3B2, besides a 35-year-old male from Phase 3B1.In Kharar, a 47-year-old man and a 46-year-old woman tested positive in Hira Enclave. Two men, aged 55 and 28, and a 62-year-old woman are from Sarvoj Enclave. A 23-year-old man is from Sunny Enclave, a 37-year-old man from Gharuan and a 48-year-old woman from Kharar.Two men, aged 63 and 41, are in Zirakpur, and a 41-year-old woman in Baltana.Meanwhile, nine more patients were discharged on Tuesday, bringing the number of active patients down to 191. While 371 have recovered, 12 have died.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said most of the cases were contacts of already positive persons, who either had travel history or were contacts of Covid patients. “All patients are admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Most of them are asymptomatic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-cops-from-gharuan-police-post-positive-23-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-mohali/story-GsD8JujlIb0qpQr2JsyQ1H.html
21-07-2020||City||Stalker rapes 18-year-old Ludhiana girl asleep on the roof||An 18-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man, who had been stalking her, in Ramandeep Colony on Monday night.Police said the girl, a student of Class 10, was sleeping on the roof of her house, while her family was asleep downstairs, when the accused, Vinay Singh, 22, scaled the wall and reached the terrace. He raped the girl, who raised the alarm. Hearing her cries for help, her family members rushed upstairs, when Singh slapped the girl’s woman and managed to flee. In her complaint to the police, the victim said Singh had been stalking for a month.Sub-inspector Harbhajan Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Jamalpur station. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stalker-rapes-18-year-old-ludhiana-girl-asleep-on-the-roof/story-cNWigdUc1kD5dYO8hIz7JK.html
21-07-2020||City||Thane man duped of ₹17 lakh, one booked||Naupada police has booked an unknown person for duping a 43-year-old man off ₹17 lakh. The accused identified himself as Sumit Ahuja and posed as an executive of an insurance company and asked him to close his policy and transfer the amount to another link of the bank which he sent. Thane cyber police are investigating the case.The accused introduced himself as a service department employee of a popular life insurance company. He allegedly told complainant that his five policies with the company has five years of locking period and added that the information given was wrong. He said the policies needed upgradation. The accused was allegedly asked to transfer his insurance money to an elite advanced plan. Police inspector, D Kshirsagar said, “The accused had sent some insurance policy information from fake email address. He then convinced the complainant to transfer his money immediately in his provided bank account number. Accordingly, the complainant closed his policies of ₹17 lakhs and transferred all money to the fake account. We have registered an FIR under IPC 420, 406 and IT Act 66 D for cheating.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-man-duped-of-17-lakh-one-booked/story-yERpRnCUR6A7pUmLjWVwbP.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Jai Ram inaugurates development projects worth ₹11-cr in Rampur||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday inaugurated developmental projects worth over ₹ 11 crore in the Rampur Vidhan Sabha area of Shimla district over video conference on Tuesday.The key projects he inaugurated include the commerce block of government degree college, Rampur; the building of the primary health centre, Pancha; gravity water supply scheme, Kugal Balti; Khakrola flow irrigaton scheme and; mult-storey parking at Indira Market of Rampur town.In his address, the CM said the state government was ensuring that the pace of development does not suffer due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Though, the cases have increased in the country, but situation the situation is under control,” said Thakur, adding that most of the developed countries had suffered the most due to the virus.“However, the crisis is not over yet and we should take all the precautions to avoid the infection,” said Thakur.TAKES A DIG A VIRBHADRAIn a veiled attack on his predecessor, Virbhadra Singh, Thakur said no chief minister had faced such a crisis but a few Congress leaders were pretending as though they and their family had vast experience in fighting the pandemic.He also hailed the people of the state for their contribution in the battle against the virus and said Himachal was in a far better position compared to the other states.“The state has been appreciated at the national level for its approach in the fight against Covid-19,” said Thakur.The CM said that in its two-and-a-half year tenure the state government had ensured all-round development in the state. He said several schemes had been launched in the state for the benefit of all sections of society with special focus on upliftment of the masses.He said around 2.76 lakh free gas connections had been provided to eligible women under the Grihini Suvidha Yojana. He said that under the HimCare Yojana around 86,000 patients had been treated by spending around ₹ 77 crore.Urban development minister Sarveen Chaudhary, BJP mandal president Bheem Sain Thakur also joined the event through video conference. Former minister Singhi Ram, BJP executive member and director HIMFED Naresh Chauhan, Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap and local leaders were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jai-ram-inaugurates-development-projects-worth-11-cr-in-rampur/story-chvEx4lVY9navOV3ZTVPmN.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||PAU closed till July 24 as staffer, husband test positive for Covid-19||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) will remain closed till July 24 as one of its senior assistants and her husband have tested positive for Covid-19.Research work has also stopped till Friday though online classes for students will continue. Entry of outsiders has been restricted on campus though field staff for essential services are allowed in. According to information from PAU, a senior assistant in the School of Business and her husband who works in a hospital tested positive last Thursday. As both got admitted to hospital the university restricted movement on campus, and on Monday evening decided to shut down till July 24. Officials say the senior assistant was in contact with the university professors before her report came out positive.“The decision (to close) has been taken as a precautionary step and the buildings are being sanitised. The university will now open on Monday (July 27),” says PAU estate officer TS Bains. “The entry of outsiders has been restricted and only field staff required for essential works are visiting the university. The teaching staff has been directed to continue online classes from home their respective houses so that the study should not get disturbed.The next decision regarding opening the campus will be taken on Friday,” he adds. President of PAU employees union, Baldev Singh Walia says the staff are fearful of contracting the virus “due to which the university decided to shut the campus and take up the sanitisation process. Contact tracing is also being done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pau-closed-till-july-24-as-staffer-husband-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-qMVkLJAk57g8lxHiy20uWO.html
21-07-2020||Kolkata||‘Gujarat model will not rule Bengal’: CM Mamata Banerjee messages Centre||The Gujarat model cannot rule West Bengal and Trinamool Congress (TMC) will see a historic victory in the 2021 state assembly polls, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at a virtual rally on Tuesday afternoon, focusing her attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party and flagging off her election campaign a year in advance.CM Banerjee did not name Prime Minister Narendra Modi or home minister Amit Shah but referred to Gujarat, their home state, instead. Banerjee accused the BJP of using money to win state elections or overthrow opposition governments in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. She also accused the Centre of introducing “kaala kanoon” (dark laws) and destroying the country’s economic and democratic structure. “Do not think that just because the Covid-19 pandemic is on right now people have forgotten how you (BJP) want to divide people using the National Register of Citizens and National Population Register. Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians are all citizens of India,” said Banerjee while addressing the TMC’s annual show held in memory of the 13 youth Congress workers killed in police firing in Kolkata on July 21, 1993.Railways, Air India, Coal India Limited et al are being sold off. I am sorry that you are in power at the Centre. You have destroyed the economy and the democratic structure. Gujarat [model] cannot rule Bengal. If Gujarat has to rule all states then what is the use of the Election Commission of India, the judiciary, the other parties. Let there be one party and a Presidential form of government,” said Banerjee.“The TMC government has increased the employment rate in the state by 40 % while the unemployment rate in the country has touched 45%. If we come back to power then poor people will get free ration, medical treatment and education for their lifetime,” said the chief minister.“I invite those who joined other parties to come back. If they have made mistakes, then please remember that the TMC is the only party that can give good governance. I am inviting dedicated youths to join us and work on the field. We want the next line of leadership,” said Banerjee. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh reacted by saying Banerjee has started making promises a year in advance because she is aware that her party will not win the next election. “I could feel the fear in her voice,” said Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/gujarat-model-will-not-rule-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-messages-centre/story-6a69KHxEeYV7enOJlpq4kO.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||HPTDC starts online order service for food takeaway, home delivery||Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation on Tuesday started an online order service for food takeaway and home delivery at selected properties. The service has initially been started at Hotel Peterhoff,Shimla; Goofa Ashiana Restaurant, Shimla; Hotel Kunzam, Manali; Cafe Monal, Kullu; Cafe Ravi View, Chamba; and Cafe Satluj, Rampur. HPTDC managing director Kumud Singh said the service will be extended to other properties in a phased manner. She said the general public can submit online food orders at these properties by visiting website www.hptdconwheels.in. “Orders can be placed from 9am to 6pm. The HPTDC staff has been trained to take all necessary steps to prevent Covid-19. The food is prepared by trained chefs of the corporation in a safe and hygienic environment,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hptdc-starts-online-order-service-for-food-takeaway-home-delivery/story-Anhm8IyTJh3yrZbQHd4OrI.html
21-07-2020||City||Haryana to bear 100% cost of insuring cotton crop||Cotton growers in Haryana, who have enrolled for Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana’ (PMFBY), a crop insurance scheme and crop diversification scheme Mera Pani-Meri Virasat, will not have to worry about any increase in the premium rates. The state government will bear 100 % cost of insuring the alternate crops.Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal said following modifications in the central government’s crop insurance scheme, farmers will have to pay 2% of the sum insured for Kharif, 1.5% of the sum insured for Rabi, and 5% for cotton, which is a commercial and annual crop.“However, farmers who opt to cultivate alternate crops, including cotton, under the state’s crop diversification scheme will not have to pay any insurance premium. The state government will also bear 100 % premium share of maize crop in eight blocks in five districts,” Kaushal said.About 49 lakh farmers in Haryana were covered under the insurance scheme between Kharif 2016 and Kharif 2019. A premium of ₹2,524 crore was paid during this period of which farmers paid ₹ 812 crore, the state government paid ₹996 crore and central government paid ₹716 crore. In comparison, the farmers received ₹ 2,662 crore as claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-to-bear-100-cost-of-insuring-cotton-crop/story-4Nmsa1hU4cEXtWHR1ro5ZL.html
21-07-2020||City||Heavy showers in Himachal, likely to continue till July 27||Heavy rains lashed Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday as the state meterological department issued a yellow weather warning for middle and lower hills. Yellow warnings have also been issued for Chamba, Kangra, Mandi and Sirmaur districts for July 24 and Kangra, Solan and Sirmaur districts for July 25. State MeT director Manmohan Singh said rainfall is very likely to continue throughout the state till July 27. Heavy showers were witnessed at most places in the state during the last 24 hours and the minimum and maximum temperatures decreased by one to two degrees.Guler in Kangra district recieved 61mm rain which was the highest in the state followed by Palampur 50.4mm, Bhoranj in Hamirpur district 39mm while Dharampur and Nahan received 38.0 mm rain each. Bilaspur received 36mm, Jogindernagar in Mandi district 25mm, Dharamshala 27.4mm, Una and Kasauli received 20mm each, Kufri 14mm, Shimla 8.5mm and Manali 6mm.Maximum temperature in Shimla was 25.4°C and 17°C in Kufri. Prominent hill stations including Manali recorded 21.2°C maximum temperature while Dalhousie in Chamba district recorded 20.7°C. Maximum temperature in Dharamshala was 28.8°C, Solan 29.5°C, Una 32.6°C, Hamirpur 34.8°C and Nahan in Sirmaur district 26.8°C.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded 19.9°C maximum temperature.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest at 9.4°C while Bilaspur was the hottest place in the state at 35°C maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-showers-in-himachal-likely-to-continue-till-july-27/story-of3GwI4ziroSJz4cytpZSN.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||PSEB Class-12 results declared, highest pass percentage recorded||The Punjab School Education Board’s (PSEB) Class-12 result that was declared on Tuesday is one for the annals as 90.98% students cleared the exam, the highest since the board’s inception in 1970. Keeping with the trend, this year too girls outshone the boys with an average pass percentage of 94.83% while boys scored 90.99%.Board chairperson Krishan Kumar said that for the first time that the board had recorded a pass percentage of 90.98%. “Even government schools boasted of a high pass percentage of 94.32% in the last five decades,” he said.In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the board conducted 76 exams of 149 exams and 73 exams were cancelled. Results at a glance Pass percentage -98.98 %Total students – 2,86,378Students who passed – 2,60,545Pass percentage of regular students – 92.77 %Pass percentage of open-school students- 68.26 %Pass percentage of girls- 94.83 %Pass percentage of boys- 90.99 %Pass percentage of urban areas- 91.96 %Pass percentage of rural areas - 93.39 %Pass percentage of affiliated schools- 91.84 %Pass percentage of associated schools – 87.04%Pass percentage of government schools – 94.32 %Pass percentage of aided schools- 91.03 %School education minister Vijay Inder Singla said this year’s results were based on the best performing subject formula.Rupnagar topped the state with a pass percentage of 96.93%, while Barnala came in last with an 84.69% pas percentage.GOVT SCHOOLS PERFORMED BETTER The minister said for the second consecutive year, government schools had performed far better than affiliated and associated schools in the terms of the pass percentage as 94.32% students of government schools passed the exams, while 91.84% and 87.04% students of affiliated and associated schools managed to get promoted for higher studies. He said 92.77% regular students excelled in the exams.Stream-wise percentageMedical – 93.80%Non-medical – 95.36%Commerce – 91.05%Humanities – 92.87%Vocational -88.81%In 2017, the pass percentage of Class-12 was below 63%. A slight improvement of 65.97% was witnessed in 2018. In 2019, 86.41% students passed, which was notably higher than previous years. Also, the pass percentage of students belonging to rural areas was higher than those in urban areas at 93.39% and 91.96%, respectively. This year, 68.26% students of the open-school category also passed the Class-12 exams.District-wise pass percentageRupnagar- 96.93%Faridkot- 61 %Ferozepur – 95.68 %Bhatinda- 95.65 %Moga- 95.65 %BEST PERFORMING SUBJECTS FORMULADue to the cancellation of exams, PSEB adopted ‘best-performing subjects’ formula. If a student appeared in exams for four subjects, then the average of the best three subjects will be awarded to him in the subjects, for which exams were cancelled. The same formula has been implemented for those students who had appeared in exams for division improvement in more than one subject. The last chance compartment students have been promoted on the basis of average of already passed subjects.The minister said the results of those students who had applied for improvement or additional subject in only one subject has not been declared as they will be given another chance to appear once the situation becomes normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pseb-class-12-results-declared-highest-pass-percentage-recorded/story-KcB2Efij3NmDkKMEuTOnyL.html
21-07-2020||City||Mysterious disease claims lives of 22 buffaloes in Hisar||As many as 22 buffaloes have died of an unknown disease at a dairy farm in Hisar’s Nangthala village since Saturday.Dairy owner, Ranbir alias Bhola of Nangthala, said first a cow succumbed to the disease on Friday and two buffaloes died the next day.“The unknown disease has claimed 22 of my buffaloes so far. I have 110 milk producing animals and have been running this dairy for the past 30 years. I have suffered a loss of nearly Rs 30 lakh. The government should help me,” he said.A team of eight doctors from Hisar’s Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary & Animal Sciences reached the dairy farm and collected samples of dead buffaloes.Dr Rajesh Khurana, a member of the team, said they had collected the dead buffaloes’ samples and a report will be announced in three days.“It is very unfortunate and surprising that a large number of buffaloes died due to an unknown disease. We are inspecting the fodder and water given to these animals. We have appraised senior officials of the death of the buffaloes”, he added.Last year, over 100 animals also died in Charkhi Dadri’s Mehda village due to an unknown disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mysterious-disease-claims-lives-of-22-buffaloes-in-hisar/story-opi9mKSnol4wDIWjhFRX2I.html
21-07-2020||Delhi||Amid higher recoveries, 77% of Delhi’s population still susceptible to coronavirus||A serological survey has found that 77% of Delhi’s population is still susceptible to coronavirus, the government said Tuesday.The results of the sero survey came as Delhi is recording a higher rate of recoveries and lower cases of new infections and casualties due to Covid-19.Follow latest updates in coronavirus here “The sero surveillance was done in Delhi to estimate the prevalence of Covid-19 infection among the general community of Delhi. After nearly 6 months into the pandemic, 22.86% people have been affected and 77% of the population remains susceptible to the virus,” Dr. Sujeet Kumar Singh,Director, National Centre for Disease Control, said at a briefing.The serological survey in the national capital had begun on June 27 to determine the extent of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)’s spread.Some of the districts showed a sero-prevalence of about 27%.“Eight out of 11 districts have sero-prevalence more than 20%. In central, northeast, north and Shahdara districts have sero-prevalence of about 27%, Dr Singh said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage During the serological survey blood samples were taken from randomly selected people. The survey involved rapid tests for antibodies, to study the scale of undetected infections.The samples were tested to ascertain the population-level presence of the IgG antibody, which indicates past infection.Delhi’s Covid-19 tally stands at over 1.23 lakh with more than 15,000 active cases while 3.663 people have died of the disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amid-higher-recoveries-77-of-delhi-s-population-still-susceptible-to-coronavirus/story-uO9cRZbxRX6H7J1cau0ADK.html
21-07-2020||Pune||City’s Covid-19 death count crosses 10,000-mark||The city crossed the 1,000-figure mark for deaths related to the Covid-19 infection, borne of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, on Monday, July 20.Twenty-nine deaths were recorded in the city on Monday, taking the death toll to 1005.Two deaths reported in city hospitals were of residents from jurisdictions outside the Pune municipal corporation (PMC).On Monday, the city also reported 1,817 fresh positive Covid-19 cases, taking the count for progressive positives to 39,203.Close to 6,918 samples were collected for testing, which puts the total number of samples collected in the city till July 20 at 2.09 lakh.Of the 14,757 active cases in the city, 591 are critical, of which 96 are on ventilators and the remaining are in ICUs or undergoing treatment with non-invasive ventilators.Totally, 23,441 people have been discharged till date after being declared as cured, of which 830 were discharged on Monday.Even as the PMC reported 1,817 cases on Monday, the state health department reported 1,252 Covid-19 cases and 22 deaths in Pune.According to the district health office data, Pune district has recorded 1,343 deaths as of Sunday, July 19, of which 989 deaths were in PMC, while the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) had 203 deaths, and the remaining were reported from rural Pune and Cantonment areas.Of these, 125 deaths were reported within the first 24 hours of admission to hospital.Three-hundred-and-seventy-seven deaths have been reported from Sassoon General Hospital; 155 from the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital; and 153 from the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital.The 29 deaths reported on Monday include eight from Naidu hospital, six from Sassoon, five from Deenanath Mangeshkar; and two each from Ruby Hall Clinic, Mai Mangeshkar hospital and Jehangir hospital.One death each has been reported from Sahyadri hospital, KEM hospital, Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital and Surya Sahyadri hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-s-covid-19-death-count-crosses-10-000-mark/story-8nzWu0pVi9IWPMdSGUmGEP.html
21-07-2020||Pune||Covid impact: PCB suffers Rs11.52 crore revenue loss||The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has reported a loss of Rs 11.52 crore in revenue starting from lockdown 1.0 to the current lockdown. The PCB is hit with the worst financial crisis in the past three years and is now facing another major shortfall of revenue generation in three major categories comprising property tax, Vehicle Entry Tax (VET) and pay and park fees during the lockdown.This total sum of revenue loss has been reported at an aggregate of Rs 11.52 crore.According to the data provided by PCB chief executive office, the PCB generated a revenue shortfall of Rs 5 crore in VET from April to June. Similarly, the PCB recorded a loss of Rs 29 lakh in terms of pay and park fees.Also, the revenue from the Chhatrapati Shivaji market has gone down by Rs 5 lakh. Another major revenue loss of Rs 6.18 crore has been reported from the property tax collection department.PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar said that the losses have been calculated chiefly related to VET, pay and park scheme and property tax earnings of the cantonment board.“The PCB has sustained serious losses during the three month lockdown period. We are not getting shop rent from our market, and property tax. We are losing additional revenue of Rs 20 lakh from hoarding advertisements. We have sustained these losses and the requisite income has not been generated. The Covid-19 crisis has also put an additional Covid expenditure on the board budget. We are already on a very tight budget and these losses are compounding our problems further,” Kumar said.The development projects estimated to be worth Rs 200 crore have been hit as the PCB has not received its share of goods and service tax (GST) funds from the state government since July 2017. Neither the state government nor the central government has taken up the PCB-GST issue despite the ongoing Covid crisis wreaking havoc on the cantonment board’s finances. Through the available reserve funds, the PCB can pay salaries to its employees.The developmental projects that have been hit include a state of the art commercial complex at Dhobi ghat, construction of staff quarters, construction of a multi-level parking facility, remodelling and sewage improvement project, replacement of water supply lines, construction of road and drainage, beautification of gardens and some new developmental initiatives needed to enhance the civic infrastructure of the cantonment area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-impact-pcb-suffers-rs11-52-crore-revenue-loss/story-IDleQ7EzgmzmOVInE1PiXP.html
21-07-2020||Pune||Mind matters: Counselling keep cops’ morale high during pandemic||Amid the rising numbers of police personnel testing positive for Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, the Pune police held a counselling session for some of the officials who recovered from the virus.Three policemen have succumbed to the virus while 185 have recovered and 81 are hospitalised, according to officials.“The initiative assumes significance since 269 staff and officers of Pune police has tested positive till now, out of which 185 have recovered while 81 are hospitalised. A total of 35 recovered policemen participated in the programme,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune.The session was moderated by Ashok Morale, additional commissioner of police, crime, Pune and attended by commissioner K Venkatesham, joint commissioner Ravindra Shisve, and DCP Singh.Dr Kavita Kareer, a certified emotional intelligence consultant, counselled the policemen through video conference. “During the session, we were told to increase the will power of those police personal currently infected with the virus. Today’s session was needed,” said a police constable, working at the police headquarter in Shivajinagar and currently deployed at the police check post at Bhopkel naka. “I was in the hospital for 14 days and 14 days in home quarantine. Now I’m fit and fine and working. I have two friends who have recovered from the virus with whom I keep in touch. Additionally, daily I get a list of eight people from the department with whom I have to interact and boost their morale,” she said.Another police constable from Samarth police station, said, “I live here with a roommate who is also a police official. She tested positive first on May 27. We kept in constant touch since then. That conversation is what gave me the courage to face it when I got a fever on May 31. My test result was delayed by seven days, but by then I knew the process and was not scared all because my friends were supportive.”“Now whenever someone tests positive in my police station, I get a call from them. When they come back, I cook a sweet dish and take it for them. We are each other’s support systems,” he said.“Our people who have recovered were called for the counselling. This initiative of Mano-Bharosa will continue. There are 30 counsellors of Jnana Prabodhini Institute who will be joining. Our 35 people will join hands with them and keep in touch with positive police personnel and conduct counselling. Right now it is for only police officials later we will include the general public as well,” said additional CP Morale.The doctors also advised the policemen to counsel the patients in the city without prejudice and in a friendly manner, according to a statement issued by the Pune police.Dr Anagha Lavlekar, director of Jnana Probodhini Institute of Psychology also interacted with the policemen.Dr Mamatha Venkatesham and Dr Niharika Venkatesham were also present during the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mind-matters-counselling-keep-cops-morale-high-during-pandemic/story-aQIKQrANWUPlflaEtcIDEL.html
21-07-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad journalist shot at in front of his daughters; 9 held in the case||A Ghaziabad-based journalist was hospitalised after he was shot at by some assailants near his home and nine people have been arrested so far in connection with the case, police said on Tuesday. The attack comes days after Vikram Joshi, who works with a local daily, lodged a complaint at Ghaziabad’s Vijay Nagar police post against some people for harassing his niece on July 16. Joshi was returning home in Vijay Nagar area with his two daughters on a motorcycle when he was waylaid by over half a dozen armed men at around 10.30 pm on Monday, officials said. The journalist was shot in the head by one of the accused, who then fled the spot, leaving him severely injured. He was taken to a hospital where he is in a critical condition, they said. Senior Superintendent of Police, Ghaziabad, Kalanidhi Naithani said nine people, including two of the three named in the FIR, have been arrested while the local police post in-charge was suspended in the wake of the incident. “The FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code sections 307 (attempted murder), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several people with a common intention) on complaint by Joshi’s brother Aniket Joshi,” Naithani said. The FIR had three named suspects – Chhotu, Akash Bihari and Ravi besides some unidentified people. Chhotu and Ravi have been arrested, while searches are underway to nab Akash and six police teams are working on the case, he added. The police have also arrested Mohit, Dalbir, Akash, Yogendra, Abhishek, Abhishek and Shaqir based on evidence in connection with the case, Naithani added. In his complaint lodged at the Vijay Nagar police post, Joshi had named Chhotu, Ravi and Akash, his family said. The journalist was given a life threat by the accused men, according to the allegations made in the FIR. “The family has alleged inadequate action by the local police post in-charge, who has been suspended with immediate effect considering the gravity of the matter. A departmental inquiry has been ordered and the local Circle Officer will probe the matter,” SSP Naithani said. Meanwhile, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attacked the Uttar Pradesh government over the law-and-order situation in the state following the incident.“Ghaziabad falls in NCR. Going by the state of law and order here, one can get an idea of the situation in the entire state of UP. A journalist was shot at because he complained to the police against molestation of his niece. How will common man feel safe in such a jungle raj,” she said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-journalist-shot-at-in-front-of-his-daughters-9-held-in-the-case/story-AP9ay5XQ40WV5gfiq7IMuJ.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Bathinda turns Venice after downpour, residents bring out boat in protest||Bathinda: Residents of Parasram Nagar in Bathinda took to boating on inundated streets in protest against the municipal corporation’s ill-preparedness in resolving the problem of waterlogging during the monsoon every year.Led by Vijay Kumar Sharma, a former municipal councillor, the residents made their way on a boat and waded through waist-deep water and said the authorities had not learnt a lesson from last year’s monsoon when parts of the city had remained inundated for days.“Residents of six localities, including Parasram Nagar, are low-lying and bear the brunt of flooding. There is no accountability of officials and elected representatives as residents continue to suffer,” Kumar said.INCESSANT RAIN TO BLAMEThe Punjab Agricultural University’s local observatory at the regional research Centre recorded 104 mm of rainfall in Bathinda on Tuesday.Agrometeorology scientist Raj Kumar Pal said in July, Bathinda has already received 214 mm of rainfall against the average rainfall of 120 mm.It rained incessantly since midnight, inundating many parts of the city.Several localities such as the area around the district administrative complex that houses the official residences of the deputy commissioner, inspector general of police (IGP) and judicial officials were under three feet of water.Residential pockets in Sirki Bazaar area, on Mall Road, Power House Road besides Parasram Nagar, Ganesha Basti and Vir Colony were among the worst hit.“A single spell of heavy rain exposes the unpreparedness of the authorities. Though Sirki Bazaar is in the heart of the city, it is prone to waterlogging due to lack of maintenance,” says Rinku, who deals in paints.COVID FIGHT TAKES TOLL ON MAINTENANCEOfficials say Bathinda also lacks a dedicated storm water drainage network and sewage lines are used to drain rainwater. They blame the Covid-19 outbreak behind the slow progress of maintenance before the monsoon.“Haphazard development in the last decade has left little room for the wastewater disposal system. Bathinda’s geographical condition is such that rainwater accumulates only at certain natural depressions. Due to mushrooming residential and commercial spaces, the corporation has to use high-powered pumps to drain rainwater out of streets,” said an MC official.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the administration has taken steps to expedite rainwater drainage. He said two ponds with a water holding capacity of 1.5 lakh metric cubic metre were opened at Mansa road and Sanjay Nagar. Another old pond near DAV College that has been reworked to store 1.25 lakh cubic metres of water is in the works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-turns-venice-after-downpour-residents-bring-out-boat-in-protest/story-EZVYNdyDbnxdw67wfq1fMJ.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Uddhav Thackeray will definitely go for Ram temple bhoomi pujan’, claims Sanjay Raut||Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray will definitely go for the ground-breaking ceremony of Ram temple construction in Ayodhya, party MP Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday.Asked whether Thackeray has received an invitation for the ceremony, Raut said, “it will come.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh on August 5 for the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony to begin the construction of the Ram temple.Chief Minister Thackeray will definitely go for the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony, because the Shiv Sena shares sentimental, religious and national ties with this issue,” Raut told a TV channel.“As I had said yesterday, the Shiv Sena had made a big contribution, and (Shiv Sainiks) shed their blood and made sacrifices for the cause of Ram temple construction,” he added.Raut reiterated that Thackeray keeps visiting Ayodhya and has done so before and after becoming the chief minister of Maharashtra.The ceremony is historic from the point of view of the country, Hindutva, for the thousands of martyrs, he said. Raut also said lakhs of Lord Ram devotees would have turned up for the ceremony had there been no Covid-19 crisis prevailing.The Rajya Sabha member on Monday claimed his party paved the way to the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya and removed roadblocks in the temple construction for the cause of Hindutva and not for politics.It needs to be seen how many people will be invited for the temple’s ground-breaking ceremony next month and what social distancing measures will be taken at the event (in view of the Covid-19 outbreak), Raut said.“What ‘political social distancing’ they will observe remains to be seen,” he said.After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court on November 9 last year paved the way for the construction of Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site in Ayodhya.The apex court directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a “prominent” place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-will-definitely-go-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-claims-sanjay-raut/story-6WGIIxZVJORuG3bDwsw1SI.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two liquor contractors shot dead at Chautala village in Sirsa||Rohtak: Two liquor contractors were shot dead by four assailants outside a vend at Chautala village in Sirsa district on the Rajasthan border on Monday night.Mukesh Godara, a resident of Bharukhera village, and Jai Prakash Punia of Chautala village died on the spot, police said on Tuesday.In his complaint, Vijay Kumar said that his cousin Mukesh and Jai Prakash had got the tender to run the liquor vend at Chautala village this year.“Four unidentified men reached the restaurant near the liquor vend on Monday evening. They drank beer and opened fire at Mukesh and Jai Prakash while walking out. They fired more than 30 shots at them before fleeing. We rushed the two to a hospital in Dabwali, where they were declared brought dead,” he said.Vijay Kumar said he suspects the four assailants were from rival group that did not get the tender for the vend this year. It was being run by them last year.Deputy superintendent of police Kuldeep Beniwal said that a case was registered under Sections 302 (murder),34, 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of the Arms Act against Dinesh, Ved Prakash and Sunny, who ran the vend last year, and the four assailants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-liquor-contractors-shot-dead-at-chautala-village-in-sirsa/story-uqPA4KseKLGBnKylX0SimL.html
21-07-2020||Gurugram||Only motorcycle thieves allowed: Police bust exclusive Gurugram ‘club’||During a routine check near the city’s upscale Galleria Market (in DLF 4) on Saturday, Gurugram police arrested two men they suspected of being vehicle thieves — and stumbled into a rabbit hole that led them to a gang of motorcycle thieves. It was large enough and specialised enough to focus on various customer groups, joyriders,those who wanted to use the bike for a crime, people in the spare parts business, or those simply looking to buy a second-hand bike.The gang, or club as the members themselves referred to it, even has a name: Bikers Gang — Hum Sikander (which roughly translates as We The Conquerors). And its members, the police claimed, are behind around 500 motorcycle thefts in the National Capital Region over the past six years.The police added that based on the information provided by the two people they arrested, one 18 years old and the other 22, they have identified 30 more, and are conducting raids to arrest them as well as garage owners who helped them fence the bikes. They said that around 60 members of the club are juveniles.The club was born in prison, said city police commissioner KK Rao. Some of its members met in jails and became friends. The club itself was formed in October 2014 by a Nuh resident who is still serving time in Bhondsi jail — for vehicle theft. “All of them are not habitual offenders. Many educated men in need of money have also been part of this gang. They end up stealing to lead a lavish life. The crime teams are monitoring the movement of habitual offenders, garages, and shops dealing in second-hand spare parts.” Like other associations, the club met once a month, according to Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime). Requirements (of motorcycles) were posted on a WhatsApp group, as was the availability of bikes. The administrator of the group and its name keep changing, he explained. In February, for instance, a new group was formed after six members of the gang were arrested from Gurugram and Nuh.The two arrested men revealed that they travelled more than 700 kilometres to Jammu and Kashmir to sell stolen motorbikes recently, after the lockdown was lifted, and have sold a bike for as low as ₹2,000, the police said. On March 25, India imposed a lockdown to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease. The lockdown, which placed severe restrictions on movements, especially across state boundaries, eventually lasted 68 days.The two also said that due to increased checking in the district after the lockdown, the gang’s members were repainting stolen bikes and changing number plates immediately — and selling them as soon as they could in other states, even if it meant taking a lower price.The police said that the gang found itself jobless during the lockdown. “Most of the people working in companies were away during the lockdown. These gang members were anxiously waiting for victims to park their bikes in Sector 29 and in DLF Phase 4 again,” said Sangwan. The end of the lockdown saw their business revive. Sometimes, Sangwan said, the thieves would speed away with a bike minutes after it had been parked.Police said the gang was trained by mechanics in UP and Nuh and could unlock a bike in minutes — without keys. They added that members carried a small kit with tools to open any kind of bike lock. Sangwan said that sometimes, the bikes are stolen for parts. Engines sell for ₹6,000, lights for ₹300 and brake assemblies for ₹300. The gang’s preferred hunting grounds were DLF Phase 4, Sector 29, MG Road, Sector 14 market, Palam Vihar, the district courts and Sector 5, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/only-motorcycle-thieves-allowed-police-bust-exclusive-gurugram-club/story-snr40J7HcBrG0GAbhqiG4L.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two die as wall collapses on their huts after heavy rain in Rohtak||Rohtak: A 23-year-old woman and a three-year-old boy died at Palika Colony in Rohtak on Monday night when the boundary wall of the adjoining water works complex collapsed on their huts after heavy rain, police said on Tuesday.The victims, identified as Shivani and her neighbour’s son Adarsh Kumar, were sleeping in separate huts when the wall of the public health department’s water works complex collapsed around midnight.Five other members of the two families were injured in the incident and undergoing treatment at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS).Deputy superintendent of police Mahesh Kumar reached the spot along with a team of the forensic science laboratory.The bodies were sent for post-mortem.A case was registered under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-die-as-wall-collapses-on-their-huts-after-heavy-rain-in-rohtak/story-yMFhLQerFs6lWBJKnD1PDI.html
21-07-2020||Delhi||Over 23% of Delhi’s population exposed to coronavirus, shows sero-survey results||More than 23% of Delhi’s 1.9 crore population showed evidence of past exposure to Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, in almost six months and that a large number of infected people remain asymptomatic, the result of the sero-prevalence study conducted in the national capital shows.The Union health ministry said in a statement that 21,387 samples were collected in accordance with laboratory standards and were tested between June 27 and July 10 to determine the extent of the spread of the coronavirus disease in Delhi.“Nearly six months into the epidemic, only 23.48% of the people are affected in Delhi, which has several pockets of dense population,” the Union health ministry, which commissioned the study, said in a statement.Also Read: Delhi records less than 1,000 cases for first time in 7 weeks, Bihar a concernThe seroprevalence study was conducted jointly by the National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Delhi government “following a rigorous multi-stage sampling study design.”Blood samples were taken from randomly selected people as part of the survey, which involves rapid tests for antibodies, to study the scale of undetected infections. The samples were tested to ascertain the population-level presence of the IgG antibody, which indicates past infection.“This can be attributed to the proactive efforts taken by the Government to prevent the spread of infection including prompt lockdown, effective containment and surveillance measures, including contact tracing and tracking, as well as citizen’s compliance to COVID Appropriate Behaviours,” the health ministry said in the statement.Also Read: As cases drop in Delhi, CM Kejriwal says ‘don’t be complacent’The ministry, however, warned that a significant proportion of the population is still vulnerable. “Therefore, the containment measures need to continue with the same rigour. Non-pharmacological interventions such as physical distancing, use of face mask/cover, hand hygiene, cough etiquette and avoidance of crowded places etc, must be followed strictly,” it added.A diagnostic method, serological tests are used to identify antibodies, which are created by the immune system when someone is infected with the virus, and antigens in a person’s blood.Serology (antibody) tests are largely used for surveillance among communities and can be used on people who have already been tested positive for the virus or even those who are asymptomatic.Epidemiologists often use serological surveys to determine who has antibodies and find out who has been infected with the virus, even if someone never reported a positive test or experienced symptoms. Also Read: Oxford Covid-19 vaccine’s first human trial shows promise, more phases underwayA serological survey includes IgG Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) test. It estimates the proportion of the population exposed to Sars-Cov-2 infection. The IgG test is not useful for detecting acute infections but it indicates episodes of infections that has happened in the past. The test is approved by ICMR for its high sensitivity and specificity. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had conducted a pilot sero survey across 83 districts in 21 states in May. Also Read: Ray of light enters dark Covid tunnelThe results showed that the percentage of the general population to have been infected in the past was 0.73%, with urban areas having shown higher Covid-19 prevalence of about 1.09%.Delhi, which has overtaken Mumbai as the worst-affected city in the country, has 123,747 infections so far and 3,663 people have succumbed to the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/over-23-of-delhi-s-population-affected-by-covid-19-shows-serosurvey-results/story-Sq1XXdPkfmDdggyNwGdlSK.html
21-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi cabinet okays doorstep delivery of ration||The Delhi government on Tuesday approved doorstep delivery of ration to eligible beneficiaries, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced, adding that the scheme will be fully implemented in the next six-seven months. “The Delhi cabinet today cleared the scheme on doorstep delivery of ration. It will be named Mukhyamantri Ghar-Ghar Ration Yojana. Under the scheme, ration will be processed, packed and delivered at the doorstep of beneficiaries,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing.The CM said the scheme will take another six months to be put in place as that is the time needed to float tenders and engage agencies which would help in implementation.Kejriwal further said with this scheme the Delhi government will also implement the central government’s ‘one nation, one ration card’ policy, which makes the whole ration system more portable, especially for beneficiaries who migrate between states.This flagship scheme of the Aam Aadmi Party government has been in the pipeline for more than two years.Delhi currently has around 7.5 million ration beneficiaries and 2,028 designated fair price shops, government records show. That ration beneficiaries, the CM said, will have to choose between doorstep delivery and the traditional way of collecting ration from the designated fair price shops. “Those who opt for the doorstep scheme will get processed flour instead of wheat,” said Kejriwal, calling the scheme a “revolutionary step” in governance.He further said, “Along with the doorstep delivery of ration scheme, we will also implement the central government’s scheme of one nation one ration card.”The Delhi government was supposed to launch the doorstep ration delivery scheme in March 2018 but could not do so because of administrative issues. “Later, in 2019, the government initiated a pilot project of doorstep delivery in around five (out of 272) municipal wards in the city and some glitches were identified. All issues have been resolved now and we are in a position to launch the scheme at the earliest,” said a senior official in the food and civil supplies department who did not wish to be identified.The Delhi government, on Monday, directed all fair price shops in the city to update their contact details and Aadhaar number for the doorstep ration delivery scheme to be implemented. The order, which HT has seen, further said the government also plans to re-introduce the electronic point of sales (e-PoS) system for ration distribution.In May, HT published a report saying Kejriwal had directed the food and civil supplies department to restart the Delhi government’s flagship project of doorstep delivery of ration using electronic point of sale (e-PoS) devices. The direction came after Union food minister Ram Vilas Paswan wrote to Kejriwal, urging Delhi to implement the Centre’s ‘one nation, one ration card’ policy.‘The one nation, one ration card’ policy would also ration beneficiaries registered in Delhi to avail ration in other states and vice-versa. Paswan’s letter came at a time when the national capital witnessed large-scale reverse migration of the labour force in the light of the lockdown that was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19.As per the plan, e-PoS devices are to be given to all the 2,028 fair price shops in Delhi and also to agents who would deliver the monthly ration to the doorstep of card holders. The process includes entering the ration card number into the device, followed by the biometric (fingerprint scanning) of the beneficiary or entering the Aadhaar card details. Once the details are matched with the database, the ration is disbursed to the beneficiary.The Delhi government had stopped using e-PoS since April 2018, in the light of large number of complaints concerning inconvenience in availing ration owing to technical glitches that also entailed a tussle between the elected government and top bureaucrats in the food department. “By now, we have got all e-PoS machines checked and the technical glitches have been resolved. Delhi has 100% Aadhaar seeding of its ration card holder. We can start using e-PoS again,” said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cabinet-okays-doorstep-delivery-of-ration/story-eE9wslrVrg9fCRyqy07DvL.html
21-07-2020||Patna||My Covid-19 test results hasn’t come yet, samples collected on July 5: RJD’s Sunil Singh||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MLC Sunil Singh on Monday said that the results of his samples collected for Covid-19 testing have not arrived even after more than a fortnight.He also said that since the day he was tested, he met around 5,000 people.“My sample was collected by a team sent by Patna Civil Surgeon on July 5. I was told that I would get the test report in one or two days but have still not received it. Since July 5, I have met around 5,000 people,” said Singh.Earlier on Monday, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav alleged that different Covid-19 numbers are being given for Bihar by Centre and the state.“Different Covid-19 numbers are being given for Bihar by Centre and the state. People are receiving test report even when they have not given any sample for test. Those who have given the test are not getting their reports,” Yadav told media.“Many MLAs and MLCs of RJD have been waiting for 18 to 19 days but their test reports have not come. Now I even have doubts on the reports of the Chief Minister’s test,” the RJD leader said.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Bihar is 26,569, including 10,044 active cases, 16,308 cured/discharged/migrated, and 217 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/my-covid-19-test-results-hasn-t-come-yet-samples-collected-on-july-5-rjd-s-sunil-singh/story-kR6KBoO1MCmjNuJYWxEeFJ.html
21-07-2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Farmers launch agitation over demand for hike in milk prices||Farmers started an agitation in Sangli and Kolhapur districts of western Maharashtra on Tuesday over their various demands, including a hike in milk procurement prices.The agitators along with members of the Raju Shetti- led Swambhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, a farmers’ organisation, stopped milk tankers and emptied them on the Pune-Bengaluru highway passing the two districts.Talking to PTI, Shetti said they are demanding an increase in milk procurement prices by Rs 5 per litre and the benefit to be directly deposited into the accounts of milk producers.“We are also demanding an export subsidy of Rs 30 for milk producers and cancellation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) levied on milk products,” he said.Shetti also demanded cancellation of the Centre’s decision to import 10,000 tonnes of milk powder.He said milk business in the state has been affected “because of the policies of the central government”.“Since early morning, members of the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana have been agitating in the region (Sangli and Kolhapur) by stopping the milk tankers and spilling milk on roads,” he added.BJP Pune unit president Jagdish Mulik also said they will to launch a statewide agitation from August 1, if the demands of milk producers are not met.On Monday, BJP leaders in Pune submitted a memorandum of their demands to Collector Naval Kishore Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-farmers-launch-agitation-over-demand-for-hike-in-milk-prices/story-gzXebmsqgclNIA6rdWUt6N.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab board Class 12 results declared, govt schools fare better with 94.32 pass percentage||Chandigarh: The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) declared the 10+2 examination results on Tuesday on the basis of the best performing subject formula.State school education minister Vijay Inder Singla said of the 2,86,378 students who took for the examinations before the Covid-19 outbreak, 2,60,547 or 90.98% passed this year.The minister said that for the second consecutive year, government schools continued to do far better than affiliated and associated schools in the terms of pass percentage as 94.32% students of government schools passed the exams, while 91.84% and 87.04% students of affiliated and associated schools managed to get promoted for higher studies.He said that 92.77% regular students excelled in the Class 12 exams.RURAL STUDENTS DO BETTER THAN CITY COUNTERPARTSSingla said, “We are working to uplift the standard of education under the guidance of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Our efforts have started showing results as every year, we register a growth in the pass percentage of board examinations.”He said that in 2017, the pass percentage of Class 12 was below 63% which had registered a slight growth in 2018 by rising up to 65.97%. In 2019, 86.41% students passed, notably higher than previous years.He said the pass percentage of students belonging to rural areas is higher than those in urban areas at 93.39% and 91.96%, respectively.This year, 68.26% students of open school category also passed the Class 12 exams.WHAT IS BEST PERFORMING SUBJECTS FORMULASingla said as exams of some subjects got cancelled, the PSEB adopted the best performing subjects formula. He said that if any student appeared in exams of four subjects, then the average of the best three subjects will be awarded to him in the subjects for which the exams got cancelled.Singla said that the same formula has been implemented for those students who had appeared in exams for division improvement in more than one subject. He added that the last chance compartment students have been declared pass on the basis of average of already passed subjects.The minister said that the result of those students who have applied for improvement or additional subject in only one subject has not been declared as they will be given another chance to appear once the situation becomes normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-board-class-12-results-declared-govt-schools-fare-better-with-94-32-pass-percentage/story-8N3Jsv4Cm53tnyUR3E60bI.html
21-07-2020||Jaipur||In Rajasthan crisis today, hearing in high court and Congress party meeting||Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday resumed hearing a petition by Sachin Pilot and 18 Congress legislators backing him challenging the disqualification notices issued to them by Rajasthan assembly Speaker CP Joshi for their rebellion against the party.Their disqualification will bring down the majority mark in the assembly—101 in the 200-member house making it easier for chief minister Ashok Gehlot to win a floor test. Gehlot has claimed he has the support of more than 100 members of legislative assembly (MLAs) and Pilot is being backed by 18 legislators.Also Read: ‘More concocted allegations coming’: Sachin Pilot after MLA’s bribe chargeA third meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) will also take place at Fairmont Jaipur, a luxury hotel on the outskirts of the state capital where the legislators supporting Gehlot have been staying since last week. In its previous hearing last Friday, the high court had directed that no action can be taken against Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs until 5.30pm on Tuesday.The hearing, which remained inconclusive on Monday, resumed in the court of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta on Tuesday morning.The disqualification notices to Pilot and the MLAs were served after the Congress party complained to Rajasthan assembly speaker CP Joshi that they defied a whip to attend two CLP meetings on July 13 and July 14.Also Read: ‘Who knew person with such innocent face will…’: CM Gehlot roasts Sachin PilotAbhishek Manu Singhvi, representing Joshi, said on Monday that the petition, which was filed on July 15, was premature and that the court should not intervene until the speaker had taken a final call on disqualifying the rebel MLAs from the House.The Pilot camp, however, argues that a party whip applies only when the assembly is in session.Singhvi said the Speaker was well within his jurisdiction to issue notices to the petitioners.Pilot and other rebel MLAs have maintained that they never had the intention to leave the Congress party and were merely exercising their right to criticise party leadership and the functioning of the chief minister.“Pulling down a government and pulling down a chief minister was not the same thing,” Harish Salve, representing the petitioners, said.Pilot was sacked as the Rajasthan deputy chief minister and the president of the state Congress unit after he rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/in-rajasthan-crisis-today-hearing-in-high-court-and-congress-party-meeting/story-4z2U2CcscpLxkb5cMctNrM.html
21-07-2020||Delhi||‘Working together only for TV and ads?’ Gautam Gambhir jabs Kejriwal over Covid-19 centre||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Member of Parliament Gautam Gambhir took a jibe at Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal saying the isolation centre at Kanti Nagar is still not working.“The GGF Covid-19 centre at Kanti Nagar is still closed. Mr Arvind Kejriwal, depite your assurances over video conference, no action has been taken. Is the whole talk about working together only for TV and advertisements? If you want the credit, come and inaugurate it. We have whole life to do politics,” the East Delhi MP tweeted in Hindi on Tuesday morning. GGF का कांति नगर COVID सेंटर आज भी बंद है@ArvindKejriwal जी, VC पर आपके आश्वासन के बाद भी कोई कार्यवाही नहीं. क्या मिलकर काम करने की बातें सिर्फ विज्ञापनों और TV के लिए हैं? अगर क्रेडिट ही चाहिए तो बेशक आप आकर उद्घाटन कर दें. राजनीति के लिए सारी ज़िंदगी पड़ी है pic.twitter.com/5DRLSzfFxbThe Covid-19 isolation centre has built by his foundation. It was handed over to the Delhi government on July 7 by Gambhir.“We have provided 50-bed isolation centre set up Gautam Gambhir Foundation to Delhi government. It is equipped with 30 oxygen cylinders. It is for the people who are not able to isolate themselves in homes,” Gambhir had said while dedicating the centre.He had sought the approval for the centre during a video conferencing with Kejriwal on July 16.The video conference was attended by BJP MPs Ramesh Bidhuri, Meenakshi Lekhi, Manoj Tiwari, Gautam Gambhir and Hans Raj Hans and AAP’s Rajya Sabha MPs Sanjay Singh, ND Gupta and SK Gupta.Meanwhile, Delhi on Monday recorded less than 1,000 new Covid-19 cases for the first time in 49 days, which prompted AIIMS director Randeep Guleria to say that the national capital seems to have hit the peak.Delhi recorded 954 cases on Monday, according to Union health ministry data at 8 am on Tuesday, which pushed the total to 1,23,747. Thirty five deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, which took the total number of fatalities in Delhi to 3,663.The active cases have declined steadily over the last week, bringing the figure down to 15,166 - the lowest in 44 days - while the recovery rate touched nearly 85 per cent.This is for the first time since June 1 that less than 1,000 cases were recorded in a 24-hour span. For the last nine days, fresh cases were being reported in the range of 1,000-2,000.The number of containment zones in the city stands at 696.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/working-together-only-for-tv-and-ads-gautam-gambhir-jabs-kejriwal-over-covid-19-centre/story-eo8xWQvPyMINi2aqej2jxN.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||1 death, 25 fresh Covid-19 infections in Himachal||Twenty-five people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally to 1,656. Ten cases have been reported in Sirmaur district, seven each in Kangra and Solan and one in Kullu. Siramaur deputy commissioner RK Pruthi said 10 people have tested positive in Govindgarh locality of Nahan town, the administrative headquarters of the district. Govindgarh has emerged as a new Covid-19 hotspot with 68 people from the locality testing positive for the virus in less than a week. Pruthi said 51 samples from the locality had been sent for testing of which 41 turned out negative. Two children aged 2 and eight, five women and three men were found infected, he said. THREE OF FAMILY, ARMY PERSONNEL TEST POSITIVE IN KANGRA Three members of a family and an army jawan are among seven new cases in Kangra district. Deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a 38-year-old man, his 32-year-old wife and son aged eight have tested positive. They were primary contacts of a Covid-19 patient and have been shifted to Covid-care centre Bainjath. An army jawan, 33, with travel history to Nagaland has also contracted the disease. He was home quarantined and has been shifted to Military Hospital, Yol. The remaining three patients also have a travel history to Maharashtra, Delhi and Uttarakhand. In Solan, seven people have tested positive in Nalagarh area. The patients are workers of a textile company. One case has been detected in Manali of Kullu district where a girl tested positive. Active cases in the state have jumped to 561 while 1,068 have been cured. 75-YEAR-OLD WOMAN DIES, DEATH TOLL 10 A 75-year-old woman from Sarkaghat sub division of Mandi district succumbed to Covid-19 at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk, on Tuesday, taking Himachal Pradesh’s coronavirus toll to 10. Nodal officer Dr Jeevanand Chauhan said that the woman was diabetic and suffering from renal failure. She tested positive on July 16 and had a travel history to Chandigarh. “Her condition was unstable for the past two days and she passed away early on Tuesday,” Dr Chauhan said. The woman’s 44-year-old daughter-in-law is also under treatment for Covid-19. The first Covid-related death in Himachal was reported on March 23 when a US-returned Tibetan man from McLeodganj died of the contagion. A 21-year-old youth from Sarkaghat, who was also suffering from a kidney ailment, died of Covid-19 at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, on May 5. A 53-year-old man from Hamirpur died of severe respiratory distress caused by the virus on May 15, taking the state’s death toll to three. Two women died of the contagion on May 25 at hospitals in Shimla and Mandi. Both were suffering from kidney-related and other ailments. A 57-year-old man from Kangra, who passed away on June 25, was the seventh casualty due to the virus, while an 80-year-old woman died on June 30 and a 70-year-old man on July 4. 0.61% DEATH RATE IN HIMACHAL The death rate in Himachal due to Covid-19 is 0.61% —lower than the national average of 2.46%. The state has 223 cases per 10 lakh people. The recovery rate is higher at 65.42% and there are 33% active cases. The state has conducted 15,999 tests per 10 lakh people. Solan is the worst hit district with 381 cases followed by Kangra with 353 cases. Hamirpur has 283 cases, Una 164, Shimla 94, Sirmaur 110, Chamba 80, Bilaspur 66, Mandi 50, Kinnaur 39, Kullu 22 and Lahaul-Spiti district four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/75-year-old-woman-is-10th-casualty-due-to-covid-19-in-himachal-pradesh/story-AP1WPdZvXpiuBfBw3PdjVJ.html
21-07-2020||Bhopal||Elusive monsoon makes farmers jittery in 18 districts of Madhya Pradesh||Farmers in 18 districts of Madhya Pradesh, who have sown their kharif crops, said they are staring at a huge loss if the monsoon continues to play truant for the next one week or so.The deficient rainfall witnessed in the districts, mostly in the Gwalior-Chambal, Bundelkhand and Mahakoshal regions, varies from minus 7% in Guna to minus 45% in Gwalior, data from meteorological department’s Bhopal unit shows. The districts having deficient rains include Gwalior, Bhind, Datia, Guna, Shivpuri, Chhatarpur, Damoh, Sagar, Tikamgarh, Balaghat, Jabalpur, Narsinghpur, Katni, Dhar, Mandsaur, Shajapur and Hoshangabad.Madhya Pradesh had recorded heavy rains in July last year at 643.1mm against the normal rainfall of 371.6mm for the month. As of now, the state has had 318.6mm of rains in the entire rainy season so far beginning June 1.The entire Bundelkhand, except Panna, and one-third of Gwalior-Chambal regions are parched whereas as many as 13 districts out of the total 52 have witnessed excess rainfall of 20% or above. Most of the districts with excess rainfall fall under Malwa-Nimad region.Sowing of kharif crops—paddy, millet, soybean, arhar, mung, urad, groundnut—is done in June and July in the state, as per agriculture department officials.“I sowed soybean on 25-acre land and urad on 5-acre land. Since the sowing on July 2, there is no rainfall in our area. The result is the surface in the agriculture field has started showing cracks and crop withering,” Vinod Tiwari, a farmer from Bobai village in Sagar district in Bundelkhand region, said.Tiwari said the leaves of his soybean plants have started turning yellow and the growth of plants is affected by about 30 to 40%. “If I don’t have rains in the next four to five days the crop can hardly be revived. So far I have invested Rs 1.66 lakh in my Kharif crop spent on the purchase of seeds, ploughing, labourers engaged for sowing, pesticide etc. If the crop fails this will be a huge setback to me and my family,” he added.Dayaram Ahirwar, a farmer from Dhana village in Sagar, also said if they don’t get rainfall in the next few days his entire crop will be damaged.“I sowed one quintal of soybean and 25 kg of urad. So far I have invested around Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 for my Kharif season crops. There has been rainfall just once after the sowing. The plants are withering,” he said.Mahendra Singh Yadav, a resident of Borai village in Gwalior, said, “I have sown paddy in 5 beegha of land and Urad in another 5 beegha of land. Borewell is of no use as the groundwater level has plummeted. Hence, if there is no rain in the next week and my crops are damaged I will suffer a loss of more than Rs 75,000.”The agriculture department has said sowing in kharif season this year has been done in 118.05 lakh hectare of land against the target of 146.31 lakh hectare.Shivmohan Singh, the media in-charge of Narmadapuram division of RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, said deficient rains aren’t the only worry for the farmers.“While want of rains has caused troubles to the farmers they are equally harassed by erratic power supply as they can’t use motor pumps properly to irrigate their land. The government must look into the problem of the farmers at the earliest to ensure farmers don’t suffer a huge loss in the event of no rains,” Singh said.Kamal Patel, the state minister for farmers welfare and agriculture development, said the government is keeping a close watch on the situation. “Reports about deficient rains have been received from 13 districts. We are going to review the situation in the next couple of days.”(With inputs from Anupam Pateriya in Sagar, Mahesh Shivhare in Gwalior and Jitendra Verma in Hoshangabad)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/elusive-monsoon-makes-farmers-jittery-in-18-districts-of-madhya-pradesh/story-uqH65J369VpI46Ia7iqD6I.html
21-07-2020||City||Pending ₹6 crore subsidy released for Ludhiana’s Tajpur road CETP project||Working on orders issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the state government has released the pending ₹6 crore subsidy for the common effluent treatment plant (CETP), which is being constructed for the Tajpur road dyeing industry.Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) member secretary Krunesh Garg has now written to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF and CC) to release its share of ₹12 crore so that the project could be completed.Heaving a sigh of relief, the members of Punjab Dyers Association (PDA) said that the project will now be completed by October. As per information, the state government has also released part payment of over ₹4 crore for the Focal Point CETP and the dyers are in talks with the government seeking release of the pending payment. PDA general secretary Bobby Jindal said, “The state government was not releasing the pending ₹12 crore subsidy (₹6 crore for each CETP) due to which we were not able to get the pending grant of ₹24 crore from the Union government. We had moved the NGT as the delay in releasing the subsidy was delaying the construction of CETP. The NGT had on June 30 directed the government to release the subsidy in three weeks. The next hearing of the case has been scheduled for July 23. Now, we have received the state’s share and the Union government will also release its share soon.The project will now be made operational by October this year.”The two CETPs are being established for the dyeing industry in the Tajpur road complex and the Focal Point at a cost of ₹130 crore. The government had earlier assured a subsidy of ₹45 crore (₹22.5 crore for each CETP), out of which a sum of ₹15 crore has to be paid by the MoEF and CC, while the rest ₹7.5 crore has to be borne by the state government. The rest of the amount has to be spent by the industry.The CETPs are being constructed to stop the dumping of untreated waste from the dyeing units into the Buddha nullah through the MC sewer lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pending-6-crore-subsidy-released-for-ludhiana-s-tajpur-road-cetp-project/story-0ve9r4uF2EsfaiFlO3QfKL.html
21-07-2020||City||Taint on khaki: Head constable arrested for supplying tobacco to jail inmates in Ludhiana||In yet another incident of taint on khaki, a head constable deputed at Ludhiana Central Jail was arrested for carrying narcotics into the jail premises on Sunday.Assistant jail superintendent Pardyuman Kumar arrested the accused cop, head constable Pushpinder Singh, during a special checking and recovered eight packets of tobacco hidden in his shoes. In his complaint, Kumar said it was suspected that the head constable had brought the tobacco for supply among the jail inmates.Assistant sub-inspector Rajinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 42 and 54 of the Prison Act was lodged against the accused. He added that more names could be added in the FIR after it is ascertained who were the narcotics intended for.So far, three police personnel have been arrested in three consecutive days for their involvement in criminal activities. On July 18, a constable was held for duping a gas agency employee of an LPG cylinder.Then on July 17, a head constable deputed at Kanganwal police post was arrested on graft charges. The accused had allegedly changed an entire FIR in return for ₹50,000 to save a drug peddler.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taint-on-khaki-head-constable-arrested-for-supplying-tobacco-to-jail-inmates-in-ludhiana/story-sBnaCEgYbqNtoBN7mJoJON.html
21-07-2020||City||23-year-old found dead in car in Panchkula’s Raipur Rani, four youth booked||Four youth were booked on charges of murder after a youth in his twenties was found dead in his car in Hagola village, Raipur Rani, the police said.A case was registered on Sunday evening on the complaint of one Mahavir Singh, 58, from Sarakpur, Raipur Rani, against Jagdeep Singh, Sandeep Singh, and their two other friends, whose names are not mentioned in the FIR.Mahavir Singh told the police that his youngest son, Arun Kumar, 23, used to work in the fields: “On July 18, four youth came in a Maruti car to our house and they asked for Arun. My son took the car keys from me and said he had to go with them. When I enquired from my nephew about the men, he told me that he knew two of them—Jagdeep and Sandeep of Hagola village.”The next day, Singh’s elder son Anuj informed him that Arun was lying dead in the driver’s seat of his car outside an Anganwadi in Hagola. He was only wearing his undergarments and no other clothes on, the police said.The police mentioned in the FIR that “no injury marks were found on the body”. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 364 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code.The two youth named in the FIR are still on the run. “They were all friends and used to be together most of the time. Only they can reveal what really happened,” said the station house officer of Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-year-old-found-dead-in-car-in-panchkula-s-raipur-rani-four-youth-booked/story-49EL4VtUk6JWi4uWa9owzM.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||26-year-old nurse found hanging in Chandigarh’s Sector 32||A 26-year-old nurse was found hanging at her house in Sector 32. The victim hailed from Kangra in Himachal Pradesh and was staying with her brother and husband in Sector 34 here.A staff nurse at Government Rehabilitation Institute for Intellectual Disabilities (GRID), Sector 31, the victim had married only four months ago to a man who works in a private company in Baddi.The victim was spotted by her brother at 11am when he came home. The body has been kept in the mortuary in GMCH-32. No suicide note was found and police are waiting for the victim’s parents and further action will be taken on their statement. Meanwhile, inquest proceedings were initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/26-year-old-nurse-found-hanging-in-chandigarh-s-sector-32/story-2gMyYQvQCKVQ0kmqooZD6I.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Bid to snatch ₹10 lakh from petrol pump employees foiled in Manimajra||An employee of a petrol pump sustained injuries while trying to save a bag carrying ₹10 lakh in cash from being snatched by a masked man in Manimajra on Monday, the police said.The incident happened when two cashiers of Bitta petrol pump opposite Kalagram had gone to NAC Manimajra to deposit ₹10 lakh in cash.Police said cashiers Jai Singh and Girdhari Lal had gone on a motorcycle to deposit the money in Axis Bank at 11am. When they reached near the bank, a person wearing a helmet tried to snatch the bag that Jai Singh was holding.A pedestrian wearing a helmet snatched their bag, but the bid was foiled as people sitting at a tea stall nearby chased him by pelting stones at the snatcher who fell down. The accused, however, managed to run away leaving the bag behind.Jai Singh was injured in the incident after the accused hit him with a sharp-edged weapon in order to make him let go of the bag. The accused ran towards the jungle behind the market, the police said. Jai Singh was taken to the hospital where he sustained 12 stitches on his hand. A case under Sections 379A (theft), 356 (use of assault or criminal force in an attempt to commit theft) and 511 (attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code was registered. Police said they were scanning the CCTV footage of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bid-to-snatch-10-lakh-from-petrol-pump-employees-foiled-in-manimajra/story-eWTtAS1hjYGiYHEr5GZtpJ.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||One held for theft in Dhanas jewellery shop||A 22-year-old was arrested in connection with a jewellery shop theft in Dhanas where thieves decamped with gold and silver, the police said on Monday.The theft came to light on Monday morning at about 6am when Rampal Maurya, the owner of the jewellery shop, received a call from his neighbours. Rampal runs Pushpa Jewellers from his house in EWS colony, Dhanas.Rampal told the police that on Sunday he had gone to Sector 52 to his son’s house when he received the call from his neighbours. A case was registered.Police identified one of the accused as Bharat, also a resident of EWS Colony, who has been arrested, and 3 tola (nearly 35 gram) gold and 1.5kg silver from his possession. Raids are being conducted to nab the second accused from whom more recovery of stolen goods is likely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-held-for-theft-in-dhanas-jewellery-shop/story-qkPzLnCAoktqXPvKrzEO5H.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||A month on, 4,384 Chandigarh residents challaned for not wearing masks||Either out of reluctance or a casual approach, the residents of Chandigarh despite a hike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases are still moving around without masks on.Evidently, since June 23 the police have challaned 4,384 residents for moving in the public without masks and collected a fine of ₹22.22 lakh. Besides, 278 FIRs were registered in different police stations of the city against 318 persons for the same offence. All of them were later released on bail.However, cases are not registered against all who are caught. “If a person fails to pay a fine on the spot or if a person is caught after 10pm, an FIR is registered,” said a police officer. The violators are then arrested and released on bail later. “The National Disaster Act authorises enforcement agencies to register FIRs if a person is not able to pay the fine on the spot under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code,” added the official.Meanwhile, residents continue to move about in markets, parks and other public places without the protective gear, which is mandatory. The violation elicits ₹500 in fine, which must be paid on the spot.The most number of challans, 526, were issued by the Sector 26 police station, near the Bapu Dham Colony—a Covid hotspot. The Sector 3 police station, near Sukhna lake, has issued 499 challans.“Check the people moving around at the lake without masks and they will say masks come in the way of fresh air. Some even say that while exercising, their masks fell off,” said a police official posted at the lake. The IT Park police station has registered a maximum number of 64 FIRs against 66 people.“We are using all resources to enforce the wearing of masks. Even traffic policemen are issuing challans,” said Chandigarh Police public relations officer, DSP Charanjit Singh.INCREASE FINE AMOUNT: MARKET BODIESThe market associations of the city have asked their members not to allow anyone without a mask inside the markets, but only politely.“I have already told my staff not to sell anything to a mask-less customer. There is no need to argue, a polite refusal is enough,” said Tarsem Kumar, a wholesale karyana store owner in Sector 26.“The challans should be linked to Aadhaar cards to maintain a record and double the fine if anyone is caught again. Only then will the people learn,” he added. Balwinder Singh, president of the Sector 46 market welfare association, said, “It is mostly the youngsters who move without masks. And when caught, they offer only excuses.”Diwakar Sahoonja, president of the Sector 11 market welfare association, said “Just like sanitizers at entrance, shopkeepers should also keep masks and give them free to people coming to the market without one.”DON’T HESITATE TO CHECK PEOPLE WITHOUT MASKS: RWAAmarjeet Maken, former president of the Sector 47 RWA, said, “We do not allow anyone to enter our locality without a mask.”Colonel Kulwinder Singh, president of Sector 10 RWA, said, “People are lax and reluctant and will give you lame excuses for not wearing masks. If anyone is caught not wearing one, police should take them to the police station and let them pay fine there. Strict enforcement is the only way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/a-month-on-4-384-chandigarh-residents-challaned-for-not-wearing-masks/story-iqicOIalqC2t0T0ByPAeLP.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||With 2019 pay hike order put in abeyance, PGIMER nurses to face salary cut||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has kept in abeyance a pay re-fixation order, which will lead to a salary cut from ₹5,000-10,000 among the nursing cadre prompting them to launch protests.In May 2019, the salary of the nurses at the institute was re-fixed by rectifying pay anomalies under the 6th Pay Commission granted in 2006.However, PGIMER on July 16 ordered that the pay fixation has been kept in abeyance till the time a clarification from the central government is not received.Officials privy to the matter said that the Centre had sought clarification from the institute regarding the 2019 order as more organisations were seeking similar pay scales which so far had not been implemented.To protest against the issue, two nurses’ unions at the institute have decided to wear black badges from July 25 while performing duties.“First they ordered long duty hours without a quarantine period, now they are decreasing the salaries. Another order has been passed that notes that nurses should visit the office of the medical superintendent to prevent spread of coronavirus.This is the height of indiscrimination,” Satyaveer Dagur, president of one faction of the nurses’ union said.Shinder Pal Kaur Lidder, president of another faction, said that the recent orders by the administration will adversely affect the morale of the workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-2019-pay-hike-order-put-in-abeyance-pgimer-nurses-to-face-salary-cut/story-Gsqcq6w46i6WeCcpOUCtoO.html
21-07-2020||City||Green signal to upgrading Phase 3B1 primary health centre into community health centre: Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday said that an approval had been given to upgrade the primary health centre in Phase 3B1 into a community health centre.The upgraded centre will provide quality facilities to the people and reduce the growing patient footfall in the Phase 6 civil hospital. Sidhu said that the civil hospital and the medical college under construction were located on the other side of the city, making it difficult for the senior citizens to access them.Phase 3B1, however, was the focal point of the city and was much easier to access. He said that the Mohali civil surgeon had been instructed that there should be no shortage of staff and the proposal for the posts to be created should be prepared and sent within two days.The health minister said that the covered area of the community health centre would be 40,000 square feet and a cost of ₹10 crore would be incurred on the upgrading work. Sidhu added that the entire focus of the government was on strengthening the infrastructure of the public healthcare sector.Sidhu said the Punjab cabinet had approved to fill about 4,000 posts in the health department and about 250 posts in the medical education and research department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/green-signal-to-upgrading-phase-3b1-primary-health-centre-into-community-health-centre-health-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu/story-IzxmIxW4f9J5PHmWOCdbDK.html
21-07-2020||City||1,415 patients recovered from Covid-19 in Mumbai daily this month, up from 803 in June||Along with the flattening of the Covid-19 infection curve, the city is also witnessing a rise in the number of recovered patients. On an average, 1,415 patients recovered daily between July 1 and July 19, compared to 803 during the same period in June, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data. By June 30, the average number of patients who recovered daily stood at 903.Since the outbreak in March till June 1, 16,987 patients have recovered from the infection, which rose to 32,257 on June 19. While 15,270 patients recovered in the first 19 days of June, the number was 26,898 from July 1 to July 19.“This has been possible because of early diagnosis and timely treatment. Earlier, we noticed several delays in treatment, which led to health complications, resulting in higher fatality rate,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “Now, with the availability of more advanced and promising drugs, we have been able to send home patients who were earlier on ventilators.”The doubling rate has increased to 55 days in Mumbai. “In a pandemic, two things matter the most— the curve of the spread of the infection and recovery rate. We have been able to achieve both. Along with the flattening of the curve, almost 70% patients are getting recovered which is a promising sign,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, part of the Covid-19 state task force.As of July 19, the P-N ward, which covers Malad, has the highest number (2,030) of active Covid-19 cases. This is followed by the R-S ward which covers areas like Kandivli. The ward has 1,573 active patients. Borivli which comes under the R-C ward has the third highest number of active patients with a cumulative number of 1,486.“A pandemic doesn’t flatten everywhere at the same time. It spreads in a wave-like pattern, similar to that of an earthquake. It starts with its epicentre and gradually spreads. Within the next two weeks, the situation in these wards will also improve,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-415-patients-recovered-from-covid-19-in-mumbai-daily-this-month-up-from-803-in-june/story-OiV5XawZgCTIFm6rgXy4xM.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Question bank hacking: Police to examine varsity server as Swiss service provider fails to respond to plaint||With the cyber investigators probing the hacking of the Bathinda-based Central University of Punjab’s question bank getting no response from Switzerland-based service provider Proton Mail, the Punjab Police have now decided to examine the varsity’s server to get clues in the case. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Aswant Dhaliwal, the investigating officer, on Monday said they approached Proton Mail on July 10 to provide the IP (internet protocol) address from where an email by unidentified hacker was sent to the university informing them about the hacking.“We were anticipating help from the service provider, but to no avail. Since the server of Proton Mail is based in Switzerland and it does not operate from India, the company is legally not liable to share cyber details required by Indian investigating agencies,” said the DSP. He said the cyber team will now collect details from ‘dumps’ (digital data) from the university server to analyse who had accessed the question paper bank. The DSP said the digital examination may give a lead to the one compromised the servers. On July 8, the CUP found that its online examination system was accessed by hackers.A hacker had sent an email from Proton Mail, an end-to-end encrypted and a highly sophisticated cyber platform, to the vice-chancellor and some faculty members, where a link was given. Clicking on it gave access to all questions.V-C Prof RK Kohli said the server has been sealed for police probe. “We have constituted a team of technical experts, including two external members, to see where our online system lacked,” he said. Exams from July 24The V-C said examination for second-year students will restart from July 24 as the faculty members reworked on setting question papers.A section of students raised a voice against the online examination due to poor signal and other issues amid the pandemic outbreak.Kohli said the process to take test semester test for first-year students is being analysed. Though the online examination is optional, the varsity has resolved not to promote students on the basis of their previous year’s academic performance, he added. “Our priority is to equip the final-year students with their degrees so that they could decide their next plans without any delay. Of the second-year 484 students, 483 have opted to take the online test,” said the V-C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/question-bank-hacking-police-to-examine-varsity-server-as-swiss-service-provider-fails-to-respond-to-plaint/story-24Aum978QSr5n8EPAxw4fO.html
21-07-2020||City||200 stranded Indians to return from Rome today||Around 200 Indian crew stranded onboard cruise liner Costa Smeralda since the past 140 days are all set to return to the country on Tuesday morning, after the Indian High Commission approved the request to charter a flight from Rome. Fifteen of the crew members are from Vasai taluka. Nallasopara legislator KshitijThakur earlier wrote to external affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar on 20 June (a copy of the letter is with Hindustan Times) to make arrangements for the crew to fly back to India. “Some of the crew members stranded on the ship are from my constituency and hence I appealed to the Centre to help them,” said Thakur. The ship was anchored at Marseille,France, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. One of the members contacted a man, Rosley Gonsalves, who worked on another cruise and returned to Vasai in January. Gonsalves then informed Thakur about the crew. “An arrangement is being made under the Vande Mataram Mission to bring them home. I want to thank CM Uddhav Thackeray who kept in touch with the external affairs ministry over the issue,” said Gonsalves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/200-stranded-indians-to-return-from-rome-today/story-UBmCVY97O94K8YMXY3k6VK.html
21-07-2020||City||Maharashtra government to appoint social media agency to promote schemes||Maharashtra government decided to appoint an outside agency to promote government decisions, schemes and programmes on social media platforms including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and messaging applications such as WhatsApp, Telegram etc. A government resolution (GR) stated that in the Covid-19 outbreak the use of these media witnessed a surge and it came to notice that the Director General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR) lacked the “technical and professional” expertise to carry out the job. Therefore, it was decided to rope in an external agency. The appointment of an agency will be done through a tendering process, the GR added. A panel will be appointed which will carry out the tendering process. The DGIPR will continue to be responsible for any “mistakes or shortcomings”, the GR read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-to-appoint-social-media-agency-to-appoint-schemes/story-OUFmaCrwWjyvHJduGOUdoN.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Bir theft case: SIT files reply to petition of accused against chargesheet||The Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) led by deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra on Monday filed a reply in the court of judicial magistrate to a petition of the accused Dera Sacha Sauda followers challenging its chargesheet. The seven dera followers accused in the 2015 case involving the theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib had filed a petition in a Faridkot court. In the application, they said the chargesheet filed by the CBI in a Mohali court was sub judice and thus the probe conducted by the SIT as well as its the chargesheet are illegal.The SIT has claimed to have no information of any ongoing investigation in the sacrilege cases that were entrusted to it. “We have submitted the reply in the court. We are ready for the arguments,” said DIG Khatra. Judicial magistrate Chetan Sharma also extended the judicial custody of five accused dera followers till August 3. On July 4, the SIT arrested seven dera followers in the ‘bir’ theft case. But two of the accused, Sukjinder Singh and Shakti Singh, were released as they had already got bail from a Mohali court. The others are in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bir-theft-case-sit-files-reply-to-petition-of-accused-against-chargesheet/story-EB14GL0hexk2Jq2wVdDelI.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Air India rolls out compensation package for kin of staffers who die of Covid-19||National carrier Air India on Monday announced a compensation package ranging from ₹90,000 to ₹10 lakh to the family or legal heir of its employees who succumb to Covid-19. While a permanent employee’s kin will receive ₹10 lakh, the airline will pay ₹5 lakh to the family of fixed-term employees hired directly by Air India. The family of casual employees who worked for upto a year for the airline will receive ₹90,000.The airline, however, clarified that the ad- hoc payment is applicable from April this year to March 31, 2021, and that the employees hired by any contractor or service provider will be paid an amount equivalent to the gross emoluments of two months of salary drawn by them, provided they have worked for a minimum continuous period of one year.An internal letter (accessed by HT) to the executive directors of all the four regions (east, west, north and south) by the airline’s industrial relations department read, “In view of the prevalent Covid-19 outbreak, many employees are testing positive and some also succumbed to this pandemic. To safeguard the interest of the families, it had been decided to make an ad-hoc payment to the family/ legal heir of employees who die of Covid-19.”Officials from the airline refused to comment on the development when HT contacted them.According to airline sources, 16 Air India staffers died, while more than 200 employees, including 55 pilots, tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-rolls-out-compensation-package-for-kin-of-staffers-who-die-of-covid-19/story-C22FCbiLidcRJuB9uYd74M.html
21-07-2020||City||Students can give entrance test from home: TISS||The Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) tweaked its admission process for its bachelors courses, allowing candidates to take the exams from their locations. The institute announced that the Bachelors Admission Test (BAT) will be held between August 2 and 10. In view of the safety of the candidates, the institute has done away with the test centres. TISS is allowing candidates to take the exam from their homes on a device of their choice. Moreover, the exam duration has been halved, and the 40-mark descriptive exam (Part B) cancelled. Part B had earlier accounted for 40% weightage in the overall selection process.Instead, applicants will get 45 minutes to take a multiple-choice-question exam on general awareness, mathematics and English. There will be a total of 40 questions for 14, 14 and 12 marks for each of the subjects respectively. In the final selection, the BAT scores will carry a 70% weightage and the rest 30% weightage will be given to Class 12 marks.The decision was taken considering the safety of the prospective candidates amid the pandemic, said institute officials. “The exam will be through the remote proctoring method, where applicants can take the test from their homes. They can access the multiple-choice test on their phones or laptops. There will be no need for applicants to go to a test centre,” said PK Shajahan, dean, academics.The test will be a part of the selection process for 140 seats for bachelors courses across the five campuses of TISS.Earlier, the institute had restructured its admission process for Masters programmes by doing away with any physical visits by candidates to the campus. The institute had also done away with the pre-interview test (PIT) and candidates were interviewed online.The test had earlier been scheduled on April 25 at 25 cities across the country. However, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the entrance exam had been deferred indefinitely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-can-give-entrance-test-from-home-tiss/story-4VNVZw4xjVDjmnkYzu6RAN.html
21-07-2020||City||Need clarity on reopening classes: Maharashtra’s coaching class owners tell government||The Maharashtra Class Owners’ Association (MCOA), which has around 98,000 coaching classes in Maharashtra under its ambit, urged the state government for clarity on the syllabus for academic year 2020-21, and when can they start taking classes offline. Officials from the education department did not respond to HT’s calls and messages on the issue. “When the lockdown began, the government announced the closure of coaching classes along with schools and colleges. We complied with the norms and closed the classes as a precautionary measure. But as the government plans to physically reopen schools in the coming months, it has not given any tentative dates for coaching classes,” said Sachin Karnavat, president, MCOA. Officials from the education department did not respond to HT’s calls and messages. Class owners also said they were struggling to teach students without proper information on the syllabus for the current academic year. “All the other boards have given clarity on what is omitted and what stays, except for the state government. Students and parents are already under stress and so if an announcement is made soon, it would benefit everyone,” added Karnavat. Several representatives of classes in the city said they had faced business losses by around 60-70% as many students who would have otherwise enrolled in the classes, have not been able to do so owing to financial problems at home due to the lockdown. “Those who are dependent on the classes for a livelihood, such as teachers, local vendors near classes, food stalls are also affected,” said Prajesh Trotsky, secretary, MCOA. MCOA has also written to the government, requesting a reduction in the 18% GST that coaching classes have to pay at the moment. “If this additional burden is reduced, we can further reduce the fees of students,” said Karnavat. Currently, most coaching classes are teaching students online and are providing e-learning content. Many have also started using several mobile applications to conduct tests online. They have, however, requested the government to allow them to open at least partially, as teaching complex subjects such as physics and mathematics is becoming a challenge in an online-only mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-clarity-on-reopening-classes-maharashtra-s-coaching-class-owners-tell-government/story-oNRDRZY9m1ZwmqtibzbybJ.html
21-07-2020||City||79% plaints in June from fliers over refund: DGCA||Two months after the aviation ministry resumed domestic travel after the lockdown restrictions were eased, passengers are still struggling to receive the refund for flight tickets, cancelled owing to the Covid-19 outbreak in March.This was revealed in a report by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) for June, as the aviation regulator received 78.5% complaints from passengers citing problems over refunds. The report also stated that 62% flights were cancelled owing to commercial reasons (low passenger load and clubbing of two flights). DGCA however, does not put the total number of complaints received from passengers, in public domain.Of all the Indian air carriers, the most passenger complaints in June were against Air India, followed by TruJet and SpiceJet. HT tried to contact the three airlines, but none of them responded to the queries on the report.“It is an unfair business practice to not refund passengers for cancellations owing to unavoidable circumstances, amid the Covid-19 restrictions,” said Vipul Saxena, former pilot and aviation expert, adding that DGCA should extend its refund order, as air travel in Unlock-2 is a non-essential sector and airlines are being allowed to operate only in restricted mode.According to industry experts, travel is expected to return to normalcy only by the year-end.“Airlines refused to refund passengers for their booked tickets, and instead converted them as open tickets that can be used for travel till March 2021. Despite airlines offering schemes to attract passengers, the demand has been low, as only stranded passengers may want to travel,” said a senior official from the commercial department of an airline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/79-plaints-in-june-from-fliers-over-refund-dgca/story-u0WrAIvWivAdKpJEJy0YsN.html
21-07-2020||City||Mumbai city guardian min Aslam Shaikh tests positive for Covid-19||Aslam Shaikh, the guardian minister for Mumbai city and cabinet minister for textiles, port and fisheries, has been tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.The Congress minister, in a tweet on Monday morning, said that he is asymptomatic and has isolated himself at home.“This is to inform that I’ve tested Covid-19 positive. I’m asymptomatic and on self-isolation at home. I request all those, who have come in close contact with me, to get themselves tested. I will continue to work from home to serve the people of my state,” tweeted Shaikh who has been active in programmes against Covid-19 in Mumbai.The minister gave a throat swab sample on Sunday, the report for which came positive on Monday.“He has been continuously meeting people and holding official meetings as guardian minister of the city. He and his staff have been undergoing regular testing for the virus as a precaution. After the minister tested positive, his staff members, including his security guards, have been asked to quarantine themselves,” said an official from Shaikh’s office.Shaikh, a legislator from Malad (West) constituency, is the fourth minister in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government to test positive for the virus.Earlier, his cabinet colleagues Jitendra Awhad and Dhananjay Munde, both from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), as well as Congress’s Ashok Chavan, have already recovered from the virus, following hospitalisation. Two legislators from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from Latur and Pune too, had been recently, tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-city-guardian-min-aslam-shaikh-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-QrXuaOz50xjOTVsF4lN6RO.html
21-07-2020||City||Keep up the good work to prevent second Covid-19 wave: Maharashtra CM||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday directed civic officials in Mumbai to remain vigilant and continue to work with the same vigour as they have been doing so far to reduce Covid-19 cases, which has showed results. He said the challenge is far from over as there are projections for a second wave that comes only when there is negligence on part of authorities.Thackeray had called a review meeting to stock of Covid-19 situation in the financial capital of the country and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) preparations for monsoon-related ailments. “Our work was praised by WHO and Washington Post, but the challenge before us is not over yet. There are projections that a ‘second wave’ can come hence we will have to implement all the preventive measures more efficiently,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/keep-up-the-good-work-to-prevent-second-covid-19-wave-maharashtra-cm/story-W6lQpykY4wY1xv6aW9bBAP.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Govt must approve ₹9 crore proposal to repair Siddharth College: Darekar||Days after a building collapse in Fort led to the death of at least 10 people, leader of opposition, Pravin Darekar has asked the state government to approve a proposal of ₹9 crore to repair Siddharth College in Fort.In a statement released on Monday evening, Darekar said that if the government does not approve this proposal at the earliest, the college building will face the same fate as the other building in Fort, especially since for some months now, the college has been complaining about the crumbling structure.“The condition of the college building is very poor, roofs are unprotected. The government doesn’t seem quite serious on this issue. We need immediate action,” said Darekar. He added that if the government doesn’t approve the proposal immediately, the opposition party will stage an agitation outside the college very soon.The college was established by Dr BR Ambedkar in 1945 while the it was established in 1953 under the management of People’s Education Society. Past few years, the college has complained about the roof of classrooms as well as the rest of the structure crumbling and in need of urgent repair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/govt-must-approve-9-crore-proposal-to-repair-siddharth-college-darekar/story-c5IuTHkqENphZqD1j08YHL.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||2015 police firing: SIT seeks arrest warrant of ex-DSP in Kotkapura case||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing incidents on Monday moved a Faridkot court seeking arrest warrant of then deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Baljit Singh in the Kotkapura case. An application seeking Baljit’s arrest in the FIR number 192 registered in 2015 in the Kotkapura firing was filed in the court of duty magistrate Ekta Uppal, who has listed the matter for Tuesday.The SIT had summoned Baljit for questioning on a couple of occasions but he had failed to appear. Fearing arrest, he had moved an anticipatory bail petition in the district and sessions court last week but it was dismissed.Officials said they have moved the court for arrest warrants of Baljit as he played a key role in the Kotkapura conspiracy and now he is evading the SIT. Also, Baljit was named as an accused in another FIR (number 129) registered in 2018 in connection with the Kotkapura firing episode but was granted bail in the case. The case was registered on August 7, 2018, under Sections 307, 323, 341 of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act against unidentified cops. Later, the SIT added more sections to the FIR.SIT gets ex-SHO’s production warrantOn an application of SIT, the court of judicial magistrate Chetan Sharma on Monday granted production warrant of then Kotkapura station house officer (SHO) Gurdeep Singh Pandher in the Behbal Kalan firing case. He will be presented in the court on Tuesday.Last week, SIT named Pandher for criminal conspiracy in the FIR registered in connection with the Behbal Kalan incident. Pandher was arrested on June 25 for his alleged role in tampering with evidence in the Kotkapura firing. Presently, he is in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2015-police-firing-sit-seeks-arrest-warrant-of-ex-dsp-in-kotkapura-case/story-cXmEPyinSepiOFxU7tKwtM.html
21-07-2020||City||16,272 of 36K Covid-19 cases from 6 suburbs in Mumbai||Of the 35,959 Covid-19 cases reported in the city from June 19 to July 18, 16,272 were from the six suburbs of Mulund, Bhandup, Malad, Kandivli, Borivli and Andheri, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data shows. In this period, the city’s total case count rose from 65,265 to 1,01,224.BMC on June 22 launched a campaign Mission Zero, in five of these suburbs (barring Andheri) to bring down the number of cases. The ward-wise figures are available for 33,520 of the 35,959 cases. Andheri that comes under K-East and K-West ward reported 4,133 cases, followed by Malad (P-North ward) reporting 2,734 cases. Borivli that comes under R-Central ward reported 2,544 cases, Bhandup that comes under S ward reported 2,398 cases, Mulund that comes under T ward reported 2,359 cases. Kandivli that is under R-South ward reported 2,104 cases. Dahisar and parts of Borivli, which were part of the Mission Zero campaign and fall under R-North ward, recorded fewer cases at 1,104.BMC officials believe that the rise in numbers is owing to the aggressive testing, including the use of rapid antigen kits. Vishwas Shankarwar, deputy municipal commissioner of zone 7 that covers Dahisar, Borivli and Kandivli, said, “ We have screened over 30,000 people in the past one month as part of Mission Zero. We are using antigen kits that have helped increase our testing numbers. Also, the base total number of cases here is lower than other areas.’’Sandhya Nandekar, assistant municipal commissioner of Dahisar, said they recorded over 1,100 cases over one month, the most coming from high-rises. “Our testing has increased. We are testing around 100-150 samples daily, excluding the samples being tested in private labs, compared to 30-50 samples earlier,’’ she said.Vinod Mishra, BJP corporator from P-North ward that covers Malad, said, “BMC has focused and screened over 50,000 people. The count in terms of positive cases has gone up owing to the aggressive screening. However, if you see the data of the past one week, the cases are going down.”BMC data also shows that earlier Covid-19 hot spots are now reporting fewer cases. For example, Worli and Prabhadevi, part of G-South ward, reported 1,381 cases, G-North ward that covers Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim reported 1,658 cases. M-East and M-West ward that cover areas like Chembur, Govandi and Mankhurd also reported 849 and 736 cases, respectively. In L ward covering Kurla, 1,029 cases were reported, while E ward covering Byculla, Mumbai Central and Mazgaon reported 512 cases.Experts said BMC must release ward-wise testing data on the lines of ward-wise cases and deaths. Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based private health consultant, said, “We know where maximum cases are being reported in the last one month, but BMC should also release the data on ward- or area-wise testing. This will help us analyse if the number of tests is sufficient and why a particular area is seeing a spike or otherwise.’’Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, however, said it is not possible to keep a tab on ward-wise testing, as it would have to include data from private labs. “The mechanism can be developed by asking patients to give their pin codes for private lab tests, but not everyone knows their pin code. We have had many cases where people have given false addresses. However, to analyse the testing trends, we are going to keep a tab on the areas when it comes to usage of rapid antigen kits. We are currently testing around 600-700 samples using these kits, but we are scaling up it to 1,500 to 2,00 tests that will help us analyse better.”Meanwhile, on Monday, Mumbai recorded 1,035 fresh cases followed by 41 new deaths, taking the city’s case tally to 102,423 and toll to 5,755. The number of discharged patients is 72,648, with a recovery rate of 70%, and the total number of active cases is 23,728. The fatality rate in the city as of Monday was 5.61% and doubling rate stands at 57 days. Dharavi, one of the critical hot spots in Mumbai that has seen improvement in the past three weeks, reported 12 new cases on Monday, taking the total count to 2,492.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-272-of-36k-covid-19-cases-from-6-suburbs-in-mumbai/story-0dtH5QjvqF47vPES2IVLhK.html
21-07-2020||City||Malls petition Maharashtra government, say they should be allowed to reopen||Promising to keep numbers under control and enforce social distancing, mall owners have approached the Maharashtra government, asking that they be allowed to reopen their establishments. Malls, along with theatres, schools, event halls and other places of indoor public gathering, have been shut for going on four months, amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“Our industry has suffered estimated losses of over ₹100,000 crore so far, and it is time to reopen,” said Amitabh Taneja, chairperson of the Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI). “Earlier, these were hang-out and indulgence spots. Now it will be about making products available to people in real time. That’s it,” Taneja added.The SCAI is petitioning for food courts — the biggest revenue earners for most malls — to be allowed to open to a capacity of up to 50%.“There will be QR codes for every food outlet. People can scan the code, view menus and place orders online. And go to the counter only to pick up their order,” said Manoj Agarwal, CEO of Viviana Mall in Thane.In its detailed report on the rest of the standard operating procedure (SOP) that malls would follow, the SCAI said only one person per 75 sq ft would be allowed in; all visitors would enter through sanitiser tunnels; floor markers would ensure distancing; only digital payments would be accepted; and foot traffic within would be rerouted so it was all unidirectional, to minimise the chances of accidental contact.“Children under 10, people over 65 and pregnant women are requested to not visit until a vaccine is available,” said Mukesh Kumar, chairperson of the SCAI SOP Committee and CEO of Infiniti Malls.The SCAI undertaking and appeal have been submitted to state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, son of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, as well as to the state labour and industries departments.“The state is yet to consider the demand,” said principal secretary Valsa Nair Singh.Brihanmumbai municipal commissioner IS Chahal added: “We will allow reopening of malls and gyms only after the situation in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region improves and is similar to Mumbai’s situation today.”RISK FACTORSThe risk, in a mall or any such establishment, comes from the fact that large gatherings of people, coupled with enclosed spaces, air-conditioning and the resultant poor ventilation, have been shown to hasten the spread of the novel coronavirus. People contract it, and then also return to their neighbourhoods, where they may spread it.“Controlling the quality of air in a closed space is very difficult. With several smooth surfaces around, one will be at constant risk of inviting the virus,” says Sandeep Patil, chief intensivist and physician at Fortis Hospital, Kalyan, a Covid testing centre. The SCAI is arguing that given the risk to jobs and sustainability, opening up the malls within the restrictions of the SOPs would be justified, especially since markets and standalone shops across the state, including those selling non-essential items, have long since opened up. Agarwal added that over 400 malls have reopened in other parts of the country and “there isn’t anything adverse happening as a result”. “In case of any suspicion that a person at a mall is infected with Covid-19,” he said, “there will be two isolation spaces and a pandemic response team trained to act as per the government’s guidelines for suspected cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malls-petition-maharashtra-government-say-they-should-be-allowed-to-reopen/story-czIYpf8aKEq51AnwRtEJSO.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19 VICTIMS’ BODY SWAP: HC issues notice to govt as Hoshiarpur man’s sons say their father is still alive||Two day after bodies of Covid-19 victims got swapped at Amritsar’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), the Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday issued a notice to the Punjab government seeking a detailed reply on Wednesday, observing that “the matter not only exhibit sheer negligence, but also causes apprehensions in the mind of kin of one of the deceased”.According to GMCH authorities, Pritam Singh, 93, of Tanda Ram Sahai village in of Hoshiarpur district, died of complications after he tested positive of Covid-19 at the hospital on July 17 night, but his family received mortal remains of a woman, identified as Padma, 37, of Amritsar. Padma’s kin, on the other hand, got Pritam’s body, which they cremated on July 18. Meanwhile, Pritam’s family returned Padma’s body and her kin performed her last rites on July 19. Following this, Pritam’s sons Gurcharanjit Singh and Dalbir Singh filed a writ petition through lawyers Rajiv Malhotra and Satinderdeep Singh Boparai in the Punjab and Haryana high court. Taking cognisance of the case, the court issued a notice of motion to the state asking it to verify the facts and file a detailed response on July 22. “The petitioners are hopeful that their father is still alive and even as per the standard operating procedure, before the cremation, the face of the deceased is required to be shown to the relatives. It has been stated that father of the petitioners is alive and still admitted as a Covid-19 patient at the GMCH,” reads the order. The petition reads the Pritam’s son Dalbir was also admitted to the hospital along with his father. As per the petition, on July 13, doctors informed Dalbir that his father expired two days back. He rushed to the ICU, where Pritam was admitted, just to find him alive. This issue was raised with the authorities, after which Dalbir was abruptly discharged from the hospital, the petition reads. On Saturday afternoon, Dalbir’s daughter received a call from the hospital that their father breathed his last on July 17 at 11pm, said the lawyer, referring the petition. The petitioners stated that there was considerable difference in the physical appearance of both the persons and family of the Amritsar woman must have noticed the difference. “The reasoning explains the apprehension of the petitioners as they fear that something wrong is going on behind the scene and it’s just not the case of exchange of dead bodies…. it is a matter of urgent nature and a committee should be formed to unearth the whole scam/racket going on under the garb of corona pandemic,” reads the petition.Seeking a criminal case against the erring officials, the petitioners also urged the court to form a commission to probe the lapses. A magisterial probe has already been ordered into the case. The GMCH officials have also written a letter to state medical education and research department for suspending four staff members of the hospital for negligence in handling the bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-victims-body-swap-hc-issues-notice-to-govt-as-hoshiarpur-man-s-sons-say-their-father-is-still-alive/story-yojfvlTCJWxaim5PTNKetK.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Submit typed report on Bharadwaj’s health: HC to state||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday adjourned the hearing of the bail plea of former professor and activist Sudha Bharadwaj by three days, as the report on her health condition by the jail superintendent was not legible. The court directed the state to decipher the report and submit it in typed format on Wednesday, after which it will take up the hearing the next day.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice PV Tavade, while hearing the bail application of Bharadwaj through advocate Ragini Ahuja, was informed that the plea in the HC was pending since June 11, and as Bharadwaj is not in good health, the hearing of her bail application should be expedited.Complying with an earlier direction of the court, the state, through public prosecutor Deepak Thakare, submitted a report by the superintendent of the Byculla women’s jail on Bharadwaj’s health and the condition in the jails.After being unable to read the report, the bench directed the state to provide a legible copy, preferably in a typed form, for which Thakare sought a two-day time to comply. The court Thakare the two-day period and also directed the state to provide the copy to Bharadwaj’s advocates, as they did not receive the copy.In an earlier hearing, the NIA, which took over the investigations from Pune Police earlier this year, opposed Bharadwaj’s bail application, stating that she was suffering from the ailments mentioned in the application from the past 20 years, and was being provided the prescribed medication regularly. NIA submitted that Bharadwaj was using the directions of the Supreme Court to decongest jails to get bail, even though the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) did not have any provision for bail.Bharadwaj, along with 10 other activists, were arrested and kept behind bars for their alleged role in the Elgar Parishad conclave on December 31, 2017, which led to the Bhima Koregaon violence the next day, as well as and their alleged link with the banned CPI (Maoist) outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/submit-typed-report-on-bharadwaj-s-health-hc-to-state/story-wXBgHFPRrWnkt6Y3y2oWHN.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Eight deaths, 410 fresh Covid-19 cases in Punjab||With 410 more people contracting the virus, the number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab went up to 10,510 on Monday. The state also reported eight deaths, taking the toll to 262. A 56-year-old woman of Bahadurpur village under the Longowal health block of Sangrur succumbed to the virus Government Medical College Patiala. Besides, 48 people, including Lehra DSP and 24 contracted the infection. Moga district reported one death and 18 fresh cases. Moga civil surgeon Dr Amarpreet Kaur said that a 66-year-old Moga resident, who was suffering from cardiac ailment, died at Fortis Hospital in Ludhiana on Monday. Besides, 12 persons tested positive in Faridkot. A 62-year-old man of Sultanwind village and 28 more people tested positive for the virus in Amritsar district. In Gurdaspur, two persons died while seven contracted the infection. Fifty-nine persons tested for Covid-19 in three districts of Doaba region, including Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala. Twenty-seven people each tested positive in Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur. Similarly, five persons tested positive for the virus in Kapurthala district.A superintendent of police in Ferozepur and 44 others tested positive for coronavirus in three districts of south Malwa region. Bathinda reported 29 cases and Ferozepur four. In Patiala, 65 more persons contracted the virus, taking the district’s tally to 1,046. Of the fresh cases, 40 are from Patiala city, 12 from Rajpura, one each from Nabha and Samana and 11 others from different villages across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-deaths-410-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-punjab/story-yId6OvZbxCNY3gCl7vkHVL.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Respond to plea by Gonsalves, Teltumbde for Covid tests, HC asks state, NIA||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday asked the state and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to respond to a petition filed by activists Vernon Gonsalves and Dr Anand Teltumbde, seeking directions to the authorities to test them for Covid-19, as they were in close contact with Telugu poet Dr P Varavara Rao, who was tested positive for the virus last week.The three are booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention (UAP) Act for their alleged links with the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) outfit and making inflammatory speeches at the Elgar Parishad conclave in Pune on December 31, 2017, leading to violence at Bhima Koregaon the next day.Gonsalves and Teltumbde are lodged in Taloja jail, while Rao, who was also in the same jail, is currently undergoing treatment at Nanavati Hospital. The two activists said that as they were in close touch with Rao while he was unwell in the jail, for their safety as well as for the safety of other inmates, they wanted to be tested for Covid-19.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the application of Gonsalves and Teltumbde, was informed by senior advocate Mihir Desai that the two were not seeking interim bail but only a limited plea of getting tested.The petition filed by the two through advocate Devyani Kulkarni said that as both the activists ail from various health issues and as they are senior citizens, they have an apprehension that they may have contracted the virus from Rao.Gonsalves helped Rao with his daily activities as the latter was turned quite feeble, while Teltumbde sought to be tested as he was in the same jail hospital where Rao was kept when the latter’s health condition deteriorated owing to comorbidities and electrolyte imbalance in body.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted that the government did not have any difficulty in granting the request of both the inmates, but it needs to follow the testing norms laid down by various court orders passed previously. He, however, sought time to take instructions in on the matter.While initially the bench remarked that the request of the two could be easily complied with, it sought to know if the duo would be willing to confine themselves in isolation units if their test reports came positive. However, as Kumbhakoni sought time to take instructions from the state, the court said it would not pass any orders and issued notices to the state and NIA to respond to the plea and posted the matter for hearing on Thursday. Gonsalves was arrested by Pune Police in August 2018, while Teltumbde was arrested in April this year. Nine other activists, including Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Shoma Sen, Surendra Gadling, Sudhir Dhawale and Gautam Navlakha are also booked in the same case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-respond-to-plea-by-gonsalves-teltumbde-for-covid-tests-hc-asks-state-nia/story-aeqWEAfF168Qx2uBka4MGM.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sonam Wangchuk holds ice stupa contest in Ladakh||Education reformist Sonam Wangchuk, who took it upon himself to reinvigorate the rapidly depleting glaciers in Ladakh by making ice stupas, in a Facebook on Monday announced that the ice stupa contest was held and its winners had been announced on Sunday. The event was delayed this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The annual ice stupa awards were organised in Tarchit village as it was one of the winners, he said.“Tarchit is a small village, 75 km from Leh in the Rong area on the Nyoma road. It is a beautiful village where some 30 families live in harmony with nature. This year the villagers built a huge ice stupa, an artificial baby glacier measuring 8.3 million litres of frozen winter water,” he said. “The winning team of the 2019-20 ice stupa competition is Igoo, who built a 8.5 million litre stupa, followed by Tarchit, who secured the second position and Phyang securing the third position by building a 6.5 million litres stupa,” Wangchuk posted. In 2017, ice stupas were only built by Phyang village. In 2018, 12 villages participated in the contest. This year,16 villages across Ladakh took part in the contest that was held for the second time this year. Every year, on the occasion of world water day, ice-stupa competition results are announced. However, this year, due to Covid-19, the event was delayed and the results were announced on Sunday in association with the villagers of Tarchit, he said. The top three stupas won a cash prize of Rs 5 lakh, three lakh and two lakh,respectively.“Stongdey village was also felicitated with Rs 1 lakh for their marvellous effort in building an ice stupa,” he posted on his wall. The preparation of the upcoming ice-stupa competition this winter has already started year, he said. Wangchuk came into the spotlight in 2009, when his story inspired Aamir Khan’s character Phunsukh Wangdu or Rancchoddas Shyamaldas Chanchad (Rancho) in the Rajkumar Hirani directed film ‘Three Idiots’. WHAT IS AN ICE STUPA?Ice Stupa is a form of glacier-grafting technique that creates artificial glaciers that are used for storing water in the form of conical ice heaps. During summer, when water is scarce, the ice stupa melts and the water is used to water crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sonam-wangchuk-holds-ice-stupa-contest-in-ladakh/story-IzRaBVN0zOi3DynpI0MqUN.html
21-07-2020||City||After rape at Covid centre, PCMC separates men, women||Days after a man sexually assaulted a 40-year-old patient at a quarantine facility in Panvel, the civic body has separated women patients into two buildings which are guarded by only women constables and security guards. The Panvel city Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will also install CCTVs on each floor of the 18-storey buildings to monitor those entering the premises.PCMC commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh has constituted a seven-member committee to come up with ideas to upgrade security at the Indiabulls Covid-19 care centre (CCC) in Kongaon. The committee is chaired by Rama Bhosale, a college principal; a representative from Navi Mumbai police; an advocate; a women protection officer and three PCMC officials. On Thursday, a 25-year-old man had sexually assaulted a 40-year-old homemaker after entering her room. Both of them were admitted there.Several patients who have tested positive for Covid-19 or are suspected to be infected are currently put up at the quarantine centre which consists four 18-storey buildings with a bed capacity of 2,000. All the women patients have been shifted to two buildings while the remaining two would be occupied by male patients.“Committee members also advised to install CCTVs on each floor which will help monitor those entering the facility. Currently, there are eight cameras in the compound entrance. We are also putting up a complaint box in the building so patients can submit their grievances if any,” said assistant municipal commissioner Tejaswini Galande, who was appointed the committee secretary.Navi Mumbai police has deployed four women constables per shift at the facility, apart from women security guards deployed by PCMC. No male member, even male family members of patients, would be allowed to visit the two women’s buildings. A diary entry will be maintained listing staff and visitors entering the buildings with their time of entering and leaving the premises. Notice boards have also been put up in the women’s buildings advising women of safety precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-rape-at-covid-centre-pcmc-separates-men-women/story-UhdaK4OmLeDbICD2UXqk0N.html
21-07-2020||City||First Thane man to undergo plasma transfusion dies||A 60-year-old doctor, who was the first to receive convalescent plasma transfusion in Thane, succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday. He is the sixth doctor to have died of Covid-19 in the city. So far, more than 100 doctors have tested positive for Covid-19 and 15 are currently active cases in Thane.The doctor was from Thane and ran a hospital in Lokmanya Nagar, which is a Covid hot spot. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 9 and died of the infection on Monday. He is survived by his wife and two children who are Covid-free.“He was very healthy and active. He ensured that his hospital was kept open throughout the pandemic. He was also keen on converting his hospital into a Covid hospital,” said Santosh Kadam, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Thane. Kadam said doctors are the worst hit by the pandemic. “We doctors are at the forefront in this war. We request the government to extend the Rs 50 lakh term cover to doctors from private hospitals as well,” he said.Meanwhile, to ensure each quarantine centre has adequate medical staff, Thane municipal commissioner, Dr Vipin Sharma asked private doctors to chip in towards Covid duties.According to Thane Municipal Corporation, which has been conducting rapid antigen testing since July 18, 179 positive cases have been found from 829 tests. “In the last three days, we have tested 829 people. It has revealed 179 positive, five invalid and the remaining 645 as negative,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC. Malvi further said testing centres have been set up in every ward and will be operational from today.Thane city recorded 255 new cases of Covid-19 and four deaths on Monday. Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) continued to report the most cases in Thane district, with 427 new cases and nine deaths reported on Monday. Altogether, there are 16,364 cases of Covid-19 in Kalyan-Dombivli, of which 6,032 are active. Thane has the second-highest tally of Covid-positive cases – 16,028, of which 5,708 are active.“We started doing rapid antigen testing from July 9 and expect to trace most patients at early stages and give them treatment,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC. So far, KDMC has conducted 2,024 antigen tests, of which 730 were positive and 1,294 were negative.On the first day after relaxing the lockdown, Navi Mumbai recorded 286 new cases of Covid-19, bringing its tally to 11,712. Two deaths were reported and the death toll is now 345. Nerul recorded the highest number of positive cases (62) followed by Ghansoli (43) and Airoli (43). With more recoveries than new cases, the recovery rate is 63% and so far, 7,417 patients discharged altogether. The total number of active cases in Navi Mumbai is 3,950.Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC) reported the fewest active cases (477), with 63 new Covid-positive cases and no deaths on Monday. Altogether, there are 3,171 cases of Covid-19 in Ambernath and the city has the highest discharge rate (81.23%) in the Mumbai metropolitan area. AMC’s Prashant Rasal has issued a notification saying lockdown will continue in containment zones till July 31.Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) recorded 68 new cases, taking its total to 3,166 with 512 active cases of Covid-19. The death toll is 177. Badlapur reported 60 new cases, taking its tally to 1,973. The city has recorded 31 deaths till date.Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Monday reported 112 new cases and four deaths. There are now 4,990 cases of Covid-19 in the area, of which 1,463 are active. The death toll is 118.PCMC said the lockdown would be extended till July 31 for containment zones. Deputy municipal commissioner, PCMC, Jamir Lengrekar said, “Containment zones will be updated on a daily basis, based on the number of cases in the area. We have released a list of nine cluster containment zones along with a detailed list of containment zones today which will be under lockdown from July 22.”The rest of Panvel region will follow the guidelines of Mission Begin Again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-thane-man-to-undergo-plasma-transfusion-dies/story-UlVjLf5pZ549lE1rApjxsK.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||How Himachal lost steam in battle against Covid-19||In the first one-and-a-half months of the Covid-19 outbreak, Himachal seemed to be doing better than other states, recording only around 40 cases, but the situation consistently went downhill from there.The first case was reported in the hill state on March 20 and the surge ceased on April 23. For the next 10 days, there were no cases and the state was on the verge of becoming Covid-free with only one patient in the hospital.Jubilant over the ‘short-term’ success, the government took a baleful but humanitarian decision to open the state borders for stranded residents. The entry gates to Himachal were chock-a-block as people returned in huge numbers. This, however, resulted in a second wave of spike in cases that hit the state on May 4. Since then there has been no let-up in the spurt.RETURNEES BRING SPIKE IN JUNETill May end, the situation seemed to be under control as only 290 new cases were added in a month, taking the state’s tally to 330. However, the state witnessed a spike as people continued to return from other states. In June, as many as 623 infections were reported in the state—an increase of almost 200% in a month. Most patients were the ones returning from Delhi and Mumbai. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had justified the government move stating, “We could not have left our people to their fate.” GOVT’S FLIP FLOPSGiven the surge in cases, the government again closed the state borders on June 23. The deputy commissioners were given the powers to take action as per requirement in their districts concerned. Entry to the state was allowed only in exceptional circumstances such as the death of a relative or medical emergency at home.During this time, the Centre was gearing up for Unlock 2.0. On June 29, the Centre issued new guidelines, asking the states to allow inter-state travel. Himachal asked the Union government for special permission to keep its borders closed, which was denied.Hence, not only were the state borders opened but the condition of institutional or home quarantine was also waived off for industrial workers, managers and project promoters. Industrialists were allowed to bring labour from anywhere by just registering on the government portal.MIGRANTS WORKERS RAISE THE BURDENWith the influx of industrial workers to Himachal in July, the state is witnessing another spike in infections. The Baddi-Barotilwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial belt in Solan district has emerged as a new Covid-19 hotspot. In July, Solan district alone had recorded 222 cases, which constitute over 36% of the total of cases in the state. Most people found positive are migrant labourers working in factories in BBN areas. Some migrant labourers who arrived to work in apple orchards have also tested positive.The state witnessed the steepest single-day spike on July 13, with a total of 78 cases. A record 69 cases were reported from BBN. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur also admitted that arrival of migrant labourers has led to a spurt in Covid-19 cases but the economic activities also need to be revived.QUARANTINE MUST FOR MIGRANT LABOURERSThakur said that given the surge in cases among industrial workers, the government has revised the guidelines and made institutional or home quarantine a must for the labourers coming from other states. “Now, quarantine is a must for industrial workers. Big industries will make arrangements for quarantine of their workers while smaller units may pool the facilities,” he said. For migrant labourers coming to work in orchards, the responsibility of quarantine lies with the owners. Covid-19 negative report has also been made mandatory for labourers entering the state. TOURISTS ALLOWED BUT WITH RESTRICTIONSThe state government has allowed tourists to enter the state but on the condition that they have a five-day hotel booking and a Covid-19 negative report, not older than 72 hours. However, there have been many instances where people entered the state without requisite documents.The chief minister said that for now there is no change in the guidelines for tourists. “The government has increased the vigil at the borders and people flouting the norms will be dealt with strictly,” he said. However, locals have been resenting the decision stating that allowing the tourists to visit the state may result in a bigger outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/how-himachal-lost-steam-in-battle-against-covid-19/story-UnkAnidSYmjNHZHzEh2FmI.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||HC puts Haryana on notice over maize procurement plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday put Haryana government on notice on a plea seeking procurement of maize under the minimum support price (MSP) scheme announced by the Centre.The plea has been moved by Gurnam Singh, a Kurukshetra resident, demanding that direction be issued to Haryana government to purchase maize under MSP and make arrangements to ensure purchase of maize at a fixed price of Rs 1,860 per quintal as fixed by the Centre. The state’s response has been sought by August 26. The plea has been filed in a 2014 petition, in which the high court is monitoring procurement of various crops under MSP.The court was informed that a total of 21,116 farmers have got themselves registered for maize cultivation and area registered is 4,641 acres. Kurukshetra is the top producer with 2,751 acres under maize cultivation and 1,153 registered farmers. Haryana government is yet to come out with a notification on procurement of maize crop, even though it has started arriving. There are no arrangements in mandis due to which farmers are bound to sell their produce to private parties at a lower price of Rs 1,100-1,200 per quintal, the court was told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-puts-haryana-on-notice-over-maize-procurement-plea/story-WQi7mgY1pXP2G3bpzEkVSL.html
21-07-2020||Lucknow||Vikas Dubey’s alleged financier arrested||Slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s alleged financier Jai Bajpai and an accomplice were arrested on Monday, the Kanpur police said. The arrests were made on charges of criminal conspiracy and helping Dubey in his nefarious design by providing him with cash and cartridges hours before the Bikru village ambush of July 3, in which eight police personnel were killed and seven others, including a civilian, left seriously injured, the police said in a statement issued here. Dubey, the prime accused in the ambush, was killed in a police encounter on July 10.A police probe revealed that Dubey had made a phone call to Bajpai on July 1. The next day, along with his aide Prashant Shukla alias Doublu, a resident of Kohna, Bajpai went to Bikru to hand over Rs 2 lakh cash and 25 cartridges of .32 bore revolvers to Dubey, the statement said.The police statement confirmed that Bajpai and Shukla were booked under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 395 (punishment for dacoity), 412 (dishonestly receiving property stolen in the commission of a dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment (CLA) Act read with section 120B (criminal conspiracy), IPC.A separate FIR under sections 29 and 30 of the Arms Act has also been registered against Bajpai for providing cartridges to Dubey illegally, the police statement said.Bajpai, however, claimed he was innocent and he was cooperating with the police. He told reporters he knew Vikas Dubey and had given him a loan of Rs 11 lakh, claiming that he hadn’t spoken to the gangster in the last three months.The police have also seized the licensed pistol and passport of Bajpai, an affluent businessman. Dubey had briefed Bajpai about his plan to launch an attack on the police party that had gone to the village to arrest him. He had also asked Bajpai to arrange at least three cars for him and his gang.Bajpai took three cars to pick up Dubey and his men and take them to safer places, but failed to do so due to intensive police patrolling, the statement said. On July 4, Bajpai left his cars, registered in names of other people, in Kakadeo area of Kanpur and went underground, a police official said.Soon after seizing the three vehicles, police raided the possible hideouts of Bajpai and nabbed him within hours, a senior official said on the condition of anonymity.Subsequently, he was handed over to the Special Task Force (STF) of the Uttar Pradesh police and taken to its headquarters in Lucknow, where he was kept in detention for 15 days, the official said.Bajpai was handed over to the Nazirabad police of Kanpur on Sunday and subsequently let off, another official said, adding that he was arrested again following frequent tweets and posts on social media platforms about his release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/vikas-dubey-s-alleged-financier-arrested/story-OO7b8UN9Xqkkfz3UuJHXCL.html
21-07-2020||City||Centre’s agri ordinances: Haryana farmers, arhtiyas take out tractor rallies||Hundreds of farmers took out tractor rallies in various parts of Haryana on Monday to protest against the agriculture-related ordinances, recently promulgated by the Union government. Protesting under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, farmers and arhtiyas took out district-level rallies on their tractors, bikes and cars and raised slogans against the Centre.Referring to the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, the protesters said these were “anti-farmer” ordinances that would allow big corporate houses to purchase the produce at their own prices.“These ordinances would allow private traders to purchase agriculture produce directly from farmers which would only end up benefitting big corporate houses owned by the likes of Ambani and Adani,” alleged BKU state president Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who was leading the protest in Kurukshetra.He said that the ordinance will end the competition in market, thus forcing the farmers to sell their produce to these private traders at their own prices, he alleged.The farmer leaders also alleged that the government wants to shut mandis and end the Minimum Support Price system and this will encourage black-marketing of food grains and essential items. They demanded the government to immediately withdraw the ordinances and ensure that all the crops of the farmers are purchased on the MSP.The farmer leaders threatened to intensify the agitation if the government fails to withdraw the ordinances. They have called a state-level Mahapanchayat on July 30 at Kaithal to decide the further course of action. SOCIAL DISTANCING GOES FOR TOSSSocial distancing took a backstage as the farmers came out in huge numbers at protest sites at Karnal, Kuruksehtra, Yamunanagar, Kaithal, Bhiwani, Hisar, Jind, Sirsa, Ambala and Fatehabad districts, even as the cops and administration officials remained mute spectators. The protests, however, remained peaceful as the farmers did not block rail or road traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-s-agri-ordinances-haryana-farmers-arhtiyas-take-out-tractor-rallies/story-aKAQmXS7yoVVn5moVClbpL.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||War of words between SMHS doctors, patients in Srinagar||With doctors facing the brunt of public anger due to lack of facilities at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) hospital amid the Covid-19 pandemic in Kashmir, frontline health workers are blaming the administration for not doing enough to enhance infrastructure and manpower amid the lockdown period. However, many locals and experts have blamed the doctors’ ‘behaviour’ for the mess. Patients’ attendants beat up three resident doctors, including a woman, in different incidents last week at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh(SMHS) Hospital, one of the premier tertiary care hospitals in Kashmir. Two doctors were seriously injured in the assault. While one doctor suffered a cervical vertebra fracture, another reported shoulder dislocation. The beatings also led to seizures in one of the health workers. The hospital, earlier this month, had set aside four wards for people infected with the coronavirus after a surge in patients at Covid-19 designated hospitals in Kashmir. The assaults prompted the doctors to go on strike, which affected patient care for some time. The incidents and the subsequent strike triggered a debate and war of words between doctors and the common people on social media.‘WE ARE HELPLESS TOO’The doctors blamed the administration for not doing enough to mitigate the dismal scenario at hospitals.“This is the complete failure of the administration. They got three months to plan for Covid-19 response but nothing happened. People want us to provide them the best care but they don’t realise that we are as helpless as they are. When there is no infrastructure like oxygen ports and ventilators what will we do?” said a doctor, working in the casualty unit of the SMHS.Another doctor said the hospital was lacking essential staff like doctors, nurses and orderlies. “One nurse is catering to 50 patients while a nursing orderly has to take care of three wards at SMHS. We all are overburdened. Ideally, every ward should have four nurses and two nursing orderlies,” she said.The doctor said people get agitated when they don’t find oxygen and ventilators. “In wards, we only have oxygen ports for one-third beds while it should be available for each bed. We have 19 ventilators but require double the number. Monitors are also not available,” she said.In terms of security, the doctor says, the hospital is a mess: “The Covid wards are packed with not just patients but even suspected cases and their attendants. All of them are huddled there. A few days back, a Covid positive patient went out of the ward unnoticed and attended congregational Friday prayers and came back,” said the doctor.However, locals are pinning the blame on behaviour and carelessness of doctors. “Doctors, paramedics and hospital authorities deserve what they were given by attendants. My mother who tested Covid-19 negative died on Tuesday at SMHS ward 3, bed 17 because of doctors’ behaviour and carelessness,” Haroon Kar, a doctorate in English literature, said on Twitter.“She didn’t die of anything, she died of carelessness, she died of not having doctors and paramedics around and she died because of SMHS hospital,” Kar said. Doctors Association Kashmir president Nisar ul Hassan said that the overall environment at the SMHS was appalling.“I would not even like my dog to get treated in SMHS Hospital such is the environment there, not to talk of taking my father or mother there. One can’t sit in the casualty for more than 15-20 minutes. Patients go to the hospital with hope but they return dissatisfied,” he said.‘SENIOR DOCTORS NOT TAKING LEAD’He also blamed senior doctors for not taking the lead in patient care. “You have one doctor catering to 50 patients and that too a junior doctor. Emergencies are taken care of by trainees and postgraduates, they are students. Senior doctors who are supposed to be there, especially in emergency medicine, are found missing while junior doctors, being inexperienced, have attitude problems,” he said.He said patients get no dignity and respect at the hospital. “There is a lack of empathy and compassion from doctors or nurses toward the patient. The attendants do most jobs, which hospital authorities or hospital staff, have to do. What do you expect in such a scenario?” he said.Director Health Services Samir Mattoo refused to comment saying that it was the domain of Government Medical College, Srinagar. A call to principal GMC, Srinagar Saima Rashid did not elicit any response.Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole also did not respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/war-of-words-between-smhs-doctors-patients-in-srinagar/story-c9TJ6UaQGXzJUVq5HwStyH.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Another plea in HC challenging social media gag in Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday issued notice to Haryana government on second plea filed challenging social media gag issued in different districts of Haryana.Earlier, a Sonepat administration order on banning social media news portals was challenged. The fresh petition has been filed by Samachar Express Broadcasting News Private Ltd, a Karnal-based social media news portal, challenging the July 10 order of the local administration.The court was told that a blanket ban on use of social media platform for circulation of news has been notified, ostensibly to prevent circulating incorrect or undesirable news or information concerning the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. “But it is violative of the Citizens Fundamental Right to Freedom of Expression. If the purpose behind passing of the impugned order had been to restrict circulation of fake, incorrect or otherwise undesirable news pertaining to the pandemic, the same could have been specified in the operative portion,” the court was told, adding that but an absolute bar has been imposed on any kind of news, even if not related to Covid-19 pandemic directly or indirectly.The court has issued notice for August 14 while allowing the petitioner firm to use the social media platform for disseminating information concerning any general developments. But on Covid-19, it said, information should be based on what is provided by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/another-plea-in-hc-challenging-social-media-gag-in-haryana/story-sHe8pmDDhxckL1tAUkaZSJ.html
21-07-2020||City||Angered truck driver, stabs liquor vend employee to death in Ludhiana||Police have launched a manhunt to nab a truck driver, who allegedly stabbed a liquor vend employee to death with a sword, in Ludhiana’s South City area on Sunday night. The victim, Subhash Jaiswal, 37, lived inside the liquor vend, while the accused, Manpreet Singh Mani, 32, delivered liquor stock at the store in a truck.Balwinder Singh, another employee at the liquor vend, claims to have witnessed the crime. “On Sunday when Subhash was unloading the liquor cartons from the truck, he asked Manpreet for help. However, Manpreet was busy on the phone and ignored him, which led to a heated argument. When Subash’s co-worker Balwinder intervened, Manpreet left in the truck,” said inspector Paramdeep Singh, SHO, PAU police station.Balwinder told the police that Manpreet returned around 11pm and called out Subhash to the window in the vend’s shutter. As Subhash went near the window, Manpreet stabbed him in the chest with a sword through it, killing him on the spot. He escaped in his vehicle.Acting on Balwinder’s statement, police have registered a murder case at the PAU station and are working to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/angered-truck-driver-stabs-liquor-vend-employee-to-death-in-ludhiana/story-A3qCm3YRMNnGyTEawQJMFJ.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||694 new cases, six fatalities in Haryana||Six persons died of Covid-19 while 694 others tested positive for the virus in Haryana on Monday, the state health department said. Besides, the state also recorded 433 recoveries on the day.Three of the deceased are from Sonepat while one each is from Nuh, Hisar and Jhajjar districts. The state’s Covid-19 death count now stands at 355. As per the medical bulletin, the cumulative number of Covid-19 positive cases climbed to 26,858 on Monday, while as many as 20,226 patients have been discharged after getting cured so far.The number of active cases stood at 6,277 on Monday.Haryana health minister Anil Vij said the recovery rate of Covid- 19 in the state is about 75% and the cases are doubling in 22 days. Considering these figures, he said, there was no sign of community transmission in the state. He said no side effects were observed during the human trial of the Covid-19 vaccine at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak.As per the bulletin, Gurugram reported the highest number of fresh cases at 109 followed by Faridabad (103), Sonepat (98), Rewari (75), Ambala (70), Palwal and Panipat (35 each), Jhajjar (24), Hisar (23), Karnal (21), Mahendergarh (20), Rohtak (15), Fatehabad (14), Panchkula (13), Bhiwani and Sirsa (8 each), Kurukshetra, Jind, Kaithal and Charkhi Dadri (5 each), Nuh (3).Two patients, including a woman, died due of Covid-19 in Karnal, taking the toll to 10 in the district, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said. The deceased woman, 57, belonged to Shiv Colony of Karnal and was also suffering from cancer and diabetes. Similarly, one person suffering from the Covid-19 infection died in Rohtak, said civil surgeon Dr Anil Birla. However, these three fatalities were not reflected in the state’s health bulletin released on Monday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/694-new-cases-six-fatalities-in-haryana/story-4ZObe82YKmogUwLBY01g4J.html
21-07-2020||City||UMC converts 26 school buses, private vehicles into ambulances||In view of increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Ulhasnagar, the civic body has transformed 26 school buses and private vehicles to ambulances to transport Covid patients in its vicinity. The converted ambulances, which have dedicated drivers, will help transport mild, moderate, asymptomatic and severe Covid patients to Covid hospitals and quarantine centres.“There was a shortage of ambulances in Ulhasnagar. The 26 new ambulances will help bridge the gap. As per the directions from the Thane collector, we decided to transform school buses and private vehicles into ambulances as they are currently not functioning,” said Yuvraj Badhane, public relations officer, UMC. Earlier the civic body had only 12 ambulances for Covid patients.The Kalyan Regional Transport Authority transformed the buses and vehicles into ambulances which have ventilator support and oxygen facility. The driver’s area has been properly covered for safety.“We have publicised the list of ambulances and contact numbers. One can also call our helpline numbers including 0251-2720143, 0251-2720149 and the toll free number 8002331101,”added Badhane.State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, who visited Ulhasnagar on Monday, pressed on the need to begin the Dharavi model in Ulhasnagar by testing more people and spreading awareness among residents. He also asked the civic body to contact patients who are isolated in their homes, on a regular basis. UMC is yet to begin rapid antigen testing, while the rest of the civic bodies in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have already started the process. “We will begin antigen testing in Ulhasnagar in the coming two to three days. It is under consideration with priority,” added Badhane. The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) recorded 140 new cases on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 5,766, of which 2,266 are currently active. The city has recorded 88 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/umc-converts-26-school-buses-private-vehicles-into-ambulances/story-85tRmGgciOKcfcUFA49VQL.html
21-07-2020||City||Scores from Maha turn up for ‘job interview’ at NMMC HQ||Hundreds of job aspirants from across the state assembled for job interview at the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s (NMMC) headquarters on Monday after being misled by a private website that had given wrong information. This comes amid loss of jobs in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown.NMMC health department had recently advertised 5,381 vacancies which included requirements for MD medicine, medical microbiologists, intensivists, junior medical officer, nurses, lab technicians, pharmacists, data entry operators among others. The candidates were asked to apply online on www.nmmc.gov.in, whereas a private website — mahasarkar.co.in — wrongly asked the candidates to go for “walk-in interview directly with bio-data and all academic certificates on July 20, 2020”.After a large number of youths assembled at NMMC headquarters with their degrees and certificates following information on the private website, they were refused entry to the building. However, this led to disappointment and anger among the candidates, most of whom wanted to apply for posts of data entry operators. Pandurang Dhane who had come from Dhulia said, “I have spent more than ₹4,000 to make it here on time and now they are saying that there is no interview. What do I do now?” Another aspirant, Akshay Gaikwad from Nasik, said, “I hired a private vehicle to come here for which I spent a lot of money. Why are we not being interviewed or even allowed entry?”As the crowd swelled, NMMC additional municipal commissioner Sujata Dhole came over and spoke to the candidates through a megaphone explaining that they had been misled. She also gave clarification about the job posting and the proper procedure.Dhole said, “The candidates were misled by a website — mahasarkar.co.in — which is not even an Indian website, let alone an official one. It is being run from the United States and they simply collect information and post on their site. The language used in the advertisement posted by the site is a mix of Hindi and Marathi, which is indicative that it is not an official advertisement. The site gave today’s date for interview.”She said, “We had advertised only on the official NMMC website. Our advertisement clearly stated that the applications have to be made online and that the candidates would be informed of the date and time for interview online and through SMS. There was no question of walk-in interview.”The additional municipal commissioner also explained the situation to the candidates. “While the deadline for applying is over, we have decided to accept online applications for data entry operators on Tuesday to give these candidates a chance,” she said.She has also appealed to the people to verify about job interviews and check if it is specifically mentioned on the NMMC website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scores-from-maha-turn-up-for-job-interview-at-nmmc-hq/story-U1vW22jNlxr8WjETfrt97K.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayor flags off 13 tractors to be used for maintenance of parks, road berms||Chandigarh mayor Raj Bala Malik flagged off 13 tractors on Monday that will be used for maintenance of parks and road berms.Malik said that the tractors have been purchased for landscaping work at a cost of Rs 50 lakh. She said they will be used for running shrubmaster, which is used for removal/cutting of grass from V-3 to V-6 roads and parks in the city.The mayor said that some tractors will be used to carry water tankers for irrigation in city parks and green belts for watering plants in various road berms and central verges throughout city.She added that few tractors will be used for scientific disposal of removed grass, dry leaves and horticulture waste from the parks and other areas. Other landscaping work by leveling and dressing of earth work in parks and road berms will also be carried out with support of these tractors, Malik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-flags-off-13-tractors-to-be-used-for-maintenance-of-parks-road-berms/story-wB1BdNCeAwAaVsqCjKzXeP.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||HC freezes properties of man for failing to pay maintenance to wife, daughter||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday restrained a city businessman and his parents from creating any third-party rights in the movable or immovable properties held by them either independently or jointly, as he failed to clean the pending dues of interim maintenance to his estranged wife and minor daughter.The bench of justice Prasanna Varale and justice Milind Jadhav also directed the businessman, owner of an elevator manufacturing firm, to submit an inventory of all the movable and immovable properties belonging to him and his parents.The directives came on a petition filed by his wife complaining about non-compliance of an order passed by a metropolitan magistrate court on June 30, 2018 directing the businessman to pay monthly interim maintenance of ₹75,000 per month to his minor daughter and ₹1.50 lakh to his wife.The order was passed by the magistrate on a complaint lodged by the petitioner woman invoking provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005.In the petition filed through advocate DP Singh, the woman complained that her husband had not complied with the magisterial order, and as of June 2020, he had not clears arrears of more than ₹44 lakh. Counsel for the petitioner, advocate Amogh Singh, on Friday pointed out that earlier on June 9, another division bench had directed the Andheri-based businessman to clear the arrears by the next date, but he has not complied with the order.The businessman responded to the petition by pointing out that he has already paid sum of ₹15 lakh to his wife, and he could not pay the balance amount as he himself was facing financial difficulties on account of partial closure of business due to Covid-19 lockdown. He also offered to deposit ₹5 lakh more in his wife’s bank account in a week.The offer, however, failed to impress the bench, which took note of the reference made by the woman to certain movable and immovable properties held by her husband and his parents in her application under provisions of the Act, and issued the restraining order.HC has also observed that the non-compliance on part of the businessman may amount to wilful breach of HC order, inviting action for contempt of the court, and has kept the issue pending for future consideration.The matter will now come up for further hearing after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-freezes-properties-of-man-for-failing-to-pay-maintenance-to-wife-daughter/story-gBwn5Zi25zpaSc1Cc0WK0H.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Cyber fraudster dupes sound designer of ₹5.99 lakh||A 69-year-old sound designer, Hitendra Ghosh, was recently duped by a cyber fraudster to the tune of ₹5.99 lakh. Following the incident, Ghosh lodged a complaint with Juhu police station, based on which a first information report (FIR) was filed against the unknown fraudster on July 15. Ghosh is a two-time national award winner for best audiography for Ek Pal (1985) and Game (2011). He also won a national award for best sound recording in 1978 for the movie Junoon.According to the statement, “During the coronavirus-induced lockdown, he wanted to transfer money from one account to another, but was unable to personally go to the bank. He then searched for the customer care number and called up the number on July 7. The person who answered his call introduced himself as Rahul Kumar working as a bank’s customer care executive.” A police officer said, “Ghosh shared all his bank account details with him, and later the accused asked him to share the CVV number of his debit card which he refused to share. After this, the accused made another attempt to dupe him and instructed him to download an application called AnyDesk.”Ghosh followed the instruction, thus giving the accused access to his device. Soon after that, he lost around ₹8 Lakh in a series of eight transactions worth ₹99,999, said officers.The sound engineer approached his bank and managed to recover ₹2 lakh while efforts are being made to recover the rest. Ghosh then approached Juhu police station and lodged a complaint. Pandharinath Wavhal, senior inspector, Juhu police station, said, “We have registered the offence against unknown cyber fraudster and are investigating the case.” The case has been registered under sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 66(c) and 66(d) of the Information Technology Act. “We are advising everyone not to share bank account related details with any unknown caller or download any applications (which the caller instruct you to download) on your phone,” Wavhal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyber-fraudster-dupes-sound-designer-of-5-99-lakh/story-MLWjszy4eJ1bU4gaUlDVOM.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Loan waiver: ₹5,653 crore sent to 8.5L farmers in two weeks||More than three months after the process of farm loan waiver disbursement was paused owing to the cash-crunch in the wake of the lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the state government disbursed ₹5,653 crore to about 8.5 lakh farmers in the past two weeks. The remaining 5.52 lakh eligible farmers are expected to get the amount over the next couple of weeks. Including the disbursement done earlier in February and March, the total disbursement has touched ₹17,646 crore covering 27.38 lakh farmers. Owing to the drop in revenue receipts, two schemes announced for farmers — one for those with pending loan of more than ₹2 lakh and another for those who pay loans regularly — have been put on hold. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government comprising the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress announced loan waiver to farmers with pending amount of less than ₹2 lakh in December. The disbursal for the same began in the last week of February after verification of loan accounts. The state government identified 32.9 lakh eligible farmers for the scheme with outstanding loans worth ₹21,467 crore. After the disbursal of ₹11,993 crore to about 19 lakh eligible farmers, the scheme was put on hold after the nationwide lockdown was announced in view of Covid-19, in March. However, as revenue receipts improved in June, the scheme was resumed and ₹5,653 crore has been disbursed since.“We are disbursing the loan waiver to all the remaining farmers so that they become eligible for fresh farm loans during the ongoing kharif season. We expect all remaining farmers to complete their authentication by visiting the local centres or banks in the next few days. The scheme has been implemented in record time after it was launched,” said Abha Shukla, principal secretary, cooperation department. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed all the district collectors to complete the disbursement at the earliest. State government had, on March 6, also announced a one-time settlement scheme for farmers who have pending loans of more than ₹2 lakh wherein it offered to pay ₹2 lakh once the remaining amount was repaid by farmers. In another scheme, the government had announced an incentive of up to ₹50,000 for farmers who are repaying loans regularly. Deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar had announced that the government may incur ₹15,000 crore more for the implementation of these two schemes. However, in the wake of revenue losses, these schemes have been put on hold. “The decision about their implementation is unlikely to be done anytime soon,” said an official from the finance department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/loan-waiver-5-653-crore-sent-to-8-5l-farmers-in-two-weeks/story-wpAVi4b3viv2z2PPo0LVUP.html
21-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid curve takes a turn for the worse, active cases surpass recoveries||The dimension of Covid-19 pandemic has once again altered in Jharkhand, which, for the first time in more than a month, is witnessing a higher number of active infections than the recovered cases. On Monday, there were 2,889 active cases in the state compared with 2,835 people who have recovered.With 178 new cases reported during the day, the tally has now gone up to 5,777, according to a government bulletin. The higher number of active cases comes at the time when in some states, the recovery count is more than the count of active cases. For instance, in Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, those recovering from Covid-19 are more than those testing positive. On June 14, Jharkhand had 900 active cases and 816 recoveries. However, the very next day the active cases went down to 848 while recoveries climbed to 905.Since then, the state had maintained the same status--recoveries being higher than active cases-- till July 17. On July 2, the state had the maximum gap between the recovery count (1,988 cases) and active cases (582).However, the steep surge in cases in July has swelled up the tally of active cases. During this period, the daily discharge of patients after they recovered remained less than the daily detection of cases. This resulted in the narrowing of gap between the total recovery count and active case count.The rate of recovery then started declining and came down to 49.32% on July 18 from its peak of 76.90% on July 2.On July 18, the state had again seen a reversal when the active cases (2,681) were more than the recoveries (2,656).According to the health department’s bulletin issued on July 19, Jharkhand has a total of 5,552 cases, including 2785 active cases, 2718 recoveries and 49 deaths.Health experts, however, opine that the increased testing in the state is the real cause of such reversal. “The three T formula (Tracing, Testing and Treating) is the only solution to contain the spread of the pandemic. Acting on this, the state has increased its testing capacity by setting up new laboratories and diagnostic machines. We are now testing an average of 5,000 samples daily,” said Praveen Karn, state epidemiologist.He added, “The more you test, the more cases will be reported. The rise in active cases is, therefore, obvious. But, on the other hand, an infected Covid-19 patient requires at least 14 days for recovery. So, the pace of recovery can’t be increased as it is time-bound.”The state has ramped up sampling and testing in the last 15 days. The average daily testing of samples has been raised to 5,000 from 2,500 during this period. On July 16, 17, and 18, over 6,000 samples were tested per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-curve-takes-a-turn-for-the-worse-active-cases-surpass-recoveries/story-cxVRZqb0fUZ1ktlHMAGZTO.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Woman’s body found inside drum in Palghar house||The decomposed body of a 20-year-old woman was found inside a plastic drum in a home in Palghar’s Boisar, around 117km from Mumbai, police said on Monday.The police have registered a case of murder against four people — the victim’s husband and her three in-laws — who are in Bihar. The police suspect Bulbul Jha was murdered as she refused to take back a complaint she had filed against her husband and that the murder is likely to have taken place in February 2019.According to the Boisar MIDC police, room number 26 in Ganesh Nagar chawl was locked since February 2019 after its tenants — Pawan Jha,50; Bachudevi,45; their son Deepak, 25 and his wife Bulbul — apparently left for their home in Bihar and told the landlord, Lokesh Jain, 34, not to give the room on rent to anyone else. They continued to pay a monthly rent of ₹4,000 online through Pawan’s daughter, Nitu Mukesh Thakur, 30, till February this year, after which Jain tried contacting them. After getting no response, he decided to break the lock on Sunday evening and throw out the family’s belongings to make way for a new tenant, which is when he found the body inside a 200L drum kept in the loft above the house’s toilet.“After Jain informed us, we went to the spot, recovered the body and sent it for a DNA analysis to Kalina laboratory. We have registered a case of murder against four [Pawan, Bachudevi, Deepak and Nitu] and have sent a team to Bihar to catch them,” said Pradip Kasbe, inspector, Boisar MIDC police. The police said they identified the body as Bulbul’s after preliminary investigations on the basis of the ornaments and clothes found on the body and that only Pawan, Bachudevi and Deepak were seen leaving the room in February last year.According to Kasbe, the Jhas had been living there since 2015 before they left in February 2019. “From March 2020, Jain had stopped receiving the rent and whenever Jain called Pawan or Nitu, there was no response, so he found another tenant and on July 19, he decided to break the lock and throw out the Jhas’s belongings, which is when the body was found,” said Kasbe, adding that the neighbours said they did not get any foul smell from the room.“In February 2019, Deepak set Bulbul on fire and she sustained burn injuries. He was arrested and later released on bail. Deepak wanted Bulbul to withdraw the complaint, which she refused to. It is possible that Deepak murdered Bulbul and fled,” said Kasbe, adding that Pawan and Deepak would work at various industrial units in Boisar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-s-body-found-inside-drum-in-palghar-house/story-oLkNHEudwnWrMAv2OU1OwI.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 tally up to 318,695: Has community spread begun in Maha?||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count on Monday reached 318,695 after 8,240 new cases were reported, even as an official opined that the state could have already entered the community transmission stage — when the source of infection is not known.However, Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope denied community transmission has started. “We have been able to trace all contacts so far and also ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] has not said anything on that, as of now. Let them say, then we will look into it,” he said. Earlier in the day, Dr Subhash Salunkhe, public health expert, who is also heading the communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state , felt that community transmission has started in Maharashtra. “Community transmission has started, especially in cities like Mumbai and Pune. Earlier, we used to trace some connection for a Covid-19 infection, like travel history of a patient or someone who came in contact with those having travel history, but now the situation has changed. The people found infected have no such connections. We will have to admit that it [Covid-19] has spread into to the community,” said Dr Salunkhe.Later, Salunkhe said he commented about community transmission going by their own definition as all sources of infection are local now. “There is no outside source left for infections. All the sources of infections are local now,” Salunkhe said.Monday was the fifth day the state recorded over 8,000 cases in a day, including its highest single-day spike of 9,518 on Sunday. Two days after Mumbai crossed the 1 lakh cases mark, the rest of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) crossed the same to touch 100,847 infections. As of Monday, the state has 131,334 active cases, the health department said. With over 9,000 cases in a day, questions are being raised if community transmission has started in the state as the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday said that the exponential growth in cases showed that the country has reached community transmission stage.Maharashtra crossed the grim milestone of 3 lakh cases in 19 weeks (on July 18) since the first Covid-19 case was reported on March 9.Meanwhile, the death toll of the state also crossed 12,000 after 176 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours. Death count stands at 12,030, according to state health department data. The highest toll in a day was reported on July 4 with 295 cases. Mumbai has maintained its stability with respect to number of fresh cases with 1,035 new infections reported on Monday. Its case count stands at 102,423. Of them, active cases are 23,728.On June 27, Mumbai reported its highest single-day spike of 2,077 cases. In July, the highest single- day spike in the city was recorded at 1,552 on July 2.The city’s toll stands at 5,755 after 41 deaths were reported in a day.Maharashtra crossed the 3 lakh mark within 14 days after it breached 2 lakh on July 4. It took the state 96 days to cross 1 lakh cases on June 12 and 22 days to cross the 2 lakh mark. Going by statistics, Maharashtra has recorded 143,936 cases in 20 days of this month as against 302 cases in March, 10,196 in April, 57,157 in May and 102,172 cases in June. On an average, it comes to 7,196 cases a day.With over 318,695 cases, Maharashtra, if it were a country, would have joined a list of 10 countries having over 3 lakh cases. In the index, Maharashtra would have been at 9th position as it has surpassed Spain, which has 307,335 Covid-19 cases, as per data available at worldometers.info.To deal with surge in cases, the state government has decided to augment health infrastructure in each and every district. It has developed field hospitals in Mumbai and similar field hospitals are now coming up in other eight satellite cities — Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayander, Ulhasnagar, Panvel, Vasai-Virar and Bhiwandi-Nizampur — of the MMR.But a major problem the state is facing is shortage of health staff, which includes doctors, nurses, paramedical staff etc. The issue was discussed in a meeting called by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to review the Covid situation in the state on Saturday. The officials informed that they are facing a serious problem of health staff, including doctors. “With rising cases in small cities and rural areas, the chief minister was told that the health infrastructure there needed to be augmented, but the actual problem is availability of health staff. The infrastructure can be developed but from where do we get health staff, including doctors, is a major problem,” said a senior official, who had attended the meet.Dr Salunkhe said availability of health staff is a major issue before the state. “To deal with this, we will have to rope in private doctors, all doctors other than allopathy and NGOs, as almost 85% Covid-19patients are asymptomatic and don’t need doctors, but need health staff to be taken care of,” he said.The number of cases in 19 cities that were declared as red zone reached 250,075 on July 20 against 67,885 cases on June 3 when the state decided to relax lockdown restrictions in these red zones, comprising nine cities of MMR, Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur.However, their contribution in total cases has reduced to 78.46% from 90.68% on June 3, which indicates surge in cases in areas other than red zones. Along with spike in cases, the state is also facing a large number of deaths on a daily basis. In the last 20 days (since July 1), it has recorded 4,024 Covid-19 casualties.With 12,030 deaths, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded as 3.77% on Monday. It continued to be the second highest in the country after Gujarat where CFR is 4.43% with 2,142 deaths (48,355 cases) till Sunday, according to statistics shared by the state medical education department.Maharashtra still has highest number of deaths across states in the country.Its positive rate against total number of tests is also increasing. On Monday, it recorded 19.91% against 15.05% on June 3. So far, the state has tested over 16 lakh people (1,600,667 tests), of which, 12,81,972 tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-tally-up-to-318-695-has-community-spread-begun-in-maha/story-4JLz9rgrXTgh3Uzp1BOYGM.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||MC exploring plan to auction dhobi ghats||If the municipal corporation has its way the dhobi ghats (enclosures for washermen) in the city will soon be auctioned.A committee constituted to generate revenues from dhobi ghats on Monday approved open and e-auctions for the sites. The issue will now be tabled in the MC’s general house meeting for its approval.“The members suggested that dhobi ghats in various sectors should be provided with modern facilities and latest technologies. We are also looking at offering them bids through open auction or e-tendering subject to the house’s approval,” said Shakti Parkash Devshali, committee chairman and BJP councillor.The ghats were transferred to the civic body from the UT administration in 2005. A monthly rent was paid to the administration earlier, but the MC failed to collect rent from the ghats which are at present run by private societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-exploring-plan-to-auction-dhobi-ghats/story-0Xd43Gfw9z1465FSGJI5jK.html
21-07-2020||Delhi||Moderate rain warning for Delhi||Some parts of Delhi received light rain on Monday, but meteorological conditions are favourable for moderate to heavy rain according to the Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi.Safdarjung and Lodhi Road received “trace” rain on Monday afternoon, while Ridge and Palam received 0.4mm rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday morning said a cluster of convective clouds was approaching Delhi from the west and north-west directions. “Moderate rain/thundershowers with some intense spells is likely to begin over Delhi...” an IMD statement read.“The monsoon trough is passing very close to Delhi and for the next couple of days it’s likely to oscillate in the region. We are expecting moderate to heavy rain late Monday night or early Tuesday morning and later again on Tuesday. The monsoon trough is passing along Amritsar, Ludhiana, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Bhagalpur and the Himalayan foothills in the east. Because the western side of the trough is likely to oscillate around the region, Delhi may get light rain for a few days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre. There could be traffic disruption and waterlogging in low-lying areas on Monday and Tuesday, the Regional Meteorological Centre said.Some parts of Delhi received spells of “heavy” monsoon showers for around three hours early Sunday morning. Safdarjung, Delhi Ridge and Lodhi Road recorded 74.8mm; 86mm and 81.2mm of rain respectively. Safdarjung recorded the highest rain in a day for July since 2015.“The reason for this heavy spell on Sunday is that the monsoon trough is just north of Delhi. Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh have also received widespread rain. This kind of rain is likely to occur again and again until July 21,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Delhi has had a rain deficiency of 55% since June 1 as on Saturday, which reduced to 43% on Monday following the heavy showers on Sunday.The western part of the monsoon trough is north of its normal position, and the eastern part is along the foothills of the Himalayas. In addition, the convergence of moist southerly/southwesterly winds from Bay of Bengal over the north-east and the adjoining east of India and from the Arabian Sea over the north-west of India at lower tropospheric levels will continue for the next two or three days, IMD said in its Monday bulletin.Under the influence of these meteorological conditions, widespread and extremely heavy rain is likely over Bihar, the sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura in the next four or five days.Widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in the next two days, the IMD bulletin said.The Brahmaputra is in the ‘severe to above normal’ flood situation all along its course from Dibrugarh to Dhubri. Downstream of Tezpur, the river has started rising in Guwahati. Due to forecasted rainfall, there is a likelihood of ‘Severe to Extreme Flood Situation’ in main Brahmaputra from Dibrugarh to Dhubri districts, the Central Water Commission warned on Sunday. On Sunday, 27 stations (13 in Bihar, 11 in Assam, 2 in Uttar Pradesh and 1 in West Bengal) are flowing in ‘Severe Flood Situation’. Severe flood is declared when the water level is touching or exceeding the danger level but is below the highest flood level (HFL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/moderate-rain-warning-for-delhi/story-2ySCW0gxO8FN3ZQ72AbDWO.html
21-07-2020||Gurugram||Government colleges in Gurugram await clarity on admissions||Government colleges in the district are yet to receive any guidelines on the admission process for undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses for the next academic session, although according to officials of the higher education department, the admission process, which has been delayed this year due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, might start by the first week of August.While the city-based Gurugram University and some private universities have initiated their admission process last week, state government colleges said that they were still awaiting guidelines to be issued by the department of higher education and are receiving inquiries from anxious students who are slated to take admissions this year. The admission process to colleges usually starts in June every year with classes beginning in August. Centralised admissions for colleges across the state are regulated by the department of higher education. There are seven government colleges in the district in addition to Gurugram University that offer both UG and PG courses. Pooja Khullar, principal, Dronacharya Government College, said that the college was awaiting directions from the directorate of education regarding the admissions process. “There has been no update on the admission front so far but we are expecting the admission portal to be open within the next few weeks. We have been receiving many calls from parents and students who wish to apply since the admission process in other universities and some private colleges have already started,” said Khullar. She said that the college had written to the higher education department, seeking guidelines on the admission process but had not received any response so far. Vijay Adlakha, principal of Government Girls College, Sector 14, said that initially, the plan was to begin registration of students from July 16 but the process has been delayed. “I have been receiving a lot of queries from students inquiring about the admission process. We share whatever information we can to the best of our knowledge. We expect the admission process to start soon,” said Adlakha.Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that one of the factors behind the delay in the admission process was the ambiguity surrounding the terminal examinations of students in the final year. “The UGC has said that examinations need to be conducted for final-year students. These exams need to be conducted by September as mandated by the UGC. We expect the admission process to conclude by then. The admission portal, however, will stay open for at least a month and students will have sufficient time to apply. They need not worry,” said Yadav.Hemant Verma, deputy director, higher education department, said that the admission process this year has been delayed this year due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.“The admission process is yet to start for this year. Due to Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown, the admission cycle got delayed this year. Colleges are shut and results are also yet to be declared. We don’t want students to come out of their homes yet. However, we are hoping to start the admission process by the first week of August,” said VermaFor several college aspirants, however, the uncertainty surrounding the process is proving to be worrisome. Kajal, who recently graduated high school, said that the uncertainty surrounding the admission process was worrying for prospective applicants like her. “Other colleges and universities have started their admission process whereas there is no update about government colleges in the city. I am not sure if I should apply elsewhere or wait for the admission process to start. Applying to multiple colleges as a safety net is also not feasible. Most colleges have a registration fee ranging from ₹500-₹1,000,” said Kajal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/government-colleges-in-gurugram-await-clarity-on-admissions/story-YHZ7eLUAqRB6vhLJSSvCmN.html
21-07-2020||Gurugram||Sero survey: 1,544 tested, 180 found with Covid-19 antibodies in Haryana||In Haryana, out of the 1,544 people covered under the ongoing serological survey to detect the prevalence of Covid-19 infection across five districts, at least 180 people have been found to have developed antibodies. The five districts covered by the survey include Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Ambala and Panchkula. At least one-third or 60 cases were reported from Sonepat — the highest among the five districts. The data shared by the health department shows that at least 12% of the people covered by the survey had developed antibodies. The first round of serological survey started in late June across the five districts. A serological survey is an epidemiological tool that helps in detecting unreported or past cases of Covid-19 and in understanding the prevalence of the disease in communities. In the survey, blood samples are randomly collected from various high-risk population groups — based on the categories identified by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) — to look for antibodies against Covid-19. Antibodies are generated in the body as an immune response to fight against the infection and provides protection against contracting the same infectious disease again.The serological test is not prescribed to diagnose active Covid-19 infections as it takes one to three weeks for the body to develop antibodies after getting infected. Studies are ongoing to ascertain if people who recover from the infection can get infected again.The serological survey showed that the maximum number of positives for Covid-19 antibodies were traced in Sonepat. Out of 350 blood samples collected, 60 were confirmed positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus. A maximum number of 454 antibody tests were done in Gurugram, out of which 56 were confirmed positive Covid-19 antibodies. Likewise, in Faridabad 209 tests were conducted with 28 people testing positive. In Ambala, 176 people were covered under the survey, out of which 27 were found to be positive. Panchkula reported the least number of positive cases. Out of 355 tests conducted, nine were found to be positive for Covid-19 antibodies.“The serological survey is a surveillance mechanism to estimate how much of the population has been infected over time. People might have been asymptomatic, without showing any signs or symptoms, and did not get tested as a result. They develop immunity against the infection. Such people are covered under the serological antibody tests that help in figuring out the incidence of infection,” said a senior state health official of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). Under the survey, people who have a higher exposure to contract the coronavirus are covered. It includes population groups, such as shopkeepers, drivers, police personnel, health workers, pregnant women among others, as directed by the ICMR guidelines.According to the official, the remaining 17 districts will be now be covered under the serological survey, where districts will have to conduct at least 400 antibody tests each month. “About 1,800 IgG Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (Elisa) kits have been provided to all the districts, including the five districts earlier covered in the serological survey, to conduct 400-600 tests every month,” said the official.“In Gurugram, the next round of serological survey with a larger sample size is likely to start from next month,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO), adding that the plan is being prepared. It is likely that the district health department will take the assistance of a private healthcare company to conduct at least 1,800 antibody tests in the city to be conducted over the next four to five months. Despite repeated attempts, Dr B K Rajora, chief medical officer, Sonepat, could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sero-survey-1-544-tested-180-found-with-covid-19-antibodies-in-haryana/story-k7DUZ8WH4jYqAzCsUmXkEJ.html
21-07-2020||City||G Noida: Wife among 5 held for man’s murder||Noida: Two days after a 27-year-old man was found dead in Rabupura, the police on Monday arrested five people, including his wife and brother-in-law, for allegedly plotting the murder to acquire his property.The deceased, Deepak, was a resident of Faleda village, the police said. His body was found near a stream outside the village on July 18. According to the police, the deceased’s wife was the one who had approached the police, after which an FIR under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was lodged at Rabupura police station.The police said that Deepak, who had inherited around 18 bighas of land, had a turbulent relationship with his wife. His parents had died earlier, while his only sibling, a sister, was married to Balbir Singh, 32, in adjoining Bulandshahr district.“Deepak and his wife had a troubled relationship and could not have a child after four years of their marriage. He would often get drunk and beat his wife. She had narrated her ordeal to brother-in-law Balbir and they had also got into a relationship,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.“During the probe, Balbir was questioned by the police and he confessed to plotting Deepak’s murder with the wife. He had got Deepak drunk on the evening of July 17 during their meeting in Rabupura town and had hired three of his known men to kill him,” Pandey added.Three other men hired by Balbir for the crime have been identified as Monu Sharma, Naresh Kumar and Gullu, all residents of Bulandshahr. The men were promised a bounty of Rs 1 lakh each to kill Deepak, of which Rs 60,000 each was paid in advance by Balbir, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/g-noida-wife-among-5-held-for-man-s-murder/story-YvgSOb80ZS0dtkaxCjrFfK.html
21-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Woman falls to death from fifth floor, kin point murder finger at partner||A 25-year-old woman, who formerly worked as a cabin crew member with an international airlines, allegedly fell to her death from the fifth floor of a condominium in sector 67 on Sunday night. Police have booked a man, who was allegedly in a relationship with her, on charges of abetment to suicide after the victim’s sister alleged ‘foul play’ and said that she had a ‘strong suspicion that her sister was murdered’.According to the police, the woman and her partner had gone to a common friend’s house in the condominium for a get-together at 4pm. In the police complaint, the victim’s sister said that the woman had been in a relationship with the 26-year-old man for three years, but for the past four weeks, he had not been talking to her.“My sister had tried all means to get in touch with him over the last month but he had blocked her on all social networking sites and she had to resort to emails to reach out to him. She sent him long emails but he ignored them and instead sent abusive replies. He also called her names for playing mobile video games with his friends. On Saturday, after weeks, surprisingly he sent an email to my sister inviting her for a get-together at his friend’s place,” said the woman’s sister in the FIR.She added that at 10.25pm on Sunday, she received a call from her sister’s partner asking her to come to a hospital stating that she had ‘fallen down from the building’. “At 11.30pm, when I reached the hospital, I noticed that my sister’s partner had scratch marks on his neck. My sister had bruises over her lower body, left forehead and a cut on her lips. Her body did not look like it had fallen from the fifth floor of a building. It is suspicious that he had not bothered to contact her for four weeks and that this happened on the day he asked to meet her,” she said.Police said at the time of the incident, four people, including the victim, were in the house. The incident was reported to the police around 11pm. The victim’s body has been kept in the mortuary and a post-mortem will be conducted on Tuesday.Dinkar, station house officer (SHO), sector 65 police station, said, “It is not certain if the woman committed suicide or there is foul play involved. We are verifying the allegations. The cause of death will be established after the post-mortem report comes out. Prima facie, on the statement of the woman’s sister, a case of abetment of suicide has been registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-woman-falls-to-death-from-fifth-floor-kin-point-murder-finger-at-partner/story-6UC0VjCoS0y8WLfIBPbIAP.html
21-07-2020||Gurugram||Ardee City residents complain of delay in registration of properties||Owners of nearly 300 properties in the Ardee City have complained to the department of town and country planning (DTCP) that, despite directions by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to register their properties, no progress has been made so far in this regard. The property owners said they had lodged a complaint with the district administration early this year. Their complaint was also heard in the monthly grievance meeting chaired by the CM in February. However, since then, no progress has been made. The property owners also alleged that whenever they request the developer to facilitate the registration of their properties, they asked to pay a variety of charges, including composition fees, registry fees and others, which add up to a total of ₹3 lakh or more for each property. “In the grievance meeting chaired by the CM, directions were issued to the DTCP to initiate registration immediately and complete it within one month. The department had asked us to submit all the necessary documents of the plot owners. On March 2, we submitted four boxes of folders, containing documents of 62 property owners. But nothing happened thereafter. The property owners are also harassed by the developer, who ask for money in order to register their properties,” said Chaitali Mandhotra, a resident of the colony. Praveen Kumar, president, residents’ welfare association (RWA), Ardee City, in a letter submitted to the DTCP, said that they had been pursuing the matter for the last several months but no action has been taken. The RWA also said that the most of the apartments in the locality were bought in 2000 and the possession was given between 2003 and 2008. Despite the long delay, the registration of their properties has not been carried out. When asked about the matter, Anil Hasija, vice president, Ardee Developers, said that registration of properties was underway. “The residents, however, must clear their dues in terms of maintenance and other fees before the registration process can be initiated. In the monthly grievance meeting of the CM in February, we had taken the same stand. The owners must clear their dues and get their properties registered,” he said.The DTCP officials, however, said that they have asked the developer to share all the details of the unregistered properties and the dues with department so that registration can be carried out. “A notice is being issued to the developer that they must share the details with department within seven days failing which a case would be registered against them as this matter has been delayed for too long,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ardee-city-residents-complain-of-delay-in-registration-of-properties/story-IJbfIC8SrWfQTz4Wllc4II.html
21-07-2020||Gurugram||Sunday night rainfall leads to two cave-ins in Gurugram||Following a spell of heavy overnight rainfall, portion of roads in two major stretches of Gurugram caved in early on Monday morning. The first cave-in was reported from below the IFFCO Chowk flyover, less than 50 metres from the IFFCO Chowk bus stop — one of the busiest stretches in the city with buses heading to Rajasthan and southern parts of Haryana stopping here. In addition, traffic heading from MG Road towards Delhi on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway also pass through this stretch before taking the u-turn flyover located 250 metres ahead.The other cave-in was reported on a stretch of road that connects sector 46 with sector 50, near Bakhtawar Chowk. Traffic heading towards Sohna Road, Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, Golf Course Extension Road, and internal sectors of 46, 47, and 50 use the stretch. At both the sites, Gurugram police barricaded the caved-in areas and also cautioned commuters over social media. Pardeep Attri, superintending engineer, GMDA said that a pipeline burst below the surface of the road leading to the sector 46/50 cave-in. “A pipeline running below the road had developed leakage. The accumulated water from the overnight rainfall further weakened the top-surface due to which a portion of the road caved. We have fixed the pipeline. However, due to rainy conditions expected in the next 3-4 days, we will start bitumen work only over the weekend and then subsequently open the affected portion for traffic. In the interim, the caved-in portion will remain barricaded,” said Attri.Both the cave-ins are at least five-foot wide and six-foot deep, said GMDA officials. Officials further said that there was no major impact on traffic since both the cave-ins occurred in the corner most lanes of the carriageways that vehicles could avoid and instead take the other two lanes.As per NHAI officials familiar with the matter, a cave-in at IFFCO Chowk had occurred last monsoon as well. “The cave-in had occurred during monsoon last year as well. The space between the road and the underground pipeline below is hollow due to which the stretch caves-in whenever there is heavy rain. This usually happens when the road is dug for inserting underground cables but not properly filled up properly when work is completed. Although this is GMDA’s fault and it is their scope of work, it is likely that we will receive a request from them for repairing it. Due to rainy conditions, we will start bitumen related work after 48 hours, and ensure the gap is properly backfilled,” said the senior NHAI official.Attri said that the cave-in occurred on NHAI road and it comes under their jurisdiction. Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI meanwhile said that GMDA would be responsible for carrying out the work.Sunday night’s rainfall started around 11.30 pm and went on till around 1am on Monday. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) website, the city received 12mm of rainfall and is forecasted to receive more showers till July 26.The spell of rainfall also left a few stretches — such as IFFCO Chowk, CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, Kherki-Daula-Narsinghpur, sectors 4, 5, 56, 31, Sohna Road — waterlogged with civic officials installing motor pumps in several locations to divert rainwater towards the nearest drainage outlet. Officials said that by noon, water had receded in most parts of the city.“Despite heavy rain, most roads were largely clear of waterlogging. Even the ones which reported waterlogging were due to localised reasons. In a few spots, we used motor pumps to draw out rainwater. However, barring a few spots, by noon almost all roads across the city were free of rainwater,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG).Devendra Bhadana, executive engineer, horticulture wing, MCG said that the civic body cleared out eight trees from across the city such as Udyog Vihar, sectors 28, 31, all of which had uprooted due to strong winds and heavy rains on Sunday night.He said that the MCG received information of four trees falling onto the roads from the police control room while locals contacted them about the others. Bhadana said that all trees fell in open areas and did not result in injuries or cause any damages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sunday-night-rainfall-leads-to-two-cave-ins-in-gurugram/story-ywqaS9N5JKtyjoziKJsMrK.html
21-07-2020||City||Mercury drops as Noida receives more rain||Noida: Light rains lashed the city on Monday for the second day in a row, bringing down the day temperature by more than two degrees Celsius. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted moderate rainfall for the next three days.Noida received light rain in the morning hours with an average rainfall of 6.3mm, IMD said. The rains and cloudy sky, along with cooler easterly breeze, bought the mercury down by 2.5 degrees Celsius, IMD officials said.On Monday, the maximum temperature in Noida was recorded at 32.6 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season’s average, against 35.2 degrees a day earlier. The minimum temperature, however, saw a rise, with Monday recording 25.6 degrees Celsius, against 23.4 degrees a day earlier due to moderate rains on Sunday night at 50.7mm. The rainfall below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5mm is moderate and above 64.5mm is heavy. The humidity levels oscillated between 69 to 79%, the IMD said.The Met department expects the rains to continue for the next three to four days. Tuesday’s maximum temperature is likely to hover around 33 degrees Celsius, an IMD official said.Weather analysts said that the monsoon line of trough – a low-pressure line that oscillates around Delhi and brings rains to the region – is now passing through Delhi and is expected to oscillate around national capital region for the next three days leading to rains across NCR, including Noida and Ghaziabad.“The temperature will fall by a few degrees due to rain. There are chances of moderate to heavy rainfall on late Monday night to Tuesday morning,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.According to IMD records, Gautam Budh Nagar is one of the most rainfall deprived districts of the state. So far, since June 1, Noida has seen about 93% and Ghaziabad has seen 74% deficit, while the western Uttar Pradesh saw only 36% deficit till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mercury-drops-as-noida-receives-more-rain/story-8B7ALQLGZsyGkesBDE80zK.html
21-07-2020||City||Noida: Man’s body with disfigured head found||Noida: A man’s body with the severely disfigured head was found along a road in Noida on Monday, the police said, adding that they are trying to identify the deceased based on the tattoo on his hand.According to the police, the body was spotted by the passersby dumped at a service road in the Sector 94 police post area. The police were alerted around 9.30am.Deputy commissioner of police Sankalp Sharma said prima facie it appeared that the man was killed somewhere else and his body was dumped here.“Our primary focus is to establish the identity of deceased, and then legal proceedings could be initiated in the case. There is a tattoo on the right arm with ‘Vicky’ inscribed on it, and we are taking that as the lead,” Sharma said.The age of the deceased could be around 27 years old, the police said, adding that the head of the man was severely disfigured making it very difficult to establish the identity.“There was no other injury mark on the body,” Sharma said, adding that the body has been sent for post mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-man-s-body-with-disfigured-head-found/story-yaQNqDrxePqK1DT1OH1sVP.html
21-07-2020||City||Domestic helps, waste collectors should be tested for Covid-19 on priority, demand residents’ bodies||NOIDA: Apartment owners associations (AOAs) and other social groups in the Gautam Budh Nagar district on Monday demanded that all domestic helps working in residential sectors and housing societies should undergo Covid-19 tests on priority to prevent the spread of infection. The demand comes after seven domestic helps working in an upscale housing society in Noida recently tested positive for the infection. The residents’ bodies said that waste collectors and sanitation workers should also be tested for coronavirus as they are more vulnerable to the infection.“There is a dire need that all waste collectors and domestic helps should be tested so that they can be identified early and get adequate treatment on time. We got the test of 235 suspects done at our society camp on Saturday, of which seven domestic helps working in our society have tested positive,” said PVS Prakash, president of Grand Omaxe apartment owners association.Rajiva Singh, president of Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations, said that the federation has written to the district administration in this regard.“We have demanded that the administration should test all the waste collectors and domestic helps so that they can be identified and provided with the treatment on time. They are more prone to the risk of infection. At our society camp, a waste collector tested positive out of 75 who underwent the test. We also request that if a waste collector/domestic help is found positive, he/she should be treated with dignity,” said Singh, who is a resident of King’s Court, Sector 50.There are about 150 residential sectors and 1,200 housing societies in the district, where thousands of domestic helps work. Also, at least 5,000 sanitation workers are engaged in waste collection, transportation and sweeping job.“We have been demanding that all sanitation employees should be tested at camps because they can become a carrier easily due to nature of their job,” said NP Singh, president of GB Nagar District Development Residents Welfare Associations (DDRWA).District officials said that they have been organising testing camps at housing societies, sectors, and villages to detect cases. “We have asked various residents’ bodies to come forward to help us organise camps and get all suspected tested properly. Our motive is to test everyone who is suspected and then start treatment of those who are found positive,” said Narendra Bhooshan, nodal officer for Covid-19 preparations in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/domestic-helps-waste-collectors-should-be-tested-for-covid-19-on-priority-demand-residents-bodies/story-WAFMGiChimJWoOHbxGMiXN.html
21-07-2020||City||Gurugram: Health dept expresses concern over spillover of infection to adjoining districts||Gurugram: Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, the health department has expressed concern over the spillover of viral infection to adjoining districts of Rewari and Nuh.With the reopening of industries and other economic activities, inter-district movement of the industrial workforce may help increase the positive cases in the two districts, health officials in Gurugram said, adding that they are currently analysing the situation to prevent inter-district transmission of virus.According to the state health bulletin, Rewari reported 1,092 Covid-19 cases till Monday, while Nuh’s count stood at 440. Compared to both the districts, Gurugram has much higher number of positive cases. On Monday, Gurugram reported 109 new cases, taking the total count of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus to 7,857. Of these, 1,048 are active cases while 6,693 patients, including 90 on Monday, have recovered, the health bulletin said. The Covid-19 toll in the district stands at 116.“The districts sharing borders with Gurugram are noticing an increase in the Covid-19 cases, which can be a concern for Gurugram in the time to come,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. “There is an inter-district movement of workforce, be it industrial or rural, among the three districts. We are keeping an eye on their rising numbers to prevent transmission of coronavirus infection. The number of testing has also increased in the industrial areas where there is maximum movement of the workers,” said Yadav.Notably, Daruhera in Rewari and Manesar in Gurugram are big industrial towns.Yashendra Singh, deputy commissioner, Rewari, said, “Nearly 70% Covid-19 cases of Rewari are clustered in Dharuhera, where people commute from Gurugram and Bhiwadi (Rajasthan) or vice versa. Coronavirus cases have increased in Rewari which we are trying to control.”A two-day sanitisation drive started in Dharuhera on Monday, Singh said, adding that contacts of confirmed cases are being put in quarantine and testing has been increased. The Nuh health department also confirmed that their emerging hotspots share proximity to Gurugram. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, Nuh, said that Covid-19 clusters are emerging in areas bordering Gurugram.“Emerging hotspots are centralised in areas like Tauru and Nuh having high inter-district movement. The health department has intensified testing using antigen kits in these hotspots. Also, people who work in Gurugram and have tested positive, their immediate contact tracing is done and suspected cases are being put in four quarantine centres set up in Nuh,” said Punia, who has served as Gurugram’s chief medical officer before Yadav took over in June.A senior health department official in Gurugram said that coronavirus cases are increasing in rural parts of Rewari and Gurugram. “Factories are operational now. A lot of people do daily movement between the two districts, due to which cases are now increasing in peri-urban and rural areas,” said Dr Aruna Sangwan, senior medical officer of Pataudi block that touches border with Rewari district.“The rise in the Covid-19 cases in Rewari and Pataudi can be attributed to this unrestricted inter-district and inter-state movement,” said Sangwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-health-dept-expresses-concern-over-spillover-of-infection-to-adjoining-districts/story-mOaTZS3V0OarSWGMp2E2wL.html
21-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s bus ridership still a fraction of pre-Covid volume, no additional routes for now||Ridership on the city bus service has shown a steady daily increase ever since operations resumed on July 2 — after a three months hiatus — owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.Since then, the bus service has ferried close to 100,000 passengers, mainly on long-distance routes to Sohna and Manesar, said officials in the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Ltd.From 5,265 passengers on July 2 (when the service formally resumed partially), ridership too has more than doubled, with at least 12,300 passengers taking the bus service on July 16. Even so, the past week’s average ridership figures (about 10,000 passengers a day) is only a fraction of the service’s pre-Covid operations. Gurugram was ferrying between at least 80,000 and 90,000 passengers on any given weekday in March, as per data available on the company website, before the Covid-19 pandemic started raging. While the plan was to roll out Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Ltd’s entire fleet of 200 buses by August, officials on Monday said that no additional vehicles (or routes) will be relaunched for the time being. “We have received a tepid response and ridership is still quite low. It has been decided to keep only 65 buses operational on six routes for the time being, till ridership increases,” said Vanita Akhaury, spokesperson, GMCBL.“As expected, our flagship route, Route 212, to Basai via Huda City Centre and back, is not doing so well because the Metro is shut and many offices along the route have not yet opened up. Our ridership now comprises industry workers travelling to Manesar and back on Route 134B, and there is also a lot of movement between Sohna and Gurugram on Route 218. Route 122, from Sikanderpur Metro to Gurugram bus stand, is also doing a little better than Route 212,” Akhaury added.GMCBL officials also stated that the ongoing pandemic has put considerable financial stress on the organisation, with revenue losses running to at least Rs. 8 crore, till June 15. “Our target revenue in March was about Rs 70 for every kilometre travelled. At the moment we are operating at about Rs 10 per kilometre, while the number of kilometres plied themselves are much lower than before,” said a senior official. Akhaury added that no overcrowding has been observed on any routes so far, and officials are keeping a close watch on the buses’ cycle-times to ensure that social distancing is maintained among commuters. “Only 18 passengers are allowed to board any bus at one time, so we have had to run the buses on schedule. Without much traffic this has been easy, and the wait time for passengers has improved to between 12 and 15 minutes on each route,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-bus-ridership-still-a-fraction-of-pre-covid-volume-no-additional-routes-for-now/story-ScaHeOF1kuBQBqByoOTumJ.html
21-07-2020||Noida||70% Covid fatalities in GB Nagar were males, shows data||Data on the number of deaths due to Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar till Sunday, indicates that female patients in the district have shown better immunity to the virus than their male counterparts. Out of 39 fatalities in the district till Sunday, 27 or nearly 70% were males.Not only this, data released by the state health department also shows that of the 4,155 total positives in the district till Sunday, the number of male patients were 2,327 or 1.27 times more than the number of female patients, which stood at 1,828.District surveillance officer Dr Manoj Kushwaha said that even the speed of recovery was faster among women. “As per our rough estimate, most female patients turn negative in just five to seven days. On the other hand, their male counterparts take 10-12 days in shedding the virus,” he said.Kushwaha added that the youngest male patient, who succumbed to the virus so far from the district, was 29 years old. “On the other hand, more than 20 female positive patients – who were over 65 years and had some other ailments – managed to beat Covid-19. Though it has yet not been established as a fact, but blood running in a male body has higher levels of a key angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), which is believed to be used by the virus to infect body cells. This enzyme is found in the heart, kidneys and other organs and we believe it plays a vital role in the infection,” he said.However, micro biologists did not place much trust in the enzyme theory. Dr Dalip K Kakru, head of micro-biology in Sharda institute of medical sciences, said that more exposure and vices make males more susceptible to the virus when compared to their female counterparts. “It is a contagious disease and men often have more exposure. Perhaps, that’s why the number of fatalities and number of positives is higher in makes,” he said.Even Dr AK Gadpayle, the former director of central government health scheme (CGHS), seemed to share the belief and said that men have more medical complications when compared to women.“Ailments like diabetes and hypertension are more common among men. Had the ACE2 enzyme been the cause of vulnerability, then the male to female positivity ratio would not have varied much. While in the US it’s 4:1, Italy has a ratio of 1:1,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/70-covid-fatalities-in-gb-nagar-were-males-shows-data/story-iO9opbIVYquzCxvAtsi54J.html
21-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Special containment exercise ordered for 21 localities having over 10 Covid-19 cases||Ghaziabad: To curb the rising Covid-19 cases, the district administration on Monday directed for strict containment protocols in 21 different residential areas which have more than 10 active cases. Officials said that the 21 areas will be subjected to sealing and police officers will be deputed to ensure restrictions and delivery of essential supplies.“Under the micro plan, we have identified 21 different areas which will be subjected to strict containment exercise. This will amount to sealing in order to break the chain of infection. There will be static magistrates and police officers who will be deputed. The containment zones will be under 100% restrictions, except for essential supplies,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.The district magistrate on Sunday had said that the administration is working on a micro plan for containment of areas where Covid-19 cases are increasing.According to the officials, the 21 areas include Brij Vihar, Shalimar Garden Extension, Lajpat Nagar, Sector 2 of Rajendra Nagar, Shyam Park, Nyay Khand in Indirapuram, Ahimsa Khand-I in Indirapuram, Gyan Khand-I in Indirapuram, Rjendra Nagar, Chiranjeev Vihar, Arthala, Shipra Sun City and VVIP at Raj Nagar Extension, among others.The move comes after there is an increase in category-2 containment zones (with two or more cases) in the district. According to official figures till July 19, the district has 139 category-1 zones and 178 category-2 zones.In the 21 identified areas, two teams have been deployed for ensuring 100% testing of suspected cases and will also distribute pamphlets advising residents to adopt guidelines of the health protocols.“There will be a special drive in such areas. Those not wearing masks or following social distancing will be penalised. Under the containment zones, door step delivery will be ensured. The RWAs will also be roped in to ensure that every household is sanitized,” Pandey added.The municipal corporation has also been directed by the district magistrate to ensure that proper sanitization is taken up in the containment zones. Besides, incident commanders have been appointed for each of the containment zones.Along with the containment exercise, the administration has also planned that recommendations of the Ministry of AYUSH will be publicised widely so that residents can take help of immunity boosters to prevent the infection.According to guidelines, category-1 zones are created in a radius of 250 metres where a single Covid-19 case emerges. The category-2 zones, on the other hand, have a radius of 500 metres with additional 250 metres of buffer area. These are created in areas having more than one Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-special-containment-exercise-ordered-for-21-localities-having-over-10-covid-19-cases/story-oBs4hXqVWFGWUAlDmwPUoL.html
21-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad authorities revamp Covid-19 patient referrals||The Ghaziabad district administration is revamping its system of referring patients to different category of Covid care facilities in order to provide necessary treatment to coronavirus patients on time.Under the new system, the district administration has appointed three in-charges officer for every hospital in the district, while respective district in-charges have also been appointed for L1, L2 and L3 category hospitals to facilitate speedy referrals. Patients will also be allotted single referral number for easy identification across all hospitals. Under the state government’s three-tier structure, while L1 hospitals treat with asymptomatic patients, L2 hospitals treat patients with moderate complications, and L3 hospitals deal with patients who require critical care.“Apart from other aspects related to Covid-19 patients, we are also focussing more on referral issues which can get complicated with allowing home isolation for asymptomatic patients in the state . For now, I have directed that every patient will be assigned a single number for his/her referral to L1, L2 and L3 hospitals which will help his/her identification across all facilities. We have also fixed roles and responsibilities of each in-charge of different hospitals for ensuring smooth process of referrals. The need for referring a patient from L1 hospital to L2 or L3 hospitals or from L2 to L3 hospitals can arise ar any point,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said.“Further, for better referral, we have assigned a mobile number to each Covid facility which will be provided to three in-charges who will work in shift of eight hours each. This mobile number will be used between different facilities to get in touch with other hospital in-charges for referrals. If the calls are not picked up, the chief medical officer will be held responsible. Even if the call is not received, the referral process should not suffer and the hospital in-charge must ensure that patient is referred to an advanced category facility any how,” he added.The issue of timely referral becomes vital as different facilities are spread across the district. Sahibabad, Niwari and Modinagar each have an L1 category hospital. It has one L2 hospital at Sanjay Naga, while one L3 facility is near old bus-stand. These are facilities apart from the eight private hospitals which provide paid Covid treatment for patients requiring L2 and L3 category care. The paid hotel isolation facility in the district is at Bajaria near Ghaziabad railway junction.INQUIRY ORDERED INTO WRONG REFERRAL FOR 30-YEAR-OLD PATIENTThe revamping of the referral system comes in the backdrop of the alleged referral made wrongly in the case of a 30-year-old woman admitted to the L1 category hospital in Modinagar. The woman was wrongly referred to the L3 facility in Ghaziabad city on Friday and an inquiry has been initiated in the matter, the DM said.“The woman, admitted to L1 hospital at Modinagar, complained of respiratory issues and the centre in-charge referred her to L3 hospital. When the chief medical officer came to know about the referral he spoke to the patient and directed her to take some medicines. However, after a couple of hours, she was still referred the L3 facility. When the patient arrived there, she was found having no complications that would require critical care,” an officer of the health department, who did not wish to be named, said.DM Pandey said that initial prone into the incident has found that the in-charge of the L1 facility made a wrong referral. “ The incident at Modinagar was a one-off incident, but we have revamped our processes to ensure keep the Covid-19 death rate in check,” he said.Ghaziabad has so far reported 63 Covid-19 related deaths.In an earlier incident, the district magistrate directed for a magisterial inquiry into the death of a 66-year-old Covid-19 positive woman who was allegedly referred from a private hospital to L3 category Covid hospital in an ambulance which allegedly had no life support equipment. She was found dead by the doctors who examined her in the ambulance when it reached the L3 Covid hospital on June 16.According to official records, till July 17, the ESIC Hospital at Sahibabad (L1) has a referral rate of 19% while the Divyajyoti Hospital at Niwari (L1) has referral rate of 23% patients.The SRM Covid care centre (L1) at Modinagar has about a 10% referral rate.Officials said that to facilitate the referrals, Ghaziabad district has 19 dedicated ambulances, including two life-support ambulances, which are running round the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-authorities-revamp-covid-19-patient-referrals/story-eq17dyw4hw12gGUO9u9STN.html
21-07-2020||City||UP allows home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 pateints||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday finally gave its nod for asymptomatic patients of Covid-19 to be isolated at home. The move, which spells relief for residents and will help in reducing the stress on the healthcare facilities in the state, however, comes with a stringent bunch of guidelines.Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), on Monday stated that chief minister Yogi Adityanath has issued directions to allow home isolation of patients with no symptoms, while adding that asymptomatic patients who have HIV (human immunodeficiency virus), cancer or have had an organ transplant will have to mandatorily be admitted to hospitals if they test positive for Covid-19.“Those who are allowed to be in home isolation should ensure that comply strictly with all guidelines to ensure that their family members as well as others do not get infected. Although, we have sufficient number of L1, L2 and L3 category beds available in UP (about 1.51 lakh), we are allowing home isolation after receiving requests from several people,” Awasthi added.Till now, anyone, with or without symptoms, who had tested positive for Covid-19 was needed to get admitted to either an L1 (for asymptomatic cases), L2 (for cases with mild symptoms) or L3 (for critical cases) category hospitals, paid private Covid hospitals or paid isolation facilities in hotels.The new directions require asymptomatic patients to remain at home with certain conditions – an undertaking promising compliance with all norms needs to be submitted by the patient; a consulting doctor will declare patient as asymptomatic; patient to ensure round-the-clock availability of a caregiver; minimum two toilets at home and separate isolation room at home. Patients will also have to purchase medical kits equipped with pulse oximeter, thermometer, mask, gloves, among others, for themselves.State officials hope that with home isolation now being allowed, many people who were earlier scared of being isolated institutionally and were reluctant to give their samples will come forward to get tested.“Earlier we allowed home quarantine for contacts of Covid-19 patients, but we found that many people were concealing their contact history, and were not coming forward to get tested fearing institutional isolation,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health). Ghaziabad officials said many people who were tested positive for the virus had given wrong information about themselves to authorities. There were around 500 such patients who had misreported their personal information to authorities, all of who have now been traced and sent to isolation facilities, they said.“These people had provided wrong addresses or mobile numbers. Ghaziabad police’ electronic surveillance was used for tracing such patients and by Monday all of them had been traced and sent to isolation facilities. Even during our testing drives, about 2% of people had provided wrong addresses or mobile numbers,” said a senior health official, who did not wish to be indentified. “In localities like Indirapuram and Vaishali, where we deployed teams for rapid antigen testing, hardly 20-40 persons had come forward to give their samples. Each of our team have a capacity to conduct 200 tests per day,” he added.Residents in Ghaziabad have welcomed the state government’s move. “People were not coming forward for testing and were even making arrangements in Delhi, where home isolation is allowed. So, we had written to the state government officials to allow home isolation Now we expect that people will come forward and shed their fears for getting admitted to government facilities. About 10 apartment owners’ associations (AOAs) have also shown their willingness to come up with isolation facilities in their community halls,” said Alok Kumar, founder member, federation of association of apartment owners.The Ghaziabad district magistrate, however, said that the state government order has not mentioned anything on isolation centres in high-rises and will not be allowed for now.“There is no mention of home isolation services by RWAs or the AOAs. So, it will not be allowed. At present, we are aiming at about conducting 3000-3500 testing per day. Now the home isolation is allowed, we expect that people will turn out more for getting themselves tested,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.“Apart from the district control room, the role of mohalla nigrani samitis and gram nigrani samitis will now be vital to keep an eye on patients who stay in home isolation. One our part, we are also fix responsibility of nearby houses to be sort of custodian of a positive patients and inform us in case the patient violate home isolation conditions,” the DM added.On July 17, the state government had given allowed of paid isolation for asymptomatic patients as well as patients with very mild symptoms in hotels.With the latest order, Ghaziabad officials said, the load on district’s L1 category hospitals is likely to reduce by around 70%. According to official estimates, out of total Covid-19 1,360 active cases in Ghaziabad (till July 20), the district has about 70% asymptomatic patients, 20% who treatment at L2 hospitals, and rest 10% who require critical care in L3 category hospitals.In Ghaziabad, officials at present have identified about 4,816 L1 category beds, 1,026 L2/L3 beds, 117 ICU beds and 1,096 beds with oxygen facilities. Out of these, 876 L1 beds, 1,026 L2/L3 beds, and all ICU and beds with oxygen are fully operational.ADHERING TO HOME ISOLATION GUIDELINES IMPORTANT, SAYS GB NAGAR DMWith home isolation allowed in the state, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said the asymptomatic patients will be allowed be at home, only if they strictly adhere to all the guidelines.“It is mandatory for the patients their family members to comply with the standard operative protocols (SOPs). Use of masks and social distancing norms have to be followed by one and all in the district,” he said.Stressing that better immunity is most important for checking the infection, he said that several awareness camps will also be organised, particularly in rural areas.“Our volunteers will make people aware about the methods of increasing immunity. The volunteers will also help the residents in downloading the applications like Arogya Setu and Ayush Kavach,” he said.He also said that since door-to-door survey and medical screening being conducted in the district, have yielded very encouraging results in identifying the infected people, the extended surveillance will continue.“We have decided to held testing camps in all the areas. Our target is to test at least 3,000 persons in a day, through rapid antigen kits,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-allows-home-isolation-of-asymptomatic-covid-19-pateints/story-gTZZa3DkMJCbu0aNcBymfM.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University panel suggests basic module to assess promoted students||A subcommittee of Panjab University on Monday recommended that students’ promotion be based on internal assessment and their performance of previous semester. PU has already decided to promote all students except those in final year. The subcommittee which was constituted by the main committee of syndicate made the recommendation for students of PU’s teaching departments. Before final approval, their recommendation will be taken up by the main committee which is headed by syndicate member Navdeep Goyal.In the meeting held on Monday, issues related to promotion of students, examination of final semester students, online teaching and online admission process were discussed.Further, the deans of various faculties will be given charge to propose the procedure to grade the promoting students.The committee will prepare a proposal based on their suggestions which will be submitted to the committee constituted by PU syndicate. Rabindernath Sharma, who is the member of the subcommittee said, “Basic discussion was held regarding the conduct of exams for final semester. The decision should not be taken in haste. The sanctity of exams should be maintained in whatever platform they are conducted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-panel-suggests-basic-module-to-assess-promoted-students/story-QrosXMBwbAfO910Cdp8PfJ.html
21-07-2020||Delhi||Engineers survey 200-year-old Old Delhi mosque which was damaged in rain||A team of engineers on Monday surveyed the 200-year-old Masjid Mubarak Begum in Old Delhi’s Hauz Qazi chowk, whose central dome was reduced to rubble due to heavy rain a day ago. Technicians and engineers of the Delhi Waqf Board, which maintains the mosque, said the loss is “irreparable” in terms of its heritage. Entry to the prayer hall beneath the dome has been restricted. Prayers were offered in the courtyard on Monday. “It is tough to reach the roof, which has become vulnerable, and collect the rubble. The rubble has not been cleared as we are waiting for it to be inspected by experts, whom we are trying to get in touch with. We will preserve the malba (rubble) for research and see if it could be used for restoration,” Mehfooz Mohammad, section officer, Delhi Waqf Board, said.Mohammad said it was not just the lightening and rainfall that led to the damage, but the dome and the roof had started developing cracks over the past few years. Also read: In a first, free entry for women at ticketed monuments on International Women’s Day“For the past few years, cracks were observed here, which could possibly be because of construction carried out discreetly by shopkeepers on the ground floor and also because of digging work for construction of a Delhi Metro station. During the digging work, many old structures, including houses, had developed cracks,” said Mohammad. The official said the board has contacted the Archaeological Survey of India’s Delhi chapter to seek its expertise and help in restoration. “We plan to write to ASI-Delhi formally tomorrow to help us. We do not have any experts or architects within the board as such and would like to appeal to conservation agencies if they would like to come forward to help us with the task,” he said. Officials from ASI, Delhi said the mosque does not come under their purview. According to historian Rana Safvi, the double-storeyed mosque was built in 1822 and is one of the many mosques built by women in that era. Heritage activist and author Sohail Hashmi said the mosque has historical and architectural importance. “The 1958 Act under the provisions of which the ASI functions needs to be amended to bring all such structures of immense historical importance under its purview. The mosque requires the attention of experts, who could lead its restoration,” said Hashmi. Hashmi said historically it is important as it was built by a courtesan at that time. Mubarak Begum was a courtesan married to David Ochterlony, the first British resident in Delhi in the Mughal court. The mosque was mentioned in the list of 3,000 heritage structures that existed in Delhi, which was prepared in 1920 by historian Maulana Zafar Hasan for the then British-ruled ASI to study. “She was the senior-most of the 13 wives of the British resident. She was sharp and ambitious and Ochterlony would often seek her advice in various matters,” he said. The design of the mosque is similar to those from the times of Shah Jahan. “The design would typically have three domes, of which the central dome is larger than two others. The structure needs to be preserved well to retain its heritage value,” Hashmi said. Abu Sufiyan, a local who runs a group named ‘Purani Dilli Walo ki Baatein’, which conducts heritage walks and cultural programmes in the area, said, “The mosque was not being maintained properly for years. It had been developing cracks from long before but it wasn’t looked into even once. I have got many messages from random people asking to contribute money for repair. We will help as much as we can to restore it,” said Sufiyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/engineers-survey-200-year-old-old-delhi-mosque-which-was-damaged-in-rain/story-m2WLTUKV2kMdqeOpaJeHWK.html
21-07-2020||Delhi||Why does Delhi flood every Monsoon?||Three hours of rain on Sunday -- the first heavy spell of monsoon showers -- inundated several arterial roads, underpasses, nearly a dozen hutments were washed away in a flooded drain and two people were killed in rain-related accidents. Several areas that witnessed flooding featured in the list of 100 waterlogging-prone areas prepared by different agencies over the past few years, however, a lasting solution to the problem is yet to be found. Officials and experts blame multiplicity of agencies and the lack of a comprehensive drainage plan for the annual mess. In 2016, the Delhi government had commissioned a study of the city’s drainage system by IIT-Delhi. Following the study, a drainage master plan was compiled which had also pointed out to the fact that the city had no single agency to manage and maintain drainage. The last drainage master plan was drafted by the Delhi government in 1976.Also read | Waterlogged since 1950s: Why Minto Bridge is Delhi’s flooding constantAt least 11 agencies — PWD, the three civic bodies, Delhi Development Authority, irrigation and flood control, New Delhi Municipal Council and Delhi Cantonment Board — are responsible for de-silting of drains alongside roads under their jurisdiction, said a senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) official.“With so many agencies managing stormwater drains in the city, it is difficult to coordinate and ensure that the drains are cleaned ahead of monsoon every year. Due to the multiplicity of agencies, fixing accountability is difficult. There has to be one nodal agency for cleaning and maintenance of drains in the city so that disasters such as the one that happened at Minto Bridge do not take recur,” a senior official PWD official said.A tempo driver had drowned at the flooded Minto Bridge underpass on Sunday. Experts agreed with the assessment, saying there should be one agency responsible for cleaning the stormwater drains and their maintenance. Sarvagya Srivastava, former engineer-in-chief of Delhi PWD, said, “The most important thing is that the city should have a proper sewerage system in place. Currently, sewer waste flows in stormwater drains in most areas. Like earlier, there should be just one agency responsible for desilting of drains.”Another SDMC officials also pointed out the faulty designs of the drains for stormwater flooding roads. Also read | Delhi flooding: Govt fixes responsibility, blame game onThe official said that for instance on Najafgarh-Uttam Nagar stretch, an inadequate cross-section of roadside drains is unable to flush out water quickly from the road. “While constructing the road the PWD designed drain cross-section taking into account only roadside water but they did not calculate possible water outcome from unauthorised colonies located on both sides of the road. They should have constructed drains taking into account the whole catchment area,” the official said. Similarly, at the Okhla underpass, the slope is such that water from all the roads accumulates in the underpass, the same official said. “Inadequate drain cross-section and gradient cannot handle heavy intensity rain. It leads to water accumulation which takes time to recede. This happens at several underpasses in the city,” he said. Rajeev Goel, head of bridge engineering and structure at Central Road Research Institute (CSIR-CRRI), said the problem can be addressed with some design changes. “Construction of wide stormwater drain at the beginning of the slope to the underpass can help. Also, such drains where heavy water flow is expected should be connected to the main drainage. This can be done at the starting and endpoints of a flyover too. But the most important thing is to improve the drainage system along the roads,” he said.While the Delhi PWD manages around 2,064 km length of drains along 1,260 km roads, the three civic bodies collectively manage over 520 km length of drains mainly in colonies or along roads less than 60 feet width. NDMC manages around 321 km drains while DDA manages 251 km drains.When HT individually asked the PWD and the MCDs, officials said the shortage of workforce was one of the biggest challenges faced by them this year.“Normally, the desilting process of big drains takes around 2.5 - 3 months. It used to begin in March. Our priority has always been to clean drains by May 31 or latest by June 15, before the arrival of monsoon in the city. But this year, most of the desilting work was completed only by the first week of July. Around 1500 labourers are engaged every year in desilting process, but this year the workforce was down by half,” a senior PWD official said on condition of anonymity.He said that site inspections also could not be conducted on time due to the lockdown this year. The PWD manages around 2064 km length of drains along 1260km roads across 17 divisions in the city.“We majorly rely on contract labourers. In April and May, we witnessed around 50% shortfall in the workforce. Contractors were unable to bring labourers as they had gone to their home towns due to the coronavirus outbreak. Many of those who had gone to their villages in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to celebrate Holi had refused to return. Hence, getting labourers for the desilting process in April and May was a tough task. It was only by June that the project gained momentum when we got an adequate workforce,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-does-delhi-flood-every-monsoon/story-8HtJzpawW71WsNYydaL6qN.html
21-07-2020||Delhi||Municipal corporations demand dues, Delhi govt says paid already||The three municipal corporations have asked the Delhi government to release the entire fund for the first two quarters of this financial year. The Bharatiya Janata Party-governed civic agencies claim that the government has released just 16% of the Rs 4,000 crore (approx.) due for the first two quarters.A media advisor to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “The court made it clear last month that Delhi government has no dues left.”BJP leaders say that it has become impossible to carry out routine works and salaries are due for months. With the start of the monsoon, corporations say additional staff has to be hired to carry out fogging as large numbers of domestic breeding checkers are deployed on Covid-19 duty.The corporations are feeling the pinch more this time, as their revenue from advertising, property tax, toll, parking, etc has gone down due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease.According to the three civic agencies, of the Rs 3,928 crore (for the first two quarters), they have received just Rs 624 crore from the Delhi government so far. South Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Anamika Singh said of the Rs 1,157 crore, the corporation has just received Rs 145 crore from the government. The North corporation officials said of Rs 1,571 crore for the first two quarters, the Delhi government has released just Rs 388 crore for the first quarter. Officials of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation said it was the worst affected as it has got just Rs 91 crore against the scheduled payment of Rs 1,200 crore.North civic body mayor Jai Prakash said he had raised the issue with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. During the monsoon, Jai Prakash said, the civic bodies have to step up the drive to check on mosquito breeding to ensure there is no outbreak of malaria and dengue.“But most of our DBCs are deployed on Covid-19 duty. We urgently need money, as we will have to hire additional people to check breeding and do fogging. Despite repeated requests, the government has not released the entire funds. Our revenue has also dropped due to Covid-19. This has made the situation very tough for us. There are other development works such as road repair after the monsoon etc which we have to do. For this we need money,” said Jai Prakash.Officials of the East Delhi civic body said, “We have paid salaries only to sanitation workers so far. We are yet to pay salaries to other employees,” said Nirmal Jain, EDMC mayor.The BJP has hit out at the Delhi government for not supporting the three civic agencies, which are equally involved in Covid-19 management, in this “hour of crisis”.“We have requested the government several times to release the funds on time. Like the central government helped the Delhi government to bring the Covid-19 situation under control, the Delhi government should also help the civic bodies in this hour of crisis,” said Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi Assembly. In an interview to HT, Kejriwal had said on Saturday, “Last month the Delhi high court in its order made it clear that the MCDs do not have any pending dues from the Delhi government. Whatever we had to give has been given to them from our end.”He added, “But, I acknowledge that in this pandemic even the MCDs, like other authorities and administrations, are badly hit financially. So, in all the meetings that were held, I specifically also sought money for the MCDs. Keeping the politics aside, if MCD workers do not get their salaries on time, it will lead to a big mess in Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/municipal-corporations-demand-dues-delhi-govt-says-paid-already/story-WIrZMIHLt7usLORuo1vjsL.html
21-07-2020||Delhi||Pumps to drain water installed at Anna Nagar, traffic still chaotic||A day after 10 houses along the banks of a stormwater drain (Dr Sen Nursing Home Drain) in Anna Nagar slum behind ITO were washed away with torrential rainfall in the national capital, 14 pumps were installed at the site on Monday to drain the stagnated water in the area. The residents of the washed away houses of the JJ cluster were temporarily moved to tents set up near the IP Estate metro station. The water from the drain affected vehicular movement on Bhairon Marg and adjoining roads for most of Monday as well.One carriageway of Bhairon Marg—from Mathura Road towards Ring Road—remained closed for vehicular movement all of Monday as large volumes of water had covered hundreds of metres of the road around the drain, including as far as ITO and IP Flyover, said Taj Hassan, special commissioner of police (Delhi Traffic Police).“The PWD and South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) engineers are pumping out the water and repairing the affected roads,” said Hassan.Also read: Why does Delhi flood every Monsoon?While the Bhairon Marg carriageway remained closed, vehicles from Laxmi Nagar were diverted towards Rajaram Kohli Marg and Akshardham side, the traffic police said. Vehicles coming from Akshardham and Ashram side towards central and north Delhi were requested to move towards Mathura Road, Barapulla and Noida Link Road.According to officials of SDMC, under the jurisdiction of which the stormwater drain is, said that they have been trying to pump out the water and the work would take until Monday evening. “We have placed 14 pumps here, but the basement that was dug up to build a parking lot here by an agency is full of water. There is water up till Ring Road and it may take us until Monday evening to drain it,” said a senior official in charge of operations at the site, who did not wish to be named. A 16-storey World Health Organization (WHO) building is being constructed on a 7,000 square metre plot in the area by the National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC)—a government of India enterprise—for which the basement was dug up. He added that the drain is about 1,200-1,500 metres long and 3-5 metres deep. The corporation cleaned it during the desilting process. “The houses built just along the embankment were almost level with the water in the drain, which kept rising due to the heavy rainfall, and were washed away. The houses had extended their area near the drain,” the official said. Another official at the site, requesting anonymity, said that the embankment on one side was breached because of the digging work. The foundation was weakened, and the soil was eroded due to the heavy flow of water.Also read: Engineers survey 200-year-old Old Delhi mosque which was damaged in rainHowever, NBCC officials said they had been following all norms and constructing as per approval of the SDMC. “The force of the water was so tremendous that it destroyed all barricades we had set up and submerged the entire parking lot that is about 12 metres deep. There is about 25 lakh cubic feet water on our premises now,” said an NBCC official. According to experts, there are several such drains in the city, whose embankments have been encroached upon by clusters of kuchha and pucca (brick and mortar) houses as well as shanties. “Almost all drains have some kind of encroachment. The bigger drains are mostly along the sides of key stretches, not leaving much space for houses to come up. But since stormwater drains are relatively smaller in size and flow between colonies, they are more prone to such kind of encroachments,” said RS Tyagi, advisor to the NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee, who has been tasked with inspecting city drains. He added that the Dr Sen Nursing Home Drain is a historic natural drain, which was engineered to function as a stormwater drain. Some of the other stormwater drains with unauthorised houses on both sides include the Brahmpuri, Shahdara, Gokalpuri and Palam (Janakpuri to Dwarka) drains. “There are houses until the boundary erected along the drain. People keep extending their backyards up to the drainage area, as unauthorised growth in the city continues unchecked. The drains are full of garbage, also thrown in directly by the residents living there as well as sewage. Even during desilting, the drains are not cleaned well,” said Tyagi. A K Gosain, Professor Emeritus, the department of civil engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT-Delhi) said that the houses along drains in the city are invariably encroachments “... just like the majority of floodplains of the Yamuna river are encroached upon. Every drain has a drainage area, which is required to be left untouched. But in most cases, houses invariably come up just adjacent to it. Similar incidents like the one at ITO could take place at other places as well. The government must remove the encroachments. Besides, the drains need to be cleaned well to check blockage. The government needs to fix the responsibility for the upkeep of the drains with a single agency, which can help resolve the issue to a large extent.” Vishal, a 42-year-old flower seller, whose house was washed away, said that the drain had been around for the same time that the slum has been in existence—about five decades—but it never caused any problems. “In monsoon, the drain would overflow—sometimes as high as five feet more than usual—but the water never entered our homes. We never had to rush out of our homes or even remove our belongings,” said Vishal, who goes by a single name.The slum includes people from the North as well as South India and its residents are involved in all kinds of work— ranging from MCD to railway employees and drivers to daily wagers.Padam Kumar, another affected resident, laid the blame squarely on the construction of the three-level basement parking lot of the WHO building being constructed on the other side of the drain. He said that the deep construction had caused the soil to erode because of which the drain water entered the basement and got accumulated there. “Because of that, a large tree near the WHO basement was uprooted. That caused the water to sweep away our houses,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pumps-to-drain-water-installed-at-anna-nagar-traffic-still-chaotic/story-IBnXUqt9UDQWvRXttkjMIN.html
21-07-2020||Mumbai||Varavara Rao fell from bed, unable to do anything on his own; allow us to help: Family to state||The family of 81-year-old Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, booked in the Elghar Parishad case, asked the state government for regular updates on the veteran’s health and to allow a family member to assist him with his activities, as he is unable to do anything on his own.“While he was shifted from Taloja Jail to JJ Hospital to St George Hospital to Nanavati Hospital during the last one week, the family got an official information only when he was tested Covid positive. All the other information is known to the family through secondary sources,” read the statement signed by Rao’s three daughters P Sahaja, P Anala and P Pavana. “Not sharing health updates of a person in judicial custody with his family is illegal, unconstitutional and inhuman,” the petition further said.“The information of shifting him to Nanavati Hospital and worrying news of health status and deterioration for the last two days, including Nanavati finding a head injury, was known to family through friends in media and civil society only. In the absence of official and transparent information, various speculations, rumours and half-truths are also being spread causing further anxiety to family and friends,” the statement added.The family demanded that the entire process related to Rao’s treatment should be made transparent and the family should be informed officially by the authorities. The family also asked for Rao’s test reports and a contact from the authority and hospital for regular update on Rao.Meanwhile, the Bombay high court (HC) asked the state and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to take instructions on whether Rao’s family can see him from a distance at Nanavati Hospital, as his condition is said to be extremely critical. Rao suffers from neurological issues, and was transferred to Nanavati Hospital from the state-run St George Hospital early on Sunday morning.Pasbola informed the court that Rao could be “on the doors of death”, and hence, his bail application should be expedited. The court asked the state and NIA to respond by Wednesday, after which they will hear the bail application on Thursday.“Mr Rao is in an extremely critical condition and it can be said that he is almost on the verge of death. Hence, his wife, through an affidavit filed on July 15, requested permission to see him,” submitted Rao’s counsel Sudeep Pasbola. He added that in the light of Rao’s critical condition and the request made by his wife, the court should decide on his bail application expeditiously. Pasbola informed a division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice PV Tavade that Rao’s health was declining since the time he was in Taloja jail, and worsened after he was shifted to Sir JJ Hospital last week. Pasbola said that even as Rao was tested positive for Covid-19, his other ailments were also getting aggravated. He further said that owing to his deteriorating health, Rao also fell from the hospital bed at JJ Hospital and suffered injuries to his head.Owing to the gravity of Rao’s health, the issues raised in a petition filed by advocate R Satyanarayan, seeking an inquiry against the Taloja jail superintendent, did not come up for hearing. Satyanarayan’s petition alleged that the jail authorities did not comply with the prescription issued by Sir JJ Hospital doctors when Rao was admitted there in May, as a result of which his condition deteriorated and he became delirious and confused – a fact which was confirmed by his wife and daughters after they spoke to him on July 11.However, additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who appeared for NIA, submitted that after it came to light that Rao suffered head injuries after falling from the cot, he was rushed to the multispeciality Nanavati Hospital, where he is getting the best possible treatment. Singh added that Rao was being taken care of as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.After hearing the submission the court observed, “We are not doubting your bona fide but please take instructions if family members of Rao can visit or see him at the hospital from a reasonable distance,” the bench said.However, Singh submitted that as far as the guidelines are considered, no such visits to Covid-19 patients are allowed. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare submitted that the video-conferencing facility could be utilised if the family wanted to interact with Rao. Both Singh and Thakare informed the court that they would take instructions and hence the hearing on the bail application and petition should be adjourned to a later date.The court after accepting the statements by NIA and state’s counsels said it would not be passing orders on merits and directed Singh and Thakare to take instructions and posted the matters for further hearing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/give-us-updates-on-health-allow-kin-to-help-him-varavara-rao-s-family-to-state/story-a2Mv5dYQTma8tokaPVQVeK.html
21-07-2020||Pune||No more lockdowns in Pune: district collector||No more lockdowns in Pune after July 23, said Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram at the weekly online media briefing on Monday, where the top guns of the district’s Covid-19 fight were present.“The people do not want it, so the district administration will come up with other measures to avoid crowds,” the collector explained.Pune is in the second phase of a 10-day lockdown, scheduled to end on July 23.Naval Kishore Ram said, “To avoid crowds, some innovative measures will be introduced. On weekends people rush for shopping, which can be avoided; restrictions on the number of people attending events, like marriages, will be introduced.”The collector added that there would, however, be strict guidelines for containment zones.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar and police commissioner K Venkatesham, apart from the collector, were present at the briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-more-lockdowns-in-pune-district-collector/story-kvKbPa8eTc8diCyHYf6GQP.html
21-07-2020||Pune||Asymptomatic Covid positive woman ‘escapes’ home quarantine to fly to hubby in UAE; Hinjewadi cops probe case for FIR||The chairperson of Vision Indramegh Cooperative Society at Punwale, Hinjewadi has filed a complaint with the Hinjewadi police as regards “a Covid-19 positive society member” who allegedly broke her home quarantine after she tested positive and flew to the UAE.An FIR has not yet been filed in the case though Yashwant Gawari, senior inspector, Hinjewadi police station, said, “We have received letters from the housing society and a doctor. We will lodge an FIR after investigating the doctor’s complaint.”According to information revealed by the chairperson of the society, who requested anonymity, the woman and her husband are residents of the UAE, and the woman was in Pune without her husband.The woman, aged in the below-30 category, underwent the test at the Aditya Birla Hospital and was declared positive on July 11.“Because she was asymptomatic, she was under a 14-day home quarantine,” the chairperson said.A statement from the Aditya Birla Hospital said: “She got herself tested on July 11. She had to go Dubai, so she wanted to do the Covid test. She tested positive, but since she was not showing any symptoms we advised her home quarantine.”The woman flew to Sharjah on July 18.Her home isolation was to end on July 24.Several calls to the woman in the UAE by HT have gone unanswered.“Housing society members found her missing on the night of July 17, and got to know her location when she sent a text message from Sharjah airport on July 18 noon,” the chairperson said.The message, a copy of which is with HT, reads: “your covid-19 test on 18/7/2020 at Sharjah International Airport reported that your result is negative. Please stay safe and healthy”.“She left the building filling out wrong information at the gate. Only her message on July 18 gave us the details,” said a member of the society who received the message.“We lodged a complaint the same day we received her message,” said the chairperson, adding that Vision Indramegh Cooperative Society is under the society cluster containment zone.“While the woman left for Dubai, we are still not allowed to go to our offices. We don’t know when we will be out of the cluster containment zone,” the chairperson said.Dr Amit Mane, from the health department of the Pimpri Cinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC), said, “I have already complained to PCMC police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi and the Hinjewadi police station. Action will be taken against the woman.”Shravan Hardikar, PCMC commissioner said, “People should not behave in this manner. What if she had tested positive at Sharjah airport, it could have caused many problems. She should have completed her home isolation before going to the UAE.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/asymptomatic-covid-positive-woman-escapes-home-quarantine-to-fly-to-hubby-in-uae-hinjewadi-cops-probe-case-for-fir/story-6kXD7fs3SxB2KoEx3mcR9O.html
21-07-2020||Pune||Pune’s Aam Aadmi Party leads protests over shortage of beds at city hospitals||As the city is seeing an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, residents are also facing a shortage of beds at hospitals. Political leaders from all the parties in the city have raised concern over the issue.On Monday, leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) held a protest at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) municipal commissioner’s office to highlight the issue of shortage of beds and the plight of residents who are unable to find beds in spite of the dashboards showing vacant beds.Abhijit More, AAP leader, said, “We have demanded that the civic body should acquire maximum beds in private hospitals as the Covid-19 crisis is worsening day-by-day in the city.”“We want the municipal commissioner to look into the issue of hospitals and nursing homes not updating real-time dashboard on bed information,” said More.Ajay Shinde, city unit president, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, said, “Though on records, the administration is claiming that they have enough infrastructure, on ground residents are facing a lot of problems.”“They are not getting ambulance service on time and they have to run from pillar to post to get a patient admitted. Some people have lost their lives due to lack of immediate medical attention,” said Shinde.Nilesh Nikam, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, said there have been cases where residents were unable to get a bed at private hospitals.“Residents have to check at various hospitals in case there is a need for ICU bed. The situation is deteriorating day-by-day,” said Nikam.Siddharth Shirole, Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) MLA too has raised the concern over the shortage of beds in the city hospitals and appealed to the central government to interfere in the crisis.Opposition party leader Deepali Dhumal, Congress leader Aba Bagul, Shiv Sena leader Prithviraj Sutar and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena leader Vasant More had jointly written a letter to the municipal commissioner to dissolve the fix deposits of the civic body and purchase ventilators and other medical equipment amid the rise in cases where patients were unable to get beds at hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-aam-aadmi-party-leads-protests-over-shortage-of-beds-at-city-hospitals/story-Wq0NcYoRXUk8yhtGu0KTjP.html
21-07-2020||Pune||Covid-19 spike sparks MVA vs BJP blame game over funds for Pune||As Pune city’s positive Covid-19 cases continue to rise, political blame game continued over the grants allocated to the city by the state and central governments to deal with the crisis.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which is ruling in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), as well as Centre, blamed the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) for not allotting funds to the city to deal with the crisis.Jagdish Mohol, BJP state unit president, said, “PMC had spent more than Rs200 crore during the ongoing Covid-19 crises in the city, but the state government has given only Rs3 crore till date. As the BJP is in power in PMC, the state government is intentionally not giving funds to Pune city.”“Instead of classifying over the corporation’s grade, the state government should consider the criteria of positive patients in the municipal corporation while issuing the funds,” he said.Meanwhile, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Deepali Dhumal who is also opposition party leader in PMC has criticised the BJP government over the issue.Dhumal said, “BJP city unit president should raise the same question to the Central government.”“BJP leaders from PMC donated their salary to the Prime Minister’s fund, then also the central government did not give any sizable grants to the city. BJP has six MLAs and MPs in the city. They should ask the central government for help here,” said Dhumal.Dhumal said, “Maharashtra government has released GST grant which is more than Rs600 crore. During the BJP’s tenure at the state level, the government had reduced the GST share of the city.”“Earlier it was Rs140 crore per month, but the state government increased it to Rs152 crore per month, which the state has released for April, May, June,” said Dhumal.The progressive positive count of the city is 37,386, while the death count is 976 as of Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-spike-sparks-mva-vs-bjp-blame-game-over-funds-for-pune/story-4jWOrxFldegVDJucrhogaK.html
21-07-2020||Pune||SPPU in lockdown as two staffers test positive on campus||Two positive cases of the Covid-19 infection have been confirmed inside the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) campus, of which one of the persons has succumbed.The cases were confirmed on July 18.A 60-year-old person living on the campus who tested positive lost his life on July 20.The SPPU has since taken the decision to sanitise the entire campus. Four buildings, including where the positive patients reside, have been sealed by the SPPU administration.“The two positive cases were found inside the SPPU campus were from the same family. They were residing in the Class 3 workers’ residential building complex. When we came to know about the cases, immediately four buildings were sealed. Also, are sanitising the entire campus and no one is allowed to leave or enter SPPU premises at the moment,” said Prafulla Pawar, SPPU registrar.The building where the positive cases were found is a seven-storeyed structure with 28 apartments.Currently, at least 2,000 staffers live on the SPPU campus, including both, teaching and non-teaching staff, and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-in-lockdown-as-two-staffers-test-positive-on-campus/story-a4GDAQL1ojtavBrjf5NFAI.html
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Illegal hoardings removed in Kharar||About 25 illegal hoardings on National Highway-21 and eight flexi boards (for advertising) on unipoles were removed in a special drive by the Kharar municipal council (MC) on Monday.The drive, which began at 11 am and continued till 5 pm, was carried out by a team of six MC officials with support from the police.Himanshu Jain, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Kharar, said the team would ensure that all hoardings were removed and not put up again. MC would issue notices giving four days to owners to remove the unipoles, frame structures mounted atop a single steel pole or column, failing which these would be brought down later, warned Jain.The illegal sites were being sold to advertisers for an estimated Rs 60,000 per month, because of which, the MC, which was meant to get revenues from such advertising, was losing around Rs 1 crore every year.Unipole owners would be given four days to remove the unipoles as they had paid around Rs 60,000 for one, said Gurmeet Singh, superintendent of MC Kharar.MC allots tenders for 40 sites in Kharar every year, but in 2020 it contracted the work for Rs 3.25 crore for nine years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illegal-hoardings-removed-in-kharar/story-WSCG20D8DvlsF7Jh6KwAYP.html
21-07-2020||Pune||24-year-old in custody for molesting minor girl in Pune||PUNE: A 24-year-old man was arrested on Sunday midnight for molesting a minor girl in the morning at a public toilet in Pimpri.The accused was identified as Arvind Ratan Khandagale of Rajiv Gandhi vasahat, Nehrunagar, Pimpri.Sub-inspector S Jadhav of Pimpri police station, who is investigating the case, said that the arrested was produced in court on Monday.According to the police, the incident took place at 6am on Sunday when the minor was coming out of a public toilet. The man, allegedly standing outside, pushed her inside the toilet before latching the door from within and committing the crime. The victim told the police that the accused covered her mouth to keep her from screaming.A case under Section 354 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 11 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered at Pimpri police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-year-old-in-custody-for-molesting-minor-girl-in-pune/story-Q578se0CA2WhpZ0B8FOTaO.html
