22-07-2020||City||Yamuna authority’s 1,000cr Toy Park scheme on 100 acres opens July 23||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has expedited work on ‘Toy Park’ to be developed on 100 acres in Sector 33, along the 165km Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra. Interested parties can set up units in the park to develop all sorts of toys, and the ₹1,000 crore park has the potential to end the current monopoly of China in the toys market, Yeida officials said.Yeida, which is also developing Noida international greenfield airport in Jewar, will open the scheme on Thursday (July 23) inviting applications from interested parties. “We are launching the open-ended Toy Park project on July 23 onwards. The scheme will remain open for 15 days and interested parties can apply to get the land to set up units to manufacture toys. This project has the potential to end our country’s dependency on Chinese products as the manufacturing units in the park will be able to deliver the market requirements,” Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida, said .The interested parties can apply for plots under this new scheme on the portal -- https://niveshmitra.up.nic.in/.In 2013, the authority had carved out sectors 32 and 33 from agricultural land near Muradgarhi, Bhaipura and Birampur villages. The same year, Yeida started developing these sectors as an industrial hub and allotting the land to industries. The Yeida, in 2010, decided to develop a Toy Park in this area along the expressway but the project was never shelved. The authority has now revived the project as at least 70 toy manufactures have shown interest in setting up units, officials said.“We have got an expression of interest from 70 applicants who are seeking different plot sizes ranging from 1,000 square metres to 10,000 square metres. We have finalised the park layout in Sector 33 and got approval from our chairman to float the scheme 100 acres. All allotment will be done immediately,” Singh said. The rates for plots will range from ₹4,000-6,700 per square metre, depending upon the size of plots, with bigger plots costing less. “The Union government has increased import duty on toys and also put in Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) provisions for importing toys, thus creating a level playing field for domestic manufacturers,” Singh said.The Toy Association of India said this project will make India self-reliant in the segment.“Toy products business has an annual revenue of ₹12,000 crore in our country and a majority of the supply comes from China, owing to their cheaper rates. But Toy Park products can change the market. This project will help the consumer get the best quality products at reasonable rates,” NK Gupta, convener of Toy Association of India, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamuna-authority-s-1-000cr-toy-park-scheme-on-100-acres-opens-july-23/story-GiqipuPXo2UhmTOkGWYMfL.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||AAP seeks special ‘girdawari’,compensation to farmers for crop damage in Punjab||Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema on Wednesday demanded ‘girdawari’ to assess the extent of crop damage due to rain and release of full compensation to the farmers affected by this.In a statement, Cheema said the state government should immediately start work on rectifying drainage system. “The recent showers have deflated the false claims of development made by Captain Amarinder Singh and the Badals during their successive regimes,” he said in a statement.The AAP leader said that Captain had recently claimed to have spent Rs 50 crore to take on the fury of rains ahead of monsoon. “Will the CM tell people where the money has been spent? Crores were spent in the name of cleaning drainage system and strengthening river embankments, but these had been only on paper,” he said, demanding a judicial probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aap-seeks-special-girdawari-compensation-to-farmers-for-crop-damage-in-punjab/story-2S1kZipMJEyedh3pmm69kM.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Man seeking alms dies under mysterious circumstances in Chandigarh||A man who was in Daria village seeking alms died under mysterious circumstances on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Inderjeet Singh, 42, a resident of Mubarakpur in Mohali. Police found him unconscious in Daria and rushed him to GMCH-32, where he was declared brought dead.Following this, the victim’s family members created a ruckus at the hospital and broke a window, for which they had to pay damages. The family was seeking action against those responsible for Inderjeet’s death, as they alleged he was beaten to death.However, police said Inderjeet, along with his brothers Jarnail and Kuldeep had gone to Daria village for alms and were questioned by residents. Inderjeet then collapsed and police control room was informed. “There were no external injuries and neither did Kuldeep nor Jarnail say they were beaten. The body has been kept in mortuary for postmortem” police said.Inquest proceedings have been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-seeking-alms-dies-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-chandigarh/story-IrrTKBKuAtdcvC9rbN1svK.html
22-07-2020||City||Haryana stops property registration till security features are not installed||After reports of alleged violations related to issuance of no objection certificates for registration of sale deeds of properties in notified urban areas in Gurugram district, the Haryana government on Wednesday halted the registration of transfer deeds across the state for a limited period.Subsequently, the Haryana Land Records Information System (HALRIS) used for registration of properties has been made non functional and security features are being integrated to reduce “corrupt practices”.Land parcels notified under Section 7-A bone of contentionRegistration of properties without a no objection certificate (NoC) in urban area land under Section 7-A of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, officials said, has led to mushrooming of unauthorised settlements.The amended Section 7-A says that transfer by way of sale or lease of any agricultural land of less than two kanals in an urban area cannot be done without a NoC given by the Town and Country Planning department (TCPD). “However, it came to the notice of Gurugram divisional commissioner that a number of naib tehsildars were executing sale deeds indiscriminately without the NoC,” an official said. The allegations have been denied by revenue officials saying that if structures were built on the urban area land notified under Section 7-A, the TCPD does not issue NoCs and they have no option but to execute the sale deeds.How long is the ban on registration of properties?The revenue department has put an embargo on the registration of properties in rural areas till July 29. For land parcels situated in municipal areas and urban areas declared under Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act and controlled area declared under Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Development Act, the registration has been stopped till August 5.For land in urban areas and notified under section 7-A of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act and villages where jamabandis are offline, the embargo will remain till August 15.“ We are planning to introduce three kinds of safety features – an application programming interface (API) of Town and Country Planning department to grant no objection certificate (NoC) for urban area land notified under Section 7-A of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, a feature entailing generation of a one-time password (OTP) which will act like a key to confirm that the registration documents has been delivered to the owner of the property and making it mandatory for revenue officials to upload the sale deed copy of each transaction on HALRIS within 24 hours,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-stops-property-registration-till-security-features-are-not-installed/story-gJwrtsaStmBVvvelZSJ8aN.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn gets ₹89.07 crore from MHRD to improve education sector||The Chandigarh administration has received Rs 89.07 crore from the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) for elementary, secondary and senior secondary schools and teachers’ education.From this, Rs 83.58 crore is for elementary level, Rs 5.25 crore for secondary and senior secondary education and Rs 24.5 lakh for teachers’ education.The funds received will be utilised on Right to Education (RTE), salary of teachers, gender and equity, inclusive education, quality interventions, vocational education and sports and physical education.Rubinderjeet Singh Brar, director of school education, Chandigarh, said, “Now we have enough funds to utilise for various areas in school education.”The main test of Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), which was scheduled for April/May 2021, has been postponed to 2022. The filed trial was to be conducted this year for selected students and the final test was scheduled for next year.The school education department has listed some suggestions that will be followed for PISA preparedness during the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-gets-89-07-crore-from-mhrd-to-improve-education-sector/story-yoF8xDVN6YTme2nuEYE4OP.html
22-07-2020||City||Vegetable seller’s daughter secures 490 out of 500 marks in Haryana board exams||A vegetable seller’s daughter in Rohtak’s Chimni village secured 490 marks out of 500 in the Class-12 results declared by the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) on Tuesday.Priya Kaushik, a Class-12 student of SVM Senior Secondary School at Kahnaur village of Rohtak is pursuing the commerce stream.Priya says she wants to become an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer when she grows up.“I was eagerly waiting for the Class 12 results. I topped the district in commerce stream and was placed eighth in state. My success has given my family reason to rejoice amid the pandemic. I owe my success to my teachers, family members and friends who always backed me,” she said. Priya’s father Devender Kaushik, father of the girl said poverty cannot stop a person from climbing the ladder of success.“My daughter was aware that I had been investing my daily income on their education and family expenses. She made me proud by securing 490 marks out of 500. My daughter has always followed her teachers’ guidance. I am also grateful to her teachers for her success,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vegetable-seller-s-daughter-secures-490-out-of-500-marks-in-haryana-board-exams/story-Giflz8x4hNok4GXwMg07pM.html
22-07-2020||City||Haryana board results: Class-12 students fared better than Class-10 students in English, Hindi, Maths||Class-12 students fared better than Class-10 students in Mathematics, Hindi and English in the exams conducted by Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) this year.Around 85.68%, Class-12 students passed the English exam while 80.97% Class-10 students cleared the exam. In Mathematics, 80.18% Class-12 students cracked the exam while 71.52% Class-10 students cleared the exam. As many as 97.87 % Class-12 students passed the Hindi exam as compared to 90.30% Class-10 students.This year, 80.34% students passed the Class-12 exam and 64.59%cleared the Class-10 exam.BOARD SECY BLAMES GOVT POLICYBoard secretary Rajiv Prasad said the Class-10 students performed poorly as compared to Class-12 students in Mathematics, English and Hindi because the government had made it mandatory to pass all students till Class-8. “Now, the state government has decided to conduct Class-8 board exams after a long gap. I am sure that the Class 10 results will be better in the coming years. The board is an autonomous that evaluates the performance of students and by restarting Class-8 board exams, weak students will be filtered. Many students did not take studies seriously till Class 8 as they knew they will be passed,” he added.Government Senior Secondary School mathematics lecturer Naveen Soni of Bhiwani’s Gurera also blamed the non–detention policy for students’ dismal performance. .“Government policies need to be revised as we can’t strike out the name of a student who has not come to school for 21 days and he can repeat the same pattern after attending classes for a day. Many students take advantage of such rules. The Class-12 students are more focused towards their target as compared to Class-10 students,” he said.Soni further said that teachers need to access the most scoring portions of syllabus instead of blindly teaching everything.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-board-results-class-12-students-fared-better-than-class-10-students-in-english-hindi-maths/story-6ABR9MeeCG0jXE4JKUWn8M.html
22-07-2020||City||Two murders reported in Ambala||Two separate cases of murder were reported in Ambala on Wednesday. In the first case, a 37-year-old carpenter who was stabbed by a railway guard on Tuesday was declared dead at GMCH in Chandigarh. The accused Bharat has been arrested by the police. The victim’s father, Shiv Pujan, a railway employee said his son Phoolchand had some dispute over the measurement of work that he did at Bharat’s house. DSP Ram Kumar said, “The incident took place on Tuesday evening when Bharat stabbed Phoolchand over a money dispute. A case was lodged under Section 302 of the IPC.”In another case, Rinku, 33, who was thrashed by a few family members over a dispute on Tuesday night, succumbed to the injuries at a hospital. Nachhatar Singh, his eldest brother told the police that Rinku had a dispute with his wife after which families were called and a meeting was arranged. “While we were talking, a few relatives of Rinku’s wife started thrashing him. He was taken to the civil hospital where he succumbed to his injuries,” he said. SP Abhishek Jorwal said, “The man was thrashed by his in-laws. A case has been registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-murders-reported-in-ambala/story-gT5BDWiwnlgLLJKnR5re6L.html
22-07-2020||City||Process to appoint consumer panel heads scrapped: Haryana to HC||The Haryana government has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that the process to appoint heads and members of consumer panels in the state has been scrapped.The information in this regard was given during a resumed hearing of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by one Naveen Dhamija in 2019, seeking appointments on vacant posts in these panels at the district and state-level.The government had told the court that process initiated for appointment of the presidents of consumer forums has been cancelled in the light amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, effected by the Centre, notified on July 15 in which the rules for appointment, term of office, resignation etc of the president and members of the state commission and the district commission have also been promulgated.A fresh process for the same will be immediately undertaken in terms of the new rules notified by the Centre and will be completed as early as possible, state’s additional advocate general, Deepak Balyan told the court. In view of this, the PIL now stands disposed off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/process-to-appoint-consumer-panel-heads-scrapped-haryana-to-hc/story-WAObPzmkwf8V7eiJ7DrbVN.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||2 UT traffic policemen dismissed for accepting ₹500 bribe||A head constable and constable have been dismissed from service for accepting a Rs 500 bribe from a Jammu resident, which was termed “extortion in uniform” by Shashank Anand, deputy inspector general of police (DIG), security and traffic, Chandigarh.Head constable Daljeet Singh and constable Vikas, posted with the traffic wing of Chandigarh police were dismissed with instructions that their suspension from August 20, 2019, to July 21, 2020, not be considered as spent on duty.“This act of commission and omission on part of Daljeet and Vikas, amply manifests their moral turpitude, ignoble intention and proclivity towards corruption and extortion in uniform,” Anand said.He added, “Their continuance in police force even for a single moment more would not only cause irreparable loss to the functioning and credibility of Chandigarh police. Their wilful misconduct of highest order makes them unfit for retention in the police force any longer.”They deserved deterrent punishment without any sympathy so that the rank and file of police force thought twice before committing such acts in future, he added.Jammu resident Rakesh Gupta had alleged through a series of tweets in August 2019, that Daljeet Singh and Vikas had forced him to pay Rs 500 as bribe. In a complaint on the Twitter account of the Chandigarh traffic police, Gupta had said that on August 9, 2019, while driving in his car with a Jammu and Kashmir registration number, he was stopped at the second light point after Sector 43 while going towards Ropar for jumping traffic lights. The two policemen had let him go after taking the money, he alleged.Gupta gave his testimony to the police through video conferencing.Anand also referred to the “well-known practice that police officials target outside vehicles in order to extort money by giving the threat of challan, suspension of driving license and seizure of vehicle.” To check this practice, instructions were repeatedly issued that no vehicle would be stopped by any traffic police official for jumping traffic lights without a special naka being set up and senior officers and traffic marshal present at the spot. Enquiry officer not spared DIG Anand had pulled up the enquiry officer Uday Pal Singh for his failure to fix responsibility on Daljeet Singh and constable Vikas. Talking about the willingness of the enquiry officer to expose malpractices of subordinates, Anand, said, “enquiry officer while holding the delinquent guilty of charge against them has dithered in fixing the responsibility of Daljeet and Vikas, this speaks of lack of moral courage of enquiry officer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-ut-traffic-policemen-dismissed-for-accepting-500-bribe/story-YTAzZekEk4E5KgepJk6euI.html
22-07-2020||City||Two booked for misbehaving with Jind municipal council officer||Two people were booked for allegedly misbehaving with Jind municipal council’s executive officer SK Chauhan at his office on July 17, police said on Wednesday.The accused are Jawahar Saini, a BJP leader and husband of Jind municipal council chairperson Poonam Saini and councillor Harinder alias Kala Saini.In his complaint to the police, Chauhan said the duo had visited his office on July 17 and asked him to sign on some documents and bills.“When I refused to sign on some forgery bills, they forced me to sign these at gunpoint. They also used casteist remarks against me and threatened dire consequences if I did not sign on the fake bills,” he added.SHO Rajpal Singh said a case has been registered under Sections 186, 353, 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Chauhan asked the police to add SC/ST Act as he belongs to the Scheduled Caste category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-booked-for-misbehaving-with-jind-municipal-council-officer/story-cXU3ezn8qUEl86kqPa0U6I.html
22-07-2020||City||Trains to run at speed of 130 km/hour between Ludhiana and Delhi||Passenger trains between Ludhiana and Delhi will run at a speed of 130 km per hour. Chief safety commissioner (CRS) has given a nod for the project and the work of upgrading the track to run the train is in its final stage.According to the CRS, the project will save time for the passengers.The track lines have been straightened at Sahnewal and Dhandari Kalan railway stations. The overhead electric wires have also been set up accordingly.Divisional railway manager Rajesh Aggarwal said that it will soon be possible to run Rajdhani, Shatabdi and trains with Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches at 130 km/hour in the Delhi-Ludhiana section.To ensure the safety of people living near railway lines, construction work of the boundary wall is also in the final stages and the cooperation of the municipal corporation is being received as well.Work on the proposal of running passenger trains at 130 km per hour on Ludhiana-Jalandhar and Jalandhar-Jammu sections of the division is also underway, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trains-to-run-at-speed-of-130-km-hour-between-ludhiana-and-delhi/story-ovZ9QM8w8oqagMtP1d3Z9N.html
22-07-2020||City||Two kids drown in Yamuna, one body found||The body of a 12-year-old child was recovered from the Yamuna river on Wednesday after two children of Yamunanagar’s Sukhpura village drowned while playing near the river bank, police said.The children were identified as Harsh, 14 and Tanishq, 12, who are cousins and went missing on Tuesday evening. Police said a group of kids was playing near the river bank when two of them slipped into the river. Harsh’s father said, “My son is a Class 9 student while my nephew Tanishq was studying in Class 6. My wife told me about not seeing them since long, so I asked the villagers to look for them. We came to know about the incident and informed the police.”Yamunanagar police station in-charge Sukhbir Virk said, “Tanishq’s body was found by a team of SDRF, divers and police. The body was handed over to the family after the autopsy. Searches will resume to find the other child on Thursday morning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-kids-drown-in-yamuna-one-body-found/story-oHv2w3cTzRiOs9sGoEVoDL.html
22-07-2020||City||Proceedings on Punjab DGP selection can’t be made public: UPSC to HC||Chandigarh Invoking privilege in sharing information, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that the assessment sheet of various police officers considered by the Commission for the appointment of Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) in 2019, can only be shared with the court, not with others.The UPSC response came to a July 2 order of the high court in which the court had posed a number of questions with regard to procedure for appointment of DGPs in the country and also asked the commission to prepare an assessment sheet of all those considered by the UPSC for this post. The court had passed the order in petitions filed by Punjab government and DGP Dinkar Gupta challenging the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) order quashing the appointment of Gupta as the Punjab police chief.In January, the high court had stayed the CAT order. Two IPS officers, Mohammad Mustafa and Siddharth Chattopadhyaya have challenged the appointment. A 1987-batch IPS officer, Gupta had superseded five senior officers on February 7, 2019.“UPSC does not accord permission to anyone under Section 123 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, to produce the assessment sheet of empanelment committee and as such as per established convention of the UPSC, the Commission claims privilege under the Act,” the court has been told in a written statement. It adds the UPSC has no objection, whatsoever, in sharing the sheet with the court, for its legal scrutiny and satisfaction.The commission says it got involved in the selection of DGP’s appointment in 2006, after a Supreme Court order for which guidelines have been framed in 2009. Detailing about the same, it says the officers from the cadre concerned from not below the rank of ADGP rank are to be considered and those who have at least 30 years of service on the date of occurrence of vacancy are included in the zone of consideration. However, the zone of consideration may vary from the state to state depending upon the availability of ADGPs and above level officers with residual service of six months.It has clarified that state governments are mandatorily asked by UPSC to forward the list of all eligible officers and their relevant documents. “State governments have no say in restricting the zone of consideration. It is mandatory for the state governments to send names of all officers, who fulfil requirement of eligibility,” it says.To the contention raised by these two officers that Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) guidelines were flouted, the Commission says, DoPT guidelines are not applicable in these appointments as the UPSC has its own mechanism.It says that the UPSC takes into account the range of experience, very good service record, and length of service into account, while making recommendations as per inter se seniority of the officers. In March 2019, the Supreme Court has said that appointment should be based only on the basis of merit, it has informed court. The hearing in the matter will resume on August 13. The bench presided over by justice RK Jain took on record only response of the UPSC, and ordered that it be listed for hearing before the bench, which is already seized of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/proceedings-on-punjab-dgp-selection-can-t-be-made-public-upsc-to-hc/story-YH7IMf2EsN8qnLymyT5vBJ.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet gives nod to new land pooling policy for industrial sector||Mohali : The Punjab cabinet led by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday gave its nod to the new land pooling policy (LPP) for the industrial sector under the ambit of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to promote industry in the city. The cabinet also allowed increased compensation for land owners opting for its land pooling scheme for residential projects.The move comes as GMADA gears up to acquire 1,680 acres of land in the first phase of development of Aerotropolis Estate, an extension of Aerocity. The policy change will also facilitate development of an industrial estate in Sectors 101 and 103 in Mohali by easing the process of land acquisition for timely execution of development projects.Under GMADA’s amended LPP, 1,000 square yards of developed residential plots and 200 sq yards of commercial plots, excluding parking, will be given in lieu of cash compensation for every 1 acre of land to be acquired from landowners for the upcoming Aerotropolis Residential Estate. Earlier, 121 sq yards was offered instead of 200 square yards.According to the LPP introduced for the industrial sector development for the first time, for every one acre of land, land owners will get 1,100 Sq yard of industrial plots and 200 sq yards of developed commercial plot, excluding parking, in lieu of cash compensation.Validity of the sahuliyat certificate given to land owners opting for LPP and providing certain benefits to them for purchase of equivalent value of land, would be counted from the date of allotment of plot. The earlier validity was two years from the date of announcement of award. With the certificate land owners can get exemption from stamp duty, besides certain other benefits/privileges when they purchase agricultural land with the sale proceeds from the developed plots they get under LPP. The move is in response to the demand of land owners that the validity be applied from the date they are offered physical possession of the plots on the ground that only when basic infrastructure has been laid does a plot fetch its potential value.GMADA has acquired 4,484 acres of land from 2001 to 2017. Of this, 2,145 acres has been acquired till date, through LPP introduced in the state in 2008 and amended from time to time. The rationale behind introducing the LPP was to ensure prompt land acquisition and reduce financial burden on GMADA, as the acquisition of land through cash compensation mode is fraught with the risk of enhancement of compensation by the courts apart from it being a cumbersome and time consuming process. GMADA is already facing the risk of paying enhanced compensation of nearly Rs 9700 crore as per the decisions of the first reference appeal in the courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cabinet-gives-nod-to-new-land-pooling-policy-for-industrial-sector/story-shogg5Xng0J6Is5s3vpFBN.html
22-07-2020||Dehradun||In biggest single-day spike, Uttarakhand reports 451 fresh Covid-19 cases, crosses 5,000 cases mark||In the biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand till now, 451 cases were reported from the state on Wednesday. With this, the state crossed the 5000 case mark taking the state tally of total cases to 5300 in the Himalayan state.Two Covid-19 positive patients also died in Uttarakhand on Wednesday due to Covid-19.The state health bulletin mentioned that a 47-year-old male Covid-19 patient died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh on Tuesday. As per the death summary the deceased was suffering from Covid-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), however the cause of death was described as “Ventricular fibrillation and respiratory failure.”Another 46-year-old female patient died at Government Doon Medical College on Wednesday. The patient was shifted to the hospital from a private hospital in Dehradun on Monday as a case of decompensated chronic liver disease, sepsis and shock along with Covid-19 pneumonia. The cause of death for this patient was described as “b/1 Covid-19 pneumonitis, scrub typhus leading to cardio pulmonary arrest.”With this, a total of 57 Covid-19 patients have died in the state of which eight patients have died due to coronavirus and other died due to co-morbidities and other ailments.On Wednesday, with 204 cases Haridwar reported the maximum cases followed by 98 cases from US Nagar district. The other districts reported; Almora (4), Dehradun (43), Nainital (73), Pauri (4), Pithoragarh (5), Tehri (11) and Uttarkashi (9).Of total cases reported on Wednesday 288 cases or 63% of the cases were found to be close contacts of earlier detected positive patients. A healthcare worker and revenue officer also tested positive from Almora district.Five personnel from Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) with travel history from Jammu & Kashmir tested positive in Pithoragarh district.Fifty-two patients were also discharged from hospitals on Wednesday with maximum 22 patients from Dehradun.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 18.53 days, while the infection rate is 4.51%. The state has so far tested 1.29 lakh samples of which results of over 9500 are awaited.Meanwhile, two police stations in Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar district were sealed and declared the containment zone respectively after three police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 in these districts.On Wednesday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat ordered chief secretary, additional chief secretary, principal secretary, secretaries and additional secretaries; to compulsorily attend meetings called by cabinet ministers. If for some reason the officials cannot attend the meeting, then the personal secretary of the minister should be informed about it well in advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/in-biggest-single-day-spike-uttarakhand-reports-451-fresh-covid-19-cases-crosses-5-000-cases-mark/story-KcIB2lvrSezA8MeA8R22cN.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh University student receives highest package of ₹35 lakh per annum||Mayunk Partap Singh, 22, a computer science engineering student of Chandigarh University, has bagged the highest package of Rs 35 lakh ($48,000) per annum in the placement drive conducted by the varsity. He has been placed in US-based company, Arcesium.Details of the drive were released by the university on Wednesday, according to which the average package for engineering students is Rs 7.5 lakh per annum and for MBS students is Rs 7 lakh per annum.According to the university, more than 350 core engineering branch companies have hired students from CU during the 2020 placement season.Chancellor of the university, Satnam Singh Sandhu, said, “Around 12 multinational companies have offered pay packages of Rs 20 lakh per annum or more and 35 companies have offered packages between Rs 10 lakh per annum and Rs 20 lakh per annum.”“As many as 691 companies participated in the placement drive, which is 30% more than last year, while number of offers has registered a 40% growth. The total offers this year touched 6,617,” Sandhu said.Virtual placement during lockdownAccording to CU, 119 multinational companies, which include 57 new recruiters, conducted virtual placement during the lockdown this year.Himani Sood, vice-president of corporate relations, CU, said, “We have already conducted training for students so they can get well versed with the smart technology platforms which have become the norm amid the Covid pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-university-student-receives-highest-package-of-35-lakh-per-annum/story-CgnhDefMjB80T5P9XlhLMM.html
22-07-2020||City||AIIMS Trauma Centre discharges its 1,000th Covid patient||New Delhi: Three months after it was converted into a dedicated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospital, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ Trauma Centre discharged its 1,000th Covid-19 patient on Tuesday.The 35-year-old was admitted into the hospital on July 15. So far 1,003 patients have been discharged from the facility.The trauma centre has been one of the busiest hospitals, also treating Covid-19 patients with other conditions like heart disease, stroke, brain and other tumours, and caesarean section deliveries in Covid patients. Thirty-five surgeries have been performed on Covid patients at the hospital, and there have been 14 deliveries though caesarean section, two pacemakers inserted for heart block, and 210 dialysis procedures done since April. Sixty-five positive children below the age of 12 years have been treated at the hospital. The hospital has also been treating sexual assault victims Covid-19 as well as accused persons.“Once it was decided to make it a dedicated Covid facility, it took us barely two weeks to make the appropriate changes to house virus patients. Our critical trauma patients were moved to the main AIIMS section along with the entire emergency department in early April,” said Dr Rajesh Malhotra, head, AIIMS Trauma Centre. “We have taken care of newborns from caesarean sections and several children, and in many cases their parents were negative,” he added.The hospital has 265 beds, of which 237 can provide oxygen support. There are 50 dedicated intensive care unit (ICU) beds and six high-dependency unit beds. Close to 700 health care workers are on duty over three shifts.Preparations to convert the trauma centre into a dedicated Covid-19 facility started on March 20, with the focus first on shifting trauma patients undergoing treatment at the hospital to the main hospital campus. The structural changes include putting up barriers to divide Covid and non-Covid areas to ease the movement of patients within hospital as well as for the safety of staff not involved in Covid care. Wards, especially private wards, that were without oxygen supply were equipped oxygen support beds and additional equipment needed for Covid-19 management.The staff was provided training in infection prevention practices, keeping in view the updated international guidelines on Covid-19 care.Separate personal protection gear donning and doffing areas were created at the academic areas in the basement of hospital with change rooms, wash rooms and lockers.“All services had to be arranged independent of the main hospital; and all the challenges were met within about 2 weeks and we admitted first patient on April 3, 2020. By this time we had converted the new emergency area on ground floor into 18 bedded ICU. Moreover, the wards on first, fifth, sixth and seventh floor in old wing were prepared for instant conversion to ICU in case of need. We designated an operation theatre on the first floor for emergency surgeries,” said Dr Malhotra.“We have all arrangements under one roof, including MRI, CT scan and X rays that makes our hospital suitable to treat even non-Covid conditions in Covid-19 positives, which won’t happen in many places,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aiims-trauma-centre-discharges-its-1-000th-covid-patient/story-WMrQidh8SNa5faXa61JDtL.html
22-07-2020||City||Delhi High Court asks UGC to clarify mode of final-year exams||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the University Grants Commission (UGC) to clarify the mode of final year examinations to be conducted by various universities — multiple choice questions (MCQ), open choices, assignments or presentations. Educational institutions were shut across the country in the last week of March to curb the coronavirus spread in the country. Various examinations conducted by universities and higher education institutions have been suspended since then. Early this month, the UGC had announced that end-of-term semester exams will be held in September. Several students have challenged the Delhi University’s decision to conduct online open-book exams and the UGC’s decision asking varsities to conduct exams for final-year students throughout the country. Justice Prathiba M Singh, while hearing a bunch of pleas by students, also asked the UGC to clarify on the differences about the mode of examination since the April guidelines by the higher education body mentioned other forms of assessment. However, the fresh guidelines issued by the UGC on July 6 mentioned only online, offline and blend of both. During the hearing, the judge sought to know from DU as to whether a window of 24-48 hours could be granted to the students to submit their answer scripts. Citing examples of the foreign universities, Justice Singh said in most of the foreign universities, the students have been given at least 24-48 hours to submit their transcripts. DU’s counsel, senior advocate Sachin Datta, told the court that it cannot be allowed to prevent cheating. To this, the judge said, “Why are the exams timed? Why can’t the answer scripts be taken after a day or two? Yesterday, when it rained in the city, we did not have electricity for three hours and this is in the heart of the city. How do you expect to students to have the connectivity to upload the answer scripts in a time-bound manner. The court also asked the UGC as to why it is insisting on conducting the exams as the children are suffering and all they want is to give the exams and finish this up. The counsel for DU said that they were conducting the exams strictly in accordance with the instructions given by the UGC. Appearing for the UGC, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said there was no divergence internally between the Union HRD ministry and UGC. The UGC submitted that the guidelines do not permit internal assessment for evaluating final year students as it puts credibility of the system at stake. When the UGC counsel said DU can undertake a mixed form of examination, the judge said, “Look at the condition. ICMR says that Covid-19 is going to be at its peak in November. How do you expect them to conduct the offline exam by September?” One of the counsel for the petitioner pointed out that many universities have opted for a creative mode of examination, including MCQs and assignment-based exams and the long-form mode is time consuming and the open-book method is “prima facie troublesome”. He submitted that the marksheet of even last semester of Physics department has not been released by the DU yet and it will take a long time to complete the final year exams. The court said it has failed to understand why UGC was insisting on conducting the final exams and said, “Imagine the number of writ petitions that are going to come here due to the number of reasons after open-book exams in August. DU will be struggling with it for years. I think the administration has collapsed and students are suffering. OBE is not going to work.” When the court asked why did the HRD ministry directed DU to postpone the exams, advocate Sunita Ojha replied that there was a meeting and only an advisory was given to postpone if they were not ready and DU has to examine its own preparedness. The Delhi University is scheduled to hold final year undergraduate online open-book exams from August 10-31 after the high court had compressed the schedule of the examination suggested by the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-high-court-asks-ugc-to-clarify-mode-of-final-year-exams/story-y0uNdUo3BeHgK636mTPYTK.html
22-07-2020||City||Man held for vehicle lifting in Ludhiana||Police arrested a man for vehicle lifting on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Harjot Singh, 25, a resident of Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar. Police have recovered 13 stolen vehicles from his possession.Assistant sub-inspector Gurcharan Singh, who arrested the accused, said when they stopped Harjot and asked for the documents of the vehicle he was riding, the accused started threatening him by saying he is related to a senior Shiromani Akali Dal leader. The accused told police that he works at the family medical store and is the nephew of the owner of Gurmel Medical hall, who is also a senior SAD leader.The accused told police that he lost Rs 25 lakh in gambling around two years ago and started lifting vehicles to pay the debt. He confessed to his involvement in 13 incidents of vehicle lifting, police said.A case has been registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) at division number 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-vehicle-lifting-in-ludhiana/story-awrWdkKuFVZ8cSrdh9HnZL.html
22-07-2020||City||Kejriwal meets govt school top-scorers in CBSE class 12 exams||New Delhi:Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and education minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday met top scorers from government schools in this year’s CBSE class 12 examinations.As many as 19 students were invited to Kejriwal’s residence along with their parents and school principals on Wednesday.This year, Delhi government schools recorded a pass percentage of 97.8% -- three percentage points higher than last year -- in the CBSE class 12 exams. Addressing the students, Kejriwal said, “Each one of you have faced a difficult situation, be it health complications of a family member or financial shortcomings at home, but you did not give up. By sheer determination, you achieved such a good result. The results are proof of your undeterred efforts and dedication towards studies. You have to move forward and keep dreaming big, and if you keep working day and night, you will always be successful.”Kejriwal said there is a perception that families with low-income do not want their children to study. “But the reality is that failure on the part of government in not ensuring quality education to kids made low-income families think that sending kids to school would be a waste of time. Now that the condition of government schools has improved in Delhi, the poor man wants his/her child to study for a bright future,” he said.Among those who met Kejriwal and Sisodia on Wednesday was Raghav Kumar, a student of the government boys senior secondary school in Mundka. He scored 93.4% marks in class 12. Kumar, who worked in nearby factories in his spare time and taught students in his neighbourhood, said, “My parents live in Bihar and I was staying here at my uncle’s place. I left my uncle’s home in class 11 and started living independently. My teachers helped me a lot financially and in my studies as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-meets-govt-school-top-scorers-in-cbse-class-12-exams/story-MjCfb0Xuktf9ho0P36webJ.html
22-07-2020||City||Under-construction liquor vend razed in Ludhiana||Taking action against illegal constructions, the Ludhiana municipal corporation on Wednesday razed an illegal liquor vend being established on Dugri road and sealed a factory in a residential area in Kartar Nagar. The MC team also razed an illegal ramp established outside a commercial building in Dugri road.Officials said the liquor vend was being established against building bylaws and the owner also did not submit the change of land use (CLU) fees. Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Stern action will be taken against illegal constructions in the coming days and I have also directed building branch officials to expedite recovery of dues from residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/under-construction-liquor-vend-razed-in-ludhiana/story-8JbK6TD0fzuDjUoGybbNuK.html
22-07-2020||City||Delhi: Three former bouncers ram vehicles in bid to escape after robbing car||New Delhi: Three former bouncers of Lady Hardinge Medical College, who allegedly took to crime after losing their jobs a few months ago, went on to ram multiple vehicles on a 15-kilometer stretch of road while being chased by the police after having robbed a sports utility vehicle (SUV) in north Delhi’s Burari on Monday afternoon, the police said. Their run came to an end near Kashmere Gate when they found themselves stuck in a traffic jam near Kashmere Gate, thanks to the police’s plan to also set up pickets along the route of the hot chase.By the end of the chase, the fleeing suspects had allegedly rammed at least 10 vehicles along the route, even as none of the occupants of those vehicles were hurt.Monika Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police (north district), identified the arrested men as Deepak Dalal, Brij Bihari and Nirala Kumar Singh -- all aged 24 years. She said Deepak is from Jhajjar in Haryana while the other two are from Delhi’s Kirari.“Until four months ago, they worked as bouncers at the Lady Hardinge Medical College. When their contract expired, they were left unemployed. They planned to start robbing cars to make quick money during their unemployment,” the DCP said. On Monday, they allegedly borrowed a friend’s Hyundai i10 car and set out to scout for targets. “Around 1pm, they intercepted a Mahindra XUV300 car outside a banquet hall in Burari and told it’s driver, Naresh Kumar, that he had rammed their car and that he needed to pay for repairs,” said the DCP.The SUV driver worked for a west Delhi businessman and was alone in the vehicle at the time.“Suddenly, one of the bouncers entered the driver’s side of the car and pushed Kumar to the adjacent seat. The others also got in and drove away,” said the DCP. When they neared a gate of the Nirankari Mandal near Burari, they allegedly slowed the car down, pushed Kumar out and sped away in the SUV.Police said Kumar hurriedly dialled the local police who quickly launched a pursuit. “The robbed car was first chased towards Mukundpur from where the suspects turned back towards Kashmere Gate,” the DCP said. Until this point, the suspects had allegedly rammed seven vehicles. “Even as the chase continued, the police flashed the robbed vehicle’s number so that pickets could hurriedly be set up along the possible routes of escape,” said the officer. Meanwhile, the car rammed three more vehicles before it reached Kashmere Gate.“By the time the SUV reached Kashmere Gate, the police team chasing it had lost its trail. But the car ended up getting stuck in a little traffic jam which was actually created by the policemen at the picket to prevent any escape,” said the DCP. The suspects were confronted and caught before they could escape. The damaged SUV was recovered from them. An FIR with IPC sections for robbery has been registered against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-three-former-bouncers-ram-vehicles-in-bid-to-escape-after-robbing-car/story-shdtRaQTt6mFZZPO3qyI8L.html
22-07-2020||City||Webinar on impact of corona crisis on poultry industry held in Ludhiana vet varsity||The department of livestock production management at the College of Veterinary Science, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), organised a national-level webinar on ‘Global corona crisis: Impact and strategic measures to uplift poultry industry’ on Wednesday.The webinar was conducted and moderated by head of department Dr Manish Chatli and former dean, Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (LUVAS), Hisar, Dr N K Mahajan; and director, CPDO, Chandigarh, Dr Kamna Barkataki; and DGM-Punjab, Suguna Foods Private Limited, Dr GG Barley were the key speakers.Dr Mahajan emphasised on the need for biosecurity on farms and on the restriction of use of antibiotics and hormones in poultry birds. Dr Barley highlighted the socio-economic impact of coronavirus on poultry industry and management strategies to make poultry farming capable of withstanding this global crisis, and emphasised on the importance of precision poultry nutrition to reduce the cost of production.Dr Kamna highlighted the importance of backyard farming for the livelihood of the downtrodden rural population. She also detailed the government guidelines during this crisis.Dr Daljeet Kaur conducted the question-answer session and extended a vote of thanks to all. Vice-chancellor of GADVASU, Dr Inderjeet Singh said that the students should adopt poultry farming as an enterprise and become an employer rather than exploring government jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/webinar-on-impact-of-corona-crisis-on-poultry-industry-held-in-ludhiana-vet-varsity/story-6stykacx20lTzuhb8i8zJM.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four mobile phones recovered from inmates in Ludhiana central jail||Four mobile phones were recovered from four inmates of Ludhiana central jail during special checking on Tuesday night.Assistant jail superintendent Jasvir Chand lodged a complaint that the phones were recovered from Charanpreet Singh, Laddu Singh, Amarjit Singh and Vijay Singh.A case has been registered against the accused under Section 52 A (1) of Prison Act at division number 7 police station.Head constable Paramjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the police will bring the accused for questioning on production warrant to know how they managed to get mobile phones inside the prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-mobile-phones-recovered-from-inmates-in-ludhiana-central-jail/story-sp32EIMCZkNTBaUtRtWIAI.html
22-07-2020||City||Man held for shooting friend dead over ₹40,000||New Delhi: Police on Wednesday said they have arrested a 24-year-old man who allegedly shot his friend dead in northwest Delhi’s Wazirpur in April for demanding ₹40,000 the suspect owed him.The suspect, Firoz Khan, who had been on the run for three-and-a-half months, was caught from Mehrauli-Badarpur (MB) Road by a crime branch team following a chase and brief scuffle on Tuesday night. A pistol with three loaded cartridges was seized from Khan. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rajesh Deo said that on April 5, a murder case was registered at Bharat Nagar police station on the complaint of Ishaq Khan, whose son Imran had been shot dead by Firoz. The complainant told the police that Firoz had borrowed ₹40,000 from his son and was threatening to kill him whenever he demanded it back.On April 4 around 8pm, Imran left home saying he was going to collect money from Firoz. When he did not return, his father went looking out for him. The man saw his son in a scuffle with Firoz. Soon, Firoz took out a pistol, shot Imran in front of his father, and fled, an investigator said. Imran succumbed to the bullet injury and a murder case was registered.During the probe, the crime branch team collected information about the suspect and his movements. On Tuesday, the team learnt that Firoz would be coming near Dhaula Peer on MB Road. A trap was laid, and after spotting Firoz riding a scooter the police personnel asked him to surrender.“Firoz sped away but our team members chased him. His scooter slipped and he ran inside the forested area. When our team members asked him to stop, he tried to fire at them. However, a sub-inspector overpowered him after a brief scuffle,” Deo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-shooting-friend-dead-over-40-000/story-S8NlOqjPisV03lKdjH3wBK.html
22-07-2020||Gurugram||Haryana govt stops registration of property till August 17||To build a robust and data-based mechanism to curb and curtail possible malpractices in the registration of properties, the Haryana government has decided to stop property registrations from Thursday up till August 17. A statement issued by the government stated that to ensure system-readiness for the purpose, it has decided to implement stoppage of registration of transfer deeds under the Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908), as an interim measure for a short duration.Financial commissioner revenue and additional chief secretary, revenue and disaster management department, Vijai Vardhan, said that the state government has given serious consideration to the complaints of malpractices that exist in the current mechanism for registration of deeds for transfer of land. Therefore, it has been decided to temporarily halt registration of transfer deeds under the said Act. He said that as per the decision, no registration of transfer of deeds of land will be done by the sub-registrar/joint sub-registrar from July 22 to 29 in the state other than as provided in clause (6). Registration in respect of lands other than lands as specified in clause (2) and clause (3) will be permitted with effect from July 30, 2020.Similarly, no registration of transfer of deeds of land will be done by the sub-registrar/joint sub-registrar from July 22 to August 5 in respect of lands situated within municipal limits, urban areas, as declared/ notified under the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 and Controlled Area declared under the Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Development Act, 1963.Besides this, no registration of transfer of deeds of land will be done by the sub-registrar/joint sub-registrar from July 22 to August 15 in respect of lands situated in urban Areas, as declared/notified under Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 (as amended from time to time) and villages where the jamabandis are currently offline and not available on web-HALRIS, he informed. “All e-appointments pertaining to the above stand cancelled forthwith and fresh dates regarding the same will be given to the concerned on priority basis. While, wherever generation of successful e-stamp challans (GRN) has been done, an extension of 30 days will be given for those challans/GRN, whose validity of 180 days expires between July 22 to August 17,” he added.He said that for those possessing registered sale agreements between the buyer(s) and the seller(s) for transfer of land executed prior to July 22, 2020 and as per terms and conditions of said agreement, the same had to be registered between July 22, 2020 to August 15, 2020, may be allowed to be registered by the sub- registrars/joint sub-registrars only with the prior approval of the registrar of the concerned districts in writing in each individual case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-govt-stops-registration-of-property-till-august-17/story-gftiwOsYolxLbxR8JfGICM.html
22-07-2020||City||Containment zone resident held for false complaint against ASI in Ludhiana||A resident of Vijay Nagar, a containment zone in Ludhiana, was booked on Wednesday for misbehaving with a policeman deputed in the area who asked him to stay indoors. The accused claimed to be a scribe and complained to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Twitter claiming the cop was drunk and harassing people in the area.The accused has been identified as Vicky.Police swung into action and took the cop, assistant sub-inspector Surjit Singh, to civil hospital for medical examination where was found sober. Following this, police lodged an FIR against Vicky. The accused could not produce any document to prove he was a scribe.The ASI said that the accused was roaming around in the containment zone and when asked to stay indoors, started misbehaving and made a false complaint against him.A case has been registered under IPC and Section 66 of Information and Technology Act against the accused at division number 2 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/containment-zone-resident-held-for-false-complaint-against-asi-in-ludhiana/story-aaIKvjB5EAB9UTrLrAbsaN.html
22-07-2020||City||267 missing saroops: Probe team shifts record to Akal Takht secretariat||Amritsar The team probing the case of 267 missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib shifted the record of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) publishing house at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib to Akal Takht secretariat building on Wednesday. Acting jathedar of the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs, Giani Harpreet Singh had announced on Friday that Navita Singh, a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court, and Ishar Singh, a lawyer at the Telangana high court, will probe the case. On Wednesday, advocate Ishar, along with Akal Takht jathedar’s personal assistant Jaspal Singh, Akal Takht’s head granthi (priest) Malkiat Singh and a representative of justice Navita Singh visited the publishing house and seized its record. The record was then shifted to the Akal Takht secretariat. The jathedar said, “The probe will be completed in one month.” Fourteen saroops of Guru Granth Sahib were damaged in a fire at the SGPC publishing house at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib in May 2016, according to the SGPC, but the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) claimed, after five years, that the damage was far more extensive. The PHRO also claimed that this fact was hidden to save the then SAD-BJP government from public wrath as the Bargari sacrilege incident was already a burning issue and the then assembly elections were approaching.On the basis of the statement of a retired employee of the SGPC, the PHRO said that 267 saroops went missing after the fire and a probe must be conducted to ascertain their whereabouts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/267-missing-saroops-probe-team-shifts-record-to-akal-takht-secretariat/story-0tF36srn9FNCsKTybQpHGI.html
22-07-2020||City||Murder probe begins four months after Dera Bassi tailor’s death||Four months after the body of a 42-year-old tailor was found in a field in Dera Bassi, police have launched a murder probe on the complaint of his wife. The deceased, Jaswinder Saini, was a resident of Dera Bassi and used to run a tailoring shop on Barwala Road. On March 12, he was found dead in a field, with injury marks on the forehead that appeared to have been inflicted by a weapon. There were also blood stains near the body. His motorcycle was found at some distance. According to his father, Sukhdev Saini, Jaswinder had left home after answering a phone call, but never returned. “Earlier, the matter was being investigated for suicide under Section 174 of the CrPC. Now, on the statement of the victim’s wife, Amarjit Kaur, we have registered a case of murder. The call dump of the crime spot has been lifted,” said Satinder Singh, station house officer, Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murder-probe-begins-four-months-after-dera-bassi-tailor-s-death/story-g51vi6rSh93yYfyPL1bilO.html
22-07-2020||City||50-bed Covid Care Centre set up adjoining DMCH in Ludhiana||The Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and Shree Ram Sharnam have set up a 50-bed Covid Care Centre in the building of Shree Ram Sharnam Sewa Sadan located adjoining the hospital campus in Kitchlu Nagar. The centre will be run and managed by DMCH doctors and other staff.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and commissioner of police Rakesh Kumar Agrawal on Wednesday visited the centre and appreciated the contribution in the battle against Covid-19.Sharma said people from all sections of society should contribute during these testing times. He said Shree Ram Sharnam Sewa Sadan provided boarding and lodging to the attendants of patients at DMCH and had now helped set up the Covid Care Centre.The centre was equipped with elevators, clean linen, dining area, air-conditioning and a dedicated team of DMCH staff to take care of Covid patients, he said, while urging other social organisations to also set up such centres, while assuring all possible help from the district administration.The two officials, along with ADC (development) and other senior administration officials, also visited the local Fortis Hospital and urged the hospital management to increase the number of beds for Covid-19 patients. Sharma said with the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, other private hospitals had also been directed to increase the beds on their respective premises.Senior DMCH doctors Dr Gurpreet Singh Wander, Dr Sandeep Puri, Dr Bishav Mohan were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-bed-covid-care-centre-set-up-adjoining-dmch-in-ludhiana/story-iCMtXsmCPoGjNRKVihcmnJ.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University panel suggests allowing final-semester students of affiliated colleges to take exams from home||A Panjab University panel on Wednesday suggested that students of outgoing classes in affiliated colleges of the varsity be allowed to take exams from home this year amid surging Covid-19 cases.The suggestion was made by a subcommittee constituted by a committee formed by the PU syndicate, to make suggestions on issues related to conduct of exams and online teaching in affiliated colleges of the varsity. The subcommittee is headed by dean college development council (DCDC) Sanjay Kaushik. A member of the panel, on condition of anonymity, said, “The members suggested that questions be sent to students and they will have to revert with their answers in a scanned file within 12 hours.”However, the suggestions of the subcommittee, are subject to the approval of the main committee, headed by syndicate member Navdeep Goyal.It has also been suggested that a proper schedule for the examination be uploaded on the university’s website before they are conducted.Out of six questions, students have to answer only three within a fixed period of time. “The modalities are being prepared for where students should send answer files. It was discussed that they may directly send them to the examination branch of the university or exam centres,” said a member of the committee.The subcommittee has also suggested that the students of the current batches, who are being promoted, be assessed on the basis of internal assessment and previous semester’s performance.According to PU’s academic calendar, online classes of ongoing courses will start from August.PU senator KK Sharma, who is an associate professor at AS College, Khanna, has written to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar seeking that sessions be run on an annual instead of semester system in colleges this year to lessen the burden on students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-panel-suggests-allowing-final-semester-students-of-affiliated-colleges-to-take-exams-from-home/story-mkqgIupi29FPNWkLgMzp6K.html
22-07-2020||City||History sheeter held with illegal weapon in Ludhiana||A history-sheeter facing trial in three cases of attempt to murder was arrested with an illegal weapon on Tuesday. The accused, Veerpal Singh, is a resident of Roomi village of Jagraon.He was arrested near the Gehlewal Chowk during special checking on Tuesday.ASI Major Singh at CIA staff-2, said Veerpal was coming from Gehlewal road. A police team stopped him for checking and recovered a .32-bore pistol and five live bullets from his possession. During investigation, he revealed that he bought the pistol from Uttar Pradesh for self-defence, as he was suspecting an attack on him by a rival.A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered at the Basti Jodhewal police station.The ASI said Veerpal was facing trial in six cases, including three attempts to murder, at various police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/history-sheeter-held-with-illegal-weapon-in-ludhiana/story-8HgVXR5DxCcwOotgHcx0eM.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Light rain likely in Chandigarh on July 24||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light rain in the city from Friday onwards.IMD officials said, “There are chances of light rain up to 20mm from Friday. Wind speeds up to 20km/h can also be expected with the rain.”Meanwhile, the maximum temperature on Wednesday increased from 29°C on Tuesday to 31°C. However, the minimum temperature decreased slightly from 24.8°C to 24.1°C.In the next few days, the day temperature is expected to remain around 33°C, while the night temperature will be around 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-rain-likely-in-chandigarh-on-july-24/story-MpNTMCHsGFGdHxctiBo6NI.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||CBI court allows UT DIG more time for prosecution sanction against suspended SHO||A special CBI court has given more time till July 29 to the UT deputy inspector general (DIG) of police for submitting the final order regarding the sanction to prosecute suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur in a 2017 graft case.“The court is not competent to take cognizance against inspector Jaswinder Kaur in the absence of prosecution sanction against her,” said special judge CBI, Sushil Kumar Garg.In the court, the district attorney, Chandigarh, requested the court to adjourn the matter for 4-5 days for considering the grant of sanction. On the other hand, public prosecutor for the CBI, KP Singh, submitted that five months and 10 days had already elapsed for considering the grant of sanction from the date of order – February 13, 2020. However, CBI had no objection to grant more time to submit the final report in the matter, he said.The matter was adjourned for July 29.In October 2017, sub-inspector (SI) Mohan Singh was arrested for accepting Rs 2 lakh in bribe, allegedly on the directions of the then Sector 31 SHO, Jaswinder Kaur.Prem Singh Bisht, the complainant, had alleged that the SI, who was the investigating officer in an attempt to murder case, demanded Rs 9 lakh to drop the names of three of his employees from the FIR.Bisht had alleged that the SI had told him that the Rs 8 lakh were for SHO Jaswinder Kaur and Rs 1 lakh for him. The CBI had arrested the SI while accepting Rs 2 lakh bribe, but the case was closed against Kaur as the agency could not find any evidence to implicate her.However, in the CBI court, the complainant had said that he was taken to SHO Kaur by the SI at Old Car Bazaar in Hallomajra, where a meeting had taken place and SHO had demanded money.In 2019, Bisht had moved an application to declare Kaur an accused in the case, followed by another application in February 2020, where he stated he was being pressured by the SHO.Taking cognizance of the applications, the court had directed CBI to place before the sanctioning authority (SSP, Chandigarh) all evidence, so that the authority could apply its own mind whether to give sanction for prosecution or not.On July 17, the UT DIG had told the court that Kaur’s prosecution was under consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbi-court-allows-ut-dig-more-time-for-prosecution-sanction-against-suspended-sho/story-CgXFGy5vJaIRO1y6kbtrTJ.html
22-07-2020||City||MC wasting public money by replacing good-condition tiles, say Ludhiana residents||The residents of Singh Pura area near Jagraon bridge have accused the municipal corporation (MC) of wasting public money by unnecessarily replacing old interlocking tiles on the roadsides, which they claim were in good condition.They rued that civic officials prepared hefty work estimates sitting inside their offices without even inspecting the actual condition of the tiles at the site.One of the residents, Gurcharan Singh, said, “The old tiles were in good shape and I had even asked the contract workers why the same were being replaced.”The MC should conduct inspections before approving projects, or the effort and money would be wasted, he held. “If only a few tiles were damaged at a certain spot, what was the need to reinstall new ones on the entire stretch,” asked Gurcharan.An MC official requesting anonymity said all development works are approved on the demand of the area councillors. “Similar complaints from residents were received in the past, but the officials work under political pressure. No field inspection is done before preparing the work estimates. Even the Finance and Contracts Committee (F&CC) does not get the site checked before approving a project,” the official revealed.When asked, area councillor Poonam Malhotra said, “The interlocking tiles which are being replaced were in bad shape and I had received complaints regarding this from residents. It is only after this that I got the project approved from the MC and the work was started.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “I have not received any official complaint in this regard so far. I will look into the matter and seek report from the officials concerned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-wasting-public-money-by-replacing-good-condition-tiles-say-ludhiana-residents/story-UdLGanuP7CduAd6BQfHbaI.html
22-07-2020||City||Mohali crosses 600 mark with highest single-day jump of 36 Covid-19 cases||With 36 new Covid-19 cases cropping up, Mohali breached the 600 mark on Wednesday. Since the district reported its first case on March 20, it took over three months to cross 300 cases on July 5. But, thereon, the cases doubled to 600 in just 17 days. Mohali now has 610 cases. With 379 recoveries and 12 deaths, 219 cases remain active. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said most of the recent patients were contacts of positive patients or had travel history. “We will be taking samples of the patients’ family members. Most of them are asymptomatic and are responding well to the treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur,” he said. “We are fully prepared and equipped to address the challenge posed by the increasing number of patients. Requisite manpower and equipment is in place, and saving lives is our primary focus,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.Among the Wednesday cases, three women tested positive in Mohali city. These include a 56-year-old in Phase 2, a 51-year-old in Phase 4 and a 42-year-old in Phase 3B2.Two men, aged 25 and 37, from Phase 2 and Sector 56, respectively, have also contracted the infection. Majority of the cases were reported at the Kharar sub-division.These included four men, aged 72, 30, 23 and 21, from Kharar town. Two males, aged 38 and 31, and a 53-year-old woman are from Sunny Enclave, Kharar. A 20-year-old woman, a 17-year-old girl and a 49-year-old man are from Shivalik City, Kharar. Three boys, aged 14, 11 and 10, a 46-year-old woman and a 47-year-old man are from Hira Enclave, Kharar.Sarvjot Enclave, Kharar, confirmed two cases of a 28-year-old woman and a 55-year-old man.Besides, two men, aged 49 and 21, are from SBP Homes and Dashmesh Nagar in Kharar.Four men are from Gharuan, Ramgarh Daun and Balongi. They are aged 17, 26, 40 and 48.A 40-year-old man, a 42-year-old woman and a five-year-old boy were found positive in Dera Bassi. Two women, aged 32 and 20, are from Lalru and Kurali, respectively, and a 48-year-old man from Dhakoli.A 47-year-old woman is in Kandala and a 10-year-old boy in Banur. BoxTHE SPIKE SO FARThe cases doubled from 300 to 600 in just 17 days 1 March 20100 May 11 52 days200 June 17 37 days300 July 5 18 days423 July 13 8 days500 July 19 6 days600 July 22 3 days||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-crosses-600-mark-with-highest-single-day-jump-of-36-covid-19-cases/story-eQaquX5h9s6RExQaNZOpeJ.html
22-07-2020||City||Two kidnappers held after 2-hr car hostage drama in Moga||Moga Police arrested Sukhpreet Singh of Dhaula village in Barnala district and Bohar Singh of Laode village in Moga district for kidnapping Sukhdev Singh, a pharmacy-cum-money-exchange shop owner at Main Bazar in Dhamarmkot sub-division in Moga district. Police action was completed within two hours of the hostage drama that started around 640am on Wednesday. They accused used Sukhdev’s own car to kidnap him, telling him that a woman, Lovely, he had an affair with, had given then a Rs 20 lakh contract to kill him, of which Rs 1 lakh had already been paid to them. SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said, “They kept going around in the car for two hours within the district and kept on threatening the victim. The victim was asked to call his shop-helper from his phone to keep the shop open and tell him he would get a little late. During all this time, the police party got to know the whereabouts of the location of the victim and nabbed the accused The victim was rescued unhurt. The accused are being interrogated,” he added. Police have recovered a countrymade .32-bore pistol from the possession of the accused and have also recovered Rs 4.2 lakh cash, gold ornaments, foreign currency and licenced revolver of the victim, snatched during kidnapping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-kidnappers-held-after-2-hr-car-hostage-drama-in-moga/story-0djYDtFs6Vk3SaHPUHNQrI.html
22-07-2020||City||Jalandhar rural devp dept to clear encroachment from prime land worth Rs 20 cr||The rural development and panchayat department has started the process of taking possession of a prime land on Jalandhar cantonment to Khajoorla road, worth of Rs 20 crore, in Jalandhar on Wednesday.Nearly four acre of the land falls on roadside under three villages in district including Paragpur, Nangal and Kot Kalan.Acting on directions of the department, officials along with revenue officers conducted demarcation of the land on Wednesday.Deputy chief executive officer of zila parishad, Dharampal Sidhu, said that they have conducted demarcation of the land on instructions of the financial commissioner of the rural development department. It has been prime land of the department which was encroached upon.“As the demarcation has concluded, we will now start the legal procedure of removing encroachment from the land,” added Sidhu. He said that it will be financially beneficial to the Punjab government and will increase the income of the zila parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-rural-devp-dept-to-clear-encroachment-from-prime-land-worth-rs-20-cr/story-4Rwk6aW2X4Nj8n5Z2s8oOJ.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||SAD condemns CM, DGP for booking Sikh youth on ‘frivolous charges’||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday condemned Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh and state DGP Dinkar Gupta for booking Sikh youth for heinous crimes on “frivolous charges” and asked them not to indulge in such “human rights violations”.In a statement, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said, “There are reports of the Congress government targeting Sikh youth, many of whom are minors, simply for seeing some pages on the social media. Frivolous charges are being slapped on them and they were being dubbed as anti-nationals.”Majithia said that in a recent case at his constituency, a 16-year-old boy, Jaspreet Singh, was arrested and kept in Patiala jail for 14 days on charges of being linked with subversive activities.“Sikh youth, who are not even old enough to drive a car, are being booked for terrorist acts. Such barbaric behaviour by the State will scar the psyche of impressionable minds and is dangerous for maintenance of peace and communal harmony in Punjab,” he added.He said that the Congress government should be circumvent before taking action against youth and “should not charge youth with having committed subversive activities for simple misdemeanours.”The SAD leader said, “The real problem is the mindset of people at the top, particularly state police chief Dinkar Gupta who had been handpicked by the CM. Gupta had revealed his mindset when he had given a statement while referring to the abode of the first Guru at Kartarpur Sahib by saying ‘Kartarpur offers a potential that you send somebody in the morning as an ordinary chap and by evening he comes back as trained terrorist’.”He said it was due to this mindset that Sikh youth are being targeted in the garb of Referendum 2020. Majithia said Punjabis are a patriotic community and there is no support whatsoever for the Referendum 2020. He said that Punjabis had rejected the divisive agenda earlier as well.He added that the party will fight all cases in which Sikh youth are framed in subversive activities on merit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-condemns-cm-dgp-for-booking-sikh-youth-on-frivolous-charges/story-4bx2AsaUeFrtqcYnIn1fIK.html
22-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports highest one-day spike of 10,576 Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra reported its highest single-day spike of 10,576 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, which pushed its overall tally to 3,37,607, the state health department said.The state’s death toll due to the virus went up by 280 and reached 12,556, it said.A total of 5,552 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the number of such people in the state to 1,87,769, the department said in its statement.There are 1,37,282 active cases in the state at present.So far, 16,87,213people have been tested for Covid-19 across Maharashtra, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-highest-one-day-spike-of-10-576-covid-19-cases/story-2oJex2CGpy1uvufVNjQeZI.html
22-07-2020||City||Mid Day Meal cooks cry out for salaries||Sangrur Over 43,000 Mid Day Meal cook-cum-helpers in the state are struggling to make ends meet since the lockdown due to the covid-19 pandemic. They have not been paid their pay, which is Rs 1,700 per month and are unsure about July’s money coming through. Schools again being closed only add to their woes. They also claim that the government has failed to honour a promise made to them to hike their salary at Rs 3,000 a month. Kamaljit Kaur, a MDM cook from Hoshiarpur district, said, “My husband is a labourer, who has been bed-ridden. My salary is my only sustenance.” Bimla Rani, president, Mid-Day Meal Workers Union Punjab, said, “The government gave priority to widows for the job of cooks, but we do face problems. It is injustice that the government pays us for 10 months. Indeed, the Congress government is not paying heed towards our financial problems.” “State education minister Vijay Inder Singla had assured us on December 14, 2019, that we will get Rs 3,000 salary per month. Nothing, however, happened,” said Harjinder Kaur, state president, Democratic Mid-day Meal Cook Front.State School education minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “The Centre contributes 60% share of the salary of these workers. We are regularly in touch with the centre. We were promised that the funds will be transferred within a month. We hope to get the Centre’s share next week. The salaries will be deposited then.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mid-day-meal-cooks-cry-out-for-salaries/story-eSx1AK4TdUfdS7NeVqZuTP.html
22-07-2020||City||Vacate unsafe buildings or be liable for mishaps, Ludhiana MC chief orders dwellers||As unsafe buildings and their deteriorating condition in monsoon continue to pose danger to the residents, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has issued a public notice asking the dwellers to vacate or demolish the structures on their own.The public notice states that the owner would be responsible for any accidents caused or lives lost if such a building collapses.As per information, a survey of unsafe buildings was conducted by the MC in 2019 and 102 unsafe buildings were found in the city. Out of these, 53 are situated in zone A, 21 in zone B, 18 in zone C and 10 in zone D.A civic official requesting anonymity said many cases of unsafe buildings are sub-judice as owners and the tenants are at loggerheads over vacating the same. Due to this, the MC has not been able to demolish such structures. Despite repeated notices served by the MC, no tenant or owner has vacated the buildings, the official said. A 70-year-old man, Gurcharan Singh, had died in 2015 after a part of an unsafe building collapsed in Thapran Mohalla.Tribhuvan Thapar, a resident of Naughara Mohalla, said, “Rather than waiting for the owner to bring down the building, the MC should take matters in its own hands and raze such structures. Fatal accidents can happen at any time, especially in monsoon, as most of these buildings are on the verge of collapsing.”The MC chief said, “Notices have been issued to the owners under Section 273 of Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, asking them to vacate or demolish the buildings. Owners would be held responsible if any tragedy or fatality is reported at such sites.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vacate-unsafe-buildings-or-be-liable-for-mishaps-ludhiana-mc-chief-orders-dwellers/story-i81Bor7hZubBOsm0zGLwjO.html
22-07-2020||City||Punjabi University gets special state govt grant of Rs 20 crore||Patiala Taking serious note of poor fiscal situation of Punjabi University, Patiala, the Punjab government sanctioned a special grant of Rs 20 crore to it on Wednesday. As per budgetary proposals for this fiscal, the varsity expects an income of ₹380 crore, with expenditure at ₹676 crore, leaving a massive ₹296-crore deficit. The university also has an overdraft of ₹140 crore, which is expected to touch ₹150 crore by the end of the year.Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal chaired the meeting of senior functionaries of finance and higher education departments and varsity vice-chancellor Prof BS Ghuman at Chandigarh to discussed the finances of the varsity. Prof Ghuman apprised the minister about the financial crisis at the varsity and demanded an immediate financial relief package to pay monthly salaries and pensions to its employees.“Considering the varsity demand, the finance minister has decided to provide an immediate special grant of Rs 20 crore to the university. The finance department, however, has also directed the varsity to control its expenditure and adopt immediate austerity measures,” said Rahul Bhandari, secretary higher education.Manpreet also directed the university to take assistance of former IAS officer Manjit Singh Narang, who has been appointed as honourary advisor to vice-chancellor, to improve its financial condition. Another meeting will be held in the first week of August in which the vice-chancellor has been instructed to come up with a self-explanatory roadmap to increase income of the university from its own resources rather than banking upon state government funds to meet its committed expenditure.The varsity has also been asked to submit a report on glaring financial irregularities as mentioned by the Punjab accountant general in its report to the higher education department on June 30.“The vice-chancellor has been asked to hold a syndicate meeting at the earliest to take decisions on pending administrative matters, including rationalisation of teaching and non-teaching employees and other academic issues,” the secretary said.In 2019, in an attempt to bail the varsity out from the financial crunch, the state government had increased the annual grant of the university from Rs 88 crore to Rs 93.4 crore. Even in this year’s annual budget, the state finance minister had announced a 6% increase in the annual grant for the varsity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjabi-university-gets-special-state-govt-grant-of-rs-20-crore/story-IrHPoeWrj64ONxhVUJpH2O.html
22-07-2020||City||Talegaon rose trader shot, in hospital; search on for mobike-borne assailants||PUNE: A rose trader was shot at by two unidentified men on Wednesday morning. The injured has been identified as Milind Madhukar Manerikar (50), a resident of Talegaon Dabhade, Maval, Pune.One bullet grazed his neck and three bullets entered his abdomen, according to police.“We have two suspects as of now. Prime facie the reason seems to be financial. The injured man owed money to some people. We are yet to gather details as he is unconscious,” said Sandip Patil, superintendent, Pune rural police.The incident happened at 9:30am on Wednesday as Manerikar was travelling in a black Mahindra XUV with his partner, according to police.“We do have footage from CCCTV nearby, but due to the speed, it is difficult to identify the assailants as only an outline is visible. One person was on the bike while the pillion shot the man. There is an eye-witness too. We are exploring the financial angle, but it is too soon to draw any conclusions,” said Navneet Kanwat, sub-divisional police officer of Lonavla division.The partner who was travelling with him in the car was identified as Chetan Vijay Nimkar (51) a resident of Bhangarwadi, Lonavala. The two were heading towards their polyhouse in Vahangaon, Vadgaon Maval, Pune. The injured man underwent surgery at Pawana Hospital in Somatane phata where he was rushed to after the incident. Police are on a lookout for the two accused.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with section 3(25) of Arms Act has been registered at the Vadgaon Maval police station of Pune rural police. Police inspector Suresh Nimbalkar of Vadgaon Maval police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/talegaon-rose-trader-shot-in-hospital-search-on-for-mobike-borne-assailants/story-O25CVwRudTc86Ystadf0zI.html
22-07-2020||City||31-yr-old woman shot dead in Patiala||Patiala A 31-year-old was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Patiala’s Tripari area late on Tuesday. The victim, Preeti Kaur, was declared brought dead at Government Rajindra Hospital with a bullet injury on her back.Tripari SHO Harjinder Singh Dhillon said the incident happened around 11pm on Tuesday when the unidentified assailants attacked her house, where she stayed with her parents and brother. “The family bolted doors from inside. The assailants fired a bullet through the door, which hit Preeti and she collapsed on the spot,” he said. On the complaint of victim’s brother, a case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of IPC against unidentified motorcycle-borne youths who managed to flee, the SHO said.Police are scanning CCTV camera footages gathered from nearby areas. “The motive behind the crime is yet to be ascertained,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/31-yr-old-woman-shot-dead-in-patiala/story-AHTDxX9538wh5CVBpKVl2M.html
22-07-2020||City||4-foot-long monitor lizard rescued from a car in Vasai||A 4-foot-long adult monitor lizard was rescued from the bonnet of a car in Vasai on Tuesday evening. The lizard, to escape from crows, kites and other predatory birds, entered the Green Valley housing society at Babhola in Vasai and slithered into the engine area of a car owned by a resident, Manish Kanahar. Another resident of the society saw the reptile sliding inside Kanahar’s car and informed him.Dilip Palav, chief fire officer of Vasai civic fire brigade along with 7 personnel reached the spot and rescued the monitor lizard. “We slowly opened the bonnet. It was difficult for us to pull out the reptile as its limbs were attached to the engine parts,” said Palav. “After three hours of struggle, we managed to rescue the reptile and handed it over to the forest department in Vasai. The reptile was released in the Tungareshwar Bird Sanctuary area on Wednesday, said Palav.“However, We had to remove the bonnet, front headlight, bumper, radiator and some other parts of the engine, to rescue the lizard,” said Palav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-foot-long-monitor-lizard-rescued-from-a-car-in-vasai/story-ohWL7uzev04IKnSMcVVLZJ.html
22-07-2020||City||Fake e-ticket nexus busted by railway staff in Ludhiana||The railway authorities have unearthed a fake online ticket nexus being run in the city to dupe passengers boarding trains from the Ludhiana station.Travel agent Ravi alias Bablu of Kirpal Nagar has been arrested in this regard. The police are scanning his computer and mobile phones to trace other members of the nexus.The fraud came to light on Tuesday when labourer Pramod Yadav of Harkrishan Vihar Colony, along with his family, reached the Ludhiana railway station to board Shaheed Express train for Khalilabad in Uttar Pradesh. He had booked an e-ticket through the accused.Before boarding, when Pramod showed the text message of his confirmed tickets for four seats in the train, the ticket checking staff found that there was no such booking as per the seat chart.On verifying the PNR of Pramod’s train, it was found to be of Sachkhand Express and six people had already travelled on the said tickets on July 17. Following this, the railway staff did not allow the labourer to travel on the fake e-ticket. They summoned the ticket agent at the railway station and handed him over to the police.The railway staff said they only scan tickets of passengers at the station during their entry at the platform as there are gag orders to not check tickets in running trains, owing to the pandemic.Sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused not only issued a fake e-ticket to the labourer but also overcharged him. He had charged ₹3,200 for four confirmed tickets, while the fare from Ludhiana to Khalilabad for four persons is ₹1,080.A case under sections 420, 465, 467, 471, and 474 of IPC has been registered against the accused. The police are trying to trace other suspects involved in the crime, the SI added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-e-ticket-nexus-busted-by-railway-staff-in-ludhiana/story-aE3nO4XN0x7i8UpYUZwTjI.html
22-07-2020||City||Withdrawal of groundwater: Haryana pollution control board recommends action against 7 industrial units||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) in a report submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has mentioned seven industrial units in Panipat that were drawing groundwater without permission and others that were violating the environmental norms.The matter came to light after Ramesh Kumar of Panipat’s Khandra village in February this year approached the NGT alleging pollution by dyeing industries in Assan and nearby villages. After hearing the complaint, the NGT had directed the HSPCB to take appropriate action and furnish a factual and action taken report in this regard.As per the report submitted to the NGT, the HSPCB teams have recommended action against seven industrial units for drawing water without any permission and also imposed an interim environmental compensation of ₹4 lakh to ₹15 lakh.The teams have also found several other violations as there was no provision of reverse pumping in many industries. The HSPCB has made it clear that the prosecution action will be initiated against non-complying units. The pollution control board has also written to the Central Ground Water Authority for environmental compensation for withdrawal of ground water without any permission.Three industrial units were found shut and they have been told to cooperate for the inspection later. “We conduct regular inspections as per the guidelines and action is also being taken against the erring unit,” said S Narayanan, member secretary, HSPCB.On asked why the action was taken only after the NGT’s intervention , Narayanan said, “The HSPCB teams conduct the inspections in routine and action is taken against them as per the law. In this case, we have submitted the factual report to the NGT. We will also take action against these units.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/withdrawal-of-groundwater-haryana-pollution-control-board-recommends-action-against-7-industrial-units/story-q0v3YeGrBx8Y7opPIAlShJ.html
22-07-2020||City||Now, vending machine for masks, santisers at Chandigarh railway station||The Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDCL) has installed an automatic vending machine (AVM) for masks and sanitisers at the Chandigarh railway station. It has been set up on Platform Number 1 and has been named “Covid-19 precaution kiosk”. As per an official release, it is the first-of-its-kind in the Northern Railway zone. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-vending-machine-for-masks-santisers-at-chandigarh-railway-station/story-4ZhAyaJATnEt2fzYucC6EM.html
22-07-2020||City||Booked for issuing back-dated licences, tainted PCS officer asked to look Jalandhar RTA office||Jalandhar Tainted PCS officer Hardeep Singh, who is facing a case of cheating and other sections registered against him for allegedly issuing driving licences in back-date during his tenure as Faridkot Regional Transport Authority (RTA) in February this year has been asked to look the work of RTA, Jalandhar. Hardeep is posted as assistant commissioner (General) in Jalandhar and is out on bail in the cheating case. RTA Jalandhar secretary Barjinder Singh is under home isolation, after testing positive for covid-19 and is likely to join back after 10 days. Officialdom seemed evasive on who gave Hardeep the charge. Jalandhar deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said he had not given additional charge of RTA to Hardeep Singh, as the matter didn’t fall under his purview, but he (Hardeep) was asked to supervise the work as previously he had worked as the RTA and launched the work of the office. State transport commissioner Amarpal Singh said, “Please talk to the deputy commissioner, as he has given the charge (to Hardeep Singh) at his level only.” Sangrur DSP (investigation) Mohit Aggarwal who is supervising the case of the back-dated licences said a district and sessions court had granted bail to Hardeep. “He, however, remains an accused. We will file the charge-sheet in the case soon.”Hardeep and his assistant transport officer Gurnam Singh and several others have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) at Longowal police station, Sangrur. Hardeep Singh didn’t respond to repeated calls from HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/booked-for-issuing-back-dated-licences-tainted-pcs-officer-asked-to-look-jalandhar-rta-office/story-cli8PUx3UqtfB8EAGcZYTL.html
22-07-2020||City||INLD launches membership drive to reconnect with party workers||The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) has started a membership drive to reconnect with party workers, who were disenchanted and inactive for some reason, an official spokesperson said.In this membership campaign which was launched on Wednesday, senior INLD leader and MLA Abhay Singh Chautala will take charge of 10 districts. The party’s state president Nafe Singh Rathi and national vice-president Prakash Bharti will take charge of six districts each.The spokesperson said INLD is the party of workers and activists are the backbone of the outfit. “Recently, some very ambitious people worked to disintegrate the party’s ideology. The reality of those people is now exposed to the public,” the spokesperson said.“These people misled the party workers by showing inducement and false dreams,” he added.Former Leader of Opposition and INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala will go to Mewat, Faridabad, Palwal, Gurugram, Bhiwani, Kaithal, Jind, Hisar, Fatehabad and Sirsa. Nafe Singh Rathi will take charge of Sonipat, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari, Mahendragarh and Dadri. Prakash Bharti will go to Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Panipat and Karnal districts to boost the morale of the party workers and convince people to join the party membership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inld-launches-membership-drive-to-reconnect-with-party-workers/story-wVcGIaH00RCSYFRm7T5iBP.html
22-07-2020||City||Crop diversification drive: Haryana agriculture department sets up 41 demo plots||Haryana agriculture and farmers’ welfare department has established 41 demonstration plots over 41 acre in eight blocks targeted under the ‘Mera Pani – Meri Virasat’ scheme, which is aimed at protecting depleting groundwater table in the state through crop diversification.Sanjeev Kaushal, additional chief secretary, agriculture and farmers’ welfare department, said 11 demonstration plots covering two different varieties of maize have been established in Guhla and Siwan.Kaushal said similarly, demonstration plots showcasing two varieties of cotton have been established in Sirsa, three varieties of maize in five such plots in Ratia. In Pipli, Shahabad, Babain and Ismailabad, seven varieties of maize are being cultivated in 20 demonstration plots.“The demonstration plots, established over one acre land each are helping the farmers learn about best agriculture practices for getting good yield for their crop. The farmers are provided information about more efficient methods of irrigation to help them increase their livelihood and also reduce pressure on the groundwater table,” he added.More than one lakh farmers have so far enrolled under the ‘Mera Pani – Meri Virasat’ scheme. All diversified crops such as maize, bajra and pulses will be procured by the government at minimum support price (MSP). Farmers in the rest of the state will also be eligible for availing benefits under this scheme, if they replace their paddy area with alternate crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crop-diversification-drive-haryana-agriculture-department-sets-up-41-demo-plots/story-2Wtvit79lcWRBhnZWMKYNJ.html
22-07-2020||City||Negative marking in Haryana civil services preliminary exams||The state government has amended the Haryana Civil Services (Executive Branch) Rules, 2008 and now for each wrong answer, one fourth (0.25) mark will be deducted, an official spokesperson said on Wednesday.The preliminary examination of Haryana Civil Services (executive branch) will have two papers of 100 marks each. While questions related to general studies (existing and notified syllabus) will be asked in Paper-1, in the Paper-II (civil services aptitude test) the candidates will have to secure 33% marks to qualify the examination.The civil services aptitude test will have comprehension, inter-personal skills, communication skills, logical reasoning, analytical ability, decision making and problem-solving, general mental ability and basic numeracy (numbers and their relations, order of magnitude, etc-Class 10 level), data interpretation (charts, graphs, tables, data sufficiency, etc Class 10 level).Both the question papers will be objective (multiple choice questions) and each paper will be of two hours duration.The spokesperson said the result of preliminary examination will be based only on the marks obtained in Paper-1, provided that the candidate has secured 33% marks in the Civil Services Aptitude Test (Paper-II).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/negative-marking-in-haryana-civil-services-preliminary-exams/story-UrKqld0rfMp5Qd1C8MdPqO.html
22-07-2020||City||Constitutional right to raise voice against govt’s anti-people decisions: Cong to HP govt||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Rathore on Wednesday accused chief minster Jai Ram Thakur of trying to suppress the opposition and said it is everybody’s constitutional right to protest and raise voice against anti-people decisions of the government in a democracy.He said the Congress will oppose every authoritarian decision of the state government.In a statement issued here, Rathore also hit out at the CM over his statement regarding the decision of “hiking the bus fare by 25% with a heavy heart”. Rathore said the CM’s statement is a lie and if he was concerned about the people he would not have taken any such decision which will have a negative impact on the lives of people. “Truth is that the state government has not provided any financial relief to the people during the pandemic. The government and its leaders are misleading people with their statements,” he said.Rathore said the state government has increased financial burden of the people by hiking the bus fare and electricity charges. “They are using government treasury for their own pleasure and comfort,” he added.He said the state government has completely failed in preventing the spread of Covid-19.Accusing the BJP of being busy in political gains, he said the Congress has provided every possible help to people during the pandemic and will continue to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/constitutional-right-to-raise-voice-against-govt-s-anti-people-decisions-cong-to-hp-govt/story-UDOeHiN2S0AB3CpDSVmYII.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University adopts Amazon Web Services Educate curricula||Chitkara University has adopted Amazon Web Services (AWS) Educate cloud computing curricula in BE CSE specialisation in cloud computing and virtualisation. Chitkara University is incorporating the AWS Educate curricula into the mainstream college syllabus with the aim to help develop the next generation of cloud professionals. Chitkara University has prepared the curriculum under the guidance of AWS Educate to make it focused on cloud computing and ‘industry aligned’.The proposed specialisation will prepare students to understand the emerging technologies of cloud computing and virtualisation, their principles, modelling, analysis, design, deployment, and industry-oriented applications. All major solution architectures and enabling technologies will be covered under this program.Pro-chancellor Dr Madhu Chitkara says, “Cloud computing is shifting the paradigms of the IT industry, and is the future. Businesses need to focus on core competencies instead of managing the complexity of data centres. More businesses are adopting cloud computing for day-to-day management of their IT infrastructure. To fulfil the skills needed for the future, we have to start today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-adopts-amazon-web-services-educate-curricula/story-MzA8uZlySrRKjEhhblReAJ.html
22-07-2020||City||Showers continue in Himachal, temperature drops by six degrees||Maximum and minimum temperatures decreased by six degrees in Himachal Pradesh as light to moderate rain continued to lash parts of the state on Wednesday. Minimum temperature in the state was two to three degrees below normal while maximum temperature was six to seven degrees below normal.Manali received 32mm rain which was highest in the state followed by 25mm in Kullu district’s Tinder village. Dalhousie recorded 13mm rain, Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district 10mm, Nahan 9mm, Kalpa in Kinnaur district 8.2mm, Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district 6mm while Shimla, Bilaspur and Kufri received 3mm rain each.State MeT director Manmohan Singh said rainfall is likely to continue throughout the state till July 28. Yellow warnings have been issued in middle hills for July 24, 25 and 26 resulting in heavy rainfall followed by thunderstorms and lightning at isolated places.Maximum temperature in Shimla was recorded at 18.7°C and maximun temperature was 12.9°C in Kufri. Prominent hill stations including Manali recorded 17°C maximum temperature while Dalhousie in Chamba district recorded 16.6°C. Maximum temperatures in Dharamshala was 25.2°C, Solan 30°C, Bilaspur 25°C, Hamirpur 24.8°C and Nahan in Sirmaur district was 24°C.Kalpa recorded 14.5°C maximum temperature.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest at 8.5°C while Una was the hottest place in the state at 31°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/showers-continue-in-himachal-temperature-drops-by-six-degrees/story-yuouoexU1UyvxCkuQmD5iL.html
22-07-2020||City||MHRD asks Punjab for report on not disbursing mid day meal cooking cost||Patiala The Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has sought an action taken report from the Punjab education department over non-distribution of cooking cost to school children under Mid Day Meal (MDM) scheme, during closure of schools due to the covid-19 lockdown and summer vacation.The state education department has fixed cooking cost as Rs 4.97 per child per meal for primary classes and Rs 7.45 per child per meal for upper primary classes. The MHRD has given its approval to the state government to cover around 8.3 lakh children in primary level and around 5.72 lakh children in upper primary level under the MDM scheme during 2020-21.The MHRD says that despite repeated direction, the state education department did not distribute cooking cost or its equivalent pulses and oil to children. The state has provided only foodgrain to children; the MHRD directive to all state and UTs was to provide MDM or food security allowanceIn its communication to the state education department, the MHRD has said, “Punjab has provided only foodgrain to children during closure of schools due to covid-19.”Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “We have distributed pulses and foodgrain to students during the lockdown period and closure of schools. Only those students, who do not have bank accounts in working condition, remain deprived of the cooking cost. We have written a letter to the MHRD on July 6 to seek permission to give cash to students, who do not have bank accounts. We have also asked students to open bank accounts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mhrd-asks-punjab-for-report-on-not-disbursing-mid-day-meal-cooking-cost/story-IT4DAuX1fHa4qAULI8V32J.html
22-07-2020||Pune||Pune records 3mm less rainfall than normal||Pune has received 3mm less rain than normal rainfall until Tuesday. The actual rainfall occurred during this season in Pune is 263.2mm while normal rainfall is 266.2 mm.The 3mm deficit in the rain has occurred because the city has not received heavy rain since the past one month.“The Pune district ghat areas rainfall, which actually contribute to dams are at frequent intervals getting heavy to very heavy spell of rain. In the coming days too, Pune district, its ghat and city will get a good amount of rain,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of India Meteorological Department, Pune.On Tuesday, until 5:30pm, the city and Lohegaon did not receive any rain. The maximum temperature was reported to be 32.6 degree Celsius and minimum temperature were 23.0 degree Celsius.“Our prediction is light rain will continue in the city, until Wednesday while moderate rain is expected from July 23-25. Ghat areas will be receiving heavy rain from July 23-25,” added Kashyapi.However, Maharashtra has received 18 per cent more rainfall than normal.“Till date, the state has received 18 per cent more rainfall than normal,” said Kashyapi.Except for Nandurbar, Gondia and Akola districts, all other districts have received more than normal rainfall.Weather forecast by IMDJuly 22: Light to moderate rain, thundery activityJuly 23: Moderate rain very likelyJuly 24: Moderate rain very likelyJuly 25: Moderate rain very likelyJuly 26: Light to moderate rain very likely||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-records-3mm-less-rainfall-than-normal/story-6wVZt9Z4TSTDo9Oujf2OgI.html
22-07-2020||Pune||Covid-19 positive woman who went to UAE booked in Pune||A case has been registered at the Hinjewadi police station against the 30-year-old woman who travelled to Dubai while allegedly being under home quarantine.A complaint has been lodged by Dr Amit Abasaheb Mane (33), a resident of Railway Quarters in Pune.The woman had allegedly tested positive for Covid-19 on July 11 by a test conducted at the Aditya Birla hospital. She was advised to be in home quarantine for 14 days as she was asymptomatic.The complainant doctor received a text message from her on July 17 saying that she had reached Sharjah International Airport in Dubai and had tested negative after a test conducted at the airport.A case was registered under Sections 188, 269, 270 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 2 and 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act has been registered at the Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-positive-woman-who-went-to-uae-booked-in-pune/story-0VuHgd5RwKV1LGnCZNgJWN.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||305 warders to be recruited directly for jails through Punjab Police Recruitment Board||Chandigarh: The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday okayed the direct recruitment to fill 305 posts of warder through the Punjab Police Recruitment Board by taking these posts out of the purview of Subordinate Services Selection Board.According to a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office, this decision would be instrumental in improving the prison management by providing adequate manpower in jails.The entire process of recruitment would be completed within four months.At present, Punjab’s jails have more than 24,000 convicts and undertrials. However, there is a shortage of requisite staff for supervising them. The paucity is being felt more acutely since the Nabha jailbreak of November 27, 2016, and needs to be beefed up to check recurrence of such incidents.The high-powered committee constituted to probe the Nabha jailbreak had also identified shortage of staff in the jails as a major cause of the incident.Meanwhile, the cabinet, chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, also approved the annual administrative report of the home affairs and justice department for 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/305-warders-to-be-recruited-directly-for-jails-through-punjab-police-recruitment-board/story-EpO2FbmqXwtQui9dvZycNN.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh Police proposes creating office of DIG, intelligence, in Dharamshala||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh Police have proposed the creation of the office of deputy inspector general of police (DIG), intelligence, in the northern police range of Dharamshala in view of the growing sensitivity of the situation in Una, Kangra and Chamba districts bordering Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir.“The matter is before the home department. There is huge merit in posting a DIG, intelligence and security, to cover the districts of Una, Kangra, Chamba, Hamirpur and Bilaspur. Besides intelligence, the DIG will oversee ways to control social crimes, cyber crime, economic offences, organised crimes such as liquor and narcotics smuggling and human trafficking, and VIP security, including that of Tibetan Buddhist leader the Dalai Lama,” state director general of police Sanjay Kundu said on Wednesday.These districts are densely populated and susceptible to crime, while the police headquarters is based in the state capital of Shimla, which has three posts of inspector general of police.“The police are heavily based in Shimla while vast areas of the state are uncovered,” says the police proposal.Chamba, Una and Kangra are most affected due to inter-state smuggling of narcotics, illegal mining besides border terrorism. Chamba shares a porous border with Doda, Kathua and Kishtwar districts of the Jammu region.Besides security and intelligence inputs are provided by the state crime investigation department (CID) to the international cricket stadium in Dharamshala.“Effective and regular supervision of the security set-up of the Dalai Lama is vital and can be ensured with the posting of one regular senior officer,” the proposal said.Dharamshala, which is the second capital of the state, is not only politically sensitive with 15 assembly segments, it has also emerged as an important tourist centre.Last year, the government organised a three-day international investors’ meet in Dharamshala that was presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-pradesh-police-proposes-creating-office-of-dig-intelligence-in-dharamshala/story-QBpT338YvDeVKAutiqqtkK.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||BJP appoints Shimla Lok Sabha MP Suresh Kashyap as new Himachal Pradesh unit chief||Shimla/New Delhi: The Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday appointed Suresh Kumar Kashyap, the Lok Sabha MP from Shimla, as its Himachal Pradesh unit president, a statement said.Kashyap is an ex-serviceman and has been elected as an MLA twice on the party ticket earlier.He replaces Rajeev Bindal, who resigned in May within five months of his appointment after his name had cropped up in police investigation in a corruption case involving the purchase of medical equipment, including PPE kits. In his one-page resignation sent to JP Nadda, Bindal had said, “Fingers are being raised on the BJP after the arrest of former director, health services, (Dr Ajay Gupta) and being the president of the party, I feel that the matter should be investigated properly without any pressure and I am submitting my resignation keeping in view the high moral values.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-appoints-shimla-lok-sabha-mp-suresh-kashyap-as-new-himachal-pradesh-unit-chief/story-iMSJMvSJMxckjTOkiyvd4H.html
22-07-2020||Education||Punjab govt signs MoU with IIT Ropar for skill development||The Punjab government has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar, in the area of skill development.According to a government statement, the MoU provides for the IIT’s technical education department to become an academic mentor for the state’s engineering colleges at Gurdaspur and Ferozepur, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Skill Institute at Chamkaur Sahib, five government polytechnics and 10 government ITIs.The institute will also help the state in developing a model ITI and a model polytechnic. Others would be modelled on similar lines subsequently, it said.IIT-Ropar Director S K Das suggested that the state should take the initiative of setting up a defence manufacturing corridor with the institute’s support. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said he will take up the issue with the Centre.He urged the IIT to help the state in the manufacture of small devices for controlling water wastage in irrigation. In response, Das assured the chief minister of the institute’s full support.Singh directed Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to resolve the IIT’s land acquisition-related issues, while urging the institute to develop its campus as a green campus, with extensive landscaping and afforestation. He also directed the chief secretary to constitute a committee to look into the IIT director’s submission that private universities and colleges in the state are increasing seats for engineering courses without any checks and balances.In a separate video conference, Indian Institute of Management, Amritsar, extended support to the state government in promoting skill development. IIM Director Ramamoorthy Nagarajan said the institution would be organising various short-term courses for officers, including excise, business management, taxation and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/punjab-govt-signs-mou-with-iit-ropar-for-skill-development/story-ADx9uZuqCIX5vfh2TJn8wI.html
22-07-2020||Education||IIM -Lucknow new session for PGP first year batch from August 3||Delayed by over a month because of Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, the new academic session for the first year post graduate program (PGP) batch 2020-22 at Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow, (IIM-L) will now begin from August 3.“Our new session will start from August 3. We will start with online classes as because of pandemic students cannot be called to the campus. We are trying tofine-tune many things to ensure proper teaching without disruption,” said IIM-L director professor Archana Shukla.“Online is the new normal today. PGP final year classes have already started from second week of July. We are all looking forward to welcoming the first year PGP students online early next month,” she added.When asked how IIM-L will make for loss of teaching hours, prof Shukla said, “There are many ways of doing this. We may have to cut down in our term break, vacations and other holidays etc. If the need be, summer internship may start later. Convocation may have to be delayed a little. We will adjust as our academic session progresses.”She further said, “We will start with the online remedial session for first year. We have to avoid influx of students on campus initially so that social distancing could be followed. We will start normal regular classes when it opens completely as per the government advisory.”On May 23, the premier B-school announced the list of selected candidates who appeared in virtual interview this year. IIM-L PGP first year batch size is of approximately 450 students. This year, the IIM-L revised its admission policy for its postgraduate programmes for academic year 2020-22, IIM-L officials said. “IIM, Lucknow, excluded the writing ability test (WAT) that was of 10 marks from the evaluation components for admission to PGP-ABM/ PGP-SM owing to restrictions imposed by the government to contain Covid-19,” said IIM-L spokesman prof Vikas Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/iim-lucknow-new-session-for-pgp-first-year-batch-from-august-3/story-CicHW8oLk5nfupCpeux6jM.html
22-07-2020||Noida||Journalist Vikram Joshi’s family will get Rs10 lakh ex gratia: Yogi Adityanath||The family of journalist Vikram Joshi, who died on Wednesday after being shot at near his house in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad, will be given an ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh and a job, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced.The 35-year-old journalist was attacked in Vijay Nagar area of the city in front of his two minor daughters by a group of men late on Monday night at Vijay Nagar of the city. Vikram Joshi had sustained a gunshot injury in the head. “The chief minister has announced an ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh for the family of the deceased and a job for his wife,” Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad’s district magistrate, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Joshi, who worked at a local Hindi newspaper, was riding his motorcycle with his two daughters, aged six and 10 years, when the group attacked after cornering him in Mata Colony area around 10.30pm on Monday. The shooting was also captured on a nearby CCTV camera, in which one of his daughters was seen shouting for help as the attackers fled the spot soon after.Hours after Joshi’s death, Uttar Pradesh Police said they have arrested three more accused in the case along with six others, while one is absconding.Ravi Kumar, Akash Nath and Chotu were arrested, they said. Others who have been arrested in connection with the case are Mohammad Shakir, Mohit Kumar, Dalvir Singh, Abhishek Saroj, Abhishek Janwal (Balmiki), and Jogendra. Babu is still on the run, the police said.Earlier in the day, Joshi’s family said that they want justice and the main accused should be arrested else they would not accept his body.The incident occurred on Monday, days after Vikram Joshi had filed a complaint with Vijay Nagar Police Station stating that some men were harassing his niece. According to the police, the group, led by Ravi, fought with Joshi on July 16, as a result of which Ravi’s eye was injured and his jaw broken.“He was hospitalised and discharged on Monday. While in the hospital, he roped in his accomplices to ‘teach Joshi a lesson’. The group cornered Joshi on Monday night and started beating him up in the presence of his daughters. One of the suspects, Chotu, opened fire from close range—Joshi was shot in the head,” said Rakesh Mishra, circle officer (city 1).Police sources had said that after the fight on July 16, the two parties lodged their complaints at the local police post.The station in-charge has been suspended and departmental inquiry initiated after the family of the journalist alleged inaction by the police, officials said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/journalist-vikram-joshi-s-family-will-get-rs10-lakh-ex-gratia-yogi-adityanath/story-Q3RMMu1oi09LQU1ch3jOUO.html
22-07-2020||Lucknow||Army man’s father killed, pregnant wife thrashed over land dispute in UP’s Amethi||An army man’s father was hacked to death and his pregnant wife physically assaulted in Sangrampur area here over a land dispute, police said on Wednesday.Rajendra Mishra (55) was killed with a sharp edged weapon and his pregnant daughter-in-law beaten by Ashok Shukla and his accomplices on Tuesday evening, they said.The victim’s son Surya Prakash is in the Army and posted in Jammu and Kashmir.The incident took place in Thengaha Shukulpur village, police said.Superintendent of police, Khyati Garg said that the body of the victim has been sent for postmortem and a manhunt has been launched to nab Shukla and others involved in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/army-man-s-father-killed-pregnant-wife-thrashed-over-land-dispute-in-up-s-amethi/story-03oyjiwc8qDDkvb3vSZc4M.html
22-07-2020||Kolkata||Bengal to double its Covid-19 testing capacity by next one month: Mamata Banerjee||The West Bengal government is planning to nearly double its daily testing capacity for Covid-19 within the next one month and test around 25,000 samples every day from August 15, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday.States such as Maharashtra and Karnataka are conducting more than 36,000 tests daily on an average. Uttar Pradesh tests more than 43,000 samples every day. On Tuesday, West Bengal tested 13,064 samples in 54 laboratories. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“At present, we are testing around 13,000 samples per day. By August 15 we would try to conduct around 25,000 tests per day,” Banerjee said while addressing a virtual rally.Till July 21, West Bengal has conducted around 7.2 lakh tests. The daily testing rate is 144 per million, which is above the threshold of 140 per million, set by the World Health Organization.“We are going to increase the testing rate further over the next few days as a result of which the number of Covid-19 cases will also rise. There is no need to panic,” said Banerjee.The state had received flak from medical experts, opposition parties and the inter-ministerial central team for its low testing capacity in the initial days of the pandemic. In the first week of April, less than 200 tests were done per day.The state had cited faulty kits and fewer laboratories as one of the reasons. On Tuesday, the state reported 2,261 new Covid-19 cases taking the total number of positive patients to 47,030 till date. The positivity rate is 6.45%.Four states in eastern India, including West Bengal, have shown high case positivity rates despite low levels of testing.In the last 24 hours, 35 Covid-19 patients died in the state taking the toll to 1,182 till date.“At present, the death rate in West Bengal is 2.5%. We are also going to reduce that. Only around 5% of the positive cases are severe,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-to-double-its-covid-19-testing-capacity-by-next-one-month-mamata-banerjee/story-SQLrUgmWiO8xpv8jppiMsJ.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi airport issues fresh Covid-19 guideline, makes 7-day quarantine mandatory for international passengers||The Delhi airport authority has issued latest guidelines for international passengers arriving here. The guidelines were issued on Tuesday.All the passengers with no onward connection have been asked to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine at their own cost, followed by one-week of home quarantine.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe airport authority has also asked the passengers to sign an undertaking that they accept this obligation, which will be retained by the overseas mission/embassy before the booking is confirmed.For those who are planning to stay in Delhi-NCR, according to the guideline, they will have to undergo mandatory health screening - first by airport health officials and then at the Delhi government post.At the first level, the passengers will undergo thermal screening by “discreetly mounted, highly accurate mass screening cameras”.The passengers will be allowed to go to their approved location only after the two levels of screening.The guideline further said that exemptions will be given to only four category of people: Pregnant women, for those who have suffered death in the family, those suffering from serious illness and parents of children below 10 years of age. However, proper documentation is needed in all these cases. It also gave an email address when undertaking should be provided for people belonging to these exempted categories.Since Indian air space was closed in March to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease pandemic, only repatriation or rescue flights for Indians stranded overseas have operated from India (under the Vande Bharat mission). Some foreign airlines operated similar flights to India.“Passengers arriving on an international Vande Bharat Mission flight may only take a connecting domestic flight if it also comes under the Vande Bharat Mission. However, passengers who are planning to board onward domestic flights will have to obtain an authorised exemption certificate, if they are coming through non-Vande Bharat international flights,” the guideline issued by the authority further said.The government has extended the ban on international flights from July 15 to 31. After nearly two months of suspension the domestic flights resumed operations on May 25.India has reported a huge spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last few weeks. On Tuesday, 37,148 cases and 587 deaths were reported which took the countrywide infection tally to 11,55,191.Delhi, meanwhile, recorded 1,349 fresh cases of coronavirus disease on Tuesday, which took its tally to over 1.25 lakh. The death toll from the disease mounted to 3,690. On Monday, the fresh cases count had dipped to 954.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-airport-issues-fresh-covid-19-guideline-makes-7-day-quarantine-mandatory-for-international-passengers/story-qIKj6rk5E1JdT7Z56HhFvM.html
22-07-2020||Patna||Death toll in Assam deluge climbs to 87; flood hits north Bihar||The death toll in the Assam deluge rose to 87, while heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of the Gandak river in Nepal led to flooding in parts of north Bihar on Tuesday.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has positioned 122 teams in 20 states to tackle the flood and heavy rain situation during the ongoing monsoon season. A maximum of 19 teams have been deployed in Bihar, followed by 12 in Assam, a spokesperson of the force said.The death toll in the Assam floods rose to 87 as the situation due to the calamity remained unchanged with 24.19 lakh people affected in 24 districts, a government report said.According to the daily flood report of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), one person died at Raha in Nagaon district and another at Morigaon town. Twenty-six others have died due to landslides triggered by the rains and floods, it said.The affected districts are Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Biswanath, Darrang, Baksa, Nalbari, Barpeta, Chirang, Bongaigaon, Kokrajhar, Dhubri, South Salmara, Goalpara, Kamrup, Kamrup Metropolitan, Morigaon, Nagaon, Golaghat, Jorhat, Majuli, Sivasagar, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia and Cachar.Four children and a woman died in floods in Meghalaya’s West Garo Hills district and 1.52 lakh people have been affected, Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma said and announced Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia to the next of kin of the deceased.Heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of the Gandak river in Nepal has led to the discharge of excess water from the Valmikinagar barrage in West Champaran district, flooding parts of north Bihar.Several rivers except the Ganges continued to flow above the danger mark and the flood waters have hit nearly four lakh people in eight districts, a disaster management department bulletin said.Meanwhile, at least 10 people died due to lightning strikes in four districts of the state, an official said.Two persons were killed in lightning strikes in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, officials said.A fresh spell of heavy rains lashed the national capital, inundating the low-lying areas and affecting traffic movement in parts of the city.Residents shared pictures and videos of rainwater gushing into their houses and vehicles navigating waterlogged roads on social media platforms.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the major weather stations in Delhi, including Safdarjung and Lodhi Road, recorded around 20 mm rainfall.The convergence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal and southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea is likely to continue over northwest India for another two-three days, weather experts said.The monsoon trough is also running through the region and these two factors led to moderate to heavy rains in Delhi-NCR, they said.On Sunday, at least four people died as heavy rains lashed the city.Widespread rains lashed Haryana and many parts of neighbouring Punjab, causing the maximum temperatures to drop sharply, the IMD said.It said more rain or thundershowers are likely at a few places in the two states over the next two days.Light to moderate rain accompanied with thunder occurred at most places in Uttar Pradesh with Maharajganj recording a maximum of 12 cm rainfall, the meteorological office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/death-toll-in-assam-deluge-climbs-to-87-flood-hits-north-bihar/story-2q1kjEfS94tFjVhJLcYfTO.html
22-07-2020||Noida||Journalist Vikram Joshi, shot at in UP’s Ghaziabad, dies||Journalist Vikram Joshi, who was shot at by unknown miscreants near his residence in Vijay Nagar, Ghaziabad on July 20, breathed his last at a hospital, doctors said on Wednesday.The doctor monitoring Joshi said that the veins in the journalists’ head had got badly damaged due to the bullet injury.Meanwhile, the Station in-charge has been suspended and departmental inquiry initiated after the family of the journalist alleged inaction by the police.A total of nine accused have been arrested in the matter and efforts to nab another accused are underway.The incident occurred on Monday, days after Vikram Joshi had filed a complaint with Vijay Nagar Police Station stating that some men were harassing his niece. Joshi has suffered a bullet injury on his head.Joshi’s brother, Aniket Joshi had said, “A few men were harassing his niece a few days ago and my brother had opposed it and also filed a police complaint. A case was also registered following which he was shot at by those miscreants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/journalist-vikram-joshi-shot-at-in-up-s-ghaziabad-dies/story-MxPWLbF9guTeBuT6eNQ0RI.html
22-07-2020||Mumbai||Serum Institute to begin trials of Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate by Aug-end||Serum Institute of India on Tuesday said it will be starting trials of the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca by the end of August on up to 5,000 Indian volunteers after getting the necessary nods, and launch the vaccine by June next year if all goes well.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The Pune-based company’s chief executive Adar Poonawalla said the company, which is the largest vaccine maker in the world, is putting USD 200 million at risk by manufacturing nearly 300 million doses before the final nod to launch the vaccine in market, which is expected at best by the end of the year. Oxford University on Monday announced satisfactory progress with the vaccine, making it one of the leading ones among the dozens of vaccine candidates being developed around the world. The varsity has tied up with Serum Institute of India (SII) to manufacture and supply the vaccine to India and over 60 other countries having a combined population of 3 billion, Poonawalla said. “We are making this application within the next 48 hours to the Drug Controller General of India’s office. They will probably take about 1-2 weeks on what kind of study and trial we will have to do,” Poonawalla said, speaking to CNBC-TV-18 news channel. It will take another three weeks to inject patients in hospitals, he said, adding, “We are talking about a month or month and half maximum from today...may be even sooner.” The vaccine under development will be injected into 4-5,000 volunteers in Pune and Mumbai -- which have high rates of coronavirus infections -- as part of the crucial phase three of the trial which will determine if the antidote can be introduced in the market or not. Poonawalla said there is no dearth of volunteers and added that unlike the exclusion of older people in the initial phase of trials at Oxford, the Indian trials will include elderly people and health workers as well because the initial phase has conclusively proven the safety of the vaccine. Parallel to the process of applying for trials and having actual trials on humans in India, the company will be applying for a special permission to start manufacturing the vaccine in the country, which exposes it to a commercial risk if the vaccine fails at the last stage, he said. As part of the special permission, the company will manufacture up to 70 million doses of the vaccine per month up to October, and plans to take it up to 100 million per month by December, so that it is ready to hit the market once the final approvals are in place. If this goes to plan, the phase three trials will take two months after the patients get injected and the vaccine gets a final nod by November, he said, adding that in such a scenario, it can get introduced either in “quarter one or two” of next year. The company has already manufactured around 2-3 million doses of the vaccine for getting the process correct and also stabilising its machinery, Ponnawalla said, clarifying that these will never be used on humans. “If you look at the process right now, the risk of the opex (operating expenditure) which we are putting in is more than USD 200 million. If this vaccine fails, we will be down (by) USD 200 million,” he said, adding the expenses exclude the opportunity cost of using the same facility for some other purpose. Poonawalla also said SII is looking at external investors for the vaccine-related endeavour and added that it has tie-ups with five other vaccine candidates which will be housed into a separate step-down subsidiary, where the family will dilute its stake by 15-20 per cent. Apart from the five tie-ups already forged, SII is in talks with two other candidates, he said, adding that a manufacturing plant with capacity to produce 1 billion units of the vaccine per year will also get housed in the subsidiary. He further said it is extremely likely that the Covid-19 vaccine would require two or more doses, like in the case of antidotes for measles and other diseases. “We have got a lot on the line and bet big on this (Oxford-AstraZeneca) candidate. And we really hope it works,” he added. Meanwhile, Poonawalla Group Chairman Cyrus Poonawalla said SII is committed to producing 1 billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccine after it gets the necessary approvals. He was speaking at an online discussion organised by FICCI Ladies Organisation (FLO), Pune Chapter. The company wants to make the vaccine available at the lowest price possible so that even the poor can afford it, a statement quoted Cyrus Poonawalla as saying. Asked if there could be any setback in terms of productivity and output of the vaccine, he said chances of failure look remote. If the approvals are in place and trials are completed successfully, then lot of companies will manufacture the vaccine and India will be the largest producer of the Covid-19 vaccine in the world, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/serum-institute-to-begin-trials-of-oxford-s-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-by-aug-end/story-wHRkmtNxV1uNuOUgnkfp5I.html
22-07-2020||Patna||Bihar BJP MLC Sunil Kumar Singh dies of Covid-19||Bihar BJP MLC Sunil Kumar Singh died of the coronavirus at AIIMS here on Tuesday, an official said. He was 66.He is survived by two sons, a daughter and wife.He is the first lawmaker in the state to die of Covid-19.Click here for full Covid-19 updates“Sunil Kumar Singh today died of coronavirus disease. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension and was on ventilator,” AIIMS Covid-19 Nodal Officer Sanjeev Kumar told PTI.Singh, who was BJP MLC from local self area constituency from Darbhanga, was undergoing treatment at the hospital since July 13 after he tested positive for Covid-19, the nodal officer said.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi, Bihar Legislative Council Acting Chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh and a host of other leaders expressed grief over the death of the MLC.In his condolence message, Kumar said the MLC was very popular among people and had interest in social work, an official release said, adding that his death has caused an irreparable loss to politics and society.The chief minister also talked to his son Sujeet Kumar over phone and consoled him.Six lawmakers in the state, including the legislative council acting chairman, have tested positive for Covid-19.Bihar minister Vinod Kumar Singh, BJP MLA Jibesh Kumar Mishra, Congress MLA Anand Shankar Singh, RJD MLA Shahnawaz Alam and JD(U) MLC Khalid Anwar have also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-bjp-mlc-sunil-kumar-singh-dies-of-covid-19/story-MVJIUiikJHWId1GIYDbsdJ.html
22-07-2020||City||Ambernath gets 57 Moholla clinics||Thane The Ambernath Municipal Corporation (AMC) started ‘Moholla’ clinics across the city with the help of 28 private doctors to check every patient with Covid-19 symptoms and control the increase in the cases. Until Tuesday, Ambernath recorded 3,210 total cases of Covid-19, of which 121 patients, while 2,593 recovered. “Due to alarming number of Covid-19 cases, we have decided to take the help of private doctors to consult the patients. We have set up 57 Moholla clinics where two doctors will check patients for two hours every day. The timing of each clinic will be different, so that the doctors can visit them on a rotational basis. They will be accompanied by nurses also. Any resident from the vicinity can go and get themselves checked free of cost at these clinics,” AMC chief officer Dr Prashant Rasal, said.He added that the doctors can also recommend testing for any patient, even with minor symptoms..Rasal said the clinics will remain operational till there are no Covid-19 cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambernath-gets-57-moholla-clinics/story-yOZgh9krR0eLVM2KsTMHzH.html
22-07-2020||City||Kalyan man tests negative for Covid-19 a day after he was tested positive||Kalyan: A 26-year-old man from Kalyan, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday after taking a rapid antigen test at Rukminibai Hospital, was tested negative after he underwent a swab test the next day at a private lab, raising doubts over testing at civic hospitals.“I was surprised when I got a negative report, a day after my antigen test came positive at Rukminibai Hospital. As citizens don’t understand medical terms, there needs to be better transparency in the reports. Now I don’t know which report should I believe in,” the man said.Officials and experts claimed that the error may have occurred owing to the viral mutations in an individual’s body.Dr Pratibha Panpatil, health officer, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), said, “The results can vary depending on the viral load in the body, especially if the testing is done on different days.”The man was asymptomatic and asked to be quarantined at home after his first result came positive.Prashant Patil, secretary, Indian Medical Association’s (IMA)) Kalyan chapter, said that the viral load of a person with good immunity can come down within 24 to 48 hours. “This must have happened with the Kalyan resident oo. If his antigen test has come positive, the virus exists in the patient and he should follow strict isolation norms. There are various factors such as clinical acumen, CT scan of lungs and RT-PCR ‘reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction’ tests that together help in diagnosing if a patient is positive.”The Kalyan resident said he developed weakness and so approached the antigen testing centre at Kalyan’s Rukminibai Hospital for a test.“A day after I went into isolation, I felt that I need to cross-check the test report and so I visited a private laboratory in the vicinity to get myself tested. The next day, my report came negative, leaving me baffled,” he added.Meanwhile, KDMC recorded 268 Covid-19 positive cases and nine deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 16,602 and deaths to 264. The twin city recorded the lowest number of positive cases on Tuesday since July 12, when it had the highest day spike of 661 cases.KDMC commissioner has issued directives to set-up fever clinics in every Covid-19 hospital, where citizens who develop symptoms can get antigen tests done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-man-tests-negative-for-covid-19-a-day-after-he-was-tested-positive/story-GQnhNLoaT59j9S5TRxW6aP.html
22-07-2020||City||Bombay HC questions state’s stand on not allowing actors, crew above 65 years for film, TV show shooting||Questioning the state’s stand to not permit any cast or crew above 65 years of age to be present for the shooting of films and television serials, the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday asked the government how are physically fit senior citizens expected to live a dignified life if they are not allowed to go out and earn their livelihood.The bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Riyaz Chagla has also sought an explanation from the government as to whether any data or statistics was taken into consideration before restraining the cast or crew members from attending film studios or shooting sites. The bench has also sought to know if similar restrictions are imposed on senior citizens traveling on public transport facilities, attending workplaces and if they are allowed to attend funerals.The order was issued on a petition filed by Pramod Pandey, who has been earning his livelihood by performing small roles in films and television shows for the past 40 years. In his petition, Pandey challenged a clause of the guidelines issued by the government on May 30 regarding the shooting of film and television serials.His counsel, advocate Ashok Saraogi, submitted that though Pandey is above 65 years old, he is physically fit, despite which he is deprived of the only source of livelihood, as a clause in the guidelines prohibited the entry of cast and crew members above 65 years of age from attending any film studio or a shooting site.Saraogi further submitted that if data is perused, it will become clear that majority of the persons affected by Covid-19 are below the age of 65 years. He added that the state’s decision has grave hardships and prejudice will be caused to the small-time actor, if he is prevented from participating in the shootings, as he will not be able to survive with dignity and self-respect.A government lawyer responded to the petition, suggesting that as provided in the guidelines, whenever possible, castings should be done remotely using apps.The response, however, irked the judges. “The learned advocate for the state had to be reminded that the actors performing small roles are required to go to the studios and request for work to enable them to have their two meals, and no producer or director is going to shoot their role via Facetime, Zoom, Skype etc,” said the bench commenting on the suggestion. HC has posted the petition for further hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bombay-hc-questions-state-s-stand-on-not-allowing-actors-crew-above-65-years-for-film-tv-show-shooting/story-IbuOL1Ea4gO0g30yiauIfL.html
22-07-2020||Mumbai||Opened from July 8, hotels in state see only 10% occupancy||Hotels which were allowed to open two weeks ago after a long spell of lockdown seem to be tottering, as they are recording only 10% of daily occupancy. According to experts, a hotel needs to have at least 50% occupancy to sustain itself in the race.The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), an apex body of hoteliers, said that hotels are running into huge losses owing to the situation.“While flights are restricted, the other modes of transport such as trains and private buses are closed for operations. Even corporates are running with limited staff. All of these factors are playing havoc and we are not getting any guests,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president, HRAWI.Though the state allowed hotels to open from July 8, it asked owners to keep amenities such as swimming pools, gyms, playing areas and gaming arcades closed to all the guests. The government also prohibited gatherings of more than 15 people at hotels.While majority of them chose to remain closed, many owners decided to resume as they have to provide employment to their staff. “We are shelling out money from our own pockets but we need to keep our workers employed and also earn some revenue. So we can’t close operations,” said Kamlesh Barot, who manages Empresa Hotel at Andheri, where of the 33 rooms, only three are booked everyday. The situation is similar at Andheri’s Radisson Mumbai, which has 111 rooms. “We have a daily occupancy of just 5 to 10 % since we opened. All our corporate clients have stopped coming to the hotel. We are running into losses, but even then need to keep the hotels running,” said Mehttab Siddiqui, chief operating officer of GHV Group, which operates Raddison Mumbai. Hospitality sector experts said the situation is likely to remain grim for the two-three months.“Business travellers who form the bulk of patrons will avoid travelling to Mumbai until it is absolutely essential for them and this will significantly impact the hotel sector. The occupancy of hotels will remain subdued for the next two to three months,” said Jaideep Dang, managing director, hotels and hospitality group, JLL (India).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/opened-from-july-8-hotels-in-state-see-only-10-occupancy/story-eSmvPjlZNw2oAalE5G9dWL.html
22-07-2020||Mumbai||IndiGo’s decision to lay off 10% staff start of a painful process for Indian aviation: CAPA||A day after IndiGo announced that it would lay off 10% of its employees owing to the financial crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre of Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA India) – a global aviation consultancy – on Tuesday predicted that the shutting down of one or two Indian airlines would be unavoidable in the near future.“Industry conditions are such that one or more airline failures appear inevitable. Airlines have limited options to turn to for funding except their promoters, given that 3rd party investors will be reluctant to provide capital right now, and the government is unwilling to do so,” read a tweet from CAPA.CAPA India stated that the decision is the “beginning of a painful process for Indian aviation”. “The decision by IndiGo to lay off 10% of its staff is the beginning of a painful process for Indian aviation as things start to unravel from the impact of Covid-19 in India. It will be impossible to survive this crisis without a strong balance sheet,” read CAPA’s another tweet.Airlines are struggling since March, after the Covid-19 lockdown was announced. Even after domestic operations partially resumed from May 25, most aircraft are on the ground, as airlines are operating with only 60% of their capacity, owing to the poor load factor.“Even as the state allowed 50 take-offs and 50 arrivals from Mumbai, not all airlines are operating their planned flights, as demand is low,” said a senior official of an airline, who did not wish to be named.The six major airlines operating in the country currently are AirAsia India, IndiGo, Air India, SpiceJet, GoAir and Vistara. Additionally, India also sees operations of smaller airlines such as TruJet, Air Deccan, Zoom Air and Star Air. A bulk of air traffic is carried out by large private airlines.Though CAPA-India did not elaborate if the financial brunt will be borne by large or smaller airlines, its chief executive officer Kapil Kaul said, “With Indigo deciding to further boost liquidity and strengthen its finances by raising funds, and at a later stage also monetising aircraft and engine assets, it is preparing to deal with this crisis. The government may further restructure loans, but it is unlikely that it will provide financial assistance directly or indirectly. So industry consolidation is inevitable and the emergence of Covid-19 has expedited the process.”According to Jitender Bhargava, former executive director of Air India, airlines that fail to take drastic measures now to cut costs will fail to survive in the long run. “When there are very few people flying, airlines have to consider cost cutting measures such as downsizing their aircraft, giving pay cuts and laying off staff, as there is no other way for them to sustain. IndiGo’s decision to lay off 10% of its employees could be the beginning of a larger issue.” Former instructor pilot and aviation expert Mohan Ranganathan said that the pandemic is likely to destroy the domestic air travel industry. “There won’t be any business or family travel and people won’t go on tourism either. Without international connectivity, Indian aviation will never take off. And at the rate in which airlines are suffering losses, CAPA’s prediction about airlines closure is right. According to me, three airlines will fold up shortly,” he said.Foreign airlines have also borne the brunt of the pandemic. Chile’s Latam airline, Air Mauritius, Virgin Australia and South African airways are among the few foreign airlines that have shut operations owing to the ongoing crisis.“The situation is intense worldwide and has adversely affected many airlines. In India, it is difficult to see an increase in load factor as passengers are scared to travel by air. The situation will largely continue till the year-end, with the international sector remaining closed and this which will further lead to job losses in the industry. As a result, airlines will find it extremely difficult to sail through the pandemic phase,” said a former Directorate General of Civil Aviation official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/indigo-s-decision-to-lay-off-10-staff-start-of-a-painful-process-for-indian-aviation-capa/story-WmcywEta6G95NIHxz8nSdP.html
22-07-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay plans ‘slow reboot’ to resume research in labs||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) is planning to bring a section of students back to campus to resume research work. This is the first such instance in the city. The first batch of researchers are likely to be called in by the first week August.The institute launched a ‘slow reboot plan’ to restart research work in laboratories in a phased manner. As a first step, it has asked around 128 PhD scholars and part-time researchers based in Mumbai if they are willing to resume their research or project work inside the campus.“Nearly 40% to 50% students are in research programmes, and they ought to have access to the laboratory. Teaching is just one part of IIT system,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of the institute.The institute sent consent and declaration forms to a select few students, asking if they are willing to return to the campus and if their health permits them to do so.“In the first phase, we asked Mumbai-based fourth and fifth-year PhD and Masters students, as well as those pursuing dual degrees based in Mumbai to express their interest in coming to campus to resume their project work,” said Prita Pant, head of the reboot committee and professor in the department of metallurgical engineering and materials science.Chaudhuri said the committee was put in place to plan for the slow rebooting of research work, and to determine which students should be called in first and how. Apart from Pant, the committee comprises student representatives and a doctor from the institute’s hospital.The institute closed completely on March 28, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, followed by an early summer vacation announced on April 1. However, on June 25, the institute declared that the entire autumn semester will be conducted online in the interest of students’ safety. While undergraduate students, incoming masters and PhD students can complete their semester from their respective locations, research scholars and senior masters students ought to mandatorily complete their research projects in order to complete their course work.“First the students have to evaluate their own situations. Only if they are willing to come to campus, will we take it to the next step,” said Pant.A list of such consenting students will be shared with lab operators and heads of departments, who will then analyse if the labs are equipped to handle students.“A checklist is shared with lab and department heads. The heads and the guides will take a final call on whether it is essential for the student to come to campus,” Pant added.Meanwhile, the institute has put in place a standard operating procedure for labs and hostels to ensure they are not crowded. It will also install foot-operated door openers and hand sanitising stations on campus. The in-house hospital is equipped with isolation centres and is approved by the civic body to treat mild and moderate Covid-19 patients.Researchers, however, are on the fence over the matter.“By asking us to sign a consent and declaration form, the institute seems to be shifting the responsibility of safety on to students. Moreover, there is no clarity on the health insurance of students on campus. The institute should give us clear guidelines on what it is doing to ensure our safety,” said a PhD scholar on the condition of anonymity.All the students of IIT-B are covered for medical insurance. However, the committee is mulling increasing the benefits for students, who may require hospitalisation outside campus, in case they get infected with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-plans-slow-reboot-to-resume-research-in-labs/story-IRnVDFpKyR0eVEyLxcjArJ.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Schools willing to reopen for Classes 10, 12 between August 15-31: UT education department||In reply to the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD’s) communication over reopening of schools, the UT education department on Tuesday stated that schools are willing to reopen between August 15 to August 31 in order to conduct classes only for Classes 10 and 12. In the letter to education secretaries of all states and Union territories, the MHRD had sought parents’ feedback on when to reopen schools this year. The decision was taken after considering their feedback.The ministry asked the states/UTs to file their responses by July 20 regarding “what is the likely period when they will be comfortable with reopening of schools — August/September/October and what are the parents’ expectations from schools as and when they reopen”.The education department in its reply said that the parents want schools to reopen between August 15 to August 31. Giving more details, director school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “This is only tentative. There wasn’t enough time to collect feedback from parents so we spoke to the principals of the schools and used Google forms to get the responses from the parents. Before schools are allowed to reopen we will wait until the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and senior officers of the UT administration give permission. We will also ask health experts for their inputs regarding this.”Brar added that schools are willing to reopen only to conduct classes for 10 and 12. He added that the whole class won’t be called at once and the students will be called in small groups. While parents of students studying in lower classes are wary of sending their children to schools as of now.Even though it still hasn’t been finalised, schools including private schools think that they will be able to pull it off. President of Independent School Association HS Mamik said, “After months of the lockdown, the school administrations have started gaining experience. We will wait for whatever decision the MHA takes and whatever guidelines are floated for schools to reopen however, it is time for schools to reopen soon.”However, president of the Chandigarh Parents Association, Nitin Goyal said, “The MHRD had asked for parents’ feedback, however, no parent in my knowledge were asked for any feedback.” DSE Brar said that the department will ask parents for their feedback before any concrete decision is taken.The first order to close schools was issued on March 13 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, after which schools have remained closed in the city. Some board exams for CBSE and ICSE which were scheduled during this period could not be conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/schools-willing-to-reopen-for-classes-10-12-between-august-15-31-ut-education-department/story-s9YLt5lE0Jxaeb8ZsXb7aK.html
22-07-2020||City||Maharashtra must follow in Delhi’s footsteps and conduct more testing for Covid-19: Devendra Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said that the consistent low testing figures led to high case positivity as well as fatality rates in the state as well as in Mumbai. Pointing to the Delhi model, the former chief minister, also said that after Union home minister Amit Shah intervened in the Covid-19 situation, increased testing in the national capital brought down the case positivity rate from as high as 30-35% to 6%.“Time and again, I have been continuously requesting to increase Covid-19 testing in Mumbai. There is no alternate way to tackle Covid-19 by reducing tests. We need to test and trace more to prevent the spread of the virus,” said Fadnavis.“What have we lost and what have we gained due to very low Covid-19 testing? The infection rate in Maharashtra was around 6-7% in the beginning, then at 17-18% on June 8, and now stands at 23-24%. Mumbai’s infection rate stands between 21% and 27%, and we are testing very less tests in Mumbai,” he said, adding that the average daily tests in Mumbai from July 1 to 19 stood around 5,500.After civic commissioner Iqbal Chahal liberalised the testing protocol, any citizen can undergo a Covid-19 test even without a prescription. However, the average number of testing in Mumbai has not increased significantly despite this step. The maximum per day tests from June 15 to July 15 were conducted on July 15 (7,070 tests).As far as the state is concerned, the testing has been ramped up from this month, with an average of 31,442 tests conducted from July 1 to 19. The maximum tests (41,565) in the state were conducted on July 19.BMC officials, however, refuted this claim by Fadnavis without contradicting the figures.A senior civic official pointed out that a majority of Delhi’s test numbers come from antigen testing, even as the national capital conducted fewer reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. RT-PCR is seen as the gold standard for Covid-19 testing, unlike antigen tests, which can be conducted easily, but result in more false negatives.“Mumbai continues to be the city that is conducting the most number of RT-PCR tests. Our average has increased but to increase RT-PCR testing by more than double, for instance, would require serious ramping up of testing infrastructure. We will need 50 labs to test instead of just 27 and this will cost more funds and time, at least three more months,” said the civic official.He also pointed out that the city was now getting more than 80-85% asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and hence, increasing testing would not really have any impact on tackling the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-must-follow-in-delhi-s-footsteps-and-conduct-more-testing-for-covid-19-devendra-fadnavis/story-gTuTRI8KNZYeN2q5mqsm3J.html
22-07-2020||City||With 102 fresh cases, tricity records its highest single-day spike||With 102 new cases, tricity recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections on Tuesday. At 65, the maximum number of cases came from Panchkula followed by 23 in Mohali and 14 in Chandigarh. The previous single-day spike in the tricity was on July 17 when 88 cases were detected. 34 PARAMILITARY MEN AMONG FRESH CASES IN P’KULAPanchkula recorded 65 new cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 345. This includes 18 cases that were detected late in the evening after the daily bulletin was released by the Panchkula health authorities.The rapidly spreading infection among the paramilitary men is one of the main reasons behind Panhkula’s shooting numbers. On Tuesday, 34 paramilitary men—18 from Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and 16 from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) tested positive. “Till date, 30 ITBP personnel and 32 CRPF men have tested positive in the district,” said Panchkula civil surgeon Jaspreet Kaur. This figure does not include the 18 new infections that came to fore in the evening.The rest of the infected persons are civilians. These include seven persons from Pinjore—aged 50, 30, 54, 24, 35 and two children aged four. Two others are from Kherawali, three from Maheshpur and one from Sector 15, Panchkula.Panchkula’s tally now stands at 345, with 206 active cases. SEVEN HEALTH WORKERS CONTRACT INFECTION IN UTIn Chandigarh hospitals, seven health workers have contracted the infection. These include a resident doctor and five nurses of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and one resident doctor of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.The 28-year-old PGIMER doctor is a resident of Sector 9, while three nurses are roommates who live in Sector 15. The remaining two nurses are residents of Punjab. The GMCH doctor is a resident of Sector 32.Six new cases are contacts of previously diagnosed cases---two women, aged 45 and 66, from Daaria, and four people, including a toddler of one-and-a-half, from Sector 41.Besides these, a 31-year-old man from Behlana, a nine-year-old child from Sector 29 and a 72-year-old man from Sector 9 tested positive.With this, the number of active cases in UT stands at 221.Health authorities said they were tracking down to isolate and test their contacts.TWO MORE COPS FROM GHARUAN POLICE POST TEST POSITIVE  Two more policemen from Gharuan police post were among the 23 new Covid-19 cases confirmed in Mohali on Tuesday, taking the district count to 574.The two male constables are aged 46 and 47. On Sunday, three other cops had tested positive, following which public dealing was suspended at the police post.Among the other patients, four men, aged 55, 49, 37 and 22, are from Sectors 69, 126, 94 and 66, respectively.Three men, aged 59, 14 and 8, were found positive in Phase 6.A 26-year-old woman is from Phase 9 and a 40-year-old from Phase 3B2, besides a 35-year-old male from Phase 3B1.In Kharar, a 47-year-old man and a 46-year-old woman tested positive in Hira Enclave. Two men, aged 55 and 28, and a 62-year-old woman are from Sarvoj Enclave.A 23-year-old man is from Sunny Enclave, a 37-year-old man from Gharuan and a 48-year-old woman from Kharar.Two men, aged 63 and 41, are in Zirakpur, and a 41-year-old woman in Baltana.Meanwhile, nine more patients were discharged on Tuesday, bringing the number of active patients down to 191. While 371 have recovered, 12 have died.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said most of the cases were contacts of already positive persons, who either had travel history or were contacts of Covid patients. “All patients are admitted at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Most of them are asymptomatic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-102-fresh-cases-tricity-records-its-highest-single-day-spike/story-E7EFQ3OGym6rl0tJdX4BxJ.html
22-07-2020||City||K-East ward records most number of Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai||With 425 deaths, the K-East ward, which covers Andheri East and Jogeshwari, tops the list of Covid-19 fatalities in the city. The ward, 70% of which is occupied by slums, has recorded 6,715 Covid-19 cases so far. It has a fatality rate of 6.7%, while the city’s case fatality rate is 5.5%. Ward officials attributed the deaths to delay in reporting of cases and its proximity to SevenHills Hospital and Trauma Care Centre, where patients from across the city are treated.Parag Masurkar, deputy municipal commissioner of K-East ward, said, “We have two major Covid centres in our ward wherein patients from across the city are admitted. If those Covid patients die and are cremated in K-East ward, irrespective of their residence, the death is counted in the ward. Also, the rise in positive cases is due to the ward’s proximity to the airport and several foreign passengers traveling and turning positive while in quarantine period.”Civic officials also indicated there are several cases of delayed reporting. A senior civic official said, “People should report their symptoms within 24-48 hours. Early detection and early treatment are key to beating the virus in a majority of cases.” The other wards with a high number of deaths are G-North ward (Dadar-Dharavi), which has recorded 417 deaths, followed by L ward (Kurla) which has seen 389 deaths.On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 992 Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 103,368. The toll rose to 5,817, with 62 new deaths, according to the state health department data. As per BMC’s data, of the 62 deaths, two were patients below 40 years of age, 39 above 60 years, and 21 patients were aged 40-60. The data further states 907 patients recovered and were discharged on Tuesday. A total of 73, 555 patients have been treated and discharged by now. The number of active patients is 23,704. The recovery rate of the city is 71%. The number of tests done till Monday is 4.43 lakh. Meanwhile, Dharavi reported 10 new cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 2,502. Of the total, 2,101 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/k-east-ward-records-most-number-of-covid-19-deaths-in-mumbai/story-6y02uORoJH8fVlapLwL1QO.html
22-07-2020||City||Milkman’s body found in Mohali’s Sector 88: Two more arrested, Section 304 added to the FIR||A day after the body of 60-year-old milkman Sukhdev Singh was found in Sector 88, the Mohali police have arrested two persons, who were produced in the court and sent to two-day police remand.The accused arrested on Monday late evening were identified as Ramandeep Singh and Sukhdarshan Singh, alias Gaggu. The third accused, Ravi, who was arrested on Monday, is a juvenile who got interim bail. Four other accused are yet to be arrested. All are residents of Lehragaga, Sangrur district.The police have also added Section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) in the FIR. The family members of the victim had demanded the police add sections 302 (murder) or 304 to the case, as the accused had dumped the victim’s body instead of taking him to a hospital. Phase 11 station house officer Jagdeep Singh Brar said, “During questioning, it was learnt that Ramandeep was driving the vehicle. Further investigation is on and the fourth suspect will be nabbed soon.” Earlier, the suspects were booked on charges of kidnapping, hurting and causing death due to negligence.On July 18, Sukhdev was returning home after delivering the milk when his bicycle was hit by a Hyundai i20 car near Bestech Mall in Sector 66, leaving him seriously injured. The car occupants had assured the passersby they would take Sukhdev to the hospital, but had later dumped the body in Sector 88.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/milkman-s-body-found-in-mohali-s-sector-88-two-more-arrested-section-304-added-to-the-fir/story-oPRT5YI3g0EY3ZC33xZTpI.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Labourer, juvenile aide held for theft||A 26-year-old labourer was arrested while his juvenile aide was apprehended for allegedly stealing Rs 40,000 and other valuables from a house in New Indira Colony of Manimajra. The accused has been identified as Happy alias Champ of New Indira Colony. The complainant, Kusum, 51, a PGIMER employee, told the police that on the intervening night of July 13 and 14, someone broke into her house and decamped with two phones, two gold rings, two silver necklaces and Rs 40,000 kept in the almirah of her house. A theft case was registered at the I-T Park police station. Accused Happy has three other cases, including one under the NDPS Act, against him. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-juvenile-aide-held-for-theft/story-4LHv18GAlYHLrVrPKzKguI.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Now, GMCH-32 fully equipped to perform cardiac surgeries||A new heart-lung machine has been installed at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, which will make the cardiothoracic vascular surgery department fully equipped to perform cardiac surgeries.Till now, GMCH-32 was using an old machine taken on loan from the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). Now, operations including single and multiple cardiac valve replacement, coronary artery bypass surgery and basic congenital heart surgeries including surgery in children born with a hole in the heart can be performed at the hospital.A team of trained surgeons, anaesthetists, nursing staff, technicians, and a fully functional cardiology department will provide optimum operative and post-operative care, officials said. “The machine is important because it performs the heart’s and lungs’ functions by maintaining blood flow and respiration while the patient’s heart is made to stop working while performing surgery,” said Dr Sidharath Garg, a faculty member of the department.An MoU has also been signed between GMCH and PGIMER by UT home secretary and PGIMER director to provide mentoring and support for the newly-opened services, as and when required at GMCH. The pact was initially signed for a year and it will be extended for another year.At present, only PGIMER, Chandigarh, PGIMS, Rohtak, and IGMC, Shimla, are providing these services among government hospitals of neighboring states of Punjab, HP and Haryana.Director-principal of GMCH in a press release stated that the full-fledged CTVS department at GMCH will be of huge benefit to patients of tricity and neighboring states who have been waiting to be operated but still have to suffer because of long waiting lists. Patients covered under Ayushmann Bharat scheme can also easily avail of this new service at GMCH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-now-gmch-32-fully-equipped-to-perform-cardiac-surgeries/story-876dQ84hgShaV6F6s8f13H.html
22-07-2020||City||Fortis staffer murder: Police claim to identify all accused||Two days after a 29-year-old staff nurse of Fortis Hospital was murdered, police claim to have identified two more suspects. The main accused, Kamaldeep Singh Grewal, 29, and Rinku, 19, were arrested on Monday and sent to three-day police custody. The victim, Arun Bhardwaj, was beaten to death by five persons near a liquor vend in Sector 68 of Mohali on late Saturday evening. DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal said, “The two prime accused in the murder are already in custody while their two accomplices have been identified and will be arrested soon.” HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fortis-staffer-murder-police-claim-to-identify-all-accused/story-OCZfURn6uOoiAsxI0c9hKL.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Southern sectors of Chandigarh complain of wild grass growing on pavements||Every monsoon season, the growth of wild grass goes unchecked in the city and residents of southern sectors complain they are the worst hit.The pavements and berms on the roads of many southern sectors are overgrown with wild grass making them unusable, putting pedestrians at risk.As per traffic police data, in 2019 the number of accidents involving pedestrians went up to 36, the highest since 2016. Many of these accidents could have been averted if the victims were on the footpath and not on the main road.Highlighting the issue, general secretary of the Sector 40C resident welfare association (RWA) SK Khosla said, “We seniors feel scared having to walk on the main road as the footpaths are covered with grass. Every year, we have the same complaint.” Khosla said that after lodging numerous complaints for around two weeks, the grass of the footpath near his house was cut, but the rest of the sector still remained overgrown.BREEDING PLACE FOR MOSQUITOES, REPTILESSector 48 paints a similar picture. President of the RWA here JJ Singh said, “The wild grass is so thick on some roads that snakes can hide in them. Lots of mosquitoes and other insects also breed here. During monsoon, trimming the grass once a month is not enough; it should be done twice or thrice for each sector.”Chairman of the Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), Hitesh Puri, said that the problem was limited to the southern sectors. “In the northern sectors, the grasses are trimmed regularly. Why should southern sectors with higher population density suffer just because the officers live in the northern sectors,” he asked.In Sector 44 as well, residents complained of wild grass growing near the market here. A member of the Sector 44C RWA, Sudershan Joshi, said that the residents felt unsafe walking to the market, especially during the night with the large patches of grass growing on the footpaths.BRUSH CUTTERS INVALID IN MONSOONPruning of wild grass is carried out by Lions Services, a private firm. General manager Pradyuman Bakshi said, “During the monsoon, brush cutters can’t be used for trimming grass. Any moisture damages the blades which is why sometimes the work gets held up. Many times people don’t move their vehicles that are parked on the berms while the machines are being used. As a result, small stones are flung at great speeds at the cars sometimes causing damage. Many people have even filed claims for damaged windows and windshields. Now, we don’t cut the grass till the time vehicles are not moved.”As per contract, they are supposed to cut grass in a sector only once a month, but some councillors ask for favours, Bakshi said, adding that complaints when received had to be dealt with, due to which they were unable to streamline operations, he added. Lions Services owns 30 brush cutters for catering to 30 sectors of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/southern-sectors-of-chandigarh-complain-of-wild-grass-growing-on-pavements/story-KewPxLD1eI9C7x7TPTWS4K.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||PO arrested from vegetable market||A 30-year-old man, who had come to the temporary vegetable market in Sector 17, Chandigarh, to unload vegetables from Rajgarh in Himachal Pradesh was arrested by the Proclaimed Offender (PO) cell. He has been identified as Praveen of Sirmaur. He was produced before the court and sent to judicial custody on Tuesday. Praveen was an accused in a rioting and assault case registered at the Sector 36 police station in December 2014. He is also a witness in another case. However, Praveen stopped appearing in the court and thus was declared PO on May 31, 2017. He was arrested following a tip-off. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/po-arrested-from-vegetable-market/story-WswFOjqt7uMyDok555lCAI.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh court dismisses gangster Bishnoi’s plea to be handcuffed||A district court in Chandigarh has dismissed the application moved by gangster Lawrence Bishnoi seeking directions to the Chandigarh Police to handcuff him when being brought to the court or any other place, fearing he could be killed in a “fake encounter”.It was mentioned in the court order: “As per directive of the Supreme Court, the permission to handcuff is sought by prosecution/police concerned and the same is allowed by magistrate only in special circumstances. Generally, the practice of handcuffing is denounced with respect to human dignity.”Dismissing the application, the court stated that the application was not maintainable.The court order read, “The application is not maintainable as per law as the applicant does not have locus standi to file his application. However, if the police or prosecution finds reasonable grounds for the likelihood of the accused escaping from custody on being produced, an application may be filed by the police.”However, the order further mentioned that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, accused are being produced only by video conferencing until further orders from the high court. “As such, physical production of the accused during this period is not necessary,” the order further read.Currently lodged in a jail in Bharatpur, Rajasthan, the 35-year-old gangster has a number of FIRs lodged against him in Chandigarh, Punjab and Rajasthan.Bishnoi had mentioned in the application that according to news reports, his name had cropped up in two recent cases—firing incidents at Singlas’ house in Sector 33 and at a liquor shop in Sector 9.His counsel Terminder Singh said that Bishnoi had been lodged in Rajasthan for two years and had no communication or connection with any of the accused arrested in the above mentioned cases.As he was anticipating arrest, Bishnoi had pleaded before the court to direct the investigating officer to “handcuff” him and “guard with special security” so that he was not killed while in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-dismisses-gangster-bishnoi-s-plea-to-be-handcuffed/story-OguUWU9lfvs8OS6Y3zHapJ.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three deaths, 379 cases push Punjab patient tally to 10,889||Two men in their early sixties died due to Covid-19 in Patiala and Jalandhar, while a woman patient breathed her last at DMC Hospital in Ludhiana on Tuesday. The state recorded 379 new cases on Tuesday, taking the patient tally to 10,889. The death count due to coronavirus has gone up to 265.A 62-year-old Covid-19 positive man, who was diabetic, died in Patiala, while the virus took the life of a 61-year-old man at a private hospital in Jalandhar.Among the fresh cases, 46 infections were recorded in Patiala, 39 in Jalandhar, 34 each in Ludhiana and Amritsar and 23 in Mohali.With 39 fresh Covid-19 cases, Jalandhar district’s tally has gone up to 1,729. Health officials said 23 patients were contacts of positive patients while 16 were new cases. Meanwhile, a 37-year-old man tested positive of the novel coronavirus in Kapurthala district. In Ludhiana district, 34 infections were detected on Tuesday, while a 53-year-old woman of Kartar Nagar died while undergoing treatment at DMC Hospital on Tuesday. Out of the fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 28 belong to Ludhiana while the rest are from other districts. With this, the total number of positive patients belonging to the district has gone up to 1,946, out of which 49 have died. There are 585 active cases in the district. Among the fresh cases, eight are relatives of Congress councillor who tested positive on July 16. Also, four MC sanitation workers too were found infected.16 BSF personnel among 34 patients in AmritsarThirty-four more people from Amritsar, including 16 personnel of Border Security Force (BSF), tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, health officials said.Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said, “Among these, 15 are fresh community transmission cases and most of them are symptomatic. The other 19 patients are the close contacts of the Covid-19 patients.”Also, three residents of Gurdaspur district also tested positive for the virus.2 cops among 23 infected in MohaliIn Mohali, two policemen from Gharuan police post were among the 23 new Covid-19 cases confirmed on Tuesday, taking the district count to 574.The two male constables are aged 46 and 47. On Sunday, three cops had tested positive from the same police post.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said most of the cases were contacts of already positive patients. “All patients have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Most of them are asymptomatic,” he added.Ten people tested positive for coronavirus in Bathinda on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-deaths-379-cases-push-punjab-patient-tally-to-10-889/story-KICra5BbS1dMgWRItbBVgJ.html
22-07-2020||City||Covid-19 victims’ body swap: Magisterial probe begins, Amritsar GMC staff questioned||The magisterial probe into the case involving the swapping of the bodies of Covid-19 patients from Amritsar and Hoshiarpur began on Tuesday with the questioning of staff members of Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar. Amritsar sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Shivraj Singh Bal, who is conducting the inquiry, visited the college and grilled the doctors, staff nurses and Class 4 employees who were on duty on the day of the incident. He also talked to GMC principal Dr Rajiv Devgan and medical superintendent Dr Raman Sharma. Pritam Singh (93) of Tanda Ram Sahai village in Hoshiarpur district died at the hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 on July 17 night, but his family received the mortal remains of a woman, Padma (37), a resident of Amritsar. Padma’s kin got Pritam’s body which they cremated on July 18. As per the hospital authorities, the error took place as the on-duty staff put wrong labels on the caskets.“I also visited the mortuary to see the procedure followed by the hospital authorities in dealing with Covid-19 victims’ bodies. There are allegations that the hospital did not constituted a body management committee for Covid-19 victims as instructed by Punjab government,” said Shivraj Singh Bal.“The hospital authorities have recommended suspension of two staff nurses and as many Class-4 employees for negligence but we are trying to zero in on the role of other staff members,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-victims-body-swap-magisterial-probe-begins-amritsar-gmc-staff-questioned/story-6yIksac2nGEn36re0W0mYK.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Heroin seizures along Punjab border see three-fold rise this year||There has been a three-fold increase in the recovery of heroin by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the Punjab border this year as compared to the corresponding period last year.According to the BSF’s statistics, around 328kg of heroin, apparently smuggled from Pakistan, has been seized till July 19 this year. Last year, the figure was around 100kg for the same period.Punjab Police officials opine that the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown and restrictions imposed on the unnecessary movement of people have cut the supply chain of heroin, increasing the drug’s demand and prompting the Pakistani smugglers to push in more consignments into the Indian territory through various means.In the last four months of lockdown (March 23 to July 19), the BSF has seized 229kg heroin on the state border, which is 9kg more than the total seizures in the last year. In 2019, the BSF had seized total 227kg heroin. On March 23 this year, the Centre had enforced the nationwide lockdown.This year’s seizures include a 64-kg heroin haul from the Ravi river that flows along the India-Pakistan border in Gurdaspur district. The contraband was found in 60 packets concealed in long fabric cloth tubes and tied to a bunch of water hyacinth floating in the river on Sunday.A senior BSF official in Amritsar said, “We have noticed the increased activities of anti-national elements across the border this year. But our force is capable of thwarting their all attempts. Our personnel are keeping 24x7 vigil along the border.”A senior special task force (STF) official said, “The supply chain of heroin has been disrupted by the strict lockdown in Punjab and due to this out-patient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) centres across Punjab have also witnessed a drastic increase in the admission of drug dependents for treatment.”The BSF’s recovery is apart from the drug haul by Punjab Police along the international border. On May 28 this year, the Tarn Taran police had seized around 8.50kg of heroin from across the barbed fence at Rattoke village on the India-Pakistan border.Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police Dhruv Dahiya had said the heroin was buried in an agriculture field across the barbed fence. After the recovery, the police had also arrested one Gurlal Singh of Rattoke village. Police had said Gurlal had been in contact with Pakistani smugglers for the supply of heroin.Similarly, on May 2, STF had recovered 9kg heroin with the arrest of three persons in two separate operations carried out near the India-Pakistan border. The STF had said the heroin, which was smuggled from across the border, was being cleared by the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heroin-seizures-along-punjab-border-see-three-fold-rise-this-year/story-gXzVvQ1lHpO26sUGkJa9fI.html
22-07-2020||City||Farmers oppose farm ordinances, gheroa Harsimrat’s residence||The activists of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee gheroaed the residence of Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and and Ferozepur Lok Sabha MP Sukhbir Singh Badal at Badal village in Muktsar on Tuesday.A few protesters sustained minor injuries when the police resorted to cane-charging them for removing barricades at the Badal village.Led by state president of the committee, Satnam Singh Pannu, and vice-president Jasbir Singh, the protesters raised slogans against three farm-related ordinances introduced by the central government. They said that the ordinances are in the interests of the corporate and against those of the farmers and arthiyas.After meeting with a farmers’ delegation, Harsimrat and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said objections raised by the committee will be discussed with the Union minister of agriculture. Sukhbir said the SAD will oppose any move to curb minimum support price (MSP) in India.Meanwhile, the protesters violated social distancing guidelines during the sit-in. Even during the meeting with Harsimrat, many farmer leaders were not wearing masks and did not adhere to social distancing norms.Muktsar deputy commissioner MK Aravind Kumar said that legal action will be taken against the protesters for violating covid guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-oppose-farm-ordinances-gheroa-harsimrat-s-residence/story-wFqLo5ddvrna6r9ICGCpfI.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sangrur village pond water enters residential area||With heavy rain, the pond water of Chattha Nanhera village near Sunam entered 10-15 houses there on Tuesday. Residents claimed that cracks have developed on the walls of their houses due to this.Kirna Kaur, a local, said that the rainwater damaged the walls of her house. She added that the local drain was not opened which contributed to the damages.Bahal Singh, member of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Welfare Society, said that the village pond is full and water has started to enter the streets, which poses threat of spreading water-borne diseases.Sarpanch Bant Singh said that the rainwater causes hassle to the residents every year and some work was done on the drainage system last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sangrur-village-pond-water-enters-residential-area/story-05DTADfQ1vObBev2KJyMXL.html
22-07-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to give land ownership rights to women working in their husband’s fields||The Uttarakhand government is planning to give land ownership rights to women who work in their husband’s fields by amending the Uttarakhand Zameendari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said on Tuesday.Rawat said the move was aimed to facilitate the women who are working in fields owned by their husbands especially in the hilly areas of the state.So far in Uttarakhand, land ownership rights are transferred to men in the family which are then passed on to their sons. The government has been planning to introduce it for the daughters and now it is also mulling the same for wives.“Traditionally in the hilly areas, men and their wives are involved in the farming on their land. However, men are largely involved in just heavy labour intensive work like ploughing of field and remaining about 90% farming related works are done by their wives only. Despite that they don’t have any ownership of that piece of land but their husbands,” said Rawat.“Due to this, if any woman wants to take some loan for any farming related work on the field, they are denied because they don’t have the ownership of the land. Once this amendment is introduced in the aforementioned Act, they will also have the ownership rights of the land along with their husbands and take loan,” he said.The chief minister said: “Till now it is somewhat unfair, that despite doing the maximum work in fields, they don’t have any ownership of the land. Once they are also given the ownership, it will also make them more self-dependent and help in women empowerment in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-to-give-land-ownership-rights-to-women-working-in-their-husband-s-fields/story-sN52woyhzzYYnKL4Z2wKYJ.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi border districts behind virus spread in Haryana||Haryana’s tally of cumulative coronavirus positive cases is set to cross 35,000 by July end, as per the state health department’s projections. But at the same time, the number of recoveries is also expected to be around 27,000, leaving just around 7400 active infections by July 30, as per the forecast.The bulk of positive cases, about 71%, have come from five national capital region (NCR) districts of Faridabad, Gurugram, Sonepat, Rohtak and Rewari. However, with the state government allowing free movement of people, after easing lockdown restrictions, there are other nooks and corners like Ambala, Hisar, Panipat, Mahendragrah and Panchkula which are showing early signs of a wider spread.The state has seen a massive jump in the number of infections in the last eight weeks, registering 24,980 cumulative positive cases in 56 days between May 25 and July 19, mainly on account of relaxations given in lockdown measures after May 18. In comparison, there were only 1,184 cumulative positive cases in the initial 10 weeks (70 days) between March 16 and May 25.“Once the lockdown measures were relaxed, the infections started increasing due to back and forth movement of men and material from the national capital,” top officials said.‘Increased testing brings higher positivity rate’Health officials attribute the detection of more infections to increased sampling. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said that they were conducting about 10,000 RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests every day. “We were testing about 5,000 persons per day in June. So we have doubled our testing. In fact, we have done more than 70,000 antigen tests in the state,” said Arora. More sample collection centres are being opened in every district, including about 45 recently in Faridabad.‘ACTIVE CASES MATTER THE MOST’The ACS said their recovery rate is pretty good at over 75 % which means there are fewer active cases. “The active cases determine how much pressure there is on the resources. Statistics show that about 45% to 50 % of the active infections are put in home isolation. So most of our isolation facilities, hospital beds, including the ventilator beds, are not burdened,” Arora said.STRATEGY TO TACKLE THE VIRUSHealth officials say they took the lead in going for home isolation of patients having mild symptoms. This proved to be a big success. Over 54 % of the 6,022 infected patients were in home isolation as of July 19.“House-to-house surveillance, mobile clinics, testing international and domestic travelers, isolating the infected and tracing their contacts have been the thrust areas of our strategy. Picking up emerging hotspots early by using technology and data and aggressive containment in containment zones has ensured that we are in control of the situation. There is no need to panic but also no room for complacency,” the ACS, health said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-border-districts-behind-virus-spread-in-haryana/story-ecdemjwrJcuw4Yo5YN8FUM.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Multani disappearance case: CBI court dismisses Punjab Police plea seeking prelim probe papers||The special CBI court, Chandigarh, dismissed an application of the Punjab Police seeking documents of the preliminary probe into the case involving alleged abduction of Balwant Singh Multani in 1991 in which former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini is an accused. The detailed order is awaited in the case. Multani, who worked as a junior engineer with the c (CITCO), was picked up by police after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP). Later, the police claimed that Multani, son of a former IAS officer, had escaped from their custody and was never traced.On May 6 this year, a case was registered against Saini and seven others in Mohali on a complaint by Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh.A month later, the police moved an application in the CBI court, Chandigarh, seeking documents of the preliminary probe as the case was initially investigated by the central agency in 2007. In its reply, the CBI had said it keeps records only for five years.On June 8, the police filed another application seeking the status report that the high court had returned to the investigating agency in 2016 which also had the documents with it.Again, the CBI had refused to share the status report, which was returned by the Punjab and Haryana High Court to the agency in 2016, saying it was an “internal communication” between it and the court. It was also mentioned that the CBI was not able to trace the document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/multani-disappearance-case-cbi-court-dismisses-punjab-police-plea-seeking-prelim-probe-papers/story-GwoCAdvpIYRJHkmlt1EZxI.html
22-07-2020||City||Testing, contact tracing remain key focus of Punjab||Chandigarh Punjab has focused on testing and contact tracing in the past two months to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic even as the mortality rate continues to be an area of concern for the Amarinder Singh-led government.For about a week, 300-400 cases are getting added daily to the state’s patient tally, but in comparison to many other states, Punjab’s caseload has not increased that much.On May 21, Punjab was among the top 10 states with a caseload of 2,028 and by July 20, the state was at 18th position.On May 21, Punjab was conducting only 1,865 tests per million of population, which now has gone up to 14,204 tests per million, claims the health department. Currently, the state is conducting 10,000 tests per day, five times the number on May 20. The state is planning to increase the daily testing to 20,000 by September 10, it is learnt.“Punjab had a different set of challenges because of the arrival of NRIs and labourers for farm and industrial sectors. Restrictions in movement also helped us in curbing the spread of virus as compared to other states,” said Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.STATE FOCUSES ON CONTACT TRACINGNearly 70% of Punjab’s total cases are the contacts of those having tested positive. As a preventive measure, the state has tested 10 people against each infected patient to break the infection chain. The health authorities claim that they have traced 99% of the contacts of every patient.“In cases, where patients don’t share their contacts, we take help of police and procure CDR reports of mobile phone of positive cases and trace their locations and contacts. Help of IIT Chennai is also being taken to get details of GPS locations of the positives,” an official said. Besides, the government has made it mandatory for every person visiting Punjab to get registered on the COVA app. Also, it is compulsory for every person coming from outside the state for more than 72 hours to quarantine themselves in their homes for 14 days.Since July 17 when curfew relaxation were announced, of the 2.34 lakh people who arrived in Punjab from different states and abroad, 75,148 (32%) were tested for Covid-19. Of these, 1, 353 were found infected with a positivity rate of 1.8%.HIGH CASE FATALITYAt 2.5%, the state high case fatality rate (CFR) continues to be a matter of concern as it is as high as the national average.From total 265 deaths the states has witnessed due to COVID, maximum were above sixty years of age. “This can be attributed to the high rate of co-morbidities among those infected in Punjab. Our analysis of Covid-19 deaths in the state has found that nearly 30% of fatalities were actually due to other serious illnesses the patients were suffering from. Covid was not the primary cause of their death,” Dr Bhaskar claimed.GEARING UP FOR THE WORSEWith the state’s daily case count touching 400, the government has now roped in private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients after capping treatment rates at these facilities.“We don’t know when the state will hit the pandemic peak. But we don’t want to take any chances. We are all prepared if the daily case count reaches 1,500,” said the nodal officer.The government has set-up a plasma bank at Rajindra Medical College Patiala for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/testing-contact-tracing-remain-key-focus-of-punjab/story-UbzK5G4QmAvSACsg7uKBLJ.html
22-07-2020||City||Public, private sector banks must provide self-employment loans to youth, says ADC Ashika Jain||Due to the situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic, many small and medium entrepreneurs suffered a setback; so to restart their business and to provide self-employment to unemployed youth, banks have to play a major role, opined Ashika Jain, additional deputy commissioner Mohali in a meeting held here on Tuesday through video conferencing with the district coordinators of all banks of the district.She urged all district coordinators to work for self-employment as a mission. Each bank was provided a target of 15 applications per branch including both the public sector and private sector banks. “We should all work for this mission and help people who can’t even keep their credit limit,” she said adding that banks have to develop a proactive approach towards it.The main agenda of video conferencing revolved around extending the ‘Mudra loans’. The state government is putting a lot of emphasis on it to provide self- employment loans to maximum youth.She said that all those who have applied for loans through the link (made by DBEE) must be considered with other applications (given directly to the banks). She asked all bank branches to submit the data according to the targets provided to them by the next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/public-private-sector-banks-must-provide-self-employment-loans-to-youth-says-adc-ashika-jain/story-msro7mzAktqn7H9zgRWZfP.html
22-07-2020||City||Rioters conspired to kill on phone groups: Court||New Delhi: The murder of a Muslim man during the riots that took place in north-east Delhi in February was part of a “well-planned” conspiracy plotted on a WhatsApp group by accused who were overcome by “bottomless stupidity of propaganda”, a Delhi court judge said on Tuesday while taking cognisance of the charge sheet against the 11 men who are accused in the case. The court also pulled up the Delhi Police for not invoking relevant sections despite the victims being targeted on the basis of religious identity. The police filed a charge sheet on June 4 in connection with the murder of Aamir Khan, whose body was found from a drain in Gokulpuri, naming 11 people and charging them with offences under sections 302 (murder), 144 (unlawful assembly), 147 and 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 201 (disappearance of evidence), 395 (dacoity), 396 (dacoity with murder), 427, 432 and 435 (mischief), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The offences entail a maximum punishment of death penalty. Taking cognisance of the charge sheet on Monday, chief metropolitan magistrate Purushottam Pathak said, “…it is prima facie revealed that there was a well-hatched conspiracy among the accused persons. Same is evident from the fact that in order to take revenge on Muslims, some youths of that area who failed to perceive the bottomless stupidity of the propaganda, they as saviours of their community created a WhatsApp group.”The court will next hear arguments on the framing of charges against the accused.The accused are Lokesh Kumar Solanki, Pankaj Sharma, Sumit Chaudhary, Ankit Chaudhary, Prince, Rishabh Chaudhary, Jatin Sharma, Vivek Panchal, Himanshu Thakur, Pawan Kumar and Lalit Kumar.According to the charge sheet, a caller informed the police control room on February 26 that he had gone to Bhagirathi Vihar to search for his missing bike.He saw a mob at the spot, armed with stones, sticks, swords and iron rods, and they were allegedly shouting religious slogans.The police said in the charge sheet, quoting the PCR caller, that the mob allegedly stopped two persons on a bike and killed them after establishing that they were Muslims. The mob threw their bodies in the drain, the police said. During investigation, the police said, the officers noted that three people were following the inspecting team around the crime scene. The investigators interrogated them and checked their mobile phones. It was found they were members of a WhatsApp group named ‘’Kattar Hindu Ekta’’. According to the charge sheet, when the members of the group were rounded up, the PCR caller, who is also the witness in the case, identified the 11 accused — all members of the group — as being part of the mob that killed Aamir. “It has been found that the common object of the unlawful assembly was not only to kill but also to destroy all evidence of that crime... There cannot be any doubt that the accused who killed Aamir Khan were certainly up to their neck in the conspiracy and were thus very active members of the unlawful assembly,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rioters-conspired-to-kill-on-phone-groups-court/story-meBtnnluWyLPbUSextWi0I.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab local bodies dept allows building plans for independent floors||The state local bodies department on Tuesday gave the go-ahead for building plans for independent floors under the Punjab Municipal Building Byelaws, 2018, and subsequent amendments.Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra said instructions have been issued to all the urban local bodies (ULBs) for implementation of the same.“This decision will give a big relief to the small builders besides helping the department fetch more than ₹60 crore in revenue to be paid by the builders. This will surely boost the economy of the state as well as the small builders who are facing financial crunch due to Covid-19,” said Mohindra. He said the matter was taken up at the government level and it was found that some urban bodies were not clearing the building plans of ground plus three and stilt plus four floors citing the July 2019 order.In this regard it is now clarified that there is no ban on these building plans and they will be given clearance in accordance with Punjab Municipal Building Byelaws, 2018. Also, he said there was no ban on ground plus two, ground plus three floors.The charges for external development and change of land use (CLU) as well as processing fee shall be the same, it is claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-local-bodies-dept-allows-building-plans-for-independent-floors/story-k11lLU6lHdcu0oJV3a9l5O.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi varsity fiscal crisis deepens, finance minister to chair meet today||With the financial crisis of Punjabi University, Patiala, deepening every month as it struggles to meet its committed expenditures like payment of salaries and pensions, state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal will chair a high-level meeting on the issue on Wednesday.The university officials led by vice-chancellor Prof BS Ghuman besides secretary-level officials of the higher education, and finance departments will be part of the meeting.“The varsity has demanded Rs 21 crore from the state finance department as part of the monthly grant. But the department refused to sanction the grant after the Punjab accountant general found glaring financial anomalies in the varsity’s functioning,” said an official.Last year, in an attempt to bail the varsity out of the financial crunch, the state government had increased its annual grant from Rs 88 crore to Rs 93.37 crore. Even in this year’s annual budget, the finance minister had announced 6% increase in the annual grant for the varsity.“The meeting has been called to discuss the audit report related to financial anomalies besides preparing a roadmap to financially boost the university. Moreover, the discussion on providing immediate grant will be held,” an official said.The department of higher education has directed the university to submit a detailed report on the findings of the audit report by July 31.As per budgetary proposals for this fiscal, the varsity expects an income of ₹380 crore, while the expenditure is pegged at ₹676 crore, leaving a massive ₹296-crore deficit. The university also has an overdraft of ₹140 crore, which is expected to touch ₹150 crore by the end of the year.Varsity registrar Prof Yograj said the agenda of the meeting could not be disclosed as only the V-C could comment on it.Prof Ghuman could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjabi-varsity-fiscal-crisis-deepens-finance-minister-to-chair-meet-today/story-orhiDJLUhpDFHq7DEQjf4M.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dhankar to take charge as Haryana BJP chief on July 23 in Rohtak||Om Prakash Dhankar, the newly appointed president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Haryana, will assume charge in Rohtak on July 23, an official spokesperson of the party said. The BJP’s central leadership on Sunday appointed former agriculture minister Dhankar as the state chief, replacing Subhash Barala, who had completed his term. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the state BJP affairs incharge Anil Jain, outgoing state party chief Subhash Barala, MPs and MLAs of the party will attend Dhankar’s coronation on Thursday at the party office in Rohtak. Meanwhile, on Tuesday evening chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar chaired a meeting of BJP legislature party in Chandigarh and accorded welcome to Dhankar on his elevation. Besides, the MLAs, a section of BJP MPs were also present. Khattar and Barala felicitated Dhankar on this occasion. In his address Dhankar said he was committed to expand the base of the party cadre and educate people about policies and programmes of the state government. Khattar said there has been a very good coordination between the party and the government and expressed confidence that this will not only continue but also improve further under the dynamic leadership of Dhankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dhankar-to-take-charge-as-haryana-bjp-chief-on-july-23-in-rohtak/story-QRATuNC9e0tViGBNeMWKSN.html
22-07-2020||Mumbai||State govt to hold hearing on Metro Bhavan online||Owing to the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak, the state is looking to conduct an online public hearing on the proposed 27-storey Metro Bhavan in Aarey colony.The state invited suggestions and objections, on the change in land-use for 2.03 hectare (ha) of land in the contested Aarey area from green zone to ‘Metro Bhavan and Metro rail allied users’ last year in August .In February, HT reported that despite 2,563 objections filed by citizens, the state is yet to conduct a hearing on the issue.“We are looking to conduct the hearing next week, after which we will submit a report to the state government,” said AB Patil, deputy director of town planning.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is executing the Metro lines , planned a central operation and control centre on the 2-ha plot at Aarey. The basement-plus-27-floor building will be constructed at ₹1,033 crore.The decision to construct Metro Bhavan in Aarey also stands on a sticky ground for the current regime. After assuming office in November 2019, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray stalled the Metro-3 car-shed construction at Aarey, stating that no more trees will be cut in the green lung for the project. However, the state did not made its stance clear on the Metro Bhavan plan. Environmentalist Zoru Bhathena, in his objection to the proposed building said no land-use change can be proposed in a green zone without the Centre’s prior permission. “MMRDA has hectares and hectares of its own vacant land across Mumbai, which can be used to build the Bhavan. There is no need to destroy a natural area for the purpose,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/year-after-inviting-suggestions-maharashtra-government-to-hold-hearing-for-metro-bhavan-online/story-Qh7a2FUwgb9keBgooZhnYO.html
22-07-2020||Noida||Engineer held in connection with theft of mobile parts from phone manufacturer||An engineer with a multi-national mobile phone manufacturer was arrested by the Noida police on Tuesday for alleged involvement in stealing mobile parts worth at least ₹80 lakh from the company.The police identified the suspect as Vikas Kumar Garg (35), an engineer with the original equipment manufacturing department of the mobile manufacturer. According to the police, the suspect would facilitate the stealing of the mobile parts when they would be transported to the company’s warehouse.The incident had first come to fore on July 18 when a company official had filed a complaint with the Phase 2 police alleging that for the past four months, mobile parts were going missing from the company’s warehouse. A case was registered against unidentified persons based on the complaint.On July 19, a resident of Delhi, Gaurav Sikka, was arrested by Noida police from his shop in Ghaffar market in Delhi while stolen parts like displays, chargers, back covers, were recovered from him, the police said. He would purchase parts from the suspect and his accomplices at reduced prices, said the police.Three other people, including a driver, were also arrested from Eldeco crossing on July 19 and 18 boxes of mobile display unit were recovered from them along with a car and ₹20.5 lakh cash which they had accumulated after selling stolen goods, the police said. One of them worked with a private firm providing electrical parts to the phone manufacturer.“During questioning and further investigation, Garg’s involvement in the entire operation came to light,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.Police officers said that vehicles transporting merchandise from the company’s plant to the warehouses are sealed, and Garg was responsible for overseeing the process. He had allegedly stolen a few of these seals and kept them at his house.“While the vehicles would leave for the warehouses, the suspects would add a few extra boxes inside the consignment. Garg would send the stolen seal to the driver, Ashok, who would then break the original seal, remove the extra boxes and then put s stolen seal on the vehicle,” said the DCP.On directions from Garg, such vehicle seals were recovered from his house in Alpha 2 in Greater Noida.The suspect was booked under sections 406, 411 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.“We are questioning him to find out how long the operation had been going on for and how much money they have accumulated” said Chander.Though police officers were not sure how long Garg had been employed with the company, they said that he was an old employee.When contacted, officials from the company did not comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/engineer-held-in-connection-with-theft-of-mobile-parts-from-phone-manufacturer/story-66iJO5hO4MBNRYEALlatcI.html
22-07-2020||Mumbai||Delay in competitive exams may increase demand for BA, BCom, BSc||With uncertainty regarding the scheduling of entrance exams for professional courses due to the Covid-19 outbreak, several aspirants for these courses are now likely to seek admissions to vanilla courses like Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Commerce ( BCom) and Bachelor of Science (BSc), say experts.Entrance exams like the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) have been pushed to September due to the pandemic. Traditionally, students who appear for these exams get their scores around the same time as the Class 12 results.“Since colleges are starting their admissions process this week, many students will want to secure a seat for BSc as a back-up,” said Subhash Joshi, trustee, Science Parivar, a chain of coaching institutes in the city. Joshi said that this might also increase the overall cut-offs for these courses, as many top scorers who wish to take up professional courses will first apply to city colleges.Kiran Mangaonkar, principal, GN Khalsa College, Matunga, said that the number of students opting for the BSc course has been on the rise for the past three-four years. “Many students are seeing better job opportunities after BSc compared to engineering, and have therefore been opting for vanilla courses over professional ones. In the current situation, more students, including engineering and medical aspirants, might end up securing a seat in BSc or BSc-IT courses in university-affiliated colleges until they bag a seat in the professional course and institute of their choice. “There is also a chance that these students may cancel their admissions once they are allotted a seat in the professional courses,” Mangaonkar added.Sanjana Ramnath, an 18-year-old student, cleared her HSC exams in the Arts stream from Jai Hind College with 94.3% and was among the top three scorers in the stream this year. While her original plan was to appear for the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) and secure a seat in one of the top law colleges, she now plans to postpone this dream by a year. “The current situation seems very uncertain, and the constant delays in conducting entrance exams and eventual admissions will affect academics as well. I want to avoid that,” said Ramnath, who now plans to apply for a seat in the Bachelor of Arts (BA) course at a good college, and apply for CLAT in 2021 instead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/delay-in-competitive-exams-may-increase-demand-for-ba-bcom-bsc/story-yU7Y1iLBVnELo5rvcnjTbP.html
22-07-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud: PMLA court rejects Rana Kapoor’s bail plea||A special Prevention of Money Laundering (PMLA) court on Tuesday rejected the bail plea filed by Rana Kapoor, Yes bank founder, former chairman and managing director, who has been booked for alleged money laundering by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).ED arrested Kapoor on March 8 and produced him before the special PMLA court. He was remanded in ED custody till March 11 and later sent to judicial custody.Kapoor’s advocates had pleaded that investigation in the case has been completed as a charge sheet was filed against him. They further pleaded that the case was based on documentary evidence which has already been collected by the agency, and hence there was no harm in granting him bail.ED, however, argued that the probe had not concluded and that Kapoor could tamper with the evidence and influence witnesses. The special court, after hearing both the sides, rejected the bail plea.ED had initiated a probe into allegations of money laundering after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered two cases of corruption against Kapoor in March. In one first information report (FIR), the bureau alleged that Yes Bank had invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) between April and June 2018. In return, Kapoor was allegedly paid ‘kickbacks’ amounting to ₹600 crore by DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan. DHFL sanctioned a loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises in which Kapoor’s wife Bindu is a director and 100% shareholder, alleged CBI. Kapoor’s daughters, Rakhee Kapoor Tandon, Roshni Kapoor, and Radha Kapoor, are also 100% shareholders in DoIT Urban Ventures. Based on the case registered by CBI, ED began its probe into allegations of money laundering by Kapoor.In the second case, CBI alleged that Kapoor and his wife bought a bungalow from Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar at a much lower price than its valuation. In the past, Thapar had mortgaged the bungalow for a corporate loan of ₹600 crore, but he sold it for ₹380 crore to Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd in which Kapoor’s wife was a director at the time.After the probe, ED filed a charge sheet against Kapoor, his wife, and their three daughters for money laundering. After the charge sheet was filed, Kapoor’s lawyers moved a bail plea on the merits of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-pmla-court-rejects-rana-kapoor-s-bail-plea/story-20e06i6m64V1R2bLSmmkMP.html
22-07-2020||Mumbai||Infra to hit 1.2K trees: ‘How can we send objections during lockdown?’||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) last month proposed to cut and transplant approximately 1,282 trees in Mumbai for various infrastructure projects, including the Metro, road works and the construction of Goregaon-Mulund Link Road (GMLR). Activists have complained that citizens were not able to submit their responses and objections to these proposals due to the lockdown.Since June 6, BMC has been issuing public notices for cutting trees in the city. Prior to this, the last public notice for cutting trees was issued on March 18. In a public noticed issued on June 9, BMC sought suggestions and objections from citizens over cutting and transplanting 1,282 trees. The last day for submissions and suggestions was June 19.According to the notice, around 320 trees are affected by the various Metro projects in the city; 326 trees are affected by road works; 146 trees are affected by the Railways’ stabling yard; and 382 trees are affected by GMLR. Among the major projects, tree cutting has been proposed for Metro line 6, Metro line 2-B and GMLR. Thirty-five trees will be cut and 169 transplanted for Metro line 6. Sixty-five trees will be cut and 51 transplanted for Metro Line 2-B. For GMLR, 103 trees will be cut and 279 will be transplanted.However, citizens and environmental activists have said that since BMC issued its tree-cutting notice during the lockdown, few were aware of it. Activist Zoru Bhathena said, “Notices are being issued during the lockdown and citizens are not able to get the information. Also, if citizens come to know about the same, one cannot go and visit the site to give suggestions or objections. On one hand, BMC is saying ‘do not go out for non-essential work’, and on other hand, they are bringing these notices. This does not fall under the essential category unless there is an urgency to cut or transplant a few trees.” Bhathena has said that he will be submitting suggestions and objections, and if these are not considered, he may explore legal options. Earlier, in the first week of July, another city -based environmental activist Kunal Birwadkar had written to BMC, urging the civic body to stop cutting trees during lockdown as citizens cannot lodge their objections due to travel advisories.An official from BMC’s garden department, requesting anonymity, said, “We are doing the exercise in a very transparent manner by uploading the public notices on the website.”Jitendra Pardeshi, chief of BMC’s garden department, was not available for comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/infra-to-hit-1-2k-trees-how-can-we-send-objections-during-lockdown/story-w1AwSdSikjHLwdcIEYVBfM.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt orders legal proceedings against DU over governing bodies in funded colleges||Education minister Manish Sisodia on Monday ordered the directorate of higher education to initiate legal proceedings against Delhi University for not responding to correspondence over the formation of governing bodies (GBs) in colleges partially or fully-funded by the Delhi government . This is the first time the Delhi government is initiating legal proceedings against the central varsity.The role of governing bodies includes taking all decisions for the smooth functioning of a college, such as the appointment of teaching and non-teaching staff. The 10-member governing bodies in these colleges have people nominated by both the university and the Delhi government. For over a year now, the Delhi government and the university have been engaged in a tussle over the formation of GBs in 28 colleges.In the order issued on Monday, Sisodia said the university had not sent a complete panel of names to the colleges concerned despite reminders to forward the names of six Delhi government nominees.On March 13 this year, DU’s executive council recommended sending these names back to the state government for reconsideration. A week later, the government said these six names were to be continued. On May 13, the university forwarded a list of nominees to colleges, except the six names in contention.“..Despite repeated reminders directing the University of Delhi to send the six names of nominees of Delhi government to the concerned colleges, namely Lakshmibai College, Kalindi College, Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Aditi College, Maharishi Valmiki College of Education, and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, the university has not sent a complete panel of names to the concerned colleges,” Sisodia wrote in Monday’s order.“Not just this, a few of these colleges have initiated the process of the election of the chairperson even in the absence of a complete panel. This seems to indicate a conspiracy to cover up corruption in these colleges. Since DU has not responded to the repeated correspondence of the Delhi government, the Directorate of Higher Education should move legal proceedings against the University of Delhi,” deputy CM ordered.The tenure of the GBs in 28 Delhi government colleges ended last year and these have not been reconstituted since. “Colleges are functioning with truncated governing bodies since March 2019,” the order read. Two months ago, on May 26, Sisodia had written to vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi, alleging that the university was deliberately delaying the formation of GBs in 28 Delhi government-funded colleges to shield corrupt officials.The vice-chancellor could not be contacted despite attempts.DU Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said, “Out of 140 names, the university cleared 134. Only six names are facing certain objections from some quarters. When these were forwarded to the government for reconsideration, the government sent back the names and then the Covid-19 crisis struck. No EC meeting could be held thereafter. If the names have to be passed, it will be through the EC, which has the power to take a call on the names.” Pratyush Vatsala, principal of Lakshmibai College, said, “The university had already forwarded us the names of the panel except for one name that was dropped. The Delhi government nominee had approached court, asking for a stay on the elections and the court directed that we could conduct the GB elections to ensure day-to-day functioning is not affected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-orders-legal-proceedings-against-du-over-gbs-in-funded-colleges/story-wZEBpq7zMzair2QfHSL2mN.html
22-07-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai releases admission schedule for UG degree courses||The University of Mumbai (MU) on Tuesday released the admission schedule for undergraduate degree courses, less than a week after the last of the Class 12 results were announced.Keeping in mind the current situation, the university has asked students to submit a declaration form along with their pre-admission registration form to the allotted college in order to confirm their admissions. The colleges, in turn, have been asked to give provisional admission to students and confirm the same after the applicant submits a hard copy of the mark-sheet and all other necessary documents later.“All colleges shall provide an online system in order to avoid the physical presence of students. Colleges in Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Palghar, where an online system is difficult to implement, can ask students to visit the college campus, provided they ensure social distancing norms are adhered to,” said a statement released by the university on Tuesday.While the pre-admission registration process is already underway, applicants have till August 4 to complete this process, following which the first merit list will be announced at 7pm.While the university is positive that admissions will be conducted smoothly, colleges are worried about the chaos that will ensue once students start submitting hard copies of original documents for admission confirmation. “Every year, several students don’t get admission in quotas because they don’t have appropriate documents to support themselves. This year, if we give provisional admission without checking documents, many students might end up losing the seat when they finally have to submit documents. The university needs to address this problem,” said the principal of a suburban college.University officials, however, said that such problems can be avoided if colleges take extra care while proofing documents submitted online. “Students, for the time being, can complete the entire admissions process online, which includes submission of a scanned copy of all necessary documents. Colleges need to be extra careful about screening documents and accepting fees online before giving provisional admission to the student. The submission of hard copies later will be a simple procedure,” said an official from MU.BOX*Sale of admission forms (colleges to make it available online): July 24 to August 4*Pre-admission online forms: July 22 to August 4 (up to 1pm)*Submission of admission forms along with a copy of pre-admission form (in-house and minority quota admissions to be completed in this period): July 27 to August 4*First merit list: August 4 (7pm)*Verification of documents and payment of fees: August 5 to August 10 (up to 3pm)*Second merit list: August 10 (7pm)*Verification of documents and payment of fees: August 11 to August 17 (up to 3pm)*Third merit list: August 17 (7pm)*Verification of documents and payment of fees: August 18 to August 21(up to 3pm)Link for online pre-admission registration is available on mum.digitaluniversity.ac||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-releases-admission-schedule-for-ug-degree-courses/story-yY1iqN1vF0xYLrCcg92rPJ.html
22-07-2020||Patna||With 11 more deaths, Bihar’s Covid-19 toll rises to 198; cases breach 28k-mark||The Bihar government decided to test all the people in high-risk containment zones as the number of Covid-19 cases rose to 28,564 after 1,109 new infections were reported on Tuesday , with 11 more deaths taking the state toll to 198.Three deaths were reported from Patna, two each from Lakhisarai and Bhojpur and one each from Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda and Saran.Five deaths were also reported from Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) and four from the AIIMS-Patna.Of the five deaths at NMCH, two were from Patna and one each from Motihari, Rohtas and Saran, said Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the NMCH. All the deceased had co-morbid conditions.Three of the four deaths at AIIMS were from Patna and one from Bhojpur, said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the institution.Meanwhile, information and public relations department secretary Anupam Kumar said during the media briefing that the state has sufficient number of beds. “We have sufficient number of hospital beds and most of the infected patients are recovering, so there’s nothing to panic. If need be, we will increase the number of beds as we have sufficient capacity,” he said.The government had decided to attach the Guru Gobind Singh hospital with the NMCH and the ESIC hospital in Bihta with the AIIMS in its endeavour to increase hospital beds for Covid-19 patients.He said chief secretary Deepak Kumar, presiding over the core group meeting on Tuesday, had asked the health department to increase the number of hospital beds, with proper facility like oxygen supply and ventilator support.He said health workers were monitoring the condition of asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients who were in home isolation.Kumar said the government had also decided to test all high risk group people, including senior citizens, those having co-morbidity and pregnant women, in containment zones.Rapid Antigen testing launched in 38 districtsIn an effort to ramp up testing, Bihar would move from target-based to demand-based testing. It initiated rapid antigen point of care (POC) test across all 38 districts on Tuesday, while committing itself to extend the facility to primary health centres by the end of this week.“After having initiated testing at 25 facilities in Patna, besides using five mobile vans also, we will now begin testing in our five sub-divisional hospitals shortly,” said Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi.Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, having facility to isolate themselves from other members of the family, are only being allowed home isolation, said Bihar’s health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh during the joint media briefing. He said health workers are regularly monitoring their condition and shifting patients to Covid care centres if their condition deteriorates.In addition to the three dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the state — one each at Patna, Gaya and Bhagalpur— the government had also decided to allocate 100 beds in separate block at each of its other six hospitals in the state.He said the government had laid down a referral protocol from district Covid care centres, where medium cases would be admitted to those in medical colleges. He also said health workers in district hospitals would be trained in management of Covid-19 cases by giving them oxygen.Singh said 1,206 patients had recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 18,741, with a recovery rate of 65.61%.Meanwhile, the central team, which visited Bihar on Sunday, was critical of the unfettered movement in Rajeev Nagar locality, which was a buffer zone after the entire stretch between road numbers 1 and 22 had been marked as containment zone. The team, which found lack of police personnel and unhindered movement of public besides vegetable and fruit vendors in the area, called for better access control in containment zones.Of the 2,584 containment zones in the state, Patna had 83. While 1,931 containment zones were in rural area, 653 were in urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/with-11-more-deaths-bihar-s-covid-19-toll-rises-to-198-cases-breach-28k-mark/story-EH9ap0uT8E4i5Kpr3TnbGL.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Now, JV companies can bid for Sec-13 water supply project||Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL) on Wednesday decided to allow joint-venture companies to bid in tenders for the 24x7 water supply project in Sector 13 (Manimajra).CSCL had earlier failed to get bidders for the ₹160-crore project. A tender will be floated again to kick start the project in a week’s time. The decision was taken as no company had come forward to bid for the project.The technical committee of the CSCL decided in favour of the proposal to allow joint-venture companies, negating the earlier policy allowing only single companies. Under the project, 13,700 water connections are to provide fresh supply lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-now-jv-companies-can-bid-for-sec-13-water-supply-project/story-Cuy7XcU5xbmBIBVkfzXtkM.html
22-07-2020||City||DDA gets 12,000 applications for ownership rights under PM-UDAY||New Delhi: The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has received nearly 12,000 applications under PM-UDAY for ownership rights from residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in the Capital since March 22, when the lockdown was imposed due to the coronavirus pandemic. This is more than double the number of applications the land-owning agency had received in the first three months after the scheme was launched in December 2019.The Pradhan Mantri Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana (PM-UDAY) – one of the main poll planks of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the Delhi assembly elections — is aimed at benefiting four million people living in 1,731 unauthorised colonies in the Capital.DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “We are working on streamlining the system so that more applications can be processed at the earliest. For this, we are planning to rope in more field surveyors. We are also roping in an agency to provide an alternate way to register under the scheme. Currently, people can either fill the application online on their own or through our five processing centres. This will be an alternate way. We are also sending messages to RWAs in unauthorised colonies telling them about the process.”According to DDA officials, the land-owning agency has received 11,922 applications from property owners between March 21 and July 17, 2020. Just 4,573 people had submitted their applications between December 16, 2019 (when the scheme was launched) and March 20, 2020. “Due to Covid-19, the field survey process was put on hold while we were accepting applications online. We have further simplified the online process due to which there was a huge jump in the number of applications,” said a senior DDA official.But the process to clear the applications has been rather slow. DDA officials say that while they are receiving the applications online, they couldn’t process it due to the lockdown. “The process to clear application involves a physical survey of the property, which was stopped during the Covid-19 lockdown. We resumed the field survey in June. More than 600 properties have been surveyed. We are trying to expedite the process,” said a DDA official.In the last eight months, 938 property owners have been given either conveyance deeds or authorisation slips of which 251 were cleared after June 1. A DDA official said, “Even now, we have instructed the field teams to follow all norms and guidelines issued by the Centre and the Delhi government regarding Covid-19 while doing the measurement of the property. We are not processing the applications which are in containment zones right now.”As part of the process to get ownership rights, property owners from the 1,731 unauthorised colonies have to first register on the website for PM-UDAY, which is managed by the DDA, and then submit an application along with his/her property documents. While the number of applications received by the DDA has increased during the lockdown period, the registration has dropped significantly. After document verification, a team is sent to the spot to carry out measurement and assessment of the property. A conveyance deed or authorisation slip is issued to the owner based on the field report and after payment made by the owner. Based on the conveyance deed or authorisation slip, a property owner can get the property registered with the Delhi government’s revenue department.The scheme is aimed at benefitting roughly one million households, but so far just 2.77 lakh property owners have registered on the portal. Between March 21 and July 17, as many as 23, 374 people had registered on the portal as against 2.5 lakh people before the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dda-gets-12-000-applications-for-ownership-rights-under-pm-uday/story-cZxV5YG5YWs5CQNdkTWSeI.html
22-07-2020||Mumbai||Only 28% stock in seven lakes supplying water to Mumbai||Despite heavy rain over the past month, the water stock in the seven lakes supplying water to Mumbai was just 28% on July 21, which could last 109 days. The stock was 52.88% of its full capacity on July 21, 2019, and in 2018, it was even better, with 78% stock recorded on the same day. Though there has been good rainfall in the city, the catchment areas of the lakes and dams have not received much rainfall, said civic officials. Mumbai gets its water from the lakes and dams located in the city as well as the neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. According to the estimates, the city has water supply for around 109 days, with about two months of monsoon remaining. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, they are closely monitoring the situation, and no decision on water cuts has been taken for Mumbai considering the ongoing crisis due to Covid-19. According to data shared by BMC, the seven lakes have 4.08 lakh million litres of water or 28.55% as recorded on Tuesday, against the full capacity, which is around 14.47 lakh million litres. The Bhatsa dam, which caters to 55% of the city’s total water requirement, stood at 32.17% of the total capacity compared to 48.60% at this time in 2019.The lakes and dam reservoirs that supply drinking water to Mumbai are Tulsi, Tansa, Vihar, Bhatsa, Modak Sagar, Upper Vaitarna, and Middle Vaitarna. The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems – the Vaitarna system which supplies water to the western suburbs and the island city, and the Bhatsa system which supplies water to the eastern suburbs. Ajay Rathod, chief engineer of BMC’s hydraulics department, said that the civic body is hopeful that rains will help inprove the water levels, “There is no plan to impose water cuts for now. We have time till August. The level in the lakes supplying water to Mumbai is less because not much rainfall has been recorded in these catchment areas, though there was good rainfall in the city.”Whenever there is shortage of water, BMC issues water cuts starting from 10%. According to BMC officials, despite there being a lockdown imposed, and a large number of commercial establishments, schools, colleges, and offices were shut, the city’s water demand did not go down significantly. “We have noticed that the consumption of water in the residential category has increased this year owing to people being home during the lockdown. So, in a way it has covered up to meet annual consumption every year by the city,” said a BMC official.Of the total required rainfall for the year, 15% is expected in June, 35% in July and August, followed by 15% in September. The civic body manages to supply 3,750 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-28-stock-in-seven-lakes-supplying-water-to-mumbai/story-Uhvf3uQqa7HAnNiXgGn5wN.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal announces scheme to deliver ration at doorstep of card holders in 6-7 months||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced the Mukhyamantri Ghar-Ghar Ration Yojana, a scheme in which the Aam AadmI Party (AAP) government aims to provide ration at the doorstep of 1.85 million households by next six-seven months. “The Delhi cabinet today (Tuesday) cleared the scheme on doorstep delivery of ration. It will be named Mukhyamantri Ghar-Ghar Ration Yojana. Under the scheme, ration will be processed, packed and delivered at doorstep of beneficiaries. The scheme will be fully implemented in 6-7 months. This is the amount of time that is needed for floating tenders and engaging agencies which would help in implementation,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing.With the doorstep delivery scheme, the Delhi government will also implement the central government’s ‘one nation, one ration card policy’, which makes the whole ration system more portable, the Delhi CM said. The ‘one nation, one ration card’ policy would benefit beneficiaries who are registered in Delhi to avail ration in other states and vice-versa. The Delhi government already delivers nearly 70 services at the doorstep of citizens under the doorstep delivery schemes. People could just call on the centralised number -- 1076-- and place a service request. The services include the issuance of certificates (caste, income, domicile, delayed birth order; duplicate registration certificate of the vehicle, transfer of vehicle ownership), and new water and sewer connections, among others.The chief minister said that ration beneficiaries will have to choose between doorstep delivery and the traditional way of collecting ration from the designated fair price shops. “Those who opt for the doorstep scheme will get processed flour instead of wheat,” said Kejriwal, calling the scheme a “revolutionary step” in governance.As per government records, Delhi currently has around 7.5 million ration beneficiaries and 2,028 designated fair price shops. The Delhi government on Monday directed all fair price shops in the city to update their contact and Aadhaar details for the doorstep ration delivery scheme. The order, which HT has seen, further said the government also plans to re-introduce the electronic point of sales (e-PoS) system for ration distribution.As per the plan, e-PoS(electronic point of sale) devices will be given to all the 2,028 fair price shops in Delhi and also to agents who would deliver the monthly ration at the doorstep of card holders. The process includes entering the ration card number into the device, followed by the biometrics (fingerprint scanning) of the beneficiary or entering the Aadhaar card details. Once the details are matched with the database, the ration will be disbursed to the beneficiary.The Delhi government had stopped using e-PoS since April 2018, in the wake of a large number of complaints concerning inconvenience in availing ration owing to technical glitches that also entailed a tussle between the elected government and top bureaucrats in the food department. “By now, we have got all e-PoS machines checked and the technical glitches have been resolved. Delhi has 100% Aadhaar seeding of its ration card holder. We can start using e-PoS again,” said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified.The Delhi government was supposed to launch the doorstep ration delivery scheme in March 2018 but could not do so because of some administrative issues. “Later, in 2019, the government initiated a pilot project off doorstep delivery in around five (out of 272) municipal wards in the city and some glitches were identified. All issues have been resolved now and we are in a position to launch the scheme at the earliest,” said a senior official in the food and civil supplies department who did not wish to be identified.HT had reported in May about Kejriwal directing the food and civil supplies department to restart the Delhi government’s flagship project of doorstep delivery of ration using electronic point of sale (e-PoS) devices. The direction came after Union food minister Ram Vilas Paswan wrote to Kejriwal, urging Delhi to implement the Centre’s ‘one nation, one ration’ card policy.Paswan’s letter came at a time when the Capital witnessed large-scale reverse migration of the labour force in the light of the lockdown that was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19.“A scheme on doorstep delivery of ration can help the government tackle mismanagement and irregularities in the public distribution system, which ultimately lead to people being deprived of their basic rights -- subsidised food items in this case. The scheme, if implemented effectively, can also put checks on potential hoarding. From the point of view of the beneficiaries, it provides a convenient option for availing ration, especially if the card holders are elderly people, pregnant women, persons with disability, etc. However, the government should consider involving civil rights groups in the process, which will help in making it more inclusive and efficient,” said Sunil Kumar Aledia, executive director at the Centre for Holistic Development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-announces-scheme-to-deliver-ration-at-doorstep-of-card-holders-in-6-7-months/story-ecmZO8HAF7qX325PP1kFHM.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||Traffic jams add to misery of daily commuters in Delhi||Heavy downpour Monday night and during the day on Tuesday led to massive waterlogging yet again in many parts of the city, triggering traffic jams. A portion of road caved in on Bhairon Marg and near ITO bus stand, adding to traffic snarls on arterial roads such as Mathura Road, Ring Road, Vikas Marg, Sarai Kale Khan and parts of central and New Delhi. Massive waterlogging was reported from Ring Road near Indraprastha Metro station, Bhairon Marg rail underbridge, Sarai Kale Khan main road, ITO, Laxmi Nagar, Lado Sarai, Gautam Nagar, near Dhaula Kuan underpass on Ring Road, Bihari Colony, Wazirabad Road, near Rajdhani College, Najafgarh main road, Sector-4 and 23 in Rohini, Shastri Nagar, Shalimar Bagh, Patel Nagar, Paschim Vihar and Mangolpuri rail underbridge.Moderate to heavy rain on Sunday and Monday also caused waterlogging, which has become a regular problem during monsoon. On Sunday, a tempo driver had drowned in the flooded Minto Bridge underpass.  Public Works Department (PWD) and municipal officials said temporary pumps were immediately put in place to clear the roads. However, the authorities had to toil hard to clear stagnant water from the stretch between Indraprastha Metro station and Vikas Minar on Ring Road.“Due to damage to the Anna Nagar slum drain, we have been facing problems in pumping out water from the area as it backflows on the Ring Road service road near WHO building, Azad Bhawan and even spills on the ITO road. The SDMC is repairing the drain and waterlogging cannot completely be fixed until the drain is fully repaired. Stormwater from around the ITO area is discharged in this drain only,” a senior PWD official said.The Delhi traffic police, in a statement, said that because of heavy waterlogging on Ring Road near the WHO building, severe traffic snarls were witnessed on the Bhairon Marg leading to Mathura Road. Apart from the ongoing construction work on the stretch, a road cave-in ensured it remained out of bounds for traffic. “Because of the cave-in and the heavy traffic volume on the stretch, we had to divert vehicles coming from Akshardham towards Sarai Kale Khan to further go through Barapullah and those coming from the Ashram side towards Akshardham to take the Geeta Colony flyover via Pushta Road,” joint commissioner of police (traffic) Narendra Singh Bundela said on Tuesday.The department also issued an advisory for drivers coming from the Ashram side to take the DND flyway, Mayur Vihar, Noida Link Road, Akshardham and Pushta Road. No vehicle will be allowed towards ITO from Nizamuddin (TILL WHEN?).Sumitra Atreya, a resident of Noida, said since the traffic was diverted onto the DND and Noida link road, commuters faced a harrowing time on Tuesday evening. “Traffic on that stretch is already diverted because of the ongoing construction at the Ashram intersection. Traffic didn’t move at all for 20 minutes and there was no policeman to direct the traffic,” she said.Traffic holdups were also reported from Moti Bagh, Munirka, Rajouri Garden, Sarojini Nagar (on the Ring Road), Mathura Road (near Apollo), Sagarpur, and Ring Road near Delhi Cantt Metro station. The heavy rain also led to collapse of portions of six buildings and at least 16 trees being uprooted. PWD minister Satyendar Jain said 1,500 pumps – including mobile pumps – have been deployed across the city to prevent waterlogging. Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev held an emergency meeting on Monday on the city’s monsoon preparedness plan. The chief secretary said that the head of the departments (HoDs) of the agencies responsible for tackling monsoon related problems will be held responsible for any lapsesExperts have said the multiplicity of authority in managing drainage and roads is the primary reason behind the annual monsoon misery. At least 11 agencies — PWD, the three civic bodies, Delhi Development Authority, irrigation and flood control, New Delhi Municipal Council and Delhi Cantonment Board — are responsible for de-silting of drains alongside roads under their jurisdiction. Govt announces compensation The Delhi government will be providing financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh to the family of a 56-year-old man who drowned while trying to manoeuvre his mini-truck through a waterlogged underpass following heavy rains in the city, the Aam Aadmi Party said on Monday.Kundan Singh, survived by his wife and two daughters, was driving a Tata Ace from the New Delhi Railway Station to Connaught Place when he got stuck under the waterlogged Minto Bridge in central Delhi on Sunday.“The Delhi government is providing financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh to the family of deceased Kundan Singh, who lost his life in the unfortunate incident near Minto Bridge,” the official account of the Aam Aadmi Party tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-traffic-jams-add-to-misery-of-daily-commuters/story-05V0quFeju1etgyVANXhcN.html
22-07-2020||Gurugram||Nearly 26% Covid-19 deaths in Gurugram reported in people above 61||Patients over the age of 61 years account for 26% of Gurugram’s Covid-related deaths, according to the data compiled by the district health department. Officials said that they have been able to manage the fatality rate by focusing on treating patients with mild or moderate symptoms and preventing them from turning into critical patients requiring ICU care and ventilation support.Till Tuesday, the Covid-19 toll in Gurugram stood at 116, out of which 92 are men and 24 women. Data shows that the maximum Covid-19 toll is reported in the 61-70 age group, with 30 people succumbing to the illness. At least 22 deaths were reported in the age group of 71-80 years. Eighteen people were in the age group of 51-60 years and at least 16 each were in the age groups of 31-40 and 41-50. One death each has been reported in the age groups of 21-30 years and 91-100.As reported by HT earlier, of the total number of Covid-19 related deaths, 45% had co-morbidities, such as diabetes, hypertension or Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). However, the health department is yet to figure out how many victims belonging to the age group of 61-70 had co-morbidities and how far their pre-existing health conditions had contributed to the fatality.According to the USA-based Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, older people are at a higher risk of developing complications due to Covid-19 infection. As such, they need to take extra precautions.Earlier this week, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO), in a press meet, had said that most of these deaths in the city are due to co-morbidities, especially hypertension. “The health department is taking a slew of measures to keep the fatality rate down. Pulse-oximeter, an equipment to calculate the oxygen level in the body, is being provided to the Rapid Response Teams (RRTs), which would help them to confirm the oxygen saturation level in apparently mild cases of Covid-19 and take steps accordingly. The oximeter helps in tracing the early complications in the disease. Immediate hospitalisation is necessary if the oxygen saturation level dips below 90%. The normal saturation level in an adult is between 94-100%,” said Yadav, adding that the health department has given 500 pulse oximeters for distribution among RRTs.He also said that hydroxychloroquine is being given to patients who are being home isolated. “Even if the patients are opting for home isolation after having been confirmed for Covid-19, they are being provided hydroxychloroquine by our RRTs. There are apprehensions about the medicine being cardio-toxic. However, it is helpful in patients who are in the early stages of the disease with mild symptoms. We are also asking some patients to get X-Ray and CT-scan of the chest done to avoid developing any health complications,” said Yadav.He added that in case of hospitalisation and subsequent complications, the line of treatment approved by the ICMR, includes antiviral drugs, such as favipiravir, tocilizumab and remdesivir.Gurugram’s mortality rate has dropped to around 1.45% this week from 1.5% last week. Currently, Haryana’s fatality rate is 1.33%, with cumulative toll of 349.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nearly-26-covid-19-deaths-in-gurugram-reported-in-people-above-61/story-aoBXnCxg1PACkijEcesAIP.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn forwards panel of names for SSP to MHA||The Chandigarh Administration has forwarded a panel of names for the post of UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) to the ministry of home affairs for its approval.The administration has recommended the name of 2011-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Vivek Sheel Soni for the post, as per sources.A senior UT official, requesting anonymity, confirmed the development. Soni is currently senior superintendent of police, Ludhiana rural.The other two names on the panel include 2009-batch IPS officer Kuldeep Singh Chahal and 2010-batch officer Patil Ketan Baliram.Punjab government in June had sent a panel of three Punjab-cadre IPS officers to the UT Administration. The post of UT SSP is reserved for Punjab cadre IPS officers.The term of incumbent SSP Nilambari Jagadale, a 2008 cadre officer, ends in August. Jagadale took over on August 22, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-forwards-panel-of-names-for-ssp-to-mha/story-Q9UAuOJA6NVvTb5umuka3O.html
22-07-2020||Gurugram||83.26% of Ggm students pass Haryana class 12 board exams||The overall pass percentage for students in the district stood at 83.26% in the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) examination for class 12, the results of which were declared on Tuesday. The district improved its performance from last year when the pass percentage was 70.01%.Of the 8,493 students who appeared in the examinations from Gurugram, 7,071 students passed while 1,094 got a compartment. The number of students who did not qualify stood at 328. The overall state’s pass percentage stood at 80.34% with girls outperforming boys. The pass percentage of girls stood at 86.3% while for boys the same was 75.06%.At 83.26%, Gurugram scored the eighth highest pass percentage among all 22 districts of Haryana. However, no student from the district could make it to the top ten scorers in the state. Around 78.72% of students cleared the examination in Mewat (Nuh) district and 90.01% students cleared the examination in Panchkula, the highest in the state. Sonepat stood as the worst-performing district with only 71.83% of students clearing the exam. The Haryana board had called off examinations in some subjects after a lockdown was imposed across the state to curb the spread of Covid-19. The board took into account the average marks of already appeared exams for marking the remaining papers of students.Gurugram district education officer Indu Boken said that the district had improved its performance from last year when the district stood at the 19th position in the state. “We have improved our performance significantly this year. Last year, we stood in the 19th position, whereas this time we are ranked 8th among all districts. We have jumped up by 11 positions. Moreover, there is a marginal percentage difference between us and other districts,” said Boken.She said that the department had completed the entire syllabus by November-end in most schools and focused on revision and assessment. “We conducted extra classes and completed the syllabus by November. On a daily basis, we took tests focusing on writing abilities since students often know the answer but struggle to articulate it on paper. Each and every student was made to go through the past five years papers and we conducted mock pre-boards at the school level. Tuesday’s results reflect the efforts that students and teachers had put in,” said Boken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/83-26-of-ggm-students-pass-haryana-class-12-board-exams/story-Yr3NsXWlmrHe1cb1KmxEcM.html
22-07-2020||Gurugram||Haryana: 4.6% found positive for rapid antigen test across 16 districts||More than 62,000 people across 16 districts of Haryana have been covered under rapid antigen test for detection of coronavirus till July 19. Of this nearly 4.6% people tested positive for Covid, as per the health department data. Officials said antigen tests have been helpful in detecting people who are asymptomatic, making Covid-19 testing accessible for everyone.Experts, however, also believe that too many negatives in the antigen tests can lead to false sense of security.Across the state, antigen detection kits have been used to test a total of 62,141 people, out of which 2,871 were found positive, while the remaining tested negative for the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Data till July 19 shows that Gurugram’s share in overall tests is almost 40.6%. Its share in the total positives detected is 29.3%.The antigen diagnostic test detects proteins attached to Covid or within it by testing the sample collected from the nasal cavity using swabs. It delivers result within 30 minutes.Until July 19, Gurugram has conducted the maximum number of antigen tests by covering 25,249 people. Out of these, 840 were confirmed Covid-19 positive. The district’s antigen test positivity rate is 3.3%. Compared to the antigen tests, RT-PCR positivity rate is as high as 8.1%. From June 24 till July 19, 27959 RT- PCR tests were conducted in the city, out of which 2263 were detected positive for coronavirus. Notably, antigen testing started from June 24. Compared to Gurugram, Faridabad has done the second highest number of tests at 13,042 out of which 1,161 had tested positive, taking the district’s antigen positivity rate to 8.9%. Sonepat, on the other hand, had conducted just 7,473 antigen tests, of which 334 were detected with SARS-CoV-2 virus. Rewari which did 1,244 tests had a positivity rate of 9.5%, with 118 positives. Rohtak has the lowest positivity rate of 1.2%, even after conducting 2,758 tests (higher than Rohtak) with only 32 positives.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of the district, said, “We are using antigen detection kits for mass testing. It covers people who are asymptomatic as well as symptomatic. Those who are symptomatic but test negative in antigen testing, their samples are being sent for Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test.” The health department, however, did not share the total positivity rate of RT-PCR tests.Experts, however, warned that negatives or extremely low test positivity rates do not confirm to the fact that the situation was under control. Professor Rajib Dasgupta, centre of social medicine and community health, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) said, “The huge number of negatives mean nothing. On the contrary, if these are not followed up, it will lead to a false sense of security and muddy the true epidemiological picture. The negatives have to be categorised into symptomatic and asymptomatic; and the symptomatics further tested by more confirmatory tests (RT-PCR/CB-NAAT-True-NAAT). That completes the full protocol.”Dheeraj Kumar, data scientist, who has been monitoring Gurugram’s data agreed with Dasgupta. “Antigen test results should not be relied upon on ‘as-is’ basis to compute positivity rates that informs public health policy and response strategy as it can create a false impression by giving lower values of positivity rates due to its inherently lower sensitivity,” he said.Dasgupta pointed out that authorities need to clarify that the antigen tests are limited to be conducted only on categories of people defined by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) . “ The rapid antigen test is to be deployed in very specific settings and these include Influenza Like Illnesses (ILI) in containment zones and fever clinics, healthcare workers, suspected COVID-19 deaths, asymptomatic patients undergoing chemotherapy, and, immunosuppressed patients (HIV positive, transplant recipients, etc). It is pertinent that the authorities clarify that the antigen tests are indeed limited to these categories,” said Dasgupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-4-6-found-positive-for-rapid-antigen-test-across-16-districts/story-oPDmXUXdGowq1iEr8e6oZL.html
22-07-2020||Gurugram||Woman falls to death: Partner arrested for abetment to suicide||A day after a 25-year-old woman, who formerly worked as a cabin crew member with an international airline, allegedly fell to her death from the fifth floor of a condominium in Sector 67, the police on Monday arrested a man, who was allegedly in a relationship with her, on charges of abetment to suicide. The police said he had told them that the woman had jumped from the balcony of the flat after they had an argument.The police said the 26-year-old suspect was arrested on Monday night and produced in a district court on Tuesday and sent to judicial custody. Dinkar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 65 police station, said, “The suspect, who is a pilot with a private airline, was arrested on Monday night. During the questioning, he said that he and his partner had gone for a get-together to a friend’s house in Sector 67 on Sunday, and at the house, they had an argument following which she jumped from the fifth-floor balcony.”The victim’s sister, in her complaint to the police, had alleged ‘foul play’ and said that she had a “strong suspicion that her sister was murdered”. An autopsy conducted on Tuesday afternoon found that the woman had suffered more than 30 external injuries. Deepak Mathur, the forensic expert who conducted the autopsy, said, “The body had more than 30 external injuries including pelvic fractures. There was some internal bleeding as well. Prima facie, the cause of death is a head injury.”On Monday afternoon, the police had registered an FIR under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code against the suspect, based on the complaint filed by the woman’s sister.According to the police, the woman and her partner had gone to the get-together at 4pm on Sunday.In the police complaint, the victim’s sister said at 10.25pm on Sunday, she received a call from her sister’s partner asking her to come to a hospital as she had “fallen down from the building”. “At 11.30 pm, when I reached the hospital, I noticed that my sister’s partner had scratch marks on his neck. My sister had bruises over her lower body, the left side of her forehead, and a cut on her lips. It did not look like she had fallen from a building,” she said.The victim’s sister had also said that the woman had been in a relationship with the 26-year-old man for three years, but for the past four weeks, he had not been talking to her. She said it was suspicious that he had not bothered to contact her for so many days and that the incident took place on the day he had asked to meet her. “My sister had tried all means to get in touch with him over the last month but he had blocked her on all social networking sites and she had to resort to emails to reach out to him. She sent him long emails but he ignored them and instead sent abusive replies. He also called her names for playing mobile video games with his friends. On Saturday, after weeks, surprisingly he sent an email to my sister inviting her for a get-together at his friend’s place,” said the woman’s sister in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-falls-to-death-partner-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide/story-oZWNFxsxsvuWBegAvXMoOL.html
22-07-2020||Gurugram||Afternoon showers lead to waterlogging on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway||Several areas in the city were waterlogged after heavy overnight rain on Monday and another spell on Tuesday afternoon. One of the worst-affected areas in the city was a three-kilometre stretch between Narsinghpur and Kherki Daula on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway.Gurugram received two spells of rain on Tuesday. The first spell was between 12 noon and 3.30am and the other was between 1.30pm to 3.30pm. As per the website of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city received 16.3mm of rainfall and is likely to get spells of rain every day till at least July 27. On Tuesday, the service lane heading towards Kherki Daula was completely inundated with water and cut off for motor vehicles for several hours. The accumulated rainwater also spilled onto the main carriageway of the expressway, leaving commuters with only a single lane to pass through.Such waterlogging, however, is not uncommon for the stretch, which sees flooding every monsoon season. The stretch is located in a low-lying area along a slope. During heavy rains, the backflow of sewer and rainwater from the nearby Badshahpur drain floods the area.To ensure that the impact of this overflow is minimal during this monsoon season, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had installed six motor pumps last month along this stretch. However, only three of these pumps started working properly after 2.30pm on Tuesday.“There was an issue with the power connection at the stretch. Without electricity, we weren’t able to switch on the motor pumps to drain out rainwater in the morning. Around 12pm, a 65 kVA diesel generator was arranged and the motor pumps only started working at full capacity around 2.30pm. Following the afternoon rains, it took us another three hours to pump out the rainwater significantly,” said an NHAI official privy to the matter.Meanwhile, commuters travelling through the stretch said that although the volume of the vehicles was low, the limited space available in the carriageway meant they had to pass through the stretch at a very low speed. This added to their travel time. “In the morning, there was only one lane of space available at most points of the stretch as the remaining lanes of the carriageway and the service lanes were completely inundated. Although the volume of vehicles was very low, we had to cross the stretch in a single file. Therefore, it took me longer to cross the area and I got delayed by ten minutes,” said Ishwar Chand, a resident of Sector 82.Other parts of the cityApart from the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, the Gurugram Interstate Bus Terminal (ISBT) in Sector 12 was also inundated for the second day in a row. The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) officials, however, said it was a localised drainage issue, which was fixed around 4pm on Tuesday after which the rainwater receded. “There was a localised drainage issue at the ISBT that was rectified by the late afternoon, following which it was cleared of rainwater. Overall, we used 22 motor pumps across the city to drain out rainwater on Tuesday. With the help of pumps, we were able to drain out rainwater from most waterlogged stretches within two hours after it stopped raining. By evening, most roads had little to no waterlogging,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.The Gurugram traffic police issued warnings on various social media platforms and cautioned commuters regarding heavy waterlogging in areas such as Sector 50, IMT Manesar, Dundahera, Sohna Chowk, Basai Road, and Iffco Chowk. Waterlogging was also reported at various arterial roads in sectors 47, 49, 30, 31, 10, 10A, 27, and 28.Earlier on Monday, two patches of roads — one under the Iffco Chowk flyover and the other at another portion of the road near the Bakhtawar Chowk — caved in after 12mm of rain on Sunday night. At least eight trees also fell due to the strong winds and heavy rains on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/afternoon-showers-lead-to-waterlogging-on-delhi-gurgaon-expressway/story-GybVroD52Dv0LwIZUIfMON.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi receives moderate rain but monsoon deficit yet to reduce||The national capital received some “moderate” spells of rain for an hour on Tuesday afternoon, leading to waterlogging and traffic disruption in several areas.Safdarjung, Lodhi Road and Palam received 24.2mm, 27.8mm and 23mm of rain on Tuesday respectively, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre. These stations received 1-2 cm rain in the short span of 45 minutes according to RMC, Delhi.“We received moderate rain within a short period of half an hour to 45 minutes. There may be more rain later tonight (Tuesday night) or on Wednesday early morning. This rain is a combination of factors. The monsoon trough (a line of low pressure) is passing through Ganganagar in Rajasthan, Delhi, Hardoi in UP, Gorakhpur and the northeastern states. There is also a trough in the westerlies bringing rain here. The monsoon trough will shift slightly northwards but light rain is likely to continue over Delhi,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre.Delhi’s rainfall deficiency (since June 1) was 43% on Tuesday morning but is likely to have reduced by Tuesday evening after the spell of rain. Early Tuesday morning, moderate rain was recorded at Ayanagar, which received about 34mm rain, and heavy rain was recorded at Faridabad, which received about 80 mm rain around the same time. Rainfall between 64.5mm and 124.4mm in a day is considered ‘heavy” rain by IMD.IMD, in its Tuesday bulletin, said the western part of the monsoon trough is near its normal position and the eastern part is along the foothills of the Himalayas. Besides, the convergence of moist southerly-southwesterly winds from the Bay of Bengal over the north-east and east of India and from the Arabian Sea over the north-west of India at lower tropospheric levels is likely to continue for the next two days.Under the influence of these meteorological conditions, widespread and heavy rain is likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh till Wednesday.Widespread and very heavy rain is also likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura in the next three or four days and the intensity of rainfall is very likely to decrease thereafter.FLOODS IN ASSAM, MEGHALAYAAs on Monday, 30 stations (15 in Bihar, 10 in Assam, 3 in Uttar Pradesh, 1 in Arunachal Pradesh and 1 in West Bengal) were categorised as ‘severe flood situation’, according to the Central Water Commission.Siang river at Pasighat in East Siang district continues to flow in ‘severe flood situation’ with heavy rainfall in its catchment. Due to forecasted rainfall in the next three days, there is a likelihood of a rapid rise in water levels in rivers Siang, Lohit, Dibang, Subansiri, Kameng and Noa-Dehing, CWC has warned. The Brahmaputra continues to be in ‘severe flood situation’ all along its course from Dibrugarh to Dhubri. Due to forecasted rainfall, there is a likelihood of ‘severe to extreme flood situation’ in the main Brahmaputra from Dibrugarh to Dhubri districts. Some rivers in Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, including rivers flowing from Bhutan—Teesta, Jaldhaka, Torsa and Raidak—are expected to rise rapidly in the next two or three days. A ‘severe flood situation’ is declared when the water level touches or exceeds the danger level but is below the ‘highest flood level’ (HFL). Floods in Assam have already killed at least 80 people and affected over 70 lakh, according to the state government. In the north, there could be a sudden rise in the Sutlej, Yamuna, Alaknanda, Bhagirathi, Ramganga, Ghaghra, Sharda and Rapti rivers, CWC has warned.“Uttarakhand’s Ramnagar has received 29cm rain on Monday which is in the ‘extremely heavy rain’ category. Many parts of Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh have been receiving ‘extremely heavy rain’ for three days now ranging up to 39cm a day, which is why there is flooding,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.‘Moderate to severe’ thunderstorm and lightning is likely over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, north-west Uttar Pradesh, east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, east Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Meghalaya and north Odisha on Wednesday.Monsoon rain over the country is over 7% with an excess of 15% over the east and north-east of India, with a -17% deficiency over north-west India, an excess of 6% over central India and an excess of 19% over the southern peninsula.“Rain in the foothills is likely to reduce gradually in the next two days and the rain belt over central India will increase gradually,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rain-leads-to-traffic-waterlogging-in-delhi-more-likely-on-wednesday/story-KYnkG91FMKBtInu1GOLFiO.html
22-07-2020||Gurugram||Education department seeks response from parents, teachers on school reopening||The state department of school education is seeking feedback from parents, teachers, students, authorities of both private and government schools, and other stakeholders on when they would like schools to reopen and what are their expectations for the resumption of physical classes, which are currently on hold due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The department has been circulating an online questionnaire since last week among various stakeholders via WhatsApp groups, seeking their feedback before it holds consultations to decide the time frame for the reopening of schools. Respondents have been asked to share if they would like schools to be opened in the current scenario, the month of opening for different grades starting from pre-nursery till Class 12, and their expectations regarding the resumption of physical classes. Earlier in June, the district education department had conducted a consultation regarding the opening of schools with parents and school authorities, in which most of the stakeholders had opted in favour of continuing distance learning through online classes in the view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the city.District education officer Indu Boken said that the department has sought feedback from various stakeholders, seeking information. The questionnaire has been shared with the students and parents via school administrators. “We have circulated an online form through which students, parents, and teachers can share their feedback about the reopening of schools. Although there is no deadline for the submission of the responses, the feedback that we receive will be taken into account before the state decides on a timeline for the reopening of schools. While discussions have been taking place, so far, no particular month has been zeroed in for the reopening of schools,” said Boken.Most parents said that there was no immediate need for reopening schools and online classes could continue until the situation improved. “I don’t think I would be sending my son to school until the situation improves. Children are not mature enough to follow all precautions and teachers can’t take responsibility for all students. I would prefer to teach my son at home rather than sending him to school,” said Sonal Kaushik, whose son studies in Class 9.Sonu Singh, mother of a nursery student, said that she would not be sending her son to school at least till the end of the year or till the time a vaccine is ready. “I am hoping that there will be a vaccine ready by the end of the year. Unless that happens, I don’t see myself sending my son to school. It’s not worth taking the risk. Online classes are taking place anyway,” said Singh.Government school administrators also said that schools could stay closed for some more time since the implementation of physical distancing rules in schools seems challenging. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, Urban Estate, said that maintaining physical distancing in government schools would be difficult, given the available infrastructure and facilities.Aparna Erry, principal of the DAV Public School in Sector 14, said the school had received the form last week and circulated it among parents for feedback. “We have asked students, parents, and teachers to share their feedback about the opening of schools by filling up the form,” said Erry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/education-department-seeks-response-from-parents-teachers-on-school-reopening/story-eQsPqQeNn8cQcA7DcDhvLI.html
22-07-2020||Gurugram||Fire at Farrukhnagar branch of bank; property worth ₹35 lakh damaged||A fire broke out at a State Bank of India (SBI) branch in Farrukhnagar on Monday morning, although no persons were reportedly injured in the mishap, said officials of the fire department. The furniture on the ground floor of the branch was completely gutted. In their statement to the police, the bank authorities reported a loss of nearly ₹35 lakh to the property. According to the officials, a short circuit is suspected to be the cause of fire.The incident was reported to the fire control room at 6.07am, following which three fire tenders — two from Sector 37 fire station and one from Pataudi — were pressed into service.Sunil Adlakha, fire safety officer, Bhim Nagar fire station, said, that the fire tenders reached the spot within half an hour and the fire was brought under control in over two hours. A cooling process was initiated around 8.30am. A fire department official, who was at the spot, requesting anonymity, said, “The fire was controlled before it could spread to the upper floors of the building. On the ground floor, all the furniture, cash counters, computers, electrical wiring and files were completely charred. However, the strong room did not sustain any damage. A short circuit is suspected to be the cause of the fire.”Subhash Chand, the manager of the Farrukhnagar SBI branch, said that two security guards, who were deputed outside the bank’s ATM noticed smoke billowing out of the premises and called him at around 6am. “I rushed to the bank and opened the shutters and the windows to let the smoke out. It took half an hour for the fire tenders to reach the spot and, by that time, the fire had totally engulfed the ground floor. The strong room of the bank, where the lockers, cash cabin and loan documents are kept, did not sustain any damage and we have communicated the same to our account holders. Property worth nearly ₹35 lakh has been damaged,” said Chand.A team of police personnel from Farrukhnagar police station had also reached the spot. Satyawan, assistant sub- inspector (ASI), who is the investigating official, Farrukhnagar police station, said, “We received information of the incident from the police control room and immediately alerted the fire department. No persons have been injured. The branch manager has stated in a written statement that a short circuit probably led to the fire. There is no complaint against any party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fire-at-farrukhnagar-branch-of-bank-property-worth-35-lakh-damaged/story-8n684X646h7KtD3JLc80II.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt extends counselling services to all residents||The Delhi government’s education department on Tuesday extended its counselling services to all residents of Delhi. The department has been providing educational and psychological counselling services to students through its YUVA Helpline since 2006.“In a bid to help citizens with mental health amid the Covid-19 pandemic which has limited people’s physical movement and caused several damages in the employment sector, the Delhi government has taken this decision. All residents of Delhi, especially students —who seek support on educational/emotional/psychological/personal issues—can call these toll-free numbers 1800116888 or 10580 to get assistance,” the government said in a statement. The numbers will be operational on all working days between 7.30am and 8.30pm.Residents of Delhi can avail the service and their identities will be kept confidential. “All residents of Delhi, especially students—who seek support on educational/emotional/psychological/personal issues like guidance in the selection of stream (arts/science/commerce/vocational etc), career information, busting myths related to body image, relationship issues, coping up with parental and peer pressure, sexual harassment, substance abuse, undue stress, fear anxiety etc—may call any of these toll-free numbers,” the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-extends-counselling-services-to-all-residents/story-0N9N9ZtUqKDrcO156qxBaN.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||Sisodia interacts with govt school teachers from high-performing schools||Days after Delhi government schools showed an improved performance in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) classes 10 and 12 exams, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday interacted with teachers from high-performing schools.As many as 20 Delhi government school teachers, who teach seven different subjects were called upon for a special interaction with Sisodia. The teachers were from high enrolment schools in nine Delhi districts that secured a 100% pass percentage in board exams. The meeting was held to understand their approach and strategies and emulate the same in other schools, government officials said.“We will record the experience of our high-performing teachers in short videos and share them widely so that other teachers and students can also benefit,” Sisodia said.Various factors, including increased concentration levels due to entrepreneurship classes and a stronger teacher-student connection, were stated as the reasons behind the improved performance of students. This year, Delhi government schools recorded a pass percentage of 97.8%—a jump of three percentage points from last year.“English is a foreign language for students; earlier they lacked interest in the subject and were stressed about it. Mindfulness [practiced during entrepreneurship classes] has helped a lot in easing stress and helping them concentrate better,” said Poonam Arora, who teaches English at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Timarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sisodia-interacts-with-govt-school-teachers-from-high-performing-schools/story-qCwiS7DuutHSbQwtZ577hL.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||CATS staffers attacked by mob in outer Delhi for foiling theft bid, 8 ambulances vandalised||Eight paramedics and drivers of the Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) ambulance fleet were injured -- two of them critically -- and as many as eight ambulances vandalised by a mob of 25-30 who attacked the emergency workers with knives, blades and sticks in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri on Monday night over the attempted theft of a tablet. The violence, which lasted for nearly 20 minutes, took place at Mangolpuri’s L-block community centre that has been turned into a temporary base station for CATS ambulances and staffers hired from Uttar Pradesh by the Delhi government. The injured persons alleged that the attack happened after a few CATS employees caught a local resident and his two associates trying to steal a tablet, provided to each CATS ambulance for attending emergency calls, from a driver. The driver and the ambulance had returned to its temporary base station after shifting a positive Covid-19 patient to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital when the attempted snatching took place.Shahzad Rajput, the driver whose tablet they tried to snatch, said, “Around 8pm, I was attending a call when three-four men arrived and tried to snatch the tablet and my cellphone. I resisted and caught one of them with the help of my co-workers. Soon, a group of 25-30 people arrived and tried to free the man from us. They pelted stones and bricks at us and attacked us with sticks and weapons. I suffered cuts on my back and forearm.” Apart from Rajput, seven other CATS staffers were injured. They were identified as Javed, Arun Mishra, Anil Babu, Dinesh Kumar, Ambrish, Akhilesh Dubey, and Mahender Dubey. Akhilesh, Arun and Dinesh are paramedics, while the others are drivers. Mahender and Ambrish, who were seriously injured, are still undergoing treatment.The damaged ambulances were on Covid-19 duty and the injured staffers are all front-line workers in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The windscreens and glasses of all the eight CATS ambulances were smashed in the stone pelting. The ambulances will be taken off emergency services until they are repaired and that may take at least a week, said the injured CATS employees. The injured men claimed that they made two calls to the police but they reached the spot 30 minutes after the incident. “One of the policemen tried to frighten us; he said the attackers were all local criminals and since we were outsiders, we should not be getting into a confrontation with them. Almost 17 hours have passed since the attack on us, but not a single culprit has been arrested,” alleged Javed, an injured driver.The police said the locals turned violent after they learnt that the CATS staffers had allegedly tied up the suspected snatcher and assaulted him.“We have registered a case and are looking for the persons who damaged the ambulances and freed their associate who had tried to snatch a phone from an ambulance driver,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan.There are two more base stations at the community centres of R and N blocks in Mangolpuri. Nearly 20 newly hired CATS ambulances are stationed at the three base stations and their drivers as well as paramedic staff have been given accommodations there itself, said Jitender Kaushik, president, CATS ambulance staff union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cats-staffers-attacked-by-mob-in-outer-delhi-for-foiling-theft-bid-8-ambulances-vandalised/story-uEUwQj9Kb85ys5tQ7gOmaM.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||See if animals stuck in circuses need rehab, court tells authorities||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the Animal Welfare Board (AWB) to carry out a nationwide survey to find out the number of animals in circuses unable to perform due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and consider rehabilitating them in the nearest zoos. Acting on a plea that said animals were starving due to the bankruptcy of circuses amid Covid-19, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar asked the board to file a status report with regard to the survey. The court directed AWB to specifically ask circus officials if they were in a condition to maintain the animals or if they needed to be surrendered for rehabilitation in the nearest zoos.The bench issued notices to the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Ministry of Environment and Forests, the Central Zoo Authority and the Animal Welfare Board of India, while directing them to reply on the plea within two weeks.The court was hearing a plea by the Federation of Indian Animals Protection (FIAPO), a collection of organisation working for the protection of animal rights, which also challenges the constitutional validity of certain sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act as they permit exhibition and training of animals in circus acts.Senior advocate Dayan Krishnan, appearing for FIAPO, sought direction to the authorities to formulate an appropriate scheme for the rescue, rehabilitation and relocation of all animals rescued from circuses. He said there is an urgent need to ban animals from circuses and initiate their rehabilitation.The plea said circuses with animals performing tricks often use wild animals, including elephants, hippos, and exotic birds. It said these animals are very often used without requisite paperwork, certifying their fitness.It contended that the animals are chained and tied up for several hours each day, made to perform several shows without proper rest, trained using negative reinforcement with instruments such as metal rods, wooden sticks, whips and outdated and barbaric tools like hooks and spiked belts, the plea said.The plea said on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, there have been numerous reports of animals being stranded as part of these circuses all over the country and being abandoned by their owners.“This will lead to numerous animals perishing on account of starvation and unsanitary conditions. The intervention of this court is prayed to ensure that this entirely avoidable loss of life is averted. The urgency of this petition cannot be understated,” the petition said.The court, however, declined to grant interim relief and a direction to the authorities to take custody of all animals from all circuses operating in India and make appropriate arrangements for their transfer and well-being.It said it cannot pass any order like that without hearing all the parties and posted the matter for August 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/see-if-animals-stuck-in-circuses-need-rehab-court-tells-authorities/story-OaJtkQ6CR64FxY05vHuB3O.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi high court has some tough questions for NBCC over East Kidwai Nagar project||The Delhi high court on Tuesday -- while hearing a plea that alleged the East Kidwai Nagar redevelopment project was executed without considering environmental implications, road space, or rights of residents -- said it knows the condition of traffic in the city and NBCC India will have to give answers to the court .“Being a resident of Delhi, I know the traffic conditions in the city. You will need to give answers,”Justice Navin Chawla said after the petitioner concluded her arguments in person. The court will hear NBCC’s arguments on Wednesday. The court was hearing a petition filed by senior advocate Aman Lekhi and advocate Manali Singhal in 2014, who alleged the East Kidwai Nagar redevelopment project plan, meant to provide accommodation to government officials, was conceived without considering the environmental implications, road space or rights of residents.NBCC India is in charge of the project.During a hearing on Tuesday, advocate Singhal told the court that the project had been executed in complete violation of the Master Plan of Delhi-2021. She said 10% commercial use of the property had been allowed on wrong premises and explained that there was no parking for visitors, which was highlighted in a report submitted by IIT professor Geetam Tiwari to the high court in 2019.“There is no visitor’s parking. Cars would have to be parked on the service lane, which will lead to congestion,” she said, adding permission for the project had been given “without application of mind” and in an “arbitrary manner”.She said even the IIT report had said the project was “unrealistic” and incorrect. The Union government is developing a massive residential area around Ring Road in south Delhi. According to the plan, eight areas — East Kidwai Nagar, Sarojini Nagar, Netaji Nagar, Nauroji Nagar, Kasturba Nagar, Thyagaraja Nagar, Srinivaspuri and Mohammadpur — are being developed as group housing societies for government employees and for commercial use.The Centre is proposing to build over 25,000 flats for government employees in these neighbourhoods in addition to the 4,700 flats already built in East Kidwai Nagar adjoining South Extension-1.IIT professor Geetam Tiwari, who had come to assist the court, had pointed out loopholes in the project in her report. She had stated that the project should have been constructed according to Transit Oriented Development norms as the idea was to increase the use of public transport, but was not, resulting in congestion in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehi-high-court-has-some-tough-questions-for-nbcc-over-east-kidwai-nagar-project/story-KmEN1FlEGlkTvasfnHXAXN.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||Have paid salaries to teachers till March: North DMC tells high court||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday informed the Delhi High Court that it has paid salaries to all 9,000 teachers employed in its schools till March and has also released April salaries of 5,406 of them, who are deployed on Covid-19 duty.The municipal body also submitted before a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad that the remaining teachers who were not on Covid-19 duty would also be given their salaries by the end of July. The court was hearing a plea it had initiated itself with regard to the disbursement of unpaid salaries of teachers employed in schools run by the north corporation.During the hearing, the counsel for north Delhi municipal corporation told the court that the remaining amount payable to the teachers (for the month of April) is generated internally but due to the orders passed by the Supreme Court, it is required to release the salaries of sanitation workers, health workers and doctors who are on duties to contain the spread of coronavirus disease, on top priority.“It is stated that the Delhi government has not released its share of the salaries payable to the sanitation workers, health worker and doctors.Only in the first week of July, the Delhi government has released its share of salaries payable to the doctors for the months of April, May and June, but it is yet to release its share of the salaries payable to the sanitation workers,” the counsel for North DMC said.Avnish Ahlawat, standing counsel (Services), Delhi government, in a status report, informed the court that the dues to the tune of Rs 147 crore for the North DMC to pay salaries to its teachers has already been released in three monthly tranches for April, May and June. As per the government status report, the funds for the second quarter (July to September 2020) will be released by the end of each month. The court asked both the Delhi government and the north DMC to file fresh status reports by July 31 and posted the matter for further hearing on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/have-paid-salaries-to-teachers-till-march-north-dmc-tells-high-court/story-6wn23x5p37X0M6m6j6IYgM.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||Gambusia fish to help south civic body combat mosquitoes this year||The south civic body is scampering to take precautionary measures to stop the spread of vector-borne diseases as monsoon makes its foray into the capital . South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) officials said they will utilise Gambusia fish for checking the spread of vector-borne diseases this year. Gambusia is a large genus of viviparous fish in the family Poeciliidae. They are also known as mosquitofish and can be introduced into ponds to eat mosquito larvae.According to SDMC officials, there are around 48 ponds under the south civic body’s jurisdiction where Gambusia fish farming is done.Anamika Mithilesh, mayor SDMC, said that killing mosquito larvae through Gambusia is an eco-friendly way of dealing with mosquito breeding. “Now that monsoon is at its peak, the threat of mosquito breeding has also increased. There are many open places such as Chhath Ghats, Raj Ghat and parks where water gets accumulated, which in turn lead to mosquito breeding and vector-borne diseases. Other than our routine exercises to kill the larva, this year we will also release Gambusia fishes at these water accumulation points to combat mosquito breeding. We have nurtured Gambusia fish at 48 ponds,” she said.She added that besides this, routine initiatives of the corporation that are taken every year will continue. She said that the season of vector-borne diseases — such as dengue, chikungunya and malaria — kicks off as soon as monsoon sets in. So, the corporation has started making efforts to tackle the issue before it spirals out of control.“In a meeting last week, instructions were issued to all officials of anti-malaria department, including the domestic breeding checkers (DBC), to intensify checking at domestic households and public places. They have also been instructed to spray anti-larval chemical solutions to prevent mosquito breeding,” the mayor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gambusia-fish-to-help-south-civic-body-combat-mosquitoes-this-year/story-cNZwJDaSZ1jGsorhyDbl4N.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||Rs18.67 crore disbursed to northeast riot victims: Delhi govt tells HC||The Delhi government on Tuesday informed the Delhi High Court that it has disbursed Rs 18.67 crore as compensation to the victims of the communal riots in northeast Delhi. In an affidavit filed through its additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose before a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan, the government said that it has received 3,041 applications for compensation of which 1,526 have been approved.Following the communal riots in several localities of northeast Delhi in February, the Delhi government had announced a compensation up to Rs 10 lakh for the next of kin of those who died in the violence, Rs 5 lakh for permanent incapacitation; Rs 2 lakh for serious injuries; Rs 20,000 for minor injuries and Rs 5,000 for loss of animals. It had also promised Rs 5 lakh for complete damages to residential units, Rs 2.5 lakh in case of substantial damages and Rs 5 lakh in case of uninsured commercial units.Also read: 13 dead, over 250 injured in Delhi’s worst communal riot in three decadesThe government said while Rs 7.10 crore was given for uninsured commercial property, Rs 6.54 crore was disbursed to those whose houses were damaged. As per the government affidavit, Rs 3.72 crore were distributed to the next of kin of 38 people who died in the riots. The government had received claims from the families of 41 person. The claims by three families have either been rejected or are pending due to insufficient documents, the affidavit said. It also said that more than Rs 1 crore has been given to various people who suffered injuries in the riots that claimed 53 lives and left over 400 injured between February 23 and 26.The government said it has been making efforts to get the forms of compensation filled from the riot victims or their family members for early payment or interim relief. The affidavit was in response to a petition by Rahul Roy, seeking urgent orders for safe passage of ambulances for the injured and rehabilitation of the violence-affected people during the northeast Delhi riots. During the same hearing, after receiving the Delhi government’s reply, the Delhi High Court on Tuesday also adjourned the matters related to the registration of FIRs against various political leaders for making inflammatory speeches to August 4, after some of the counsels for the petitioners said that they had not received the response filed by the Delhi police.The court gave a last opportunity for filing the replies and said that no further adjournment would be given on the next date of hearing. It also posted a bunch of pleas seeking various reliefs in the Jamia violence for July 27 for the same reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs18-67-crore-disbursed-to-northeast-riot-victims-delhi-govt-tells-hc/story-sRvAbbWoeZg6XNlocWotVK.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||Fruit vendor stabbed to death by four friends||A 27-year-old fruit vendor was stabbed to death, allegedly by his four friends, at Jheel Khureji near Krishna Nagar in east Delhi on Sunday night. The four men, who were arrested on Monday, said the vendor taunted them for depending on him for their drinking sessions after losing their livelihood amid the Covid-19 pandemic, police said.The crime was captured on a CCTV camera near the crime spot. The video footage shows two men riding a scooter stopping near the roadside. They are having a discussion when three men with their faces covered arrive on a bike and attack the fruit vendor, Jitender Gupta, riding pillion on the scooter, police said. The footage shows the fruit vendor trying to run but is overpowered. They pin him down and stab him while the man riding the scooter keeps on looking. Gupta again tries to flee but is caught and stabbed, killing him on the spot, senior police officers said.The police said Gupta’s wife rushed him to a hospital. He told her the names of the two attackers before he died, they said.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said the police received a call on Sunday night regarding a quarrel in Jheel Khureji. A police team reached the spot to learn that a man who was stabbed by some men had been taken to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead. A case was registered, DCP Sharma said.“The deceased was killed by his friends. The suspects identified Sandip, Hemant Nitin Kapoor and Gaurav were caught,” said Sharma.During interrogation, the DCP said, one of the arrested men said Gupta used to bully them and often passed taunting remarks after they lost their livelihood.On Saturday night, an investigator said all five friends were drinking when Gupta passed similar remarks in a drunken stupor. One of the four men put his earphone to avoid Gupta’s remarks. This irked Gupta more and he allegedly threatened to kill him, the officer said.“The next morning, Gupta again taunted and threatened them, after which they hatched his murder plan,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fruit-vendor-stabbed-to-death-by-four-friends/story-WmFzlCwKrPlkbXEYIHlMiO.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||DU admission: Students can submit disability quota certificates from private institutes to register||Delhi University has allowed candidates seeking admission under the disability quota to provide relevant certificates from private medical institutes for the registration process in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, varsity officials said.Applicants were earlier required to submit certificates from notified government hospitals.According to the officials, the decision was taken after candidates said procuring certificates from government hospitals, which are treating Covid-19 patients, was difficult during the pandemic.Admission, however, will still be granted on the basis of certificates issued by government hospitals and students will get time to get those.Dean (admissions) Shobha Bagai said since admissions are likely to happen around September, students will get time to arrange for these certificates from government hospitals and submit it during admission time.“For the registration process, we have allowed students to upload anything they have and at the time of admission, they have to submit documents mentioned in the bulletin of information as per guidelines. In order to ensure a student-friendly process, we also allowed applicants to replace or update the supporting documents within the stipulated time period and without any charge,” she said.Last year, 27 government hospitals across 11 districts in Delhi were designated to issue disability certificates under the new central Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, for 21 conditions.Bipin Kumar Tiwari, an officer on special duty at the varsity’s Equal Opportunity Cell, said the decision was taken as a one-time measure during the pandemic. “Preferably, if applicants have any valid government certificate, they should upload that. However, if they don’t have it, they can upload one from a private institute for the time being to facilitate registration at least. During the time of admission, students will have to submit certificates from a government hospital,” he said.Reacting to the development, disability rights activist Dr Satendra Singh said, “This is the bare minimum that authorities can do for students during such troubled times. Applicants should not be expected to get certificates right now from here and there and the screening of certificates can happen later when they come to colleges. However, caution must be taken to ensure no unfair means is used for fake certificates.”The university’s admission committee has also allowed all applicants to download and use their class 12 marksheets from the government’s digital document wallet application DigiLocker. “The mark sheets that are downloaded directly from DigiLocker will be held valid for the purpose of admission,” Bagai said, adding the decision was taken after students had approached the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-admission-students-can-submit-disability-quota-certificates-from-private-institutes-to-register/story-iMzy3JJIsSdDEMQWojiHDM.html
22-07-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: Police record journalist’s statement||The Bandra police on Tuesday recorded the statement of journalist and film critic Rajeev Masand in connection with the death by suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Masand is the third journalist whose statement has been recorded in this case.Rajput was found dead in his suburban Bandra apartment on June 14, after which the state ordered a detailed inquiry to find the reason. Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police of zone 9, said, “We are recording his statement in connection with Rajput’s case.”On Monday, Bandra police recorded statements of three psychiatrists and a psychotherapist. “Rajput was consulting them since November 2019,” Trimukhe said. The officer said they have recorded statements of more than 40 people so far, including his cook, Neeraj Singh, house help Keshav Bachner, manager Deepesh Sawant, creative manager Siddharth Ramnathmurti Pithani, sisters Neetu and Meetu Singh, father KK Singh, television actor Mahesh Shetty, casting director Mukesh Chhabra, business manager Shruti Modi, PR manager Ankita Tehlani, actor Rhea Chakraborty, filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali, employees of Yash Raj Films, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-suicide-police-record-journalist-s-statement/story-0JcrVJDpO6F4cZz7vJtU0M.html
22-07-2020||Delhi||35-year-old man shot in front of minor daughters in Ghaziabad||A 35-year-old man was shot and critically injured in front of his two minor daughters by a group of men late Monday night at Vijay Nagar in Ghaziabad. The man sustained a gunshot injury in the head. The police arrested nine suspects in connection with the incident on Tuesday.The police identified the victim as Vikram Joshi, a journalist who works at a local Hindi newspaper. Joshi was riding his motorcycle with his two daughters, aged six and 10 years, when the group attacked after cornering him in Mata Colony area around 10.30pm on Monday. The shooting was also captured on a nearby CCTV camera, in which one of the two girls was seen shouting for help as the assailants fled the spot soon after.“Joshi’s brother informed us that he was returning from his sister’s house when the group attacked and critically injured him. We roped in six teams and arrested nine persons in connection with the incident,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Ghaziabad.The police identified the nine suspects as Ravi Kumar, Chotu (who goes by a single name), Mohit Kumar, Dalvir Singh, Akash Nath, Yogendra Singh, Abhishek Kant, Abhishek Mota and Mohammad Shakir, adding that they were working to nab another suspect Akash Bihari, who is on the run.All the suspects are residents of Vijay Nagar.“The family also alleged laxity on part of the local police, saying that they did not act on their previous complaint. I have suspended the local police post-in-charge and assigned the inquiry to the circle officer (city 1),” the SSP said.According to the police, the group, led by Ravi, fought with Joshi on July 16, as a result of which Ravi’s eye was injured and his jaw broken.“He was hospitalised and discharged on Monday. While in the hospital, he roped in his accomplices to ‘teach Joshi a lesson’. The group cornered Joshi on Monday night and started beating him up in the presence of his daughters. One of the suspects, Chotu, opened fire from close range—Joshi was shot in the head,” said Rakesh Mishra, circle officer (city 1).According to police sources, after the fight on July 16, the two parties lodged their complaints at the local police post. Joshi had alleged that the men had harassed his niece.“After the fight, we had complained that the men were harassing a girl from our family, but the local police took no action. The police just called the men to the post, asked them not to do so again and let them off. On Monday around 10.30pm when my uncle was riding his motorcycle with his daughters, the group cornered him and started beating him. One of them fired a gun at his head. He is in a very critical state,” said Vimal Joshi, the victim’s nephew.Dr Sangeeta Garg, the chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Hospital, Nehru Nagar, said, “The man has sustained a bullet injury to the head and his condition is very critical. He is admitted to the ICU and is on ventilator support.”The police, late Tuesday evening, released a statement in which they said that the suspects would often hang about in Mata Colony area to gamble, to which Joshi and his family objected. This led to the fight on July 16, the police said.Meanwhile, the incident drew criticism from Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the general secretary of the Congress, who slammed the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh and tweeted, “A journalist was shot because he had given police complaint against harassment of his niece.”Akhilesh Yadav, Samajwadi Party chief and former chief minister of UP, accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Twitter and questioned how assailants could gather the courage to perpetrate such incidents.UP’s BJP spokesperson Chandra Mohan denied the allegations of deterioration in law and order and said that the politicians were tweeting about the incident because they had no other work.“Their work nowadays is only to tweet and levy accusations. The police acted swiftly and arrested nine persons. The reasons behind the incident are also being investigated. The politicians should have raised questions if the police had not acted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-35-year-old-man-shot-in-front-of-minor-daughters/story-wlk0XMq6zDU6nKw7bDbk4N.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||IT Park CHB group housing scheme set for rollout||Decks have been cleared for the rollout of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) group housing scheme for the general public at Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Information Technology Park (IT Park) with UT administrator VPS Badnore giving the go-ahead to its design on Tuesday.“Now the process of the implementation of the project will start,” said Ajoy Kumar Sinha, UT finance secretary and chairman, CHB..  A presentation of the design was made to Badnore on Tuesday.CHB under the scheme will build nearly 784 apartments of different categories, including those for economically weaker sections (EWS) and units with two and three bedrooms in seven storey buildings.“The board has to get a green signal from the approval committee of the estate office. Also, environment clearances are required for the project. But we expect all the requisite approvals to be in place in less than six months, and by the end of the year the scheme will be launched,” said a senior CHB official requesting anonymity.The board has 123 acres of land in its possession at IT Park where 20 sites are to be developed after another CHB residential project, Prideasia, failed to take off.“CHB will develop the scheme on two plots, measuring 10.51 acres and 6.43 acres at IT Park. Prices will be fixed after the drawings are approved by the architecture department,” the official said.The board will build 784 flats on two sites, while the remaining 18 sites will be given to private builders for development. For this, the board has hired a private consultant for improved designs.High-end officers’ flats for government officials of the UT administration, Haryana and Punjab are also planned in the area.CHB has decided to launch the scheme after it failed to sell 18 residential and commercial sites at an e-auction two years back. Due to the high reserve prices, not many developers showed interest in the auction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/it-park-chb-group-housing-scheme-set-for-rollout/story-UrKKex5RiihiP3pYWDfW6N.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Weekend curfew may not break virus chain, but will send a message||Punjab and Haryana have turned down the UT administration’s proposal to impose a weekend curfew in the tricity from Friday 7pm to Monday 6 am, scuttling its plans to put stricter measures in place to control the spread of Covid-19.UT Adviser Manoj Parida talks to Hindustan Times regarding the rationale behind the proposal and strategies going forwardWhat made the UT propose a drastic step like a weekend curfew?For four months we have been successful in containing the spread of the disease in the city. But with borders opening and inter-state travel now allowed, there was sudden spike in cases. A majority of new cases are coming from people with travel history and their contacts. This has been indicated by contact and source tracing. We have stopped bus operations but other modes of transport are open.While you are attributing the recent spike to open borders, a weekend curfew will only put restrictions on locals. What can be achieved by imposing it?A weekend curfew cannot break the chain. It will convey a message of awareness to people. With lockdown restrictions eased, people somehow think that they can go back to normal, celebrate, and they can gather in large numbers. It (weekend curfew) is just to remind them that the battle is not over. On weekends we can effectively implement (rules) as government offices and markets are closed.Does it mean that the administration has failed to strictly enforce social distancing norms and that there has been poor monitoring of those coming from other places?The administration has not failed. We cannot post a policeman outside every house to enforce social distancing and wear masks. We are making surprise inspections, challaning people and running awareness campaigns. But, it is the failure of the people, families and social leaders like resident welfare associations. In an educated city, a sense of responsibility is expected from residents.With Punjab and Haryana saying no to a weekend curfew, what’s the administration’s strategy now?The administration will take the advice of medical experts and decide on Chandigarh going it alone in imposing the curfew. A final decision will be taken at Wednesday’s war room meeting.Why don’t you go in for a Sunday curfew like Punjab?Chandigarh will take its own decision, and a decision has to be a two-day curfew. There is no question of diluting it to one day. We will not take a token step.Is there any plan to restrict public dealing also in offices such as registering and licence authorities?We have introduced online system for appointments, and for grievance redressal. People have to register their vehicles and their properties. We cannot stop that. These were stalled for several months, we need to bring some normalcy in these affairs.The administration has come under criticism for the level of testing being undertaken in the city. Why is it shying away from vigorous testing?Chandigarh’s testing rate per day is more than double that of stipulated by the World Health Organisation. For instance, yesterday, there were 600 odd tests. We are screening the entire city for the second time now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/weekend-curfew-may-not-break-virus-chain-but-will-send-a-message/story-4NYps1LzzOM22hwYjqB3wK.html
22-07-2020||Pune||Pune’s sudden spike in cases: why, how and... is community transmission now a reality?||Even as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) claims that it has the highest number of tests per million compared to any Indian city, the number of positives being detected is steadily increasing – 1,500+ cases per day for the last seven days. While the city’s positivity rate, the number of samples that test positive for every 100 samples tested for Covid-19 was 10 per cent in the month of April. As of Monday, July 20, this rate stands at 18%. While the district administration claims that this is because of increased testing thanks to the rapid antigen detection kits, health experts believe it is because the PMC has not been able to break the chain by improper contact tracing and, it needs to ramp up testing even more. Dr Abhijit More, member of the Jan Aarogya Manch, said, “If the number of positives are increasing drastically along with the number of tests, then it does reflect that there is community transmission. The ICMR may not declare it due to political or administrative reasons, but many ground workers have admitted that there is community transmission. The positivity rate needs to be below 5 per cent consistently for at least two weeks and only then, the curve will flatten. Tests per million may be high for Pune, but it does not necessarily prove enough tests are being conducted. The spread of the infection is also more widespread now. If the PMC doubles or even triples its testing capacity, the positivity rate will go down.”However, Dr Bharat Purandare, infectious disease specialist associated with Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, believes that instead of testing asymptomatic contacts, the PMC must test only symptomatic contacts and use the limited testing kits in the right way. He said, “The spread of the virus is in a geometric fashion and it is more intense. It spreads along the community. The ICMR may not say, it but there are clear indications that there are cases where the source is not known. Also these ratios are just a manipulation of figures which change dynamically. Every city is following this curve and we are just behind Mumbai, while Bengaluru is right behind us now. We must also be prepared that no matter what, anyone is likely to be infected now; and that is how the herd immunity develops. As citizens we must cover our mouth and nose and stop the spread of aerosol, but there is still a mild chance that the virus may enter the body. Quarantining the asymptomatic contacts of a positive person instead of testing them is the way out. Wasting kits on asymptomatic contacts is causing an overall delay as there is a waiting period of almost three days at some labs just to collect the sample, and thereafter, two days just to get the report if it is RT-PCR. This will delay the treatment process.” As of Monday, 2.09 lakh tests have been conducted by PMC of which 39,203 samples tested positive which bring the city’s positivity rate to 18.73%. While with the city’s case fatality rate stands at 2.56% with 1005 deaths reported as of Monday.Of the 14,757 active cases in the city, 591 are critical patients. The recovery rate of the city is 59.79% as 23,441 people have been discharged as of Monday. After a thorough house-to-house survey which the PMC claims to have done repeatedly in which 1.68 crore people were covered by 530 teams spread across the city. With respect to the containment zones and the sealed areas, till date, 5,027 patients were found to have flu-like symptoms and 21,694 were quarantined. Pune district collector, Naval Kishore Ram said, “The positivity rate is high because the spread of the infection is now more as compared to what it was in the beginning. We are testing specifically as per the ICMR guidelines, but we are working on ramping up our testing which includes those with comorbidities or the high-risk contacts. We are paying more attention to the treatment process and lowering the mortality rate. We will also increase the use of rapid antigen testing kits.”Dr Subhash Salunkhe, heading the state’s communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee, said, “There are three basic reasons for why the positivity rate is going up. One, the number of tests along with rapid antigen testing is going up. Two, the intensity of contact tracing aggressive and high risk contacts being tested is also going up; and third, the total number of tests is increasing and the denominator is also increasing, which is why the positivity rate is also increasing. It was anticipated that this would happen. At this stage it is critical to maintain strict implementation of home quarantine, and keep a watch on recovery rate and mortality rate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-sudden-spike-in-cases-why-how-and-is-community-transmission-now-a-reality/story-KmniqMwkKMgpHcHG1jLHkK.html
22-07-2020||Pune||Shepherd electrocuted to death by illegal live wire in Pune; farmer booked||A farmer has been booked by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for drawing electricity illegally, which cost a shepherd his life.The deceased man has been identified as Rama Babu Pandule (60) who lived with his son in Purandar. However, he did not have a fixed address. The two are natives of Baramati taluka.On July 17 around 9am, Pandule’s sheep were grazing the field, when one of the sheep strayed on the road in Somatane village in Maval taluka, according to the complaint.“His son told us that on of their sheep strayed and got stuck to a metal fence near a roadside field. The deceased man tried to save the sheep and got stuck to the fence himself. The son realised what had happened and called for help,” said police sub-inspector Dattatray Nagargoje of Shirgaon police outpost in jurisdiction of Talegaon Dabhade police station.Pandule died along with sheep on the spot, according to the police.The body was taken to a local government hospital for post-mortem. The doctors informed the police that the man died due to shock caused by electrocution, according to the police.“We had registered an accidental death case when it first happened. We called for an expert from Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB) to the spot for an opinion. The expert submitted a report which revealed that the fence was running a charge due to contact with an illegal line that the farmer had drawn for irrigation pump on his field,” said PSI Nagargoje.The farm belongs to Vasant Dattatray Murhe who was booked in the case. He had used a metal hook to connect the pump on his field with the main electricity line.A case under Sections 304(a) (causing death due to negligence), 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle, of any value or any animal of the value of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 135 of the Indian Electricity Act, 2003, has been registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/shepherd-electrocuted-to-death-by-illegal-live-wire-drawn-to-power-pumps-farmer-booked/story-0xKCyxNh3hxZMXql5g4X3K.html
22-07-2020||Pune||Home quarantine for asymptomatic positives in Pune: Tales from behind the locked doors||The Pune district administration has all but issued an order that asymptomatic Covid -19 positive cases are not to be admitted to hospitals, and are to be confined to home quarantines instead.“Sixty per cent of the positive cases are asymptomatic and that number is on the rise,” said Dr Ravindra Chhajed, consulting physician and intensivist at Harsh Hospital, Bibwewadi, and consultant at Ruby Hall Clinic, and Inamdar hospital in the city. At present he knows of 15 Covid patients in home isolation. He follows up on his patients daily through a video consultancy, along with the patients updating him via WhatsApp on the daily report of their health. “I have prescribed medicines depending on their mild symptoms. I have also asked them to buy the kits from hospitals to check their oxygen levels and temperatures while at home,” said Dr Chhajed.A teacher in Bibwewadi, tested positive, but had no symptoms. She now lives alone in her apartment but has her son-in-law, who is a doctor, taking care of her. “I live alone and initially was wondering how I got it. I was also surprised to see many patients waiting to be tested at the centre, but the doctors ease the fears. My society members were also informed as well the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) medical officer, who calls to check twice a week. My daughter lives in the next building and she is taking care of my diet and all the other necessary things that I might need. We talk via video calling and that uplifts my mood,” she said.In Balewadi, a 30-year-old man came in contact with the virus through an office colleague in a manufacturing unit. “I live with my wife in a two--bedroom house, so I have self-isolated in one of the bedrooms. My wife prepares food and leaves it near the door. She is also being helped with essentials by the society members who were informed of my condition. Even doctors at the Sahyadri Hospital as well as PMC medical officers have been very kind and helpful. I was provided a kit which includes an oxymeter, thermometer, sanitiser and mask by the hospital. Once a day, a nursing care manager who has been allotted my case calls to monitor my daily records. I usually end up reading books or watching TV series, and sleep as much as I can,” said the patient.It is not just common citizens, but doctors also who are testing positive. This doctor believes he got it from an OPD patient. “For him it began with severe lassitude and fatigue. There was no fever or cough the first 10 days, but he suspected Covid and isolated himself in one room in the house from day one. He was in constant touch with the hospital Covid team, who told him to treat this as Covid and self-isolate,” said his wife, who also tested positive. The couple live above a nursing home which the husband runs.“We are now quite fine except for mild weakness. I still have a poor appetite and anosmia, but that will reduce with time. We have been extremely careful with disinfection protocols. My staff has to wear N95 masks and gloves if they come upstairs to the door (no one is allowed in yet). We communicate via the intercom or cell phones,” says the wife, adding, “The most difficult thing was staying cheerful and upbeat on calls with family members. We literally had an army of friends and family members for ancillary support, yet the entire experience was intensely lonely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/home-quarantine-for-asymptomatic-positives-tales-from-behind-the-locked-doors/story-QLQQ5F6ULiStUVHtEIWTIK.html
22-07-2020||Pune||Naidu, one of state’s first dedicated Covid hospitals in Pune, yet to get ICU facility||Pune: Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital, the only infection control hospital run by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the first two hospitals in the state to be declared as dedicated for Covid-19 treatment, is yet to be equipped with an ICU facility.According to a hospital staffer, before the coronavirus pandemic broke in the city, the hospital did not have an ICU or a ventilator bed, necessary for the treatment of patients affected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes coronavirus. The hospital upgraded itself with non-invasive ventilators, and critical care beds that are overflowing.Out of the 41 deaths reported in the city on Sunday [July 19], highest reported so far within 24 hours, Naidu hospital’s count alone was 14. Some of the deaths were registered as outdated as July 14. Of the 976 deaths reported in PMC jurisdiction as of Sunday, 49 are reported from Naidu hospital.The casualty figure raises questions on the hospital administration’s effectiveness to handle critical patients.Dr Sudhir Patsute, superintendent, Naidu hospital said, “We have seven non-invasive ventilators and 50 oxygen beds. Seventy hypoxic patients are presently admitted and all our critical care facilities are overburdened.” Hypoxia is a condition in which the body or a part of the body is deprived of adequate oxygen supply at the tissue level.Saurabh Rao, IAS officer on special duty for the administration’s response in fighting Covid-19 said, “We have upgraded PMC’s Dalvi hospital with over 10 invasive ventilators. I need to find out if Naidu requires any invasive ventilators that are needed when non-invasive ventilators do not help critical patients. Out of the 21 ventilators received through PM cares funds, we sent 15 to Sassoon General Hospital and remaining to Dalvi hospital.” Dr Abhijit More, health activist and member of Jan Arogya Manch, said, “PMC has always ignored to better the civic health infrastructure, be it the swine flu situation in the past or coronavirus outbreak, while private hospitals flourished. While authorities claim to have ramped up medical facilities on war footing to handle the pandemic, civic hospitals lacking crucial equipment to treat critical patients is no less than criminal negligence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/naidu-one-of-the-state-s-first-dedicated-covid-hospitals-yet-to-get-icu-facility/story-QxstOQpTAUyWy8uQpvyG8H.html
22-07-2020||Arts||Jharkhand’s tribal artists make traditional rakhis, urge people to buy ‘desi’ rakhis over Chinese ones||Tribal artists at Jamshedpur-based Kalamandir are making rakhis using traditional items for the upcoming Rakshabandhan festival on August 3.Speaking to ANI, Kalamandir Convener Amitabh Ghosh said that the rakhis needed to be of good quality, with a dash of tradition, and should be available at a cheap price to make the people choose them over the Chinese alternative.“People are calling it Swadeshi rakhi, Jharkhandi rakhi, but I call them traditional rakhis. But it remains to be seen whether the shopkeepers will sell these over the Chinese ones. If we are able to provide a good product at cheap rates, the market will not look towards Chinese made rakhis,” Ghosh said.Artists who are preparing rakhi at the Kalamandir said that they had started using the traditional patterns and materials on masks, etc during the COVID-19 induced lockdown.“We are trying to use as less plastic as we can and especially during this lockdown phase we are using the local patterns to add a traditional twist to the rakhis. We are promoting this on social media platforms, and the response so far has been great. Till now, we have made over 11,000 rakhis,” an artist at the centre said.Meanwhile, in positive news for the artisans in the country shopkeepers in Ahmedabad, Gujarat have claimed that demand for Chinese made rakhis has fallen this Rakshabandhan festival.“All of us are hurt by China’s actions. Customers who come here are willing to pay a little bit more for Indian products instead of Chinese,” a shopkeeper told ANI here.Customers at the shop said that they would rather opt for the indigenous rakhis rather than those imported from China as they are better in quality and are traditional. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/jharkhand-s-tribal-artists-make-traditional-rakhis-urge-people-to-prefer-desi-rakhis-over-chinese-ones/story-SIVY6VR2jKVEbrw8wv8juO.html
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab pushes for testing, patient contact tracing||Punjab has focused on testing and contact tracing in the past two months to contain the spread of Covid-19 even as the mortality rate continues to be an area of concern for the Amarinder Singh-led government.For about a week, 300-400 cases are getting added daily to the state’s patient tally, but in comparison to many other states, Punjab’s caseload has not increased that much.On May 21, Punjab was among the top 10 states with a caseload of 2,028 and by July 20, the state was at 18th position.On May 21, Punjab was conducting only 1,865 tests per million of population, which now has gone up to 14,204 tests per million, claims the health department. Currently, the state is conducting 10,000 tests per day, five times the number on May 20. The state is planning to increase the daily testing to 20,000 by September 10, it is learnt.“Punjab had a different set of challenges because of the arrival of NRIs and labourers for farm and industrial sectors. Restrictions in movement also helped us in curbing the spread of virus as compared to other states,” said Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.70% of cases contacts of those tested +veNearly 70% of Punjab’s total cases are the contacts of those having tested positive. As a preventive measure, the state has tested 10 people against each infected patient to break the infection chain. The health authorities claim that they have traced 99% of the contacts of every patient.“In cases where patients don’t share their contacts, we take help of police and procure CDR reports of mobile phone and trace their locations and contacts. Help of IIT Chennai is also being taken to get details of GPS locations of the positives,” an official said.Besides, the government has made it mandatory for every person visiting Punjab to get registered on the COVA app. Also, it is compulsory for every person coming from outside the state for more than 72 hours to quarantine themselves in their homes for 14 days. Since July 17 when curfew relaxation were announced, of the 2.34 lakh people who arrived in Punjab from different states and abroad, 75,148 (32%) were tested for Covid-19. Of these, 1, 353 were found infected with a positivity rate of 1.8%.State’s CRF as high as national averageAt 2.5%, the state high case fatality rate (CFR) continues to be a matter of concern as it is as high as the national average.From total 265 deaths the states has witnessed due to the coronavirus, maximum were above sixty years of age.“This can be attributed to the high rate of co-morbidities among those infected in Punjab. Our analysis reveals that nearly 30% of fatalities were actually due to other illnesses the patients were suffering from. Covid was not the primary cause of their death,” Dr Bhaskar claimed.With the state’s daily case count touching 400, the government has roped in private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients after capping treatment rates at these facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trailing-till-may-punjab-on-a-better-footing-than-haryana-in-covid-fight/story-cpfINS0KsChsQnhTJZvWhN.html
