23-07-2020||Chandigarh||₹7.5 crore to be spent for development projects in Sadar area of Ambala Cantt: Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij Sadar said on Thursday that Rs 7.5 crore will be spent on development projects in Sadar area of Ambala Cantonment. Vij, who holds charge of urban local bodies in the cabinet, said 13 projects will be initiated under the special grant, mainly for strengthening of roads and drains.After meeting officials at his residence, he said that along with repairing of roads, construction of gyms, parks and toilets will also be done in the area.Construction of a shed in Gandhi Mandi Ground and maintenance of street lights will also be carried out under this grant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-5-crore-to-be-spent-for-development-projects-in-sadar-area-of-ambala-cantt-vij/story-jNVrWV8XXL03WDgMqtVT2J.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rates fixed, but vendors sell vegetables at higher price in Chandigarh||Even as the market committee here has been releasing the rate list on a daily basis, vegetable vendors continue to charge a higher price than the approved rates of fruits and vegetables. Taking note of this, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) has written to the UT administration asking to penalise those found guilty of overcharging. CRAWFED chairman Hitesh Puri said, “Even though the market committee is releasing the list on a daily basis, vendors were selling items at a much higher price as compared with the capped price. Around two to three vendors per sector were designated by the municipal corporation (MC) who said that they provide a better quality of vegetables and that’s why they overcharge.” He said that he has to pay about ₹10 extra as per the pre-approved rates.General secretary of Sector 19C resident welfare association (RWA) Yashpal Kapoor said, “Vendors are fleecing residents of our area. They are selling items two times more than the price fixed by the UT market committee. Some vendors said that they are overcharging as earlier CTU buses would transport vegetables and now they have to do it spending money from their pocket.”For example, some vendors were selling tomato for ₹60 per kg. The wholesale price for tomato is ₹32-36 per kg, while the fixed price is ₹50 per kg. Cauliflower was being sold at ₹55 per kg by vendors, against its fixed price of ₹40 per kg.Speaking about wholesale prices, Rashwinder Singh who works as the auction recorder at the wholesale market said that wholesale prices had gone down, and spells of rain in Punjab had left prices unaffected. “These days a lot of our vegetables including potatoes, tomatoes, cauliflower, etc are coming from Himachal Pradesh. The supply chain has improved after the lockdown so prices are on the lower side.” Officials of the market committee said that while prices are fixed, ensuring that vendors follow the rate list was the MC’s duty and demanded the civic body inspectors to challan those who overcharge customers.Vendors flouting Covid normsMany residents are also claiming that vegetable vendors are flouting social distancing rules, and not wearing masks properly even as Covid-19 cases in the city has touched 800-mark. Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) secretary Ranvinder Singh Gill said, “In the northern sectors there are only a few houses yet so many vegetable vendors pass through our house. They can be seen without masks. The police need to take action against such vendors.”Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Charanjit Singh Virk said that although the police weren’t targeting anyone specifically, people seen without masks including vegetable vendors were being challaned in a drive undertaken by the police.Rates at which vegetables were sold on ThursdayTomato- wholesale price- ₹32-36 per kg, Market committee price- ₹50 per kg, vendor price ₹60 per kgCauliflower- wholesale price- ₹10-25 per kg, Market committee price- ₹40 per kg, vendor price ₹55 per kgCapsicum- wholesale price- ₹15-25 per kg, Market committee price- ₹40 per kg, vendor price ₹60 per kgGreen chilies- wholesale price-₹8-9 per kg, Market committee price- ₹30 per kg, vendor price ₹40 per kg||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rates-fixed-but-vendors-sell-vegetables-at-higher-price-in-chandigarh/story-jZPFUqJkD8oPXF8GUkTJ6L.html
23-07-2020||City||Chandigarh children’s rights body celebrates Teej at Snehalya||Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) celebrated the festival of Teej at Snehalaya in Maloya on Thursday. A plantation drive was conducted. The organic vegetables grown in the kitchen garden were appreciated by guests. CCPCR chairperson Harjinder Kaur spoke about the importance of plants for mental and overall health of students. She said the kitchen garden has been beneficial as it is providing them unadulterated nutrition through organic food. She also asked students of Snehalaya to inculcate the habit of gardening in their daily routine as a stress buster.A scholarship scheme for students clearing Class 12 was also announced by CCPCR . The child’s rights body will provide scholarships to such students until they get a job. Ten students of Snehalaya who have been helping maintain the kitchen garden were awarded prizes and designated as nature lovers. CCPCR secretary Navjot Kaur asked students to study diligently and keep dreaming big. She appreciated the work done by students in taking care of the already planted trees and said that the commission will provide full support to the students to explore their talents and hobbies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-children-s-rights-body-celebrates-teej-at-snehalya/story-1ClE03gyUnQX0QdXdaYrTK.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Agent sells fake insurance for luxury cars in Chandigarh, held||Police have arrested a Sector 25 resident for issuing fake insurance policies for luxury vehicles in lieu of ₹2,000.The accused, Suraj Pal (36) was on Thursday produced in court which remanded him to one-day police custody.Police have recovered 12 registration certificates of luxury cars, three fake insurance policies and a stamp in the name of Dr Preet Mehra, a doctor at GMCH, Sector 32. They are trying to ascertain how the accused made the stamp or if the doctor is also involved in the crime.The fraud came to light after Avneet Saini, a Sector 44 resident, informed the police that he had got an insurance policy issued through the accused and paid him ₹2,000. However, on checking the policy online, he found it to be a fake.Acting on this, the police arrested Suraj Pal and registered a case under sections 420, 468, 472 and 474 of the IPC against him at the Sector 17 police station.During interrogation, Suraj Pal revealed that he had issued 25 fake policies so far and charged ₹2,000 for each. The accused had also taken a cyber café on rent in Sector 44 where he used to make the fake insurance policies. Police have also seized Pal’s computer, scanner and register, and are verifying the involvement of others in the fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/agent-sells-fake-insurance-for-luxury-cars-in-chandigarh-held/story-LJUKsVXNt1eokEPxWnhoXN.html
23-07-2020||City||Mohali resident booked for duping his friend of ₹55 lakh||The district police on Thursday booked a person for allegedly duping his friend of ₹55 lakh on the pretext of seeking financial help. The accused has been identified as Balvir Singh of Phase 1 in Mohali.As per the complainant, Pradeep Kumar of Sector 20 in Chandigarh, Balvir was his good friend of 15 years so when he asked for ₹50 lakh to send his daughter abroad, Pradeep gave him the money. However, Balvir didn’t return the amount despite several requests. Later, the accused asked for ₹5 lakh more saying that he needed to get a bank loan passed. He assured Pradeep to return his money once he got the loan, but failed to do so. Subsequently, Balvir stopped answering his calls and his family members threatened of committing suicide and blaming it on Pradeep if he ever asked for the money.On May 13, the accused signed a self-declaration form in which he mentioned that he would return the entire amount to Pradeep by July 2, but all in vain.Pradeep then submitted a complaint to Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal following which a case was been registered against the accused under sections 420 and 406 of the IPC at Phase 1 police station.Inspector Manphul Singh said, “A raid was conducted at the accused’s house, but he was not there. He is at large and we will arrest him soon. It was found that another cheating case had been registered against him in the past.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-resident-booked-for-duping-his-friend-of-55-lakh/story-NeAp1eMaWDLdbYv74DLZqL.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||PEC students with internet issues back home to put up in hostels||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) students having poor internet accessibility in their home states will be accommodated in the hostels to facilitate online teaching as the institute is set to begin the next semester from Monday.PEC had earlier proposed to provide lodging to such pupils in its hostels, following which as many as 38 students from different states, including Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, expressed their desire to get accommodated on campus for the next semester and take online classes without internet connectivity hassles.These students have been asked to give an undertaking of adherence to the SOPs amid the Covid-19 pandemic.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “Around 70 students had shown interest in getting accommodation, but now 38 students are willing to stay in hostels while others have withdrawn their applications.”As per the undertaking, students have to confirm that they have poor internet connectivity in their area of residence and they are not residing in a containment zone or have come in contact with any Covid-19 patient. They have to compulsorily comply with the SOPs issued by the central government, Chandigarh administration and the college institution.Also, it is mandatory for the students to install Arogya Setu application in their mobile phones.A PEC official said these students will be accommodated in different wings of the hostels so that social distancing norms are followed and they will be allowed to go out of the premises once a week with permission from the authorities. No sports and cultural activity will take place during this time.For the online teaching process, PEC has recommended Google Classroom for teachers, but they can use a platform of their own choice. For this semester, PEC will not engage teachers on ad hoc basis since there is no such requirement. “We have a few ad hoc teachers and will not engage more this semester until such need arises,” said the PEC director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pec-students-with-internet-issues-back-home-to-put-up-in-hostels/story-PnU1bCWx10Tiuc0y752gdL.html
23-07-2020||City||After home isolation nod, focus now on increasing L2, L3 category beds||The Ghaziabad district administration is focusing its efforts to increase beds in its L2 and L3 category hospitals, which cater to Covid-19 patients with moderate and mild symptoms, respectively.The move comes after a nudge by the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s office to ramp up the bed infrastructure across the state. Officials said that with home isolation facility having been granted by the government on July 20, L1 category hospitals — which were meant to treat asymptomatic patients — will be required less now.The Ghaziabad administration on July 20 gave its nod for home isolation of asymptomtic patients, after assessment by rapid response teams. Prior to the government’s home isolation order, all patients, including asymptomatic ones, were admitted to dedicated L1, L2 or L3 hospitals depending on the severity of their health condition.The UP government overall has about 1.5 lakh L1, L2 and L3 hospital beds at present.“The CM has asked to increase the number of beds in L2 and L3 Covid hospitals and has said that ventilators should remain functional. He has asserted that treatment of any patients should not be affected for want or medicine. In this regard, adequate quantity of medicines should be available with all the hospitals,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).In Ghaziabad, the district health department has three L1 facilities — ESIC Hospital at Sahibabad, Divyajyoti Hospital at Niwari and SRM College at Modinagar.“Since we have started the process of home isolation, we expect that majority of asymptomatic patients who were admitted to L1 hospitals will now move to home isolation. We will now assess the decline in number of patients at L1 hospitals for about 15 days or so. Our entire focus now will be on betterment and increase of beds under L2 and L3 category hospitals,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate.He added that the district administration about a fortnight ago had also sent a proposal to the government for converting the Haj House near river Hindon as a Covid care facility for asymptomatic patients, with about 1,200 beds.“With home isolation in place, we may not require the Haj House facility now. I have already directed for converting the ESIC Hospital into an L2 hospital which will allow us to add 100 more L2 category beds. Further, more private hospitals, having super specialty treatment, have been asked to dedicate their hospitals or one of the wings for paid Covid treatment. This will help us rope in more L2 and L3 beds with ventilator facilities,” Pandey added.Sources said that the administration may do away with SRM College facility once the home isolation facility reaches optimum level and all the patients admitted there get discharged as per discharge guidelines.The officials said that the doctors in Ghaziabad are also getting inputs for treatment from their seniors posted at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences at Lucknow,a s well as getting online help from other senior doctors for better treatment.The official sources in the health department said that the government has already acquired a private medical college in Pilkhuwa (Hapur district) where patients with moderate and severe symptoms can be sent under the concept of ‘bed pooling.’“For sending our patients there, we require government order which is expected soon,” Pandey said.Under the bed pooling, officials have planned identification of medical colleges under the Meerut division where patients can be referred to if beds are not vacant in any of the districts.According to the officials, Ghaziabad may need a total of 100 to 150 ICU beds as cases are rising in the district. At present, the district has only 33 ICU beds in government facilities and another 13 ICU beds reserved in private hospitals, they said.In Ghaziabad, the officials at present have identified about 4,816 L1 category beds, 1,026 L2/L3 beds, 117 ICU beds and 1,096 beds having oxygen facilities. Out of these, 876 L1 beds, 1026 L2/L3 beds, 117 ICU and 1096 beds having oxygen and are already fully operational.In government sector in Ghaziabad, only 33 ICU beds are available at L2/L3 hospitals. In private , the district has 544 beds which are available in eight private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-home-isolation-nod-focus-now-on-increasing-l2-l3-category-beds/story-Bgs9rvF8jB9mJOEEvVZYRK.html
23-07-2020||City||Positivity rate declines as Ghaziabad increases rapid antigen testing||The test positivity rate (TPR) in Ghaziabad has been on the decline over the past month, ever since the district ramped up rapid antigen testing that had started on June 26. While officials said various measures have helped bring about the decline, it was too early to assume that the disease is on its way out.Ghaziabad saw a major spike in the number of cases in the months of June and July. As of May 31, there were only 305 cases, which climbed to 4,321 as on Thursday. The spike was primarily attributed to the relaxation of in lockdown norms starting June 8.According to the weekly figures from the health department, the TPR was 9.19% in the week from May 31 to June 6 with positive cases during the period at 155. This climbed to 15.33% during the week from June 21 to June 27.In the week from July 19 to July 22, the TPR dropped to 3.22%. However, since June 26, antigen tests have become the primary testing regime in the district, constituting 54% (40,500 as on Thursday) of all tests done to determine Covid-19.Antigen tests are inherently unreliable with very poor sensitivity, which means that its ability to detect true positives is low and could result in many negative tests turning positive under an RT-PCR test. “What we have observed in Ghaziabad is that testing during initial months was done for selective groups. Now, with arrival of rapid kits, the net is wider. So, the sampling/testing rate has gone high and positivity rate is less. The RT-PCR test has about 70% sensitivity while rapid antigen kits have sensitivity of about 60%. So, there is not a major difference and the samples turning negative through rapid kits are anyway test through RT-PCR for finding true negative. So, the major reason for less positivity is more linked to widespread testing being done now,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad.Despite this, its share is high because of two advantages: point of care testing and no need of taking it to a laboratory, and that it gives a result within 30 minutes, as compared to the two days it would take an RT-PCR test.“The weekly trend shows that positivity is on decline but we cannot assume that the effect of Covid-19 is on decline overall. We will have to observe the trend for about 1-2 months before we can say that there is an assured declining trend. On the other hand, we have taken various measures to bring down the case positivity,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “Initially we put up restrictions at the Delhi-UP border in order to prevent cross-border infection. Then, we took up rigourous containment exercise in various areas and presently it is being taken up in 21 different localities which have 10 or more active cases. The weekend restrictions directed by the state government have also helped as we taken up cleanliness and sanitization for two days to curb spread of infection.” “We are analysing the week wise declining trend of positivity in the district. One of the major factors behind the reduced TPR is the test sensitivity. With the rapid antigen kits, we have positivity of about 3-4% while the positivity with RT-PCR tests is about 6-7%. So, this could be a reason why the trend is on decline while more tests are getting done through rapid kits nowadays,” said an officer from the district health department who wished not to be named.The RT-PCR tests are considered as more sensitive than the rapid kits as they have a higher rate of detection and can even detect minutest traces of virus including the traces of dead virus.Officials said that fatality rate has also come down. In June alone, the district had suffered 51 of the 64 deaths since the outbreak of the disease in March.According to official records, the fatality rate was 4.1% in the month of June with 51 deaths and 1,243 monthly cases. From July 1 to 11 the rate came down to 0.5% with seven deaths out of 1,544 cases during the period. The officials added that the rate has further come down to 0.2% with just two deaths out of 977 cases during the period.“To keep check on rising number of deaths we streamlined our systems and working round the clock on early detection, testing and speedy referral to prevent any patient getting into serious condition. Our focus is on every individual patient in order to further lower the death rate,” Pandey added.Box: Samples/test +ve cases positivityMay 31 to June 06 1686 155 9.19%June 7 to June 13 1845 162 8.78%June 14 to June 20 2258 249 11.03%June 21 to June 27 3398 521 15.33%June 28 to July 4 13183 698 5.29%July 05 to July 11 17178 948 5.52%July 12 to July 18 17918 935 5.22%July 19 to July 22 10521 339 3.22%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/positivity-rate-declines-as-ghaziabad-increases-rapid-antigen-testing/story-l3BJGNNh5nzJ2KDC10TtdJ.html
23-07-2020||City||Man held for trying to sexually assault 13-year-old boy in Dadri||A 42-year-old man was arrested by Dadri police on Thursday for allegedly trying to sexually assault a 13-year-old boy in a village in Dadri.The suspect was identified as Chandra Pal, who police said was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident.“The boy, a Class 7 student, lives with his grandmother. Yesterday, around noon he had stepped out, when the suspect tried to sexually assault him near a tubewell in the village,” said Dinesh Singh, station house officer, Dadri police station.However, when the boy raised the alarm, the suspect fled from the spot after threatening him not to tell anyone about the incident. Soon after, a few neighbours reached the spot and took the boy home, after which the police were informed about the incident. A case was registered against Pal under sections 377 (unnatural sex), 511 (attempting to commit an offence) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.The suspect was nabbed by police on Thursday afternoon. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail while a medical examination has been ordered for the boy.Meanwhile, the district police — in order to strengthen women and children safety — has been carrying out special drives to book offenders.“We keep conducting special drives across the district to ensure that action is being taken against offenders who are harassing women or children,” said Akhilesh Kumar, joint commissioner of police, law and order.Teams in three zones in the district have booked 44 offenders on Wednesday for harassing women . The police teams have also been advertising various helpline that can be used in case of emergencies like 1090 (women helpline), 181 (CM helpline) or 112 (police helpline).“Every police station has sensitive spots — like weekly markets, industrial areas, parks, — under their respective jurisdictions. Police personnel do spot checks and look for people loitering around for no purpose. They are questioned and if found involved in nefarious activities, can be booked for a preventive arrest or even under the IPC depending on the severity of the offence,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women and child safety.She also said that they will continue with such drives for awareness and action against anti-social elements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-trying-to-sexually-assault-13-year-old-boy-in-dadri/story-jzSwMSxZIlUyXJ3iEk8PLO.html
23-07-2020||City||No July salary for teachers until colleges upload their documents||The directorate of higher education has asked all government and state-aided colleges in Uttar Pradesh to upload the records of all teachers on the state portal for human resource management system failing which the salaries of the teachers for the month of July will not be released.“The higher education directorate has directed us to get the colleges in our jurisdiction to furnish certificates stating that they have uploaded the certificates, documents of the teachers employed with them on the manav sampada web portal, and only then the salaries for July will be released,” Dr RK Gupta ,regional higher education officer(RHEO), Meerut and Saharanpur divisions, said on Thursday.On the orders of the state higher education directorate district-level committees have also been set up to verify the appointment records of all teachers to detect any instances of fake appointments made with forged documents. Dr Vandana Sharma, director, higher education, UP, said, “ The regional higher education officers are member secretaries of the committees. The committees have been directed to submit their report by July 31, and all colleges have been directed to cooperate with the respective committees.” Documents of over 373 teachers in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts, which come under the Meerut division, are to be reviewed under the directions. “In Gautam Budh Nagar, a total of 14 teachers work in aided colleges and 71 teachers in government colleges. In Ghaziabad, 279 teachers employed with government-aided colleges and nine teachers in government colleges,” the RHEO said. A total of 1,423 teachers work in state-aided colleges and 255 in government colleges in Meerut and Sahranpur divisions, he added.A three-member committee, including an additional district magistrate (nominated by district magistrate) and a police officer of the rank of an additional superintendent of police (nominated by the police chief), will verify the documents. Diwakar Singh, additional district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar and head of the committee said,“Two sub-committees have been formed for government and aided colleges.The sub-committees will check the teacher is same person whose name was in the merit list. Further, the identity will be cross-verified by the treasury department. Educational certificates of the teachers will be verified through universities concerned and board appointment letters will be verified through the department concerned . Handicap certificate, SC/ST, OBC certificates too will be verified.” The sub-committees in GB Nagar will start functioning from July 27, the RHEO said.Archana Verma, principal, Ghaziabad Government college and nodal officer for verification of teachers records said,” So far, we have covered four government-aided colleges.”Colleges said they will cooperate with the committee. Dr RS Panwar, principal, Mihir Bhoj Post Graduate College said, “ We are checking the certificates and appointment letters of our teachers, and teachers of all government-aided colleges have been tols to be present before the committee on the dates they are called..”Dr Divya Nath, principal, Kumari Mayawati Government Girls Post Graduate (PG) Degree College said, “We will cooperate with the committee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-july-salary-for-teachers-until-colleges-upload-their-documents/story-vC05sGQM33Pvzw012hH7eJ.html
23-07-2020||City||Noida: Over 50 rapid response teams formed for screening of Covid patients for home isolation||NOIDA: Following the decision taken by the state government to allow home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has over 50 constituted rapid response teams (RRTs) to screen patients in different localities, who have asked for home isolation.According to district magistrate Suhas LY, the screening process for this has been started. “The patients will be allowed home isolation only after their thorough check-up has been done by the screening teams, confirming that they are asymptomatic or have only mild symptoms. In case of any doubt, they will be brought to higher observation centres. If they are found having serious symptoms or are suffering from co-morbidities, they will be sent to L-1, L-2 or L-3 facilities as per their conditions. The whole process may take 24 to 48 hours,” he said.As many as 33 Covid-19 positive asymptotic patients were allowed for home isolation on Thursday, the DM said.The DM further said that as per guidelines for home isolation of very mild and pre-symptomatic Covid-19 cases, under which a patient can stay at home, they will have to be in touch constantly with the district surveillance officer, and a hospital and will have to sign an undertaking for them.“They should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining their family. A caregiver must be available for the patient to provide round-the-clock care. There must be a continuous communication between the caregiver and the hospital for the entire duration of their home isolation. The caregiver and all close contacts of such cases should take hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis as per protocol and as prescribed by the treating medical officer. Any difficulty in breathing, persistent chest pain or developing bluish discolorations of lips or face must be reported immediately to the treating medical officers,” he said.Speaking on the time span of home isolation, the DM said that patients under home isolation can end home isolation if their symptoms are clinically resolved and the surveillance medical officer certifies them to be free of infection after proper lab testing. Health officials said that the patient permitted home isolation will have to bear the complete cost of medical kits themselves. A doctor working with a district hospital said on condition of anonymity that a complete kit costs around Rs 10,000. “A good quality pulse oximeter itself costs around Rs 6,000 in the market,” he said.The district’s chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that the patients will have to buy medical kits equipped with a pulse oximeter, thermometer, mask, gloves and other necessary items for themselves. “Our team of experts will check the quality of all these items purchased,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-over-50-rapid-response-teams-formed-for-screening-of-covid-patients-for-home-isolation/story-J9J4AQY7pCzHmVwK76lItK.html
23-07-2020||City||Ludhiana records 120 infections in highest single-day spike, cases now 2,170||The district on Thursday recorded its highest single-day spike with 120 Covid-19 cases, taking the toll to 2,170.Though 131 fresh cases were detected here on Thursday, 11 belonged to other districts/states. Among these were two women — an 80-year-old Jalandhar resident and 73-year-old from Patiala — who succumbed to the disease at the SPS Hospital in Ludhiana.The district reported over 100 cases for the second consecutive day, as 104 cases were detected here on Wednesday.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “The total number of Covid-19 cases so far has gone up to 2,170, while 50 patients have succumbed to the disease in the district. Active cases in the district are 679. With two deaths of patients from other districts reported on Thursday, 36 patients from other districts/states have died in the district due to the disease.” SENIOR CONG LEADER TESTS POSITIVESenior Congress leader and Atam Nagar constituency in-charge Kamaljit Singh Karwal tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday evening.Karwal said, “I might have contracted the disease while dealing with the public as several people come to me with their grievances. My family members and driver will also get their samples tested.”Earlier, two Congress councillors — Rakesh Prashar (ward number 64) and Manpreet Grewal (ward number 88) — and senior BJP leader Gurdev Sharma Debi had contracted the infection in the city. Eight relatives of Prashar had also tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-records-120-infections-in-highest-single-day-spike-cases-now-2-170/story-dmkxm10lH9PcFiUb0VZb9L.html
23-07-2020||City||State how many took mock open book tests: Delhi HC to DU||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed Delhi University to state the number of students taking the first set of mock tests for final-year students on July 27 and asked it to give separate data for people with disabilities (PWD) and visually impaired students.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad told the university’s counsel, senior advocate Sachin Datta, to give the number of question papers that had been uploaded along with the number of answer sheets that were downloaded in the first mock test. They said a senior official from the university should appear on the next date of hearing. “On the next date, we would like to know how your (DU) mock tests went. Give us the entire data on the mock test, and how many students participated,” the bench said. Datta told the court he would keep all the data ready for the court’s perusal. The court posted the matter challenging the conduct of exams for Tuesday after it was informed that the Supreme Court will hear a plea challenging UGC’s notification to conduct the exams. The high court asked the varsity to give data of how many students under the persons with disability category participated in the mock tests. The court was hearing a bunch of pleas, including one from the PwD candidates, challenging DU’s decision to conduct open book exams.The judge said that since the SC is hearing the matter and would be hearing it even on Friday, it would be better to list the petitions next week. Following this, the matter was posted for Tuesday.The final-year exams in DU is scheduled to start from August 10 till August 31 after the high court compressed the schedule given by the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-how-many-took-mock-open-book-tests-delhi-hc-to-du/story-HEnhS06gMDyt6U6qh0r43O.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||BJP threatens stir if those without cards do not get free ration||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Delhi unit on Thursday said it would launch a protest if the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government did not provide ration to 1 million people, who were yet to receive ration cards, in 15 days.“In April, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said even those without ration cards would be given free ration. The scheme was discontinued after one month...On May 7, the Delhi HC directed the Delhi government to provide ration to the poor who do not have ration cards. On May 18, the court expressed dissatisfaction over the non-compliance of its order,” said a joint statement issued by Lok Sabha MP from East Delhi Gautam Gambhir and Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri.It said, “The Delhi government has not given ration cards to a single poor person while 10 lakh have applied for new ration cards. If the ration cards of these poor people are not issued immediately and free ration is not given to them, then in next 15 days, the BJP would launch a big agitation all over Delhi.”The Aam Aadmi Party did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-threatens-stir-if-those-without-cards-do-not-get-free-ration/story-3AtPaX0FUdlzjEPNFKkS7I.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||Chalk out protocol for issuing certificates, marksheets online: HC to DU||Remarking that it would be torture for students to wait for their degrees and marksheets, the Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the Delhi University to take immediate steps to chalk out a protocol for issuing degree certificates, marksheets and transcripts online with digital signatures and security features.Justice Pratibha M Singh said that students have to wait for several years for their marksheets and degree certificates due to delays in the transfer of data and the holding of convocations, even as Vinay Gupta, the dean of examinations, said that the data regarding the marksheets has been given to the National Academic Depository (NAD), a digital database of academic awards provided by the Centre, to upload.“Since the NAD is a unique feature and act as a national depository for academic records, DU should utilise it effectively and take immediate steps to transfer all existing data about students to NAD,” the judge said.The court said that in such a scenario, digital marksheets and degrees should be issued to the students as it is a fast process. It asked Gupta and the varsity to explore the possibility of digitally signed documents so that students do not face problems in the future.“A solution is needed within four days. Why don’t you give the degrees and marksheets with the digital signature? At this stage, every university is in difficulty but this (DU) is the only one which is not helping its students.“Give digitally signed marksheets. The process is fast enough and the digital signature software can be procured within 24 hours as a large number of students is yet to receive their documents from the varsity,” the judge said.The dean of examination, told the court that all marksheets, except for a few subjects, are online. He also said that the varsity would explore the possibility of digitally signed marksheets. The High Court directed that the Joint Director of DU Computer Centre officer arrange his digital signature before the next hearing date (August 4) so that the degrees can be emailed to the petitioners with his digital signature.The court was hearing a plea by five doctors who graduated from Lady Hardinge Medical College, which is a part of Faculty of Medical Sciences, DU, and had not received their certificates till date even after graduating in 2018.The plea filed through advocate Sarthak Maggon had contended that the petitioners wished to apply for their residency programmes in the United States and to sit for the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE).The court also said DU could take help from the IT department of the Delhi High Court to prepare a protocol for issuing digital degree certificates, marksheets and transcripts.On Wednesday, the court had directed the varsity to take a pragmatic approach and seriously consider the option of setting up a special cell for entertaining students issues of digital certificates, marksheets and transcripts.The matter will now be heard on August 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chalk-out-protocol-for-issuing-certificates-marksheets-online-hc-to-du/story-LEyvK2iSnap5yWnAOvPtKL.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||Nurse targeted by snatchers, passerby tries to fight them, incident caught on camera||A 40-year-old nurse walking back home from a bank with her daughter was targeted by two motorcycle-borne snatchers in South Delhi’s Greater Kailash on Thursday afternoon in an incident that was caught on camera and culminated in a bystander attempting to take on the suspects but failing. The nurse lost her gold chain, saved her handbag, but was left with a bruised neck. The nurse, who identified herself by her first name Siddheshwari, said that she lives near M Block Market, Greater Kailash, and works at a private hospital in nearby Zamrudpur. On Thursday afternoon, she and her 18-year-old daughter were returning from a bank in the neighbourhood when they were targeted on the street by two men who approached them from the opposite side on the road. The CCTV camera footage showed the pillion rider trying to snatch her bag, but Siddheshwari managed to pull it back. The suspect then hopped off the motorcycle and charged towards the woman, even as her daughter ran away in fear. “The snatcher was threatening to kill us both,” Siddheshwari said. Over the next few seconds, the suspect was seen tugging at her neck, but Siddheshwari said that he was actually strangling her. “He strangled me to get my gold chain. I couldn’t fight back; all I did was try to save my neck from his grip,” she said. As the suspect hopped on to the motorcycle to get away, a passerby hopped off his own motorcycle and attacked the two suspects. The video showed him managing to hit the pillion rider with his helmet, but the suspects rode away.Parvinder Singh, the additional deputy commissioner of police (south), said that the victim did not call the police control room and instead visited the local Greater Kailash police station. “We have registered a case of robbery and have formed a team to identify and nab the suspects,” the officer said, adding that there was no immediate breakthrough in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nurse-targeted-by-snatchers-passerby-tries-to-fight-them-incident-caught-on-camera/story-xDucl9L3Penb3DuZj9NP9N.html
23-07-2020||City||Sisoda meets govt school students who could not clear CBSE class 12 exams, takes feedback||New Delhi: Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday met government school students who could not clear the CBSE class 12 exams this year and were placed in the “essential repeat” category, to take their feedback and encouraged them to prepare better next year. This year, Delhi government schools recorded 98% results in the CBSE class 12 exams. Addressing the students, Sisodia said, “We could have been satisfied with the 98% result. But, for us, these are our students, not just a mere statistical figure. Every child is important to us. This is the reason this year I am meeting those children who, for some reason, have not been able to succeed. We pay equal attention to every child. But if for some reason, someone isn’t able to get good grades, we have to have faith in them. We will have to work really hard on those students so that nobody lags behind.”Seeking feedback from students on areas where the government can improve in the education sector, Sisodia said, “There has been a drastic change in our schools but if something is still missing, then we need your help in fixing it. If a student isn’t able to succeed, then we want to understand what is still lacking in our system. We know you are disheartened but you can still help us.” The students cited many reasons behind not clearing the exams, including lack of interest in subjects, sickness, financial and personal issues. “We will emphasise that after passing class 10th, parents should also be counselled along with children so that every child is enrolled in the subject of their interest. Parents should also understand its importance,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisoda-meets-govt-school-students-who-could-not-clear-cbse-class-12-exams-takes-feedback/story-LCJZD7iLkDxHoTP9M29qMN.html
23-07-2020||City||Two get bail in north-east Delhi cases, one refused relief||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to two accused persons in two separate cases of the north-east Delhi riots. In a third case, the court denied bail to a man who was arrested for rioting. The three were arrested in separate cases related to the riots earlier this year. In the first case, additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted relief to Vinod Kumar on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 20,000.The judge said in the order, “...it has been stated by the IO that the applicant (Vinod Kumar) was not seen in any of the videos. It is also admitted by the IO that the applicant has been arrested in this matter only on account of the fact that his name is there in the FIR.When the IO was further questioned about any material against the applicant, then the IO could not give any satisfactory answer ..,” the court said in its order.The judge directed Kumar not to threaten the witnesses or tamper with evidence.The court said because the investigation is complete, and the trial is likely to take long time, no useful purpose would be served by keeping Kumar in incarceration. In the second case, chief metropolitan magistrate Purshottam Pathak granted bail to Jareef Ahmed alias Jareef on a bail bond of Rs 20,000. The prosecution had opposed his bail, saying he was identified in the video footage. The court, while granting bail, said Zarif had already been granted bail in another case where he was seen in CCTV footage. It said no recovery has been made Zarif in the present case and the charge sheet has already been filed.Police had arrested Zarif for rioting and damaging public and private property during the riots. In the third case related to the murder of a man named Babbu (only first name mentioned in police record) in Khajuri Khas, the court of additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav dismissed the bail of Bharat Bhusan alias Lucky, stating he had been categorically identified by independent eyewitnesses. Police had said Babbu’s murder was captured on tape by a news channel. Police told the court the investigating officer had already written to news channel seeking a copy of the footage. At least 53 persons died while 400 others were injured when clashes between Hindus and Muslims broke out in different parts of north-east Delhi in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-get-bail-in-north-east-delhi-cases-one-refused-relief/story-RNPGNvCoGKWe3v5fpfn1tI.html
23-07-2020||Lucknow||Over 75,000 people registered on UP govt job portal from April to July||Unemployment may be going up just a little bit in the state despite the resumption of economic activity during the Unlock phases , going by the number of those who have registered themselves on the state government’s integrated employment portal. A total of 75,865 people registered themselves on the portal from April 1 to July 15, said an officer familiar with the issue who refused to be named. Currently, there are about 34.51 lakh registered jobless persons on the portal, the officer added. This number is marginally higher the figure of 33.93 lakh unemployed persons that Uttar Pradesh minister for labour Swami Prasad Maurya had mentioned in a written reply to a question in the state assembly on February 7.No significant increase in registration was witnessed in the initial weeks of 2020-2021 due to the Covid-19 lockdown. From January 1 to March 31, 75,855 people registered themselves on the employment portal, the officer said. “There were hardly any registrations in April and, in fact, the number of unemployed persons came down to 33.91 lakh in May 2020 as many of those already registered could not renew their registration during the lockdown period. Those registered have to renew the registration after every three years,” said the government officer aware of the developments on this front. “Later, the beginning of Unlock-1 and Unlock-2 provided an opportunity for the unemployed persons to register themselves on the portal. Most of the new registrations have been apparently done after the beginning of the Unlock period,” he added.Asked whether the arrival of migrant workers/labourers changed the unemployment scenario in Uttar Pradesh, another officer said, “This number of 34.51 lakh registered unemployment persons apparently does not include the migrants who have returned to the state from other states following lockdowns due to Covid-19 pandemic. The state government has carried out a separate exercise to profile the migrants.” An elaborate exercise of profiling 37.61 lakh returnee migrants has been recently completed. Efforts are being made to provide them jobs as per their skills in the industry or to provide them loan to enable them start their own business after coming back to Uttar Pradesh.Director, training and employment department, Kunal Silku said the rising number of registrations on the portal did not indicate increasing unemployment as people often used the portal not only to seek jobs but also to switch jobs. “We want more and more persons to use the portal as any other job portal. Many persons continue with registration after getting employment to look for a new job,” said Silku. “We are also making efforts that all those completing their education or vocational course register themselves on the portal,” Silku said. “Many unemployed persons may not have registered themselves on the portal while many may have done it for better avenues. But these figures are definitely a source of concern. In a limited way, this indicates increasing unemployment and the figures of those registering themselves may go up further,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor of economics department, Lucknow University.“For rural migrant workers, the government has been implementing MNREGA. But there is no such focused programme for urban unemployed and the educated youth. The state government should take a note of this and work for the unemployed,” Tyagi said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has time and again asked his team of officers to work out strategy to provide jobs to the migrant returnees. He has also presided over programmes organised to sign memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with the industry to accommodate migrant workers. Loans have been also provided to them to start their own business.Maurya was not available for comment on the issue. Replying to an adjournment motion in the state assembly in February 2020, Maurya had indicated that the BJP government was providing more jobs to people than the previous Samajwadi Party government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/over-75-000-people-registered-on-up-govt-job-portal-from-april-to-july/story-b5s6l4IjoKJWmo8IilAJIK.html
23-07-2020||City||Over 2,500 litres illicit liquor seized in Mohali’s Devi Nagar||A team led by the officials of the district administration and excise department on Thursday raided Devi Nagar village in Dera Bassi area of ​​Mohali district and seized 2500 litres of illicit liquor.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, said that on receiving information when a team reached the spot they found that the owner of the warehouse did not have a permit or licence to store liquor.According to excise officials, warehouse owners are likely to receive more illicit spirits. He said that after conducting an inquiry, a case will be registered against the accused under the provisions of the Excise Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-2-500-litres-illicit-liquor-seized-in-mohali-s-devi-nagar/story-94Cy4sHbzQ0pyXZeezw1dN.html
23-07-2020||City||Mission Fateh: Ludhiana health dept teams visit malls to spread Covid-19 awareness||Continuing the Mission Fateh initiative to spread awareness on the prevention of the spread of Covid-19, mass media teams of the health department undertook activities to inform residents about consequences of ignoring the guidelines.The teams visited several shopping malls in the city and distributed pamphlets among people. They also demonstrated proper techniques of washing hands and wearing and removing masks. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said, “Under the statewide Covid-19 awareness campaign, only Ludhiana district has taken the initiative to deploy three information education communication (IEC) vans with public address system (PAS) so that teams can move through the narrow streets of the city.”He said that teams visited various shopping complexes and malls to spread awareness among shopowners, customers and the mall staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mission-fateh-ludhiana-health-dept-teams-visit-malls-to-spread-covid-19-awareness/story-NW5A2VIT1dW8VNVHqu4SSN.html
23-07-2020||Gurugram||Only 22% hospital beds in Gurugram occupied by Covid-19 patients: Data||Only 22% of the 1,486 hospital beds earmarked for the Covid-19 patients in the city are currently occupied, according to the data published by the district health department. Officials said that only symptomatic patients with underlying health conditions, such as hypertension and diabetes, are being hospitalised, while asymptomatic patients are in home isolation. With the decline in the Covid-19 positivity rate to nearly 8% and the number of Covid-19 patients requiring tertiary care, most of the reserved hospital beds continue to remain unused.Currently, the administration has reserved 1,486 general isolation ward beds — including 192 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds and 92 beds with ventilator support system — across 40 government and private hospitals in the city. Of 1,486 beds, 335 were occupied as on Thursday. Out of these, 136 beds are occupied by patients from Gurugram, while 199 by patients are from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, parts of Haryana, and other states. The bed occupancy has dipped consistently over the last month due to overall decline in the positivity rate, according to the hospitalisation data. On June 30, at least 417 Covid-19 patients — all Gurugram residents — were admitted in the hospital. By July 7, it had come down to 197, and further to 175, on July 14, and 148 on July 21. The last time the number of people in hospitals was this low was in May, when the city had less than 1,000 cases. The district administration, however, cleared that they have no plans to de-escalate the preparations made for the Covid-19 treatment. Vivek Kalia, nodal officer for Covid-19 hospital management said, “Private hospitals have been directed to reserve 25% of their bed capacity for Covid-19. The capacity can be further escalated to additional 35% in case there is a surge in the number of cases. According to a state government order, a maximum of 60% beds can be reserved in the private hospitals. However, there has been no step towards the further expansion as the existing capacity continues to remain unused.”As per the district administration’s report on Covid-19 Health Facilities and Bed Management Report, the city required 18,000 beds for critical patients if the total number of Covid-19 patients crossed 1.5 lakh-mark. However, with the total count of infections at 8,266, the district continues to remain well below the projected mark.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO), said, “The hospitalisation should not be more than 10% of the infected patients. All the asymptomatic patients are being asked to home isolate, while those with symptoms are shifted to Covid care centres and hospitals based on their underlying health conditions, such as hypertension and diabetes. This helps in controlling the fatality rate too.” Gurugram’s current fatality rate is 1.45%, while the recovery rate is at 84.62%.Patients prefer home isolationData shows that nearly 83% of the active cases are currently home isolated, while only 12% are hospitalised. At least 955 patients are in home isolation while 136 are in hospitals, according to the district health bulletin. On Thursday, 139 new Covid-19 cases were reported, taking the total count of infected person to 8,266. Of which 1,152 are active cases. In the last 24 hours, 85 patients have recovered, taking the total count of the recovered patients to 6,995. With one Covid-19 death, the death toll of the district stands at 119. Out of which, 81 deaths are due to co-morbidity and 38 are without co-morbidities.“Immediate hospitalisation is required only for those patients who report health issues and call on 108 (ambulance referral service) to get admitted to an isolation ward of a hospital after being suggested either by the local Rapid Response Team (RRTs) or a physician,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer. He said that asymptomatic patients tested positive for the coronavirus are being home isolated. “Those tested Covid-19 positive prefer home isolation as it is more comfortable than hospitalisation. Even as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, positive patients who do not report health issues should be home isolated. In case, there isn’t adequate facilities at the house like separate rooms or care giver, then patients are put in covid care centres.”He said that at present there are 61 patients in the Covid care centres, which are isolation facilities set up in hotels. As per health officials, most patients prefer to stay at a government-paid facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/only-22-hospital-beds-in-gurugram-occupied-by-covid-19-patients-data/story-N71jsNGOymn5YxuRGsH1QJ.html
23-07-2020||City||Gurugram: DSP of Bhondsi jail arrested for supplying drugs, SIM cards to inmates||Gururgam: A 53-year-old deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of Bhondsi jail was arrested on Thursday for allegedly smuggling drugs and supplying SIM cards to inmates over the last two years. According to officers, 240 grams of a narcotics substance (Sulfa) and 11 SIM cards were allegedly recovered from his government accommodation.The police also arrested a 25-year-old peddler who allegedly visited the DSP’s house and delivered drugs and SIM cards.Police said the DSP is named Dharambir Chautala and the peddler is Ravi Kumar, who is from Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh and lived in Faridabad on rent.A raid was conducted by the assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Sohna at his residence on Thursday around 2.30pm. Police commissioner K K Rao said they had received several complaints of drugs and SIM cards being supplied to inmates through jail officials, following which they formed a team and began tracking the movement of peddlers. “We have initiated a probe in this case but we suspect that he had been supplying drugs to inmates for the past two years,” he said.According to the police, the cost of the seized drugs in the international market is pegged at Rs 50,000. The suspect would have allegedly packed it in small packets of five grams each and sold in the prison for Rs 5,000 each, they said.“Our teams were tracking the location of Kumar and followed him through Jharsa crossing, near Sector 15. He reached Chautala’s house on the jail premises and delivered the consignment. A team that was keeping a close watch raided the house and recovered the narcotics and the SIM cards,” Rao said.Kumar allegedly tried to escape but he was also arrested by the crime team.In August 2014, the state government had amended the Haryana Prisons Act 1894 to control the smuggling of cell phones into prisons. As per a recent amendment, using mobile devices inside the jail premises is prohibited and anyone found in possession of such a device could get up to three years of additional jail time.The regular confiscation of cell phones from inmates has not only baffled jail authorities but also highlighted their failure to curb instances of phones being sneaked into the compound.Jail officials said that they conduct surprise checks regularly in the barracks to ensure no illegal activity is carried out. In February 2018, during an inspection by police officers after a fight inside the prison, 22 cellphones were found abandoned by inmates.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that mobile phones are often handed over to inmates by their aides during court visits, who then hide them in their socks or undergarments. There have also been cases in the past where jail officials were suspended for delivering phones to inmates. “Due to the coronavirus pandemic, court hearings are conducted through videoconferencing, following which there has been no movement of inmates and no one could sneak in any mobile phone. The suspect took advantage of the situation and was selling SIM cards at a higher price, which is under investigation,” he said.Sangwan said cigarettes, mobile phones and drugs are sold at very high price inside the jail and that its not possible without the help of jail officials.Preliminary investigation has revealed that Chautala had come under scanner earlier as well and on 24 June, 2017 eight mobile phones were recovered by him from the jail’s premises after information that the police will conduct raids inside the barracks, said officers.Chautala was posted to Panchkula after the incident. He returned to Bhondsi jail on December 6, 2018.Kumar was lodged in Bhondsi jail and was acquitted last year. He was arrested for allegedly drug peddling and supplying mobile phones in jails. Sources said the police’s investigation had corroborated that Chautala allegedly had close links with Kumar. “He used to supply drugs and SIM cards to Chautala in lieu of money and later they were sold to jail inmates,” said an official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-dsp-of-bhondsi-jail-arrested-for-supplying-drugs-sim-cards-to-inmates/story-vI1YEA1Q9SsBNkJVzhXkkK.html
23-07-2020||Gurugram||Man held for cheating people of lakhs in exchange for jobs||Police on Wednesday arrested a man for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of getting them government jobs during the lockdown. The man, 39-year-old Lucknow resident Chandra Bhushan Pandey allegedly charged his “clients” anywhere between ₹50,000 to ₹1 lakh for his services, but left them jobless in the end, said police. According to the police, Pandey moved to the city on March 16 and rented a house in sector 31. Police said he published pamphlets offering government jobs and placed advertisements online, where he mentioned that he ran an organisation called ‘Kendriya Krishi Vikas Sansthan’.A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “From one person he charged ₹27,000 a month. Several unemployed men from Rewari, Mahendargarh and Narnaul had come to his office, where he taught them a course on agriculture and took interviews as part of his training module for 45 days.”Police said the training included courses on opening of credit cards for farmers and micro finance regulations. “The probe revealed that he had cheated several people using a similar modus operandi in Lucknow too and had been running this racket since 2016. In Lucknow, he charged ₹56,680 for the course package, in Gurugram, he was charging over ₹1 lakh. He told several job seekers that he would refund their money if they did not get jobs, but later he kept changing his location,” said the police officer. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “A complaint was received from the Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare in the Ministry of Agriculture in June, following which a probe was initiated. This week a raid was conducted and the accused was arrested from sector 31. At the time of the raid, police found that six unemployed men were undergoing the training and their statements were recorded.”Several calls to the office of the administrative vigilance unit of Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture did not elicit a response.Police said a laptop, which had details of the all the victims, was recovered during the remand. On Wednesday, the accused man was sent to judicial custody. A case was registered against him under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security will etc), 468 (forgery of purpose of cheating) and 471(using as genuine a forged document) of Indian Penal Code at sector 40 police station, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-held-for-cheating-people-of-lakhs-in-exchange-for-jobs/story-hpVScrCM6QBU663auTxTDL.html
23-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Number of pending samples brought down by nearly 55%||The number of samples awaiting confirmatory tests for Covid-19 infection in the district has been reduced by 55% over the past five days, said officials of the district health department. Since July 1, the number of samples has incrementally built up due to a paucity of equipment and logistical challenges in reporting the test results. However, with the addition of the new generation of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test kits, the backlog of pending samples is gradually being cleared, with the number of pending samples down to 614 from 1,358 on Saturday. This backlog too would be cleared soon, said health officials. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said that the health department has begun using three new RT-PCR kits. Each test kit has a cycle time of about three hours, while the labs can run two to three cycles daily. “We can test up to 90 samples at a time using the new test kits, which can produce results in about three hours. This has allowed us to test 600 new samples each day, and, more importantly, report the results sooner. Traditionally, RT-PCR can take at least 12 hours to produce a confirmatory result,” Yadav said. RT-PCR tests are considered to be the gold standard of Covid-19 testing and are used to determine the amount of viral RNA in a sample. Health department officials, however, did not provide details on the make, sensitivity or specificity of the new RNA test kits. “I am unable to recall these details at the moment. However, the new test kits have been validated and provided to us by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s (IDSP) district surveillance officer in Gurugram.Sharma added that there are only about 44 samples collected prior to July 23 whose test results are awaited. “Of the current lot of 614 pending samples, almost 570 were collected on July 23 itself, and their results will be received by late in the night, and shared in the next day’s (Friday) bulletin,” Sharma said, emphasizing that the new kits have significantly improved the turnaround time in reporting results. From the earlier turnaround time of nearly 12 hours, the new test kits are being able to provide results in three hours. A doctor with the IDSP in Gurugram, seeking anonymity, explained that the introduction of rapid antigen detection tests in the city earlier this month had necessitated an upgrade in health department’s RT-PCR testing capacity. “About 10% of the antigen test samples are being retested via RT-PCR. As per the norms, in antigen testing, a positive test is always a true positive, while a negative test requires a follow-up test, via the RT-PCR method, especially if a patient is showing symptoms. This adds to the RT-PCR’s testing load by anything between 80 to 100 samples per day, which is why the backlog had initially built up.” Officials said that, on an average, about 1,500 to 1,700 samples are being tested in the district everyday, of which rapid antigen tests make up about two third of the total number of tests. These tests are being conducted in the large outbreak regions and containment zones. The health department’s target in the coming weeks is to increase this capacity to at least 2,000 tests per day, if not more. A total of 74,720 tests have been carried out in Gurugram so far (including both anitgen and RT-PCR tests). While it took three and a half months for the health department to carry out the first 50,000 tests (which it achieved on July 10), the subsequent 24,000 odd tests have been carried out in less than two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-number-of-pending-samples-brought-down-by-nearly-55/story-fmY4oW42FKGoocHQVGhZTJ.html
23-07-2020||City||Ludhiana: Three buildings sealed over non-payment of CLU fee||Taking action against owners for non-payment of Change of Land Use (CLU) fee, the municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday sealed three buildings near Jalandhar bypass. The buildings include a showroom, a factory outlet and a liquor vend. MC assistant town planner (ATP), Inderjit Singh said, “The owners of these buildings have failed to submit the pending CLU charges due to which the buildings were sealed on Thursday. The fee has not yet been calculated. The owners have been told to submit the documents regarding the buildings following which the fee amount would be calculated.”Earlier the MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal had directed the MC staff to tighten the noose around illegal constructions and expedite recovery of dues from residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-three-buildings-sealed-over-non-payment-of-clu-fee/story-peYjvPdD9XVNddQdlz4QsK.html
23-07-2020||City||Gurugram: HSVP issues notice to CNG station operators over pending rent of ₹14 crore||Gurugram: The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has issued a notice to the operator of five CNG gas stations in the jurisdiction of Estate Office One over allegedly pending dues of around ₹14 crore. The authority has also asked the operator to appear before it and raise grievances, if any, with regards to calculation of dues. Officials said that fuel pump sites were handed over to the operator, Haryana City Gas Distribution Ltd (HCG) for running gas stations in lieu of monthly rent but the latter has not been paying the same regularly. Officials said the operator has questioned the calculation of dues by the authority and has even approached the high court and in light of that, they have decided to give another chance to the HCG to make a submission to the authority.The action comes in light of the HSVP facing major financial crunch due to loans taken by the authority. It is now trying to generate income by selling its properties and asking tenants to pay up rent. Prior to CNG stations, the HSVP had sent notices for liquor vend and petrol pump sites asking for rent, which ran into lakhs. Bharat Bhushan Gogia, Estate Officer One, said a contract was signed between the HSVP and HCG in 2006 and the rent will be calculated on the basis of that agreement. “We have given our property to the operator in that year and the firm had also paid rent at that time but in following years, no money was paid. This has led to a large amount of pending rental dues, which we are seeking,” he said. As per the details shared by HSVP, the five CNG stations allegedly owe nearly Rs 14 crore to the authority. “The company officials can come and raise their objections with regards to the rent and all the issues raised by them would be resolved,” he said. The company, when asked about the matter, said that they have been regularly paying the rent but they had objected to the calculation of pending dues by the HSVP. “We will pay rent from the day when the site was in our possession but the authority has a different take on this. In a number of instances, the possession was given to us years later as there were legal issues related to the land. We have asked HSVP to calculate the dues correctly and we will pay the rent,” said Kapil Chopra, MD, HCG, which operates the CNG stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-hsvp-issues-notice-to-cng-station-operators-over-pending-rent-of-14-crore/story-15mxYNbGGU7YBq6uOtU4dL.html
23-07-2020||City||Hate crime charge added against man who attacked Sikh-American store owner||Authorities in Colorado state of the US will add a hate crime charge against man who brutally attacked a Sikh-American store owner in April and told him to “go back to your country”.Sikh civil rights organisation the Sikh Coalition said it has been informed that the Jefferson County district attorney’s office has decided to add a hate crime charge against Eric Breemen, who will now be charged with multiple counts -- now including a bias-motivated crime -- in the violent April 29 assault on Lakhwant Singh.Singh said he is very grateful to “everyone -- Sikhs and non-Sikhs alike” who stood with him and his family in this incredibly difficult time and appreciates the Jefferson County authorities for hearing his story and, “through these charges, recognising the role that hate played in my horrible attack”.Singh was brutally attacked at the store he owns with his wife in April when Breemen entered the shop and began harassing the couple, the Sikh Coalition had said. Breemen damaged numerous items and repeatedly told the couple to “go back to your country”.When Breemen left the store, Singh followed him outside to take a photo of his license plate so that he could report the abuse but he struck Singh with his vehicle, throwing him several feet across the parking lot, causing multiple injuries.Following his arrest, Breemen had told police that he had attacked an “Arab” man. The Sikh Coalition had called for authorities to bring formal hate crime charges against the assailant. The organisation said more than 2,600 people sent emails to Jefferson County District Attorney Peter Weir urging him to pursue a hate crime charge. In addition, 29 organisations joined a sign-on letter earlier this month urging for the same, and many others signed and delivered additional petitions from across the world.“The decision to add a bias-motivated charge against Breemen is a resounding victory not just for Singh, but for minority communities who are threatened by bias and bigotry every day,” Sikh Coalition legal director Amrith Kaur said. “Adding these charges sends a clear message: Hatred is not welcome in Jefferson County, and those who are targeted for being different know that this community will acknowledge it and stand with them in solidarity,” she said.The Sikh Coalition has said that Sikh-Americans remain hundreds of times more likely to experience bigotry, bias and backlash than their fellow Americans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hate-crime-charge-added-against-man-who-attacked-sikh-american-store-owner/story-70uRF5CSbp33l3Rggf5b7O.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two brothers held for murder bid on neighbour in Chandigarh’s Dadumajra Colony||Two brothers have been arrested for attacking their neighbour with a rod and a sharp-edged weapon in Dadumajra Colony on July 20.The accused were identified as Suraj, 30, and Chand, 28, residents of Dadumajra Colony. The victim, Sunny Chauhan, 35, who lives near the accused’s house, told the police that he works as a sweeper on contract with PGIMER. On July 20, he was on his way to a nearby shop for milk when Suraj and Chand attacked him with a rod and a sharp-edged weapon. Sunny was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he remains under treatment.Police said the weapons used in the crime were recovered from the accused’s possession. They both work at private firms. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Maloya police station.The accused were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-brothers-held-for-murder-bid-on-neighbour-in-chandigarh-s-dadumajra-colony/story-vjoCgFk4nV1yDo8Co0mkPI.html
23-07-2020||Gurugram||MCG identifies 46 spots prone to waterlogging, to deploy suction tankers, pumps||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has compiled a report, identifying 46 vulnerable spots in the city, where the civic body will be deploying suction tankers, tractor-mounted pumps to minimise the impact of waterlogging. The report is based on ground-level observations by its executive engineers from some of these areas that witnessed heavy flooding following rain on Wednesday. Earlier, prior to the start of the monsoon, officials of the district administration, MCG, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the Gurugram Police had identified 35 vulnerable spots in the city, which were brought under round-the-clock surveillance via installation of CCTV cameras and deployment of teams of MCG and GMDA officials.The 35 points are located in some major road stretches, where waterlogging can have an impact on the traffic movement. The new list, however, mostly comprises arterial stretches in the city. A comparison of the two lists reveals that only Vatika Chowk and Narsinghpur are common to both.The 46 newly identified spots are located in areas such as sectors 9, 52, 21,24, 26, 10, 4, 46, 39, 27 and 55, Vatika Chowk, Annath Road, Ghata, Signature Tower Road, Khandsa market, Narsinghpur, Cyber Park, South City-1, Sohna Chowk, Basai Road, and Kanhai. On Wednesday, the city received 22mm of rainfall, leaving most parts heavily waterlogged. Barring a minor 15-minute drizzle in some parts of the city in the evening, it stopped raining around 11.30am in most other parts. However, the extent of the waterlogging was such that it took officials until 6pm to clear the roads of rainwater. Wednesday’s waterlogging also affected the public transport, with services of 11 Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) buses being disrupted.In order to prevent another incidence of waterlogging, Satyawan Singh, superintending engineer, MCG, has decided to deploy super suction tankers at 43 points, while a tractor-mounted pump has been deployed at Sector 27. In addition, Singh has also directed the civic body’s executive engineers to clean choked manholes in Sector 34.“We have identified 46 points across the city, based on the reports and the feedback we received from our executive engineers after Wednesday’s waterlogging. All these areas are low-lying that attract rainwater from the nearby sectors. As such, they remain prone to frequent waterlogging. A clean-up of these areas remains a bit of a challenge. Due to their location , the water does not recede quickly on its own. Hence, we have decided to intervene and introduce machines that can speed up the process of clearing rainwater so as to minimise the impact on traffic and commuters,” said Singh.Singh added that directions have been issued to executive engineers to identify more such points across the city so that similar measures can be introduced there as well. Additionally, the surveillance of the major roads of the city would also continue to enable prompt action in case of waterlogging. Reacting to issue of waterlogging in the city, Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG, said, “There are several reasons for Wednesday’s waterlogging. Each of these reasons is localised in nature, In some points,​ the drains got clogged, while in others the extent of rainwater accumulation was much higher due to the fact that these areas are located in low lying regions. Nonetheless, we took measures accordingly and cleared most roads of rainwater by the evening,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG. Last month, before the start of the monsoon season, HT had reported that the city is likely to witness waterlogging as most officials of the civic body are busy tackling the spread of Covid-19 and lagging behind on monsoon preparedness. Between March 21 and April 15 — a period where tenders for cleaning of drains are usually floated and allocated — the MCG had issued an order to all its officials, asking them to solely focus on ensuring basic services, such as sanitation, water, sewage, and streetlights, amid the Covid-19 outbreak, and not take up any other work until further notice.On April 15, during a video conference between senior MCG officials and councillors, it was decided that tenders for cleaning and desilting of drains can be initiated via e-tendering.However, due to the delay, the first set of tenders was only allotted to contractors in the first week of May with the remaining being alloted only in June.With a large number of migrant workers returning to their native places, officials of the civic body said that the contractors could not finish the cleaning and desilting of drains properly before the start of the monsoon season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-identifies-46-spots-prone-to-waterlogging-to-deploy-suction-tankers-pumps/story-foZe7WO68Fol60mHoRqCnL.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC chief directs removal of four Airtel mobile towers||Municipal corporation commissioner KK Yadav on Thursday directed the removal of four mobile towers erected by Airtel in different parts of the city. Constituting a panel of MC officials to remove the towers, Yadav in his order stated, “No prior permission was taken to erect the towers. A notice was issued to the company last year to remove the towers by July 23, but they have no acted on it.” The towers are located in Industrial Area Phase 1, near Elante Mall, near pumping station in Sector 28 and near the Kishangarh community centre. The company will also have to pay penalty and rental income for the duration the towers were erected, an MC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-chief-directs-removal-of-four-airtel-mobile-towers/story-rVGKL9e6UPGQlsQmweCcPO.html
23-07-2020||City||200-year-old gurdwara reopens in Pak’s Quetta city after 73 yrs||AMRITSAR/ QUETTAThe Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Thursday hailed the reopening of 200-year-old Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha in Quetta city of Balochistan province of Pakistan. The Balochistan provincial government on Wednesday handed over the gurdwara to the Sikh community after its restoration. “The Pakistan government’s move is worth being hailed. We also congratulate the followers of Guru Nanak in the neighbouring country,” said Gobind Singh Longowal, president of the SGPC, the apex gurdwara management body in India.The gurdwara that served as a school for Muslim girls for seven decades was returned to the Sikh community on Wednesday, enabling them to worship there for the first time in 73 years, Pak officials said on Thursday.Longowal said there are a large number of gurdwaras in Pakistan and most of them were closed after Partition. “The reopening of gurdwaras after decades on demand of the devotees is a great respect to their religious sentiments,” he said. The gurdwara stood empty for a year or two when most Sikhs left Pakistan after Partition in 1947, following two centuries of colonial rule.Under the government’s guardianship, a school was later set up in the gurdwara building, which remained functional until recently, when Sikhs won a legal battle to have the property returned, gurdwara custodian Govind Singh said.He said Sikhs living in Quetta were delighted to get back to their worship place.“This is the best gift for us. We are grateful to Pakistan and the judiciary for giving it back to us,” local Sikh leader Jasbir Singh said. “For us, it is like a dream come true.”Singh spoke as jubilant members of the Sikh community, adhering to social distancing rules to avoid the spread of the coronavirus, gathered at the temple to worship.The gurdwara could not be returned to the community earlier because of a lingering legal battle between local Sikhs and the provincial government, Singh said.Abdullah Khilji, an official at the education department in Balochistan, said hundreds of schoolgirls who were studying at the gurdwara building were relocated to a nearby school where they have since adjusted.The development comes at a time when Pakistan’s tiny Hindu minority is facing resistance from Muslim activists for attempting to build a temple in the capital. Initially, the government approved its construction, but then reversed the decision after Muslims objected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/200-year-old-gurdwara-reopens-in-pak-s-quetta-city-after-73-yrs/story-na46htHYwTMvbRFk0kMrgP.html
23-07-2020||City||Man posing as cop snatches Ludhiana youth’s gold chain, wallet||An unidentified man posing as a cop allegedly snatched a youth’s wallet and gold chain after pretending to take him to a police station for a probe in Ludhiana on Thursday.The victim, Akash Kumar of New Shimla Colony, is a BCA student.He told the police that he along with Neeraj Kumar, a worker at his family’s factory, was going to the State Bank of India, Shivpuri. When they reached near Kakowal road, a motorcycle-borne man, wearing khaki trousers and brown shoes, intercepted them. The man introduced himself as a cop posted with the CIA staff. “He said he was investigating a snatching case and that I was a suspect in it. He told Kumar to bring my father to the CIA police station and told me to accompany him on his motorcycle after slapping me,” Akash said.But the conman drove him to Basti Jodhewal Chowk, where he snatched his gold chain and wallet, before fleeing. The victim managed to jot down the vehicle’s registration number and informed the police.ASI Roop Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused. Police have asked the Regional Transport Office to provide details of the owner of the vehicle. “We will arrest the accused soon,” the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-posing-as-cop-snatches-ludhiana-youth-s-gold-chain-wallet/story-NKAOVcd39Qyf2bwM08xeVP.html
23-07-2020||Bangalore||Congress alleges Karnataka got PPE kits, gloves from China; false, says BJP||Even as the Congress in Karnataka alleged a massive ‘Rs 2000 crore plus’ scam in purchase of Covid related equipment and demanded a judicial probe into the matter, the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government hit back saying the allegations were false and baseless.Leader of opposition in assembly Siddaramiah and state president DK Shivakumar addressed a press conference where they claimed that the state had spent Rs 4167 crore till date in combating Covid. The two senior Congress leaders alleged that more than Rs 2000 crore of the money spent had been siphoned off through corrupt practices by inflating prices of Covid equipment like ventilators, PPE kits, sanitizers, gloves, and other material. They also released some documents which they said showed that the material had been procured at artificially high prices.Siddaramiah said that while the average cost of a ventilator is Rs 4 lakh and for 1000 such ventilators it should have cost only Rs 40 crore, he alleged that the government had spent Rs 120 crore. Demanding a judicial probe from a sitting high court judge, the leader of opposition in the assembly alleged that instead of ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat advocated by PM Modi, BJP-led government had procured from China.”“On one hand @PMOIndia advocates Aatma Nirbhar Bharat but here in Karnataka, his own Chief Minister @BSYBJP, has procured hundreds of crores worth Made in China medical equipment at exorbitant price. Is this not hypocrisy?” Sidaramaiah said in a tweet.DK Shivakumar also questioned the state government saying that it was filled with ‘Kaliyugada Kauravas’ (Kauravas from Kali age a reference to characters of Mahabharata) and alleged that the BJP-led government was “no vision and only corruption”.After the allegations levelled by the Congress, a cabinet meeting was called by CM Yediyurappa and subsequently five ministers - deputy CM Ashwath Narayan, home minister Basvraj Bommai, revenue minister R Ashoka, medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar and labour minister Shivram Hebbar - were deputed to defend the government.The ministers, who called themselves a ‘Pancha Pandavas’ ( five Pandavas), attacked the Congress claiming that they were levelling baseless and false allegations.Medical education minister Sudhakar said that it was unfortunate that Siddaramiah who has presented 13 budgets does not know the difference between proposal and expenditure. He also released documents by which the state government said under the previous coalition government when there were no pandemic, ventilators were purchased at the rate of Rs 21.73 lakh whereas the current government had got the ventilators with the same specifications at just Rs 14 lakh.To Siddaramiah’s charge that Rs 815 crore had been spent on the purchase of equipment from the medical education department,Sudhakar said: “’How can this be when we have hardly spent Rs 33 crore from my ministry? Congress is day-dreaming of making a political comeback by flinging wild and baseless allegations without any proof during such a difficult situation when we are combating the pandemic. People of the state will not forgive them and will teach them a lesson.”Other ministers too took on the main opposition party and said the charges were a figment of Congress’s imagination. However, JDS leader HD Kumaraswamy expressed anguish at the ongoing fight between BJP and Congress, saying: “At a time when all of us should be focussed on combating the pandemic and helping the poor and distressed, it is unfortunate that those two parties are focussed on political mudslinging.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/congress-alleges-karnataka-got-ppe-kits-gloves-from-china-false-says-bjp/story-bkYECSBjKe9BDN0FdKAODL.html
23-07-2020||Dehradun||After spike in Covid-19 cases, 34-hour-lockdown imposed in Uttarakhand’s Jaspur||After 46 Covid-19 cases were reported from Jaspur in Udham Singh Nagar district in a single day, the district administration imposed a 34-hour lockdown in the area on Thursday.Sundar Singh Tomar, sub divisional magistrate, Jaspur said, “After discussion with higher authorities of administration, police and health officials it was decided on Wednesday, that lockdown will be imposed from 2 pm on Thursday.”On Wednesday, 45 out of 46 cases were reported from Jaspur, were from an area named Nai Basti colony.Two weeks ago, a three-day lockdown had been imposed in Rudrapur, Kashipur and Bazpur cities of Udham Singh Nagar district after a sudden rise in cases.On Thursday, three Covid-19 positive patients also died in Uttarakhand.The state health bulletin mentioned that a 63-year-old male Covid-19 patient died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh due to “Ventricular Fibrilation/ARDS/MCA Infarction.”Another 80-year-old female patient died at Sushila Tiwari Government Hospital in Nainital district. As per death summary provided by the hospital, the cause of death was described as “Bilateral Pneumonitis/SARI/Type 1 Respiratory Failure/ Septicemia/Shock/Dyselectrolytemia/Hyponatremia.”In Haridwar district, a 50-year-old female who was admitted to a government hospital in Roorkee on Wednesday with complains of fever with difficulty in breathing and diabetes tested Covid-19 positive and died on Thursday.With this a total of 60 Covid-19 patients have died in the state of which eight patients have died due to coronavirus and other died due to comorbidities.On Thursday, with 68 cases Dehradun reported the maximum cases followed by 32 cases from Haridwar district. The other districts reported; Almora (3), Nainital (31), Tehri (4) and Uttarkashi (7).Of total cases reported on Thursday, 47 cases were found to be close contacts of earlier detected positive patients. Four healthcare workers, one frontline worker deployed for Covid-19 duty and two CRPF personnel also tested positive.Fifty patients were also discharged from hospitals on Thursday with maximum 31 patients from Nainital.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 17.31 days, while the infection rate is 4.51%. The state has so far tested 1.32 lakh samples of which results of over 9000 are awaited.Meanwhile, state general secretary for Bhartiya Janta Party, Kuldeep Kumar, also reportedly tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/after-spike-in-covid-19-cases-34-hour-lockdown-imposed-in-uttarakhand-s-jaspur/story-BSBjbxbKUjacBBDFBRazBM.html
23-07-2020||City||No legal hitch in holding civic polls in October: Punjab AG||Chandigarh Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda has said that civic body polls in the state can be held in October. “Legally, there is no problem in holding polls as per the likely schedule discussed at the level of CM,” said Nanda, adding that he had given his advisory to the local bodies department. The elections are running a bit behind schedule due to the lockdown and movement restrictions in place due to the covid-19 pandemic. Last week, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh after a video conference meeting with cabinet colleagues, including the local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, announced that the polls would likely be conducted in October second week. Subsequently, the local bodies department had sought legal opinion. The terms of nine municipal corporations and 117 municipal councils and notified area committees in Punjab came to an end between March 8 and April 26 this year, and as per the provisions of the Municipal Act, 1911, the polls should take place within six months, so all these civic bodies should go to the polls between September 7 and October 25, depending on the end of their terms. Currently, government- appointed administrators are running these civic bodies. POLLS NEED LOT OF GROUND WORK, MOHINDRA Mohindra added that before going into polls, lot of preparation needed to be done. “We will make a formal announcement in a few days. We have to take our MLAs into confidence, make sure that delimitation within wards is done, the population variation is settled as within a municipal area the population keeps shifting. These are time consuming and laborious matters,” he added.He adds that his department would complete all work related to `wardbandi’ (delimitation of wards) by the end of the month. The polls would have 50% reservation for women, in line with the state government’s policy, said Mohindra, adding that his department would be fully ready well in time for the polls.NOT A GOOD DECISION: SUKHBIRShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the intentions of the state government were not good with their plans of holding the civic body elections in October“The government has imposed ban on public movement and yet plans to hold polls. I am sure they would not let our workers venture out and would rig the polls to ensure they win a majority in the civic bodies,” added the former deputy CM, demanding that poll dates be announced, after taking all parties into confidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-legal-hitch-in-holding-civic-polls-in-october-punjab-ag/story-37aopvlyQrjz9ffDmE5e7K.html
23-07-2020||City||17-year-old boy held for raping, assaulting minor in Mohali village||A 15-year-old was allegedly raped and assaulted by a 17-year-old boy, who has been apprehended, police said on Thursday. The victim’s brother told the police that when he returned home from work on July 20, he found his sister unconscious with her forehead bleeding.He took her to a hospital, and on Wednesday, she revealed to him that a boy raped her on June 12 and then again on July 20 when she was taking a walk in a park near their house in Mohali village. After raping her, the boy also assaulted her and threatened to kill her if she disclosed the matter to anyone.“The accused was arrested from his house on Wednesday night. He was produced in a local court that sent him to a juvenile home,” said inspector Manphul Singh, station house officer, Phase 1 police station.The teenager has been booked under Sections 376 (rape), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-year-old-boy-held-for-raping-assaulting-minor-in-mohali-village/story-zPFYLmKyNFlt8raFveL1vI.html
23-07-2020||City||Snatchers thrash 80-yr-old to death in Ludhiana village||Two motorcycle-borne miscreants thrashed an 80-year-old man to death at Ladhowal village near railway crossings while attempting to snatch his mobile phone on Thursday.Some youths, who witnessed the incident from a distance, nabbed one of the accused, while the others managed to escape.The arrested accused has been identified as Mandeep Kumar, alias Golu, of Muradpuri Mohalla in Phillaur, and his absconding accomplice as Soni of Haripur village in Phillaur. Both accused are drug addicts. The GRP has lodged an FIR against the duo.Inspector Balbir Singh, SHO at GRP police station, said victim Mohan Singh, of Bilga village, was crossing the railway over bridge, when the accused chased and intercepted him.The accused tried to snatch the victim’s mobile phone. When he resisted, they thrashed him. The villagers rushed to the spot to rescue the elderly man, but he was already dead.The SHO added that the accused are already facing trial in multiple cases of snatching in Ludhiana and Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/snatchers-thrash-80-yr-old-to-death-in-ludhiana-village/story-ZptZWbJLVUMQXg8dSO4emJ.html
23-07-2020||City||Jalandhar MP writes to Captain, seeks probe into 1986 Nakodar police firing case||Jalandhar Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Thursday wrote to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, requesting an investigation into the killing of four Sikh youth protesters by police in 1986. The letter added that the four Sikh youth protesters, Ravinder Singh Littran, Baldhir Singh Ramgarh, Jhilman Singh Gorsian and Harminder Singh were killed without provocation on February 4, 1986, when they were protesting the burning of a bir (a copy) of the Guru Granth Sahib. He wrote that even during the Lok Sabha election campaign in 2019, he had raised the Nakodar police firing case, and had requested the CM to open investigation into the unfortunate incident and provide justice to families of victims. He said Captain Amarinder Singh had promised that the case will be reopened and investigated. The MP requested the CM to fulfil the promise made to the people and order an investigation into the Nakodar killings case at the earliest. “The families are waiting for justice with crossed fingers even after almost 35 years. It is time that justice be done to them and their suffering be put to an end,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-mp-writes-to-captain-seeks-probe-into-1986-nakodar-police-firing-case/story-BWzf5t2aTlgLwaDtrIHjmK.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Central Administrative Tribunal dismisses Khemka’s application||Finding ‘no merit’, the Chandigarh-bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal dismissed the application moved by IAS officer Ashok Khemka wherein he had sought direction from the Union government to consider his empanelment for holding additional secretary or an equivalent post at the Centre.The order mentioned that the matter relates to empanelment of applicant Ashok Khemka for holding additional secretary/ equivalent post at the Centre, which according to him had been wrongly denied to him.Khemka argued that the eligibility criteria for such an empanelment requires a minimum three-year service at the Centre at the level of the deputy secretary or above.“As per the officer, a number of officers who did not fulfil the said criteria have been appointed and three cases have been cited by him in this regard,” the order mentioned.He also stated that non-empanelment at this stage would lead to a cascading effect and he will not be able to serve at the Centre at all. The tribunal observed: “An important issue before us is whether a person can claim empanelment as additional secretary in the Union Government as a matter of right.”It adds: “Central Staffing Scheme clearly provides that appointment under the Union government under central staffing pattern is not a matter of right. Even the applicant has not challenged the Central Staffing Scheme. As such, no individual officer or no individual service can claim any right to these posts.”Mentioning the guidelines for empanelment at Additional Secretary level, the order mentioned: “The applicant being a member of premier service would have been aware of these guidelines. It is normal expectation that if he was really keen to serve at the Centre, he should have taken sincere and sustained efforts to fulfill the eligibility criteria.”Khemka’s submission that the civil services board specifically recommended his name for appointment in the Prime Minister’s Office has been denied by the Union government. As he did not provide any proof, the tribunal could not rely on this.“We also note that the allegation of the applicant about non-reasonability of classification for not counting the State service in top administrative ranks for eligibility, does not appeal to reason,” the tribunal observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/central-administrative-tribunal-dismisses-khemka-s-application/story-7nXuQMScx4COUtCSWXVHaM.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally reaches 1,27,364 with 1,041 fresh cases||The Covid-19 tally in Delhi rose to 1,27,364 on Thursday with 1,041 fresh cases, while the death toll mounted to 3,745, authorities said. On Monday, the fresh cases count had dipped to 954, and it increased the next day to 1,349. Twenty-six coronavirus-related fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Delhi Health Department bulletin on Thursday. From July 11 to 19, fresh cases were reported in the range of 1,000-2,000 daily. On July 19, 1,211 fresh cases were reported. The number of active cases on Thursday stood at 14,554, a marginal decline from 14,594, the previous day. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 new cases. According to the Thursday bulletin, the death toll due to Covid-19 has risen to 3,745 and the total number of cases mounted to 1,27,364.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-1-27-364-with-1-041-fresh-cases/story-BiPwS88mlydt5ZRzQkZQaI.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 9,895 Covid-19 cases; 298 die, 6484 recover||Maharashtra registered 9,895 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the state-wide tally to 3,47,502, while 298 more patients succumbed to the infection, 55 of them in Mumbai, the health department said.With 298 deaths, the toll increased to 12,854, said a statement from thestate health department.It said 6,484 patients were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 1,94,253.At present, there are 1,40,395 active cases in the state, where so far,17,37,716 people have been tested for the viral disease.Of the total new cases, Mumbai reported 1,245, Pune city 1,801 and its neighbouring township Pimpri-Chinchwad 950 cases.Aurangabad city recorded 182 new cases, Nashik city 383 and Solapur city 171.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region recorded 3,972 new cases and 130 deaths.With this, the total cases in the MMR, which consists of Mumbai city and parts of its adjoining districts, rose to 2,13,950, while the death toll shot up to 8649.Mumbai alone has 1,05,923 cases, while 55 deaths on Thursday raised the toll is 5930.Among the worst-hit satellite cities in the MMR, Thane city saw its Covid-19 tally rising to 18,320, while Kalyan- Dombivli has recorded 19,880 cases so far.The state’s Covid-19 recovery rate is55.9 per cent andthe fatality rate 3.7 per cent, the release said.Currently, 8,74,267people are in home quarantine and 45,222 in institutional quarantine.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 3,47,502, new cases 9,895, deaths 12,854, discharged 1,94,253, active cases 1,40,395, people tested so far 17,37,716.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-9-895-covid-19-cases-298-die-6484-recover/story-dMPTXSvg97R7iMYHPVPJHI.html
23-07-2020||City||In body swap, nurses accuse Amritsar hospital MS of issuing back-dated guidelines||Amritsar Even as a magisterial inquiry is on into incident of swapping of two bodies of covid-19 victims at Amritsar Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) last week, staff nurses and Class-4 staff have accused the medical superintendent (MS) Dr Raman Sharma of issuing back-dated guidelines to deflect blame. The MS has issued norms for management of bodies and distributed duties of doctors, staff nurses and Class-4 employees for the disposal of covid-19 victims’ bodies on July 20 (the incident happened on July 17). He, however, mentions the date as June 20, while putting his signature on it. HT has a copy of the letter with two dates of July 20 and June 20. “The June signature was a clerical mistake and the document was released on July 20 with the additional point of clicking photos of bodies with face uncovered and their identification tag visible. The other guidelines were being followed since June,” said the MS. As per the guidelines of Punjab government, a body management committee was to be formed in state GMCs to handle bodies of Covid-19 victims, but no such committee was formed at the Amritsar GMCH, the staff has claimed.The nursing staff and Class-4 employees of the hospital, however, alleged that the document has been signed in backdate to show seniors and government that the hospital is following these rules since June and to find a scapegoat among staff nurses and Class-4 employees. Already, the GMCH has written a letter to the state medical education and research department to suspend four staff members in handling the bodies. President of Punjab Nursing Association, Amritsar, Narinder Bhuttar, said on Thursday, “The MS signed the document in back-date to show that Class-4 employees and staff nurses are responsible, but no doctor was present in the mortuary, during the tagging of bodies, due to which the incident happened. Doctors on duty have the responsibility of handing the bodies to their families and this is not the assigned duty of staff nurses and Class-4 employees. Doctors are responsible for the body swap incident. Higher authorities should probe the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-body-swap-nurses-accuse-amritsar-hospital-ms-of-issuing-back-dated-guidelines/story-vxdfBOpBBvBWKovJFXeegN.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||CBI court initiates process to declare suspended Chandigarh inspector PO||Stating that she is deliberately absconding and concealing herself to evade arrest, a special CBI court has initiated proclaimed offender (PO) proceedings against suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur, an accused in a Rs 5 lakh graft case.“This court is fully satisfied that accused Jaswinder Kaur is intentionally and deliberately absconding and concealing herself with a view to evade her arrest despite having the knowledge of the proceedings initiated against her. Therefore proclamation proceedings are required to be initiated against her in the interest of fair justice,” said Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI, in Thursday’s order.The court also ordered issuance of a proclamation warrant against Kaur, requiring her to appear before it at 11am on August 29. The order came after CBI failed to arrest Kaur despite non-bailable warrants against her.On June 29, the inspector, along with an alleged conduit, Bhagwan Singh, was booked under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act on charges of seeking Rs 5 lakh bribe from a Manimajra resident, Gurdeep Singh for not lodging an FIR of cheating and forgery.As per CBI, Kaur was informed in person to join the investigation at CBI office on June 30 and she was again informed telephonically. However, she did not appear before CBI, and instead created false evidence in a DDR at Manimajra station, where she was SHO, that she had returned from CBI office, Sector 30.The CBI court had first issued non-bailable warrants against Kaur on July 20. After they were not executed in time, fresh warrants were issued, returnable on July 23. As, Kaur continues to be at large, proclamation proceedings have been initiated against her.Both the district courts and the Punjab and Haryana high court have already dismissed her pleas for anticipatory bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbi-court-initiates-process-to-declare-suspended-chandigarh-inspector-po/story-9wj6c2yX1wrmPFLMQ28EfN.html
23-07-2020||City||Asst commissioner, ward officers turn pall bearers to ensure last rites for Covid-positive senior||PUNE At midnight on Tuesday, July 21, at Chavan nagar on Satara road, a deceased 65-year-old female Covid-positive patient was taken to the Sangamwadi crematorium by the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) assistant municipal commissioner, and ward officers from Dhankawadi and Sahakarnagar.The woman’s last rites were conducted by the Pune civic body’s senior staff at 4am, July 22.This situation was created by a domino effect sparked by a private contractor appointed by the PMC to collect and transport deceased Covid patients to specific crematoriums, not responding to the call.The civic officials went to the woman’s house themselves, armed with necessary safety precautions in a PMC-appointed ambulance and took possession of the body for the last rites – a six hour process in all.Assistant municipal commissioner Nilesh Deshmukh, ward medical officer Dr Vidya Nagmode, senior sanitary inspector Narendra Bhalerao, senior sanitary inspector Raju Dullam and sanitary inspector Shantaram Sonawane, are the civic officers who ensured the cremation happened and was not further delayed.A family member of the deceased said, “All this happened due to a lack of coordination. She began feeling breathless and she died in the evening. From 6 pm to 11 pm we tried to get the death certificate and ambulance, but failed. Then, the senior officials from the Dhankawadi ward office came to our house, collected and packed the body, and took it in an ambulance for cremation. We are really thankful to all of them who helped us in this difficult time.” Jayant Bosekar, PMC deputy commissioner (zone 3), under whose jurisdiction the ward office comes, said, “It was an unfortunate incident to happen. I personally called the contractor, but he was not reachable. So, our team of senior officials went to collect the body and cremated it. Now we are issuing an official tender in our zone for this work. All the dead bodies of Covid- positive patients, whether from hospital or home, will be collected and their last rituals will be done.”The family itself has been through the Covid wringer since July 16, when a 72-year-old male member of the same family, living in Chavan nagar, died Covid-19 positive.After that, the entire family underwent testing and five tested positive on July 19, including the 65-year-old female.Home quarantine was the immediate reaction, but on Monday, July 20, as the woman started struggling to breathe, she was rushed to a private hospital.The family decided to bring her back home on July 21, and she died the same day at 6 pm.As other family members were positive in the house, and in quarantine in a separate room, they were unable to take the body for the last rituals, so contacted the PMC ward office.It is alleged that the contractor in question did not respond to the PMC calls because it was a case of a deceased Covid-19 patient in a home environment, which allegedly raises the risk of infection.Then, the PMC acted and as calls sped up the chain of command the buck stopped with assistant municipal commissioner Nilesh Deshmukh, who acted fast and decisively.A private doctor in the area was woken up at 11.30 pm and requested to issue a death certificate. Finally, the ward office ambulance, used for transporting Covid-19 positive patients, reached the house of the deceased at 12.30 am.The officers packed the body, sealed it and took it to the Kailas crematorium in Sangamwadi.By the time the body was cremated it was 4am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asst-commissioner-ward-officers-turn-pall-bearers-to-ensure-last-rites-for-covid-positive-senior/story-lTDpNvrtPFIJ9xXhtVL9ZL.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||SAD asks Amarinder about money in Covid relief fund||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to tell Punjabis why the Congress government was not releasing any money accumulated in the CM Relief fund for providing assistance to hospitals, patients as well as those affected adversely by the Covid-19 pandemic.In a statement here, SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said that more than Rs 64 crore was accumulated in a private bank under the CM Relief fund but the money was not being utilised for those suffering due to the pandemic. “As per reports, money is being deposited in the bank everyday but there is no release of any kind except for two releases of Rs 2.28 crore a long time back,” he claimed.The SAD spokesman said corporate houses, businessmen, government employees as well as ordinary citizens had contributed to the CM Relief fund following an appeal for helping Punjabis during the pandemic. He said except for two releases of Rs 2.35 crore which involved repatriation of Sikh sangat stranded at Nanded Sahib, citizens and students stranded in Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan and Rs 35 lakh compensation to the family of police officer Anil Kohli, no money had been released from the fund.The SAD leader said the Congress government had not thought it fit to release money for safety equipment for doctors, ventilators or other infrastructure in hospitals. He said the callous attitude of the Congress government bordered on being inhuman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-asks-amarinder-about-money-in-covid-relief-fund/story-Tv1oNqkWF3xFqMSkrIy8AI.html
23-07-2020||City||Kuldeep Bishnoi backs Sachin Pilot, urges Congress high command to promote mass leaders||Adampur legislator and senior Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi on Thursday backed former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and Jyotiraditya Scindia and said the duo leaving the party is hurting the Congress.In a video message, Bishnoi said he wants to tell the high command to bring mass leaders forward in the states as they are capable enough to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Many people associated with the BJP have spread rumours that Kuldeep is leaving the Congress after I congratulated my good friends Jyotiraditya Scindia of the BJP and Priyanka Chaturvedi of the Shiv Sena for taking oath as Rajya Sabha MPs. I want to make it clear that I am a Congressman by birth and will never quit it,” he added.Bishnoi said the party high command should give other responsibilities to those who have been occupying chairs in the Congress for 35 years and have never plunged into the poll fray.“I had paid a huge cost by not considering a leader to anyone except Rahul Gandhi and party’s general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. I am again saying that these two are only my leaders,” Bishnoi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kuldeep-bishnoi-backs-sachin-pilot-urges-congress-high-command-to-promote-mass-leaders/story-DnQUbQzCpmKIirv5baZQfP.html
23-07-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 cases cross 50,000 mark; Bengal enforces state-wide lockdown||The West Bengal government on Thursday enforced a 24-hour lockdown – the first day of the bi-weekly lockdown announced by the Mamata Banerjee administration – even as week-long lockdowns have already been announced in multiple towns and municipal areas after the state government flagged apprehensions of community spread of Covid-19 disease in some areas. The total number of cases registered in the state crossed the 50,000-mark and stood at 51,757 with 2,436 new cases being recorded in the last 24 hours. This is the highest single day spike till date. The death toll climbed to 1,255 with 34 Covid-patients dying in the last 24 hours. In Kolkata, life came to a virtual stand-still, as the city police used drones to keep a tab on lockdown violators and put up barricades and naka checking at multiple places to restrict unnecessary movement of people. Entry and exit points were sealed and cops led by senior IPS officers patrolled the roads and even lanes and bylanes in vulnerable pockets. “At least 886 persons were arrested for violating lockdown norms, which is four times than the number of persons arrested for the same reason on any lockdown day. More than 500 people were booked for not wearing masks compared to around 300 on other days. At least 30 vehicles were seized and 27 persons were prosecuted for spitting on the road,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police. Offices, including banks, public transport and markets were shut down while medicine shops and petrol pumps were kept open along with some emergency services during lock down. The scenario in the districts was all the same with policemen strictly enforcing the lockdown on the first day. People who could no cite proper reason of stepping out of their houses were either sent back or forced to do sit ups as on-spot punishment. Week-long lockdowns have been declared in many civic bodies in North 24 Parganas, Burdwan and Birbhum district. In north Bengal, the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) has announced week-long lockdown in Darjeeling, Kurseong, Kalimpong and Mirik and five other hill towns. The next state-wide lockdown would be enforced on Saturday. While next week one lockdown day would be enforced on July 29, the state government is likely to announce the other date on Monday. Meanwhile the state has announced strict lockdown in containment zones till July 31 and night time curfew from 10 pm to 5 am. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said that there could be a further spike in the number of cases as the state would ramp its testing from present 14,000 to 25,000 by August 15. (With inputs from Siliguri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-cases-cross-50-000-mark-bengal-enforces-state-wide-lockdown/story-fNrdHRlW9jZtLkdohiWn3L.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||6,355 cops withdrawn from non-core duties to create Covid reserves in Punjab||The Punjab Police has withdrawn 6,355 personnel from non-core duties to create Covid reserves and reinforce its field force at police stations and in the armed battalions.While 202 Covid reserves have been created in police stations across districts, another 20 have been constituted in the armed battalions to improve operational readiness for enforcement of various safety norms and protocols in the state, director general of police Dinkar Gupta said during the Covid review video conference here.Gupta said the manpower mobilisation exercise was undertaken from July 17, and as of July 23, 3,669 personnel were part of the 202 Covid reserves in districts while 475 were in the Covid reserves of the armed battalions. The diversion of force has been done from non-core police duties at district police offices, police lines, Saanjh Kendras, those attached with police/civil officers and threatened persons, and officials on temporary attachment with other units.“Post the exercise, an additional 1,800 police personnel have been mobilised at the police stations, across the ranks of constable to inspector,” he said. As for the armed battalions, the additional personnel deployment, in addition to 475 in the Covid reserves, has been made at Shambhu Barrier (118), security duty in districts (191) and NGOs of armed battalions (102).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-355-cops-withdrawn-from-non-core-duties-to-create-covid-reserves-in-punjab/story-LTXdWFRnTpSFFpJRBncd5L.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab issues guidelines for film, video shooting||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday approved detailed guidelines for shooting of films and music videos in the state during the Unlock-2 period.As per the guidelines, applications seeking permission for the shooting would have to be submitted to the deputy commissioner in advance, giving full details of the location, number of days and timings for which such permission is required.The DC would, after consulting the police authorities, grant the permission and a copy of the permission shall be endorsed to the commissioner of police/SSP for information and necessary action. The chief minister had on Wednesday asked chief secretary Vini Mahajan to formulate clear guidelines in response to the request from a delegation of the film/music industry, which approached the state government to seek permission for shooting of films/music videos, with necessary clarifications and directions to be issued in this regard to the district authorities.The guidelines further stipulate that the duration of shooting should be restricted to minimum possible time and not more than 50 persons should be present. Shooting would commence only after all the persons involved are thermally scanned and found asymptomatic. Also, the shooting venue should have sanitisers or soap and water and the members present should frequently wash their hands. Wearing of masks for all would be essential except for the ones who are in front of the camera. Social distance will have to be maintained except for the ones who being filmed.In order to avoid crowding, adequate number of view-cutters (kanats) and enforcement of crowd control by private security personnel would be ensured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-issues-guidelines-for-film-video-shooting/story-xcOj6ZIKIIO5S8Ln0UIkTL.html
23-07-2020||City||Haryana to enact law to reserve 50% seats for women in panchayats: Deputy CM||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday announced that the state government will introduce a bill in the next Vidhan Sabha session for reserving 50% seats for women in Panchayati Raj Institutions.While addressing a press conference here, the deputy CM, who also holds the portfolio of rural development and panchayats, said 50% reservation provision has already been introduced across two-thirds of the states of the country. Chautala said two-wheeler will also be given to 100 women, who have done outstanding work in villages. The beneficiaries will include 30 women sarpanches, 10 Zila Parishad members, 20 block samiti members, besides 40 other women associated with PRIs.He said after getting 75% reservation for local youth in private sector, employment opportunities will increase in Haryana. Similarly, a bill to amend the Industrial Disputes Act, and the Factories Act, will now be brought in the upcoming Vidhan Sabha session, he said.The deputy CM said the panchayat department will collect 200 tonne plastic waste that public works department will further use under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana for construction of roads.Buyer to get registry at home Referring to the state government’s decision to temporarily halt the registration of land transfer deeds, he said the government had come across some “loopholes” in the registration process that needed to be set right.He said a new registration process is being developed by the state government which will remove the existing loopholes and make the process simple.He said in the registration process “stamping of over Rs 100 will be in e-mode”.In order to minimise human interference in the tehsils, the state government will introduce the concept of Centralized Registry after e-Registry. With this, he said, any person after submitting his documents will be able to register from any tehsil in the state. The deputy CM said no registration will be done from July 22 to August 5, 2020 where Jamabandis are currently offline. In cases where e-stamps have been issued and the time for registration has been allotted in the mentioned period, the validity of challans has been extended by 30 days.Under the new centralised registry system, information about registries will also be given to the person concerned through e-mail. In addition, the registry will arrive at the buyer’s home by registered post just like passport services. Chautala said this decision has been taken in view of complaints that were received regarding issued related to registeries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-to-enact-law-to-reserve-50-seats-for-women-in-panchayats-deputy-cm/story-5SW12XTc0dZsPqcrO0pgWK.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Congress proposed privatisation of mandis: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday released a copy of Congress party’s manifesto which states that the party will amend the state APMC Act for setting up private mandis in Punjab.“Congress has double standards, it is crying hoarse that with passage of recent ordinances by the Centre, private players will enter the foodgrain procurement sector, however, before coming to power in 2017, Captain Amarinder Singh had promised that they will amend the APMC Act to facilitate private players,” said Sukhbir, during a media interaction via video conferencing.He added that Congress is now playing politics over the issue by misleading farmers that the MSP and assured marketing system will end, which in reality is untrue. “My party will not allow tinkering with the MSP and assured marketing of wheat and paddy,” Sukhbir added.SAD is a coalition partner in the NDA government in the Centre and is supporting the ordinances stating that farmers’ rights are protected.Farmers feel that the Centre has started the process to end MSP and assured procurement. “I have offered farmers to accompany me to the Centre to clear their doubts on both issues,” the SAD president said.“We understand the problems of farmers and have always fought for their rights. SAD will not stand for any discrimination against them. We will not allow anyone to tinker with MSP and assured marketing policy,” he added.He took on the Congress party for failing maize farmers besides demanding a CBI inquiry into the purchase of agricultural machinery from private companies at inflated rates.Sukhbir sought assurance from the Centre that MSP and assured marketing of wheat and paddy will not be tinkered with in any way. Senior leaders Jathedar Tota Singh, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Daljit Singh Cheema accompanied Sukhbir on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-proposed-privatisation-of-mandis-sukhbir/story-rGnfBnZWGO4oPk1HJAemLO.html
23-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand to impose Rs 1 lakh penalty, 2-year jail term for violating Covid-19 norms||Jharkhand Cabinet on Wednesday approved the Jharkhand Contagious Disease Ordinance under which penalty up to Rs 1 lakh and a jail term of up to two years can be imposed against violators of measures in place to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Anyone not wearing masks in public places and spitting in public can be booked under the new law. The state has reported 6,485 coronavirus cases including 3,397 cases and 64 deaths. With the highest single-day spike of 45,720 cases, India’s coronavirus count crossed 12 lakh mark on Thursday. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed that 1,129 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours.The total number of coronavirus cases stand at 12,38,635 including 4,26,167 active cases, 7,82,606 cured/discharged/migrated. The cumulative toll has reached 29,861 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-to-impose-rs-1-lakh-penalty-2-year-jail-term-for-violating-covid-19-norms/story-JC7ttUFGgqLYWduO9rYTVO.html
23-07-2020||City||Bodies of missing K’shetra couple recovered from canal||The bodies of a young couple were recovered from a canal, four days after they went missing in Kurukshetra district, police said on Thursday. The bodies of Amanpreet, 29, and his wife Naib Kaur ,27, residents of Nalvi village, were spotted by locals in the canal and were fished out with the help of divers. Police said the woman’s body was recovered from the canal in Jyotisar area and her husband’s body was found near Shambli village of Karnal district.Amanpreet’s father Raghubir told the police that the couple had left the house on July 19 and their bike was found near Kurdi village on the banks of the canal.Police official privy to the investigation said the exact cause of death will be ascertained after the postmortem. The family said the couple had an argument hours before they left the house. They have a five-year-old son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bodies-of-missing-k-shetra-couple-recovered-from-canal/story-5GmU6cnqjtC6aII2o9I9jP.html
23-07-2020||City||Ex-SAD chief Talwandi’s son joins Dhindsa, says Sukhbir lacks vision||Mohali Former MLA of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Ranjit Singh Talwandi on Thursday joined the splinter Akali group floated by Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, at a gurdwara in Phase-11, Mohali. Former SAD MLA Desh Raj Dhuggal also joined the Dhindsa group.Talwandi is son of former SAD president Jagdev Singh Talwandi who remained associated with Akali patriarch Parkash Singh Badal for many years. On his reasons for joining Dhindsa, Talwandi said, “All these months, I have been noticing the activities of the Badals. Sukhbir Singh Badal has been running the SAD like a corporate office. Now, since Dhindsa is the true leader of the party and I have decided to join him.”Ranjit Singh remained MLA from Raikot constituency from 1997 to 2002 and was also chairman of the Punjab Small Industries and Exports Corporation (PSIEC). “The junior Badal lacks vision and is running the party like a dictator. Parkash Singh Badal appointed him SAD president without looking at merit,” he alleged. Dhindsa alleged that the entire Punjab knew that the Badal family were hand-in-glove with Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh over the Bargari sacrilege issue to save the accused. “The clear-cut effort to save those guilty in the sacrilege case and the misleading of public is visible. Despite the Congress being in power, the business interests of Badals remained unaffected,” he alleged. He added that their party would form committees at every level so that a proper road map can be prepared for effective functioning. To a pointed query from a reporter on whether former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra will be joining their party, Dhindsa said, “There is a long list. Just wait for another 10 days.”Others present included former ministers Sewa Singh Sekhwan, Parminder Singh Dhindsa, Jagdish Singh Garcha, former deputy speaker Punjab, Bir Devinder Singh, former president of Delhi Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee Manjit Singh GK and senior SAD leader Tejinder Pal Singh Sidhu.On July 8, a faction of dissident Akali leaders had elected Dhindsa as the SAD president at a gurdwara in Ludhiana. The SAD, however, had termed the move illegal and fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-sad-chief-talwandi-s-son-joins-dhindsa-says-sukhbir-lacks-vision/story-TLtJdVR82To1t6oJ5VbnxK.html
23-07-2020||City||Haryana health minister Anil Vij inaugurates plasma bank at PGIMS in Rohtak||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Thursday inaugurated the plasma bank at the Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here through tele-communication. This is the second plasma bank in Haryana. Earlier, the Employees State Insurance corporation (ESIC) hospital in Faridabad had established the first plasma bank in Haryana.Vij said, “Our recovery rate and the national average is far better than many other states. I want to thank our medical fraternity for their sincere efforts and dedication in treating the Covid-19 patients. I appeal to recovered patients to donate plasma and help those suffering from the infection.” He said many people are facing problem in getting plasma and their problems will be solved by setting up a plasma bank at the PGIMS.Dr VK Katyal, head of medicine department, said 14 patients, who recently recovered from the disease have donated plasma at the PGIMS in Rohtak to help those suffering from severe infection. “We had conducted convalescent plasma therapy on seven patients, of whom three were discharged, one patient has died, two are not responding well and undergoing treatment. And one patient is responding better. At least 57 patients have pledged to donate plasma. The plasma of B+ve and O+ve blood group is in demand, he added.He said there is a target to call at least 200 plasma donors every month. “We are taking plasma from people aged between 18 and 60 based on their health conditions. The plasma is taken only cured patients after two weeks of recovery. It is a promising therapy for severely ill patients, but there is no proof that it works for all. We are treating people with this therapy and we would be able to comment more on its efficacy after conducting trials on more than 100 patients,” Dr Katyal said.“A plasma donor should have normal weight, haemoglobin level above 12 and no history of diabetes, cancer or hypertension. The therapy will be administered to those with respiratory rate higher than 30 (normal is 20), oxygen saturation less than 90% (normal is 95 to 100%), or those with pus in their lungs,” he said.₹7.5 will be spent for development projects in Ambala Cantt: VijAmbala: The state government will be spending ₹7.5 crore for development projects in the Sadar area of Ambala Cantonment, home minister Anil Vij, who holds the charge of urban local bodies said on Thursday. As many as 13 projects will be initiated under the special grant for strengthening of roads and drains. After meeting the officials at his residence, he said along with repairing of roads, construction of gyms, parks and toilets will be done in the area. Construction of a shed in Gandhi Mandi Ground and maintenance of street lights will also be done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-health-minister-anil-vij-inaugurates-plasma-bank-at-pgims-in-rohtak/story-Trw9d3vlhw9yjuxlswtcCI.html
23-07-2020||City||Bathinda records highest single-day spike with 58 cases||BLURB: 28 cops among those found infected in the district As many as 58 persons, including 28 cops posted at the Nathana police station, tested positive for Covid-19 in Bathinda on Thursday, making it the district’s highest single-day spike. COPS CONTACTS OF INFECTED ASITill date, 36 cops in the district have contracted the infection. Bathinda superintendent of police (SSP) Nanak Singh said the infected personnel are primary contacts of an assistant sub-inspector, who had tested positive on Saturday. “All 28 cops had been sent into quarantine right after the ASI was found infected. All of them are asymptomatic and have been moved to an isolation facility. We are in the process of appointing new staff at Nathana police station, which has now been closed for sanitisation,” said SSP.30 MIGRANTS FROM UP ALSO TEST POSITIVE Thirty migrant workers who had come to work at Guru Gobind Singh Refinery near Raman Mandi, from different places of Uttar Pradesh also tested positive.An official spokesperson of the refinery clarified that the patients were not employees of the refinery but those engaged by contractors. He said the workers were brought through a special transport plan by the contractor and housed in a quarantine colony.None of those tested positive had entered the refinery premises, added the spokesperson.16 INFECTED IN FEROZEPUR, 13 IN MUKSTARAccording to official information, 16 others had also tested positive in Ferozepur. Sub-divisional magistrate Amit Gupta said those infected include two health workers and a pregnant woman. In Muktsar, 13 people, including eight from Malout town, tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-58-cases/story-R4oNqTIrPPhyhn87HjEvGK.html
23-07-2020||City||Jalandhar’s PIMS starts treatment of Covid-19 patients||Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) has also joined the battle against Covid-19 pandemic by starting treatment at its facility on Thursday. Until now, treatment for the virus was being carried out at only three other places in Jalandhar, including the civil hospital, the Government Meritorious School and IMA Hospital, Shahkot. PIMS currently has 18 beds for Level-2 patients and two beds for Level-3 patients. It will soon increase the number of beds to 110 for Level-2 patients and 10 for Level-3 patients.Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “Being a medical college, PIMS has the state-of-the-art infrastructure to assist the administration in tackling the pandemic effectively.” He added that the services of private hospitals too have been roped in and these would start treatment by the first week of August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-s-pims-starts-treatment-of-covid-19-patients/story-Zc8Jtm0qiQ5N8sLupWznXM.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to enact law to reserve 50 % seats for women in Panchayats: Deputy CM||The BJP-JJP government in Haryana will bring in a bill in the next Vidhan Sabha session for reserving 50 percent seats for women in Panchayati Raj Institutions, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said here on Thursday. Chautala, who is also the minister for Industries, Rural Development and Panchayats, said the state government has been taking adequate steps for ensuring maximum participation of women in PRIs and the society. “To give 50 percent reservation to women in Panchayats, we will bring in a Bill in the next Vidhan Sabha session,” Chautala told a news conference here during which he also dwelt upon various steps of the state government for making Haryana a preferred industrial destination. The JJP leader said a “scooty” (two-wheeler) will be given to 100 women who have done outstanding work in villages. The beneficiaries will include 30 women sarpanches, 10 Zila Parishad members, 20 Block Samitis’ members besides 40 other women associated with PRIs. He also said the government will soon amend the relevant law to provide for opening up of non-cultivable tracts of land of over 500 acres under any Gram Panchayat for industrial development. This will not only help villages generate revenue but the industries too would flourish and generate employment. Asked about the state government’s decision to temporarily stop the registration of land transfer deeds in the state, he said the government had come across some “loopholes” in the registration process which needed to be set right. The new registration process being developed by the government would remove those loopholes, besides simplifying the entire process for the benefit of the common people, he said. He said the revenue department officials are conducting “re-verification of loopholes”. “When the registration process is simpler, it will benefit common people and that is why we are digitizing the entire process. Within 24 hours, they will get all details over their e-mail,” he said. He also said in the registration process “stamping of over Rs 100 will be in e-mode”. Chautala said at a recent state Cabinet meeting, a proposal had been cleared for bringing an ordinance to reserve 75 percent of private-sector jobs in Haryana for local candidates. The government had also given nod to amend the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and the Factories Act, 1948 to provide for some relief to industries and factories amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the state’s new industrial policy, the ‘Haryana Enterprises Promotion Policy-2020”, would be announced next month. Promising a congenial industrial climate to investors, Chautala said the state intends to be at the top by next year in ‘Ease of Doing Business’ rankings, moving a ladder ahead from its present second spot. He said the present BJP-JJP dispensation has been taking several steps to ensure a congenial atmosphere for investors to invest in Haryana. With the government promoting the establishment of industrial clusters in all 22 districts, he said, “We will have industrial clusters according to the strength of a particular area in a particular industry.” Replying to a question, he said the government has enough land bank and added around 17,000 acres are available. Asked if companies like Maruti Suzuki were looking for an expansion in the state, Chautala said the government has been discussing with them what more it can offer them in this regard. The government can look into any land requirement by companies, close to their existing facilities in Gurgaon district, for their expansion, he added. He said Haryana can emerge as an IT hub like what Greater Noida has become for mobile phones. Touching upon another issue, he said the expansion of road network in eight districts of the state has been approved and 83 roads will be built at a cost of Rs 383.58 crore by December. These districts are Charkhi Dadri, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Mewat, Rohtak, Sirsa and Yamunanagar, he said. He also said it has been targeted that more than 200 tonnes of plastic waste will be collected by Panchayat Department and given to the PWD for use in road construction under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana. On the bypoll for Baroda assembly in Sonipat, dates for which are yet to be announced, Chautala said the JJP and its ally BJP will jointly fight the election and the decision about the candidate will be taken at an appropriate time. Chautala also hit out at the Congress for allegedly trying to mislead farmers on three farm sector ordinances promulgated by the Centre recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-enact-law-to-reserve-50-seats-for-women-in-panchayats-deputy-cm/story-DT17MEzmVkFcuT3T7LgA4J.html
23-07-2020||City||Dhankar takes charge as Haryana BJP chief in Rohtak||Om Prakash Dhankar, the newly appointed president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Haryana, took charge at the party office in Rohtak on Thursday.The BJP’s central leadership on Sunday had appointed former agriculture minister Dhankar as the state chief, replacing Subhash Barala, who had completed his term.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, BJP’s Haryana in-charge Anil Jain, former state BJP chief Subhash Barala, former ministers Captain Abhimanyu, Ram Bilas Sharma and minister of state Sanjeev Baliyan and other party leaders were present on the occasion.While addressing the gathering, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the BJP is a party where a worker from poor financial background can become the state president, chief minister, minister and the Prime Minister. “In other parties, the key positions are reserved for political dynasties. Lobbying and pressure tactics to get any position does not work in our party. I hope that Dhankar will lead the party in the state and strengthen the organisation,” the CM said.After assuming charge as state BJP chief, Dhankar urged the party workers to support him in the new role. “The doors of my house will be open 24x7 and anyone can meet me with their grievances. I urge all party workers to send their suggestions on Haryana party president’s e-mail ID regarding new steps to strengthen the organisation in the state,” he added.Slamming Congress leader Deepender Singh Hooda’s elevation as Rajya Sabha MP from Haryana, Dhankar said his party has nominated Ram Chander Jangra, a man from poor family for the Rajya Sabha while the main opposition Congress has sent the son of a politician to the upper house from the state.Man attempts suicide at eventHigh drama prevailed during Dhankar’s oath taking ceremony when one Rajbir from Rohtak’s Kansala village tried to commit suicide by cutting the veins of both his legs with a sharp edged weapon. The incident took place during the CM’s address. Khattar noticed him and directed the police to rush him to the Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), here.The man had earlier attempted a suicide bid outside the Rohtak superintendent of police’s office a few months ago. He alleged that the police had filed a false case against him for giving drugs to inmates at his drug de-addiction centre.“I had paid money to the police for cancelling the FIR but they failed to do so. The corruption has reached to a next level in the state and I attempted the suicide bid in front of the CM to apprise him of the real face of his government,” Rajbir said.SHO Jai Narayan said the man was rushed to PGIMS and his condition is stable. A suicide note was recovered from him.Social distancing goes for a toss Social distancing guidelines were not followed during the function as hundreds of party workers and leaders attended the event. BJP’s Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia was among those who did not maintain social distancing. The CM also appealed to the workers to maintain social distancing and wear masks. However, the norms were not followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dhankar-takes-charge-as-haryana-bjp-chief-in-rohtak/story-Xtw5hQWS4KmlHvKHQFgWhP.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||SEC sanctions Rs 15 crore to boost health infrastructure in J&K||With the rise in Covid-19 cases in J&K, especially in Kashmir, the state executive committee (SEC) sanctioned Rs 15 crore to boost the health infrastructure in the major hospitals in Srinagar and Jammu on Thursday. The SEC, headed by J&K chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam, sanctioned Rs 15 crore under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to major health institutions for further procuring essential labs and equipments for handling the Covid-19 pandemic. The Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), Srinagar; Government Medical College, Jammu and Srinagar have each been sanctioned Rs 5 crore. ‘’The funds will be placed with the divisional commissioners of Jammu and Kashmir for this purpose,’’ the official spokesperson said, adding that as per MHA guidelines SDRF funds for Covid-19 containment efforts in government hospitals can be utilised for setting up additional testing laboratories, procurement of personal protection equipment for health workers and other related consumables for government hospitals. “The funding under SDRF is over and above the funding that is being provided to the health department during the course of the year,’’ the spokesperson said. Officials said the money will be given to major hospitals in Srinagar like SKIMS, Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar and GMC, Jammu. After a sudden spike in cases and deaths due to Covid-19, complaints started pouring in from different hospitals about depleting oxygen supplies and non-availability beds, which forced the government to impose fresh lockdown in all districts of Kashmir, except Bandipore. People have asked the government to boost medical infrastructure in time so that once Srinagar and other districts open, people don’t face problems. “It seems the government did not utilise the earlier lockdown period effectively. The loopholes were laid bare as the number of cases went up. Hopefully, things will be taken seriously now,’’ said a Valley resident, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sec-sanctions-rs-15-crore-to-boost-health-infrastructure-in-j-k/story-BOxcZms5FkvCkyC1t4WZ9L.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||Selected as central lab for Covaxin human clinical trials, says Delhi-based Dr Dangs||A Delhi-based private laboratory has claimed that it has been selected as the central lab for human clinical trials of Covaxin, India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidate.The vaccine is being developed and manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology.Dr. Dangs Lab said on Wednesday that it has partnered with Bharat Biotech for conducting the trials.“We are extremely privileged to announce that Dr. Dangs Lab, New Delhi has been provided the opportunity to serve the nation by being selected as the central lab for the Human Clinical trials of Covaxin; India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine being developed and manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV),” it said in a statement.This is a “randomised, double blind, placebo controlled multi-centric clinical trial in India”, it added.“Dr. Dangs Lab is currently processing all samples for screening and safety for the various phases of this clinical trial, whereas all the efficacy studies will be performed in NIV (Pune),” the statement said.The lab has already started receiving samples from 50 to 100 subjects per day from various trial sites for safety testing and will be increasing operations as per assigned timelines to cover 12 sites across the length and breadth of the country over this month, it added.“Stringent quality norms driven by good clinical laboratory practice (GCLP) guidelines are being followed as mandated by regulatory authorities. The lab has renowned experts in each field who are working tirelessly and collectively to provide quality and timely results to fulfil the imminent need of an effective and safe COVID19 vaccine,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/selected-as-central-lab-for-covaxin-human-clinical-trials-says-delhi-based-dr-dangs/story-Pzmt4ijsUsmC5P4qDCNMhJ.html
23-07-2020||City||From Non-SCS to IAS: CAT member recuses from case after two hearings||Seventeen days after put on notice by the Chandigarh bench of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), the Centre and Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) did not file the replies until July 21 in a case challenging the new selection system of Haryana’s Non-State Civil Service (Non-SCS) officers to fill five Indian Administrative Service (IAS) posts.In yet another twist, the day before the high-stake case came up for second resumed hearing on July 21, Sanjeev Kaushik, other member of the bench that had issued notices, recused himself.The case has been placed before Ajanta Dayalan, single bench member of the Tribunal.Sanjeev Kaushik is former additional advocate general of Haryana while Ajanta Dayalan is a retired 1978-batch officer of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service.“The case was listed for July 21 after issuance of notice on July 3 and further hearing on July 14,” Ajanta Dayalan, member, CAT, has said in the order. “However, on July 20 the other member Sanjeev Kaushik recused himself and as such the case is placed before single bench of this Tribunal,” Dayalan added.Dayalan observed that as the matter pertains to policy issue regarding appointment to a premier service namely the IAS and also “involves interpretation of statute,” this case needs to be placed before an appropriate division bench.During the resumed hearing, counsel for the applicant pleaded that the written examination (that is being challenged in this case) is scheduled to be held on August 9. As such, the matter regarding interim prayer needed to be decided urgently, the applicant’s counsel argued.“In view of urgency of the matter,” the order reads,” Registry is directed to take steps for constitution of appropriate division bench and the matter be listed before it, urgently, preferably within this week or early next week.”Observing that the Centre and the UPSC have not filed the reply so far, Dayalan stated: “They are directed to file their replies before the next date.”WHAT IS THE MATTERIn a June 9 order, the Haryana government had directed Haryana Public Service Commission to recommend Non-SCS officers (five times the number of vacancies) after conducting the written examination.It is for the first time that Non-SCS officers in Haryana will have to take a written examination to get appointed to an IAS post. Until now, the Non-SCS officers of the state were appointed to such posts on basis of their service record. The HPSC will prepare a merit list based on the marks obtained in the written examination and recommend names to the state government for onward submission to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC).The petitioner has sought quashing of the June 9 notification of the state government, pleading that the government has committed an illegality by introducing the written test.The state government has held that there was no “illegality” in its June 9 order and that the written test for shortlisting the eligible candidates has been introduced to have a rational and transparent system for evaluating/adjudging the persons of outstanding merit and ability.The HPSC has also told the CAT that the state government has the powers to make a reference to the HPSC for recommending names of persons of outstanding merit and ability on the basis of written test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-non-scs-to-ias-cat-member-recuses-from-case-after-two-hearings/story-FORZmkLImVGC4qdHQGWBEJ.html
23-07-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee announces major rejig in TMC ahead of 2021 Bengal polls: Report||Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced a major reshuffle in the party’s organisation as she gave leadership roles to younger and new faces with an eye on next year’s assembly elections in West Bengal, party sources said. At a meeting of the party, Banerjee announced a new state committee with 21 members in it and a seven-member core panel, they said. Besides, the presidents of several districts, including Howrah, Coochbehar, Purulia, Nadia, Jhargram and South Dinajpur have been removed, a senior party leader said. New and younger faces such as Laxmi Ratan Shukla, Partha Pratim Roy, Gurupad Tudu and Mahua Moitra have been given charge of these districts, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-announces-major-rejig-in-tmc-ahead-of-2021-bengal-polls-report/story-T3T7yXmSyPsOUJqOlj6buO.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 5,000 fine for violating home isolation, flouting of social distancing norms by restaurants in Punjab||Chandigarh: The Punjab government on Thursday decided to impose a fine of Rs 5,000 on Covid-19 patients violating home isolation instructions in the state. There are 951 patients in home isolation across the state at present.According to the new guidelines announced by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, a fine of Rs 5,000 will also be imposed on owners of restaurants and commercial eating places violating social distancing norms, as a deterrent against defiance of the restrictions put in place to check the spread of the pandemic in the state.Further, violation of social distancing norms and social gatherings of more than the permitted strength will attract a penalty amounting to Rs 10,000. The fines were decided at a video conference meeting to review the Covid situation and preparedness in the state, an official release said.These penalties are in addition to those announced earlier, in May, for not wearing a mask in public places (Rs 500), violation of home quarantine instructions (Rs 200) and spitting at public places (Rs 500).Under the existing guidelines, shops/commercial places are liable to pay Rs 2,000 for violation of social distancing norms, while for buses and cars such violations are punishable by Rs 3,000 and Rs 2,000 fine respectively, and in the case of auto-rickshaws/2-wheelers, the fine stands at Rs 500.The additional fines have been imposed as instances of violations continue to be reported from across the state, with average daily challans for not wearing masks standing at around 5,000.APPEAL TO RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS, FARMER PROTESTERSThe chief minister appealed to the heads and managements of religious institutions to ensure enforcement of social distancing restrictions and other safety guidelines, including masks, during visits to religious places. He urged them to make regular announcements in this regard through public address systems.Amarinder reiterated his appeal to farmer unions not to come out on the roads in protest against the Centre’s anti-farmer ordinances but to defer any such movements to check the spread of Covid.He also directed the officials to install mask-vending machines at vantage points such as bus stands.PLASMA BANKS IN AMRITSAR, FARIDKOT SOONChief secretary Vini Mahajan and health experts were asked to work out the modalities for setting up plasma banks also in government medical colleges in Faridkot and Amritsar, in addition to Patiala, where the state’s first plasma bank was inaugurated on July 21. On the first day itself, four donors had donated their plasma in the bank.He appealed to those already cured of Covid to donate their plasma to help out those fighting the disease. The chief secretary informed the meeting that IAS and PCS officers who have recovered are also being encouraged to lead the way by donating their plasma. DGP Dinkar Gupta said three policemen, including a home guards jawan, had also donated convalescent plasma at Patiala and Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana.Citing the high positivity rate in Ludhiana and Jalandhar, the chief minister directed the health department to step up surveillance and testing in these districts to contain further spread of the pandemic.At present, Jalandhar has a maximum of 18 micro-containment zones in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rs-5-000-fine-for-violating-home-isolation-flouting-of-social-distancing-norms-by-restaurants-in-punjab/story-VkRJfvVlTdN1YDERicbiVK.html
23-07-2020||City||DC marks probe into Jalandhar pvt hospital overcharging for covid-19 test||Jalandhar Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has marked an inquiry against Patel Hospital, Civil Lines, for charging Rs 5,500 for a covid-19 test from a person on July 21, even as the government-fixed maximum charges for the test, including GST/taxes, are Rs 2,400. The state government orders were issued on July 8. The complainant, Rajeeb Makol, of GTB Nagar, filed a complaint on Wednesday. He needed the report as he needed to travel out of state. He claimed he got to know of the fixed charges, only after his friend was charged Rs 2,400 at another lab. Patel Hospital spokesperson Dyal Singh said, “The Rs 5,500 charged from patient includes Rs 2,400 for the test and for isolation room charges. The hospital complies with all state government directions.” The DC confirmed that assistant commissioner Randeep Singh Gill is conducting an inquiry and added people were welcome to file a complaint of violation of the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dc-marks-probe-into-jalandhar-pvt-hospital-overcharging-for-covid-19-test/story-tGEvGKBeD50dJOx6HGWOpI.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panipat’s handloom industry back on track as migrants return||After three months of struggle, Panipat’s handloom industry is back on track as weavers have resumed work and are clearing pending orders from across the globe. The handloom industry largely depends on migrant weavers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The lockdown was hard on both the handloom owners and the weavers as the industry remained closed for over two months after migrant workers returned to their home states. Now, around 60% of the labourers have returned to work as handloom owners made arrangements to bring them back. There are around 10,000 small and large handloom units in Panipat that employ around 3.50 lakh people, of which around 3 lakh are migrants.Northern India Roller Spinners’ Association president and Sachdeva Textiles owner Pritam Singh Sachdeva said, “Many industrialists have arranged air tickets for their workers. Now, around 60% workers have returned and most industries have resumed production.” FLUSH WITH ORDERSIndustrialists say there has been a surge in demand for handlooms both in India and abroad. Panipat Exporters’ Association president Lalit Goyal said, “There is huge demand for Indian handlooms and weaves aboard, especially in European countries and the USA. The demand has surged after China was criticised by global leaders. We are working hard to fulfill their expectations.”He said there were around 500 exporters’ units in Panipat and almost all units have resumed work. INDIAN VS CHINA IN PANIPAT’S BATTLEFIELDAs per industrialists, China is India’s biggest competitor in the handloom and textile sector. An exporter, who did not wish to be named, said, “Though, we are facing several problems and do not get the requisite support from the government we are still doing are best to compete with China. We are providing a bed sheet with two pillow covers for Rs 127.”Most industrialists agree that China’s advanced technology is a major threat. “Most of our machines are imported from China and it is difficult to defeat them as India cannot produce parts of these machines. One of my machines that cost Rs 18 lakh remained non-functional for three months because I could not procure a part due to restrictions on courier services,” says Jitender Malik, owner of Garima Carpets.The total turnover of industries in Panipat is approximately Rs 10,000 crore per annum, of which Rs 8,000 crore is earned through exports, and Rs 2,000 crore from the domestic market. MANUFACTURE OF PPEs During the lockdown, several industries in Panipat started producing personal protective equipment to meet the growing demand. The production of PPE kits has not only helped industrialists run factories, but also helped workers to earn wages during lockdown. Industries that earlier used to manufacture blankets and towels switched to PPE-kit production in April and May and started producing around 25,000 PPE kits everyday. However, there was no demand for the kits due to ban on export of PPE’s and most industrialists have now returned to their own businesses.“PPE kits helped us run the industry even during lockdown but now that there is no demand for PPE kits in the domestic market, we have decided to return to our old business,” said Sachdeva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panipat-s-handloom-industry-back-on-track-as-migrants-return/story-FyiyoAyHyFQZ9nxOzYkgGI.html
23-07-2020||Bangalore||Relatives torch ambulance after Covid-19 patient dies in Karnataka hospital||Upset over his death, relatives of a 55-year-old Covid-19 positive man set fire to an ambulance and resorted to stone pelting at the Belgavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) in Karnataka late on Wednesday night.In the melee, health workers were also said to have been manhandled and a constable present at the hospital was injured in the incident.The patient was said to have been admitted on July 19 with severe breathing problems and when a test was conducted was found to be Covid-19 positive. Relatives and friends who had gathered near the hospital apparently felt that the man had not got the right treatment and started manhandling some of the healthcare workers. Angered, they went out and set a ‘108’ ambulance service vehicle on fire.Fire and police personnel were rushed to the scene. The situation was subsequently brought under control. A case has been registered in the APMC police station. Medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar said that the incident and behaviour was reprehensible. “Why are they destroying public property? What did the ambulance do? That too when health care workers are working day and night. I have asked authorities to take the strictest action against culprits,” said Sudhakar.The Belgavi city police commissioner Dr Thyagarajan said a case has been registered and efforts are on to trace the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/relatives-torch-ambulance-after-covid-19-patient-dies-in-karnataka-hospital/story-LLdCWVxLzpZ43ZBhee97DO.html
23-07-2020||Pune||Prices of veggies, fruits stable; sufficient stock to meet demand: Pune APMC official||PUNE The prices of vegetables and fruits are now stable as wholesale vegetable and fruit markets have resumed business and there is enough stock to meet the local demand, said BJ Deshmukh, administrator, Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC).Wholesale vegetable and fruit market resumed business at Market Yard on Tuesday. The operations smoothened further on Wednesday leading to sufficient arrival of stocks of onions, potatoes, leafy vegetables among others.Besides, Market Yard, supplies reached the suburban market yards at Moshi, Khadki, Uttamnagar and Manjri.Deshmukh said, “The main market received 18,000 quintals of vegetable supplies in 700 vehicles which boosted the availability of vegetables leading to a downfall in the prices of essentials which had shot up during the lockdown period.”“In the suburban Market Yards, vegetable supplies worth 3,000 quintals arrived in 300 vehicles,” he said.“Due to the shortage of vegetables in the market, prices surged across the city and the suburban areas. With ample stocks arriving at the market yard and its branches, the prices will now be under control and residents won’t have to pay extra for the vegetables,” he said.Rutuja Pawar, a resident of Undri said that she had to buy coriander for Rs 40 instead of Rs 20 and all other leafy vegetables were selling double the price in the market during the first few days of lockdown.“We had no option but to buy the vegetables at high prices but what about the common people who earn pittance every day. The vegetables were costly and even tomatoes were selling above Rs 100 in the market. As of today, the prices are back to normal and we hope that they remain stable for a long time,” she said.Currently, the vegetable market is open between 8 am to 12 pm and the traders association had demanded an increase in timings to cater to the rising demand of the customers. The administration has, however, said that a final decision of the timings will be taken only after the lockdown is lifted.Prices of greensLeafy vegetables like coriander, methi, spring onion cost Rs 40 during lockdown and now cost Rs 20Onion Rs 50, now Rs 30Ladies finger Rs 100, now Rs 70-80Pumpkin Rs 50, now Rs 30Tomato Rs 100, now Rs 60Potato Rs 60, now Rs 40||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/prices-of-veggies-fruits-stable-sufficient-stock-to-meet-demand-pune-apmc-official/story-iCpnmMoYwDSGrUYGvAUx0O.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Much-awaited Himachal cabinet reshuffle put off for a week till CM is back from quarantine||Shimla: A day after the Bharatiya Janata Party announced Suresh Kashyap as the Himachal Pradesh unit chief, the much-awaited state cabinet reshuffle is on the cards with three berths vacant.Though chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has got the go-ahead from the high command, he is in self-quarantine for a week after a deputy secretary in his office tested positive for Covid-19.Thakur had sought party chief Jagat Prakash Nadda’s nod and discussed the reshuffle in detail with Himachal BJP in-charge and Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey.Three cabinet berths fell vacant after then food and civil supplies minister Kishan Kapoor was elected to the Lok Sabha from Kangra, while power minister Anil Sharma quit after the Congress nominated his son Ashray Sharma from the Mandi parliamentary seat against BJP’s sitting Lok Sabha member Ram Swaroop Sharma and health minister Bipin Singh Parmar was appointed speaker in place of Nahan legislator Rajeev Bindal who was named state unit chief in January.Jai Ram Thakur planned to expand his cabinet after the Dharamshala and Pacchad Lok Sabha byelections last year but the exercise was deferred due to bickering in the state BJP. After that, the coronavirus pandemic stalled his plans.CONTENDERS FOR CABINETNurpur legislator Rakesh Pathania is likely to be inducted into the cabinet. He began his political career in 1991 and was the BJP Kisan Morcha’s Kangra president before becoming its state secretary and a member of the party’s state executive. He was elected to the assembly as a BJP nominee in 1998 and re-elected as an independent in 2007 before becoming an MLA for the third time in December 2017. Pathania belongs to the Rajput community and has been vying for a cabinet berth since 2017. However, the party chose Bipin Singh Parmar, another Rajput leader.Paonta Sahib MLA Sukhram Chaudhary, the leader from other backward classes from Sirmaur, is also likely to be inducted into the cabinet. Chaudhary was a junior engineer in the electricity board before joining politics and was elected to the Vidhan Sabha in 2003, 2007 and 2017. He was parliamentary secretary from 2009-12.The chief minister is likely to give a place to Hans Raj, the legislator from Churah in Chamba, for the second term in his cabinet. Hans Raj is the deputy speaker of the Vidhan Sabha.Speculation is rife that first Narender Thakur, the two-time legislator from Hamirpur, could replace Hans Raj as deputy speaker. Narender is the son of late BJP stalwart Jagdev Chand Thakur. Narender, however, does not enjoy a rapport with former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal and his son and Union minister Anurag Thakur.The names of senior BJP leader and former horticulture minister Narinder Bragta, Sarkaghat legislator Colonel Inder Singh, who is a three-time MLA, and Kailesh Kumari, a first-time legislator from Bhoranj, are also doing the rounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/much-awaited-himachal-cabinet-reshuffle-put-off-for-a-week-till-cm-is-back-from-quarantine/story-LPZlpfsEU1thAjU4FkiBuN.html
23-07-2020||Pune||From mild to critical: 11th hour syndrome puts Covid patients at mercy of bed availability||As the intensity of the spread of Covid-19 hits grim new heights every day – 2,000 fresh cases recorded on Wednesday - the number of positive patients in critical care is also increasing – a jump of close to four times the numbers between June and July.As of Tuesday, of the 15,434 active cases, 616 are critical – close to four percent of the active cases. These patients need ventilators and intensive care units, or non-invasive ventilators. The city administration has been under the pump in terms of ensuring bed availability for these critical patients.Dr Sunil Rao, general manager at Sahyadri Hospital said, “We often do get cases of people rushing to our hospital at the 11th hour when the patient is critical and requires oxygen or the ICU set-up with ventilators. The alarming thing is that these patients who come to the hospital are not just those with comorbidity or senior citizens; especially those who come in on the fifth or seventh day after the first symptoms showed. Even young Covid-19 positive patients who are asymptomatic or have just mild symptoms report severe symptoms in a short span of time. It could be because now the spread of the virus is very intense and also possibly the virus is showing mutations which is causing more complications. However, those in home isolation need to check their vitals, especially oxygen saturation, regularly. Even Covid-19 positive patients with a slight breathlessness must be reported to the hospital immediately.”Dr Parikshit Prayag, Covid-19 consultant with the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital said, “In some cases we have observed that patients are rushed to the hospital at the 11th hour. We are seeing sicker patients now as compared to before. For those in home isolation, they can constantly check their oxygen saturation levels using a pulse oxymeter which is the only sure way to indicate the beginning of any complication. We have observed ‘silent hypoxia’ in some cases wherein the symptoms are not clear until the virus reaches a critical stage and so, an oxymeter is the only way out. The district authorities could provide an oxymeter for those who cannot afford one which can help save a lot of precious time.”The number of critical patients rose from 174 as of June 1, to 616 on July 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/from-mild-to-critical-11th-hour-syndrome-puts-covid-patients-at-mercy-of-bed-availability/story-cH05JPACF8f4mSemCweMTL.html
23-07-2020||Pune||PCMC Covid test drive to cover Pimpri’s traders, staff||The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will be conducting the Covid test on traders and staff managing businesses at Pimpri market. They agreed to undergo the test following appeal by Chandrakant Popat Indalkar, assistant commissioner, A zone, PCMC.“We have already covered vegetable vendors and domestic helpers residing in areas like Anandnagar, Saibabanagar and Indiranagar. As Pimpri has become a hotspot, we decided to conduct test of those working at the marketplace as well,” said Indalkar.Around 300 tests are conducted daily at Shahunagar, near Telco road. “Following the lockdown relaxations, many customers are visiting the market and the civic body has given permission to cover traders also under the test drive,” he said.Neeraj Chavala, member, Cloth Market Association in Pimpri, “Following PCMC request, we will be undergoing the test in the coming week as it is a welcome preventive measure.”Shops in Pimpri market will reopen after lockdown on July 24.Some traders will undergo the test at the Shahunagar Covid testing centre on Thursday.“After Pimpri, we will cover the traders located in Bhosari,” Indalkar said.“Covering traders and their staff under the Covid test drive will be beneficial in the long run,” said Pawan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.As of Wednesday, PCMC reported 13,129 positive cases, out of which 8,014 have recovered, and 242 deaths.Pimpri market shop strengthReadymade clothes: 130Mobile shops: 150Grocery shops: 55Footwear: 40Electronics shops: 54||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-covid-test-drive-to-cover-pimpri-s-traders-staff/story-moBygl9uGg8ogoR8Y5tQWK.html
23-07-2020||Pune||Katraj dairy files police complaint in Pune after fake social media message goes viral||The Pune District Cooperative Milk Federation (Katraj Dairy) has filed a police complaint application at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, on Wednesday, after a false message of employees at Katraj Dairy testing positive for Covid-19 infection went viral on social media.Police Inspector of Bharti Vidyapeeth Vasant Kunvar said, “We have started the investigation. The FIR (first information report) in the case has not been registered yet.”The message urged people not to consume milk from dairy as one staff member died due to Covid-19 infection and 16 staff members have tested positive and around 50 staff members have been quarantined.To quell the rumours, the Federation has issued a clarification on the social media message saying a 58-year-old worker died due to Covid-19. However, the employee had stopped coming to work for the last 15 days.“Those who had come in contact with the 58-year-old were sent for home quarantine 15 days before he passed away and many of them have returned to work after testing negative for the virus. All the social distancing and sanitisation norms are followed at Katraj Dairy,” stated Milk Federation in their clarification.“Today (Wednesday) we complained to the police commissioner and Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. I hope, very soon action will be taken against the culprit,” said Vivek Ksheersagar, managing director Pune District Cooperative Milk Federation (Katraj Milk).Total 850 workers are working at Katraj Dairy and a temperature check of all the workers takes place at the entrance gate daily. “Since the lockdown started we are taking care of workers on priority. All of them are well aware of the impact of the Covid-19 diseases,” said Ksheersagar..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/katraj-dairy-files-police-complaint-in-pune-after-fake-social-media-message-goes-viral/story-U9iRFAtv1U9e3VUa3cfnjM.html
23-07-2020||Pune||Pune sees highest 1-day spike of 2,111 Covid cases as per state health department||The city has reported its highest single day spike of 2,111 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, according to the state health department. This takes the progressive positive cases in the city to 43,645. However, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in its daily report recorded only 1,751 fresh positive cases taking the progressive positives to 42,466. The PMC and state health department have been reporting a discrepancy in the Covid-19 figures with a difference of at least 1000 progressive positives since the past week. The city on Wednesday also reported 33 deaths, which took the death toll to 1,068, according to the civic body while the state health department claimed that 36 deaths were reported in the PMC area taking the toll to 1,117.The city also saw the highest spike in the number of samples being collected in a day as 7,595 samples were collected taking the total to 2.23 lakh. Of the 16,269 active cases, 609 are in critical condition with 94 patients on ventilator support while the remaining are in the ICU with comorbidities or undergoing non-invasive therapy. The number of those declared cured and discharged reached 25,129 as 883 were discharged on Wednesday. Of the total deaths, eight were reported from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), seven were reported from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH), two each from AICTS, KEM, Rao nursing hospital, Jehangir and Naidu hospital. One death was reported from Nicmar in Baner which is a Covid care centre, forth such death reported in the city. One death each has been reported from Surya Sahyadri hospital, Symbiosis hospital, Noble, Inamdar hospital, Rising medicare hospital, Deoyani multispeciality hospital and Bharati hospital.There were six deaths from out of PMC limits, but reported in city hospitals wherein three were from Sassoon General Hospital and one each from Jehangir, Sahyadri and Symbiosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-sees-highest-1-day-spike-of-2-111-covid-cases-as-per-state-health-department/story-YVr4taTjFKGEk6FvWGOiVL.html
23-07-2020||Pune||Lockdown ends today at midnight: Traders in Pune look to resume business without ‘harsh’ restrictions||Lockdown in Pun city will end on Thursday midnight even as the district administration has made it clear that there will be some curbs across the city to prevent crowding of people to avoid the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid infection.Among the restrictions, the district and civic authorities are planning to impose are closure of non-essential shops on weekends and further restricting the number of people in offices and events like marriage among others.With lockdown being lifted, Pune Vyapari Mahasangh, a traders body, has taken an aggressive stand demanding all the shops and business in the district to be allowed without restrictions. The trader’s body has stressed that old even-odd formula be scrapped while deciding to reopen business while hinting that they will accept weekend closure, a condition administration is mulling.The detailed order pertaining to what will be open and what will be closed to be issued by PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar and Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram on Thursday.“We are in the process of drafting a new order and considering some restrictions while lifting the lockdown from Friday onwards,” said Ram.To press their demands, traders body submitted their letter to the district administration and both the civic bodies in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.“We have sent a letter regarding our demands right to the chief minister, Pune district collector and others. From last three to four months due to lockdown all the shop owners, businessmen and traders have suffered huge losses,” said Fatechand Ranka, president, Pune Vyapari Mahasangh.“There are at least 30,000 businessmen in Pune district on which ten lakh workers are dependent and are going through a bad situation. And if this lockdown is extended after July 23 then, unfortunately, we fear that many people will lose their jobs,” he said.“Our clear demand is that lockdown should not be extended and also odd-even formula needs to be cancelled,” he said.Association in their demand has given a couple of options about opening their shops and its timings. According to it five days – Monday to Friday shops will be opened and on the weekend it will be closed. For this timings will be from 10 am to 8 pm. And the second option given is of seven days shops will remain open with 10 am to 7 pm.According to Naval Kishore Ram, district collector, the administration is planning to allow non-essential shops with multiple options of days and timings.“The odd-even formula for shops to be opened may get cancelled as the discussion is going on over it. Common public movement within the city will also be allowed. Event and ceremonies like weddings will have more restrictions on the number of attendees,” said Ram.On the other hand, the residents are frustrated due to this lockdown as all the private offices, shops and business are closed down.Kedar Mane, an engineer said, “Due to three to four months lockdown there was no work with our company so I was told to be at home till further instructions. So there was no financial income and I started taking personal orders at my workshop. But that is also closed now due to the lockdown, the common public has already suffered allot both financially and mentally. And now the government should not test our patience anymore and restart the city with all the safety measures.”What Pune traders body want-Odd-even formula to be scrapped-Opening non-essential shops for five days is fine-Shop opening hours to be extended from 10 am to 7 pm-Action by the administration against customers not following guidelines||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lockdown-ends-today-at-midnight-traders-in-pune-look-to-resume-business-without-harsh-restrictions/story-U5cjdZk0lotWWC74BjUTbP.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai officer appointed as BRICS honorary advisor||Sahil Seth, a 2011 Indian Revenue Services (IRS) officer, currently posted as deputy commissioner, customs in Mumbai has been appointed honorary advisor to the steering committee for BRICS Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI) for young leaders. The appointment is for the session 2020 to 2023.The programmes aims to connect youth from the BRICS nations - Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa and also connect millions of youth across the world with its programmes and initiatives. Seth, who has been in the city since 2016 said, “It is a welcome step in motivating youth across the country.”Deepangna Singhi, assistant director of BRICS Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in a letter to Seth, wrote, “Your expertise as an achiever is a fitting example of a role model for the youth in a global society and we strongly believe that your vision will inspire further.”Born and brought up in Amritsar, Seth moved to Mumbai in 2016 and was given the charge of deputy commissioner, service tax. A year later, he was posted as deputy commissioner, GST, Bhiwandi. Presently, he is working as a deputy commissioner in customs department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-officer-appointed-as-brics-honorary-advisor/story-7jsyFZWIticxtgoeHGOh5J.html
23-07-2020||Kolkata||Kumartuli artisans for 50% advance for Durga idols||The return of lockdown in different parts of West Bengal has forced artisans of Kumartuli, the famed hub of clay modellers in the city, to ask for 50 per cent advance payment during booking of idols.The government has clamped lockdown in containment zones in the city since July 9. It announced total lockdown in the entire state twice this week to check the spread of the contagion.Durga Puja this year is likely to be much toned down one with the Covid-19 protocol in place and the organisers unwilling to spend as much as the earlier years.“We have unanimously decided to ask for a 50 per cent advance during booking so that we don’t incur heavy losses as we have suffered after Cyclone Amphan and the lockdown since March end,” a spokesman of ‘Kumartuli Mritshilpi Samity’ said.Kanchi Paul, a prominent clay modeller of Kumartuli, told PTI that she has got bookings of 10 idols in the past one month and many others had called and told her that they will visit her studio once the lockdown is over.“But we are insisting on payment of 50 per cent of the price of the idol as advance before sealing the order. This is important because we had suffered huge losses as all the finished Annapurna and Basanti idols for their respective pujas which took place in the end of March could not be sold as the pandemic had set in.“Since we have made huge investments, we cannot take a chance,” she said.To a question, Paul said the bookings this time were far less than in other years. There would be bookings for at least 30 Durga idols after Rath Yatra around this time in the previous years but she has no complaints. “The situation is different. Unlike 12-15 feet high idols in the past, organisers are settling for those with heights of 8-10 feet. We are happy that the orders are at least coming,” she said.Paul said the puja organisers this time are asking for idols of much lesser price than the Rs one lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh they paid in the previous years.“There has not been any booking for over 10 feet high idol. The price of an idol has been halved as both small and big puja organizers have been asking for low priced ones,” famous clay modeller Prodyut Paul said.Paul said the price of an idol around 15 feet high would be around Rs two lakh but no Durga puja organiser is ready to pay such an amount this time.The Samity spokesman said most of the 700 clay modellers who live and work in the area have got bookings of 5-6 idols each. This would have been more than 15 on an average on earlier occasions but “at least a start has been made.” “We are getting bookings for Ganesha idols but in ones and twos at many studios. The organisers said they cannot spend much,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kumartuli-artisans-for-50-advance-for-durga-idols/story-R4wztUk5q1UQMAvkCXr7VJ.html
23-07-2020||Noida||Robbers in Noida return to ask ATM card pin from victim, held after gunfight with cops||Two motorcycle-borne men who were fleeing after robbing the mobile phone and wallet of a man were held here following a gunfight with the police, officials said on Thursday.The incident took place Wednesday night on a road near Garhi Chaukhandi village under Phase-3 police station limits, Central Noida Deputy Commissioner of Police Harish Chander said. “The accused were fleeing after robbing the mobile phone and wallet of a man, who was out for dinner, at gunpoint. There was some cash, driver’s license, Aadhaar card and an ATM card in the wallet of the victim. After going to some distance, the robbers returned to the victim to ask for the pin code of his ATM card and then fled again,” he said. The matter was immediately reported to the local police station and relayed on the police network and the duo was intercepted at a security check in the area, the officer said. “When asked to stop for checking, they opened fire on the police team and sped away. They were chased by the policemen and the duo got injured in retaliatory firing after which they were held and taken to a nearby hospital for treatment,” DCP Chander said.Those held have been identified as Gaurav Singh and Sadanand, both locals around 25 years of age, and the items robbed by them, including the wallet with Rs 3,200 and the ATM card, have been recovered, the police said.Two country-made pistols were also seized from their possession and their motorcycle has been impounded, while further proceedings are being carried out at the Phase 3 police station, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/robbers-in-noida-return-to-ask-atm-card-pin-from-victim-held-after-gunfight-with-cops/story-zNQMGaVKOwUOCpQWFNEBiK.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt gives Rs.1.5 crore to three bronze medallists of Para Asian Games||Chandigarh: Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi honoured three bronze medal winners of the 3rd Para Asian Games with Rs 1.5 crore in Chandigarh on Thursday.Awarding Rs 50 lakh each to power-lifter Parmjit Kumar (Jalandhar), shot-putter Mohammad Yassir (Sangrur) and badminton player Raj Kumar (Patiala), who had won bronze medals in the 3rd Para Asian Games held in Jakarta from October 6 to 13, 2018, Sodhi urged them to scale greater heights and bring laurels to the state. He assured them of all help in terms of financial assistance, infrastructure and job opportunities.He said according to instructions of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to accord cash incentives to medal winners in sports, the department has scrutinised applications of cash awardees who brought glory to the state and made a list of 1,101 medallists to whom the state government will accord a total sum of Rs 4.85 crore as cash award till this September.The awards will be given in segments and game wise as big gatherings are not permitted in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-gives-rs-1-5-crore-to-three-bronze-medallists-of-para-asian-games/story-X9vgelhXHbHIOTwDg1hJLI.html
23-07-2020||Bangalore||Siddaramaiah demands judicial probe into alleged irregularities in Covid management||Alleging large-scale corruption in Covid management in Karnataka to the tune of at least Rs 2,000 crore, former chief minister Siddaramaiah on Thursday demanded a judicial inquiry by a sitting High Court judge. The government, however, dismissed the charges saying no irregularities have taken place. “The total money spent on Covid management is Rs 4,167 crore whereas state Health Minister B Sriramulu says only Rs 324 crore has been spent.Equipment and materials were purchased double or triple the existing cost. At least Rs 2,000 crore has been pocketed by the ministers and officials,” Siddaramaiah. who is the leader of opposition in the state assembly, told reporters. He demanded a judicial inquiry by a sitting judge of the high court.Releasing some documents to the media to substantiate his allegations, the former chief minister claimed that the health department spent Rs 700 crore---”some of the amount has been spent and some is in the pipeline.” The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (city corporation) and the urban local bodies spent Rs 200 crore, district administration spent Rs 742 crore under the State Disaster Response Fund, labour department spent Rs 1,000 crore and medical education department Rs 815 crore, Siddaramaiah claimed. At least Rs 500 crore was spent by the social welfare department, food and civil supplies department, education department, home department and woman and child welfare department, he added. Siddaramiaah said the health department was given a budgetary allocation of Rs 10,032 crore, which was revised and made Rs 9,689 crore. “So far Rs 1,527 crore has been released but Rs 1,554 crore was spent in April and Rs 1768 crore in May. The total money spent in two months was 3,322 crore whereas the money released was Rs 1,527 crore.So the spending is double the money released,” Siddaramaiah claimed. Speaking about ventilators, Siddaramaiah said the Centre purchased 50,000 ventilators from the PM Care funds for Rs four lakh each, Tamil Nadu government purchased 100 transport ventilators for Rs 4.78 lakh each. The Karnataka government, on the other hand, purchased the first batch of ventilators on March 22 for Rs 5.6 lakh, then the second batch was purchased at a cost of Rs 12.32 lakh the same day. The third batch was purchased on March 24 for Rs 18.2 lakh. “This is the reply given to me by Jawaid Akhtar, who is the additional chief secretary in the health department,” Siddaramaiah said. He said Dr Sarvabhouma Bagali, a former BJP MLA and a medical doctor, has lodged a complaint to the Lokayukta. In his letter, he has stated that the 15 ventilators supplied by a firm to the government were useless and second hand. These ventilators do not possess any standard certificates, Siddaramaiah said. About the procurement of Personal Protection Kits, Siddaramaiah said the state purchased 9.65 lakh kits of which three lakh were purchased from a Chinese firm.Import of three lakh PPE kits from China, approved by honourable chief minister and in the Task Force meeting on March 23, 2020 and April 4, 2020,” Siddaramaiah said. Claiming that the PPEs were available in the market for Rs 330 each, Siddaramaiah said 3.5 lakh PPEs were purchased from a Maharashtra based firm for Rs 2,117 each. There were many complaints against the PPE kits (by the Maharashtra company).Even doctors had protested against the poor quality PPE kits, he alleged. The government later returned 1.25 lakh kits to the company,the veteran congress leader said. He alleged irregularities in the purchase of masks, sanitisers, oximeters and thermal scanners. “The government purchased 10,000 scanners for Rs 5,945 for each thermal scanner whereas in the market it is available for a maximum of Rs 2,000,” Siddaramaiah said. Refuting the charges, Health Minister B Sriramulu said, “I said it before and I am saying it now -- no irregularities have taken place.” PTI GMS BN WELCOME BN WELCOME||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/siddaramaiah-demands-judicial-probe-into-alleged-irregularities-in-covid-management/story-Z9VWt3pQwzxKXCEJaRWplI.html
23-07-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru firm to produce NASA-designed US-FDA authorised ventilators||Bengaluru-based tech company in medical equipment design, CuraSigna, said on Thursday it is going into the production of NASA -designed and FDA-approved multi-functional ventilators named “VITAL (Ventilator Intervention Technology Accessible Locally).” The firm said in a statement it is among a handful of Indian companies licenced by NASA for meeting the worldwide acute shortage of ventilators needed in treating Covid-19 patients. CuraSigna, promoted by Sushil Swabhiman Trust (SST), is in an advanced stage of manufacturing the ventilators first for meeting India’s needs in the Covid-19 situation and then for exports, it said in a statement. CuraSigna has its manufacturing resources at Non-Ferrous Material Technology Development Centre (NFTDC), Hyderabad, an autonomous “non-grant-in-aid institution” under the Ministry of Mines, Government of India, it said. NFTDC has been engaged in the design and development of vital medical equipment for the last two decades. CuraSigna is proposing to blend the hardware capabilities of NFTDC with its state-of-the-art software expertise and international quality control processes in the manufacture of not only advanced ventilators but also other critical care equipment, the statement added. It is estimated that the domestic ventilator supply-demand gap is at least about 100,000 high-pressure Ventilators. Besides, the SAARC and South East Asian region requirements of such ventilators are about another 300,000, according to the statement. CuraSigna has already partnered with Max Global, Malaysia, for export of Ventilators in the South East Asian region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-firm-to-produce-nasa-designed-us-fda-authorised-ventilators/story-bFctWnLQWv9IfKWtjfxPkI.html
23-07-2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath interested in hiding conditions of health facilities than improving them: Priyanka Vadra||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday attacked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over the state of health facilities in Uttar Pradesh where Covid-19 patients are being treated, alleging that he is more interested in hiding their conditions than improving them. The Congress general secretary has been criticising the UP government’s response to the Covid-19 crisis, alleging that it is indulging in propaganda, instead of dealing with the pandemic. “In the Covid-era, health facilities should be up and running. But, Mahoba’s women’s hospital is in this condition. You have seen the bad state of hospitals in Bareilly and Gorakhpur,” she said in a tweet in Hindi, tagging a video showing the hospital in Mahoba waterlogged. “In Lucknow, the CM, who makes statements about health facilities, is interested in hiding these conditions, not improving them,” Priyanka Gandhi said. Earlier this week, Priyanka Gandhi had tagged a video of rain water pouring down from the ceiling of a coronavirus ward of a hospital in Bareilly. She had also put out a video of the Covid-19 ward in Gorakhpur’s medical college last week that showed the facility was full of drainage water. A total of 34 people died of Covid-19 and 2,300 tested positive for the infection in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, raising the death toll due to the disease to 1,263 and total cases to 55,588.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-interested-in-hiding-conditions-of-health-facilities-than-improving-them-priyanka-vadra/story-16xQyF6y4IDwMV20ySM2aI.html
23-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally reaches 32,673, death toll rises to 588||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Rajasthan rose to 588 on Thursday after five more people succumbed to the disease, while 339 fresh cases pushed the state’s tally to 32,673, the health department said.Two patients died in Pali, and one each in Jalore, Jodhpur and Nagaur.Of the 339 fresh cases, 105 were recorded in Jodhpur, 92 in Alwar, 51 in Jaipur, 41 in Kota and 30 in Ajmer, according to the health department bulletin. A total of 22,598 people have been discharged after treatment, it said. The state now has 8,587 active Covid-19 cases.  Jaipur has reported the highest Covid-19 deaths at 179, followed by 74 in Jodhpur, 46 in Bharatpur, 30 in Kota, 28 in Ajmer, 27 in Bikaner, 24 in Pali, 21 in Nagaur, 15 in Dholpur and 12 in Udaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-32-673-death-toll-rises-to-588/story-DYskRqaW3uxSkdSxGcIuMM.html
23-07-2020||Lucknow||Enforce curbs in containment zones but ensure supplies, says UP CM||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the state government was providing effective medical treatment facilities to 23 crore people of the state and emphasized that systems in all the Covid-19 hospitals should remain up to the mark.He said arrangements for Covid-19 patients in L-1, L-2 and L-3 Covid hospitals in the state had been bettered.Reviewing the Unlock-2 situation at a high level meeting at his Kalidas Marg residence here, Yogi said restrictions in containment zones should be strictly enforced but people should not face any problem in getting supply of essential commodities.He stressed on the need of smooth functioning of Covid-19 help desks in different offices and institutions. Pulse oximeters, infrared thermometers and sanitisers should remain available with the Covid help desks, he said.Yogi asked additional chief secretary, medical education, to hold on the spot review of arrangements in Covid-19 hospitals and formulate an effective strategy for Kanpur Nagar.Stressing on carrying out more tests, he said number of rapid antigen tests should also be increased and plasma therapy should be used for treatment of serious patients.He said ventilators should remain functional in all Covid hospitals and the number of beds in all L-2 and L-3 hospitals should be increased.He said the union government’s online OPD service e-sanjivani should be publicized extensively to ensure that the people were benefited from the facility. He said the patients of all age groups had been successfully cured in the state and case history of such successfully treated patients should be studied as this could be helpful in bringing about an improvement in recovery rate. Such studies should be shared with high level medical institutes through video conferencing etc, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/enforce-curbs-in-containment-zones-but-ensure-supplies-says-up-cm/story-LnOSc1PtsgBi8uG7O7JEGI.html
23-07-2020||Patna||Around five lakh people affected in Bihar flood||Close to half a million people in nearly a dozen districts in Bihar have been affected by the flood that has cut a swathe of destruction across the northern parts of the state, the disaster management department said on Wednesday.A total of 4.6 lakh people in 245 panchayats of 10 districts have been affected by the deluge that has displaced more than 13,000 people. So far, 4,845 people have been put up at 16 relief camps, according to a release issued by the department.However, there has been no report of any loss of life so far, it stated.According to the state’s water resources department, the Kosi, Budhi, Gandak, Kamala Balan and Lal Bakeya rivers, flowing above the danger mark at many places, have been showing a receding trend or were stable.Water Resources Minister Sanjay Kumar Jha asserted in a statement that “all embankments in the state are safe” despite an increase in water pressure because of heavy rainfall in areas along north Bihar’s border with Nepal earlier this month and again in the last 24 hours.The minister claimed the embankments were “in better shape than ever” on account of the use of sheet pile while repair works were on before the calamity struck.“We are fully prepared. All repair works were complete before the floods came. Surveys of the flood-prone areas have been made beforehand with the help of drones. Personnel are involved in relief and rescue work, and engineers have been deployed in areas deemed to be vulnerable,” he added.Life was affected in large parts of Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, East Champaran, West Champaran and Khagaria districts due to the flood.Large parts of Areraj sub-division in East Champaran have been marooned, Sub Divisional Officer Dheerendra Mishra said. “About 25,000 people from 18 villages have fled their homes and are taking shelter, along with their livestock, at nearby school buildings.” NDRF Ninth Battalion commandant Vijay Sinha said in a statement that 21 teams have been pressed into service in 12 districts, taking people to safety and distributing food and other essential items.A 10-year-old girl in East Champaran was rescued by a team led by ASI Kaushal Kishore from her remote flood-hit village where she suffered a snakebite. She was carried NDRF personnel to a safe place where medical help was available, he said.Meanwhile, the floods caused the state’s political temperature to rise further.Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav, who toured districts such as Darbhanga and Madhubani and distributed food among the flood-hit people at many places, accused the ruling dispensation of having left the populace to fend for themselves.“I was appalled to see that these people have been compelled to take shelter in cramped surroundings, throwing to the winds social distancing which is still necessary in Bihar on account of the explosion of COVID-19 cases,” Yadav told reporters at one of the spots visited by him.The RJD leader drew flak from the BJP, a partner in the ruling alliance in the state, which accused the former deputy chief minister of “himself being in a hurry for electoral gains”.“Tejashwi Yadav’s antics show that he is himself in a hurry for electoral gains. Instead of cooperating with the state machinery, he is holding gatherings which could potentially lead to a fresh spurt in coronavirus cases,” BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said.The BJP spokesperson’s accusation was a rebuttal to the charge by the RJD leader who has been advocating postponement of state assembly elections, due in a few months, and alleging that the ruling coalition led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar wanted polls to be held on time, “unmindful” of the health risks involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/around-five-lakh-people-affected-in-bihar-flood/story-DQIQTmthpo40pWzv3pLzHO.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur tests negative for Covid-19 but in home quarantine||Shimla: A day after he went into home quarantine, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and his wife Sadhna tested negative for Covid-19 on Thursday.“The chief minister and his wife have tested negative for Covid-19,” said Dr Janakraj Pakhretia, the medical superintendent of Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla.Though Thakur will remain in home quarantine for a week, he will continue to work from his official residence, Oak Over. He took the decision according to protocol after a deputy secretary in the chief minister’s office (CMO) tested positive.The CM was to address the media in Shimla on Wednesday evening but cancelled the briefing along with other engagements. “I will follow the protocol and am going into self-quarantine,” he said before leaving the secretariat for his residence soon after.The authorities swung into action and collected his samples besides those of his primary contacts.The deputy secretary is believed to have contracted the virus after coming in contact with a BJP leader from Mandi who tested positive.“After the deputy secretary tested positive, nine of his primary contacts were tested. Others who met him are also advised to home quarantine themselves,” additional chief secretary, health, RD Dhiman said in a statement.Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri was among leaders who called up the chief minister to enquire after his health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-cm-jai-ram-thakur-tests-negative-for-covid-19-but-in-home-quarantine/story-9Q7WCvunhCZqCtlhb3Ug1M.html
23-07-2020||Jaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot reviews Covid-19 situation in Rajasthan||Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said that Rajasthan is among the leading states fighting the coronavirus pandemic and its measures to contain the spread of the virus has been appreciated across the country.Gehlot said this while reviewing the pandemic situation through video conference.He asked officials present during the meeting to remain fully focused on dealing with the pandemic without worrying about the political developments in the state.“Our government will exert full force in the fight against corona. It is priority of the government to prevent corona pandemic from going out of control,” he said, according to a government statement.Gehlot ordered officials to distribute Rs 1,000 as ex-gratia to 35 lakh needy families and give cash to eligible beneficiaries who do not have bank accounts.Medical and Health Minister Raghu Sharma said the testing capacity in the state has reached 40,000. The recovery rate has increased and the death rate is much lower than the national average.He said efforts are being made to get permission for plasma therapy in more districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/cm-ashok-gehlot-reviews-covid-19-situation-in-rajasthan/story-hPWz9F2XHLVy2h1opzOldK.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 50 per cent excess rainfall in July||With spells of heavy downpour lashing the national capital this week, the city has already recorded 50 per cent more rainfall than normal in July, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday.Rainfall recorded in the city in July till Saturday was just 47.9 mm, 56 per cent less than the normal for the period.According to the IMD data, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, has recorded 225 mm rainfall in July so far, which is 50 per cent more than the normal of 149.8 mm. The Lodhi Road weather station has gauged 246 mm rainfall which is 64 per cent more than the normal of 149.8 mm. The Palam weather station has recorded 37 per cent surplus precipitation -- 224 mm against the normal of 164.1 mm.However, since Jun 1, when the monsoon season begins, the city has recorded 29 per cent less rainfall than normal.  Delhi received this season’s first spell of heavy rains on Sunday which submerged low-lying areas in waist-deep water. Safdarjung, Ridge and Lodhi Road weather stations recorded 74.8 mm, 86 mm and 81.2 mm rainfall, respectively.  At least four people have died in rain-related incidents.Heavy rains drenched the city again on Wednesday, inundating many areas and affecting traffic movement.  The monsoon reached Delhi on June 25, two days earlier than the usual date of arrival. Despite that, rains remained subdued in the city in the absence of a strong supportive weather system such as moisture-laden easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal.  Earlier, the IMD had predicted normal rainfall in the national capital during the season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-50-per-cent-excess-rainfall-in-july/story-13nK6mUaCrz06aFYq1PxjO.html
23-07-2020||Pune||Mumbai, Pune to help test vaccine efficacy: Serum Institute of India||The high prevalence of Covid-19 infections in Mumbai and Pune will help test the efficacy of the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, its local manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII) has said.By end of August, between 4,000 to 5,000 people in Pune and Mumbai will be injected with the vaccine as part of trials that are scheduled to last over two months, SII said.Oxford University has reported satisfactory progress from the vaccines test results and is conducting bigger field tests in the UK. In India, it has chosen SII as manufacturing partner, which has to conduct field trials before getting the final nod to ensure they are safe and effective for Indians.While Pune district has over 59,000 confirmed cases as of Wednesday, Mumbai has 1.03 lakh such cases. Both the cities account for almost half the positive cases in Maharashtra and over a 10th of the cases in India.There are a number of trial sites across both Mumbai and Pune that we have shortlisted, as these cities have many hotspots, which will help us understand the efficacy of the vaccine, the company’s chief executive Adar Poonawalla told PTI in an email interview.He said the company aims to commence the crucial phase-3 of the trials of the vaccine christened as Covishield in India by August after getting the necessary permissions from the Drug Controller General of India.“The Indian regulatory authorities have aided us in fast-tracking approvals keeping in mind the requisite guidelines of safety and efficacy, Poonawalla said.We do not want to rush and would focus only on delivering a viable and effective product for the masses, he said.His father and company chairman Cyrus Poonawalla had on Tuesday said SII is aiming to sell the vaccine for under Rs 1,000 per dose in India.Adar Poonawalla said the company aims to manufacture 300 million to 400 million doses by the year-end, following the success of initial and licensure trials.He said as part of the agreement with AstraZeneca, SII can manufacture 1 billion doses for India and nearly 70 low and middle income countries.There are no challenges in the manufacturing of the vaccine doses and the company will be starting by making 60-70 million doses per day, he said.He had earlier explained that the Covid-19 vaccine project is a USD 200 million bet, wherein it is investing in production even as the vaccine goes through the trials process, so as to ensure that it can introduce a large volume of the vaccines in the market as soon as the license is received. However, if this candidate fails, the company will lose the money.“Our facility is well-equipped with state-of-the-art technology to manufacture the Covid-19 vaccine. We plan to start production post regulatory approvals, Poonawala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mumbai-pune-to-help-test-vaccine-efficacy-serum-institute-of-india/story-RgT15ync2eWAQgE6oLK15M.html
23-07-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Shops shut, transport off roads as lockdown enforced in West Bengal||Life came to a near standstill across West Bengal on Thursday as the state was put under a complete lockdown to break the chain of rapidly rising Covid-19 cases.All shops were shut and all modes of transport went off the road as part of the state government’s plan to clamp restrictions two days a week. A similar lockdown will be in place on July 25 and 29.The step to implement the bi-weekly lockdown was taken amid admission of community transmission in some parts of the state.Special police teams were seen patrolling various parts of the city, especially containment zones.Barricades were put up in various parts of the state to stop people from coming out of their homes and areas.Both government and private, commercial establishments, public and private transport, as well as activities other than under emergency services would remain closed on these days.The state presently has 930 broad-based containment zones.The death toll in West Bengal mounted to 1,221 as it reported the worst daily spike of 39 fatalities on Wednesday, the health department said. It also recorded 2,291 fresh infections, pushing the tally to 49,321, it said in a bulletin. PTI PNT RG DV DV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-shops-shut-transport-off-roads-as-lockdown-enforced-in-west-bengal/story-9F48UkCQALuFBFDEwdtEWP.html
23-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand BJP MLA tests positive for Covid-19||Jharkhand BJP MLA C P Singh on Wednesday said he has been infected by coronavirus. In a tweet, the former state minister said he tested positive for Covid-19 and asked those who had been in touch with him recently to test their swab samples.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe senior BJP leader, who is in home isolation, also said that he would send a list of people whom he had met to the administration.Singh is the third legislator in the state to have been detected with the highly infectious disease.Earlier, Drinking and Sanitation Minister Mithilesh Thakur and JMM MLA Mathura Mahato tested positive for coronavirus. They are now under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-bjp-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-fMzenjlR7UnIwVdoFnsBdN.html
23-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 439 new Covid-19 cases, 3 more die||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported 439 new cases of Covid-19, while three more people died due to the disease, as per the bulletin issued by the state government.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOne of the deceased was from Koderma, while the others were from Ranchi, it said.The state’s death toll stands at 64. There are 3,570 active cases in the state, with the infection tally rising to 6,682, it said.A total of 3,048 people have so far recovered and discharged from hospitals, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-439-new-covid-19-cases-3-more-die/story-tdsWaJehxxlgWVi9h7V0aK.html
23-07-2020||Pune||Pune cop cycles across jurisdiction to spread awareness about Covid-19||Devidas Gheware, an inspector at Duttawadi police station in Pune, has been conducting regular patrols in his area on a cycle to raise awareness about Covid-19.According to Gheware, there are 12-14 containment zones in the area and using a cycle helps him to reach places where cars cannot go. “There are 12-14 containment zones in our jurisdiction and most of them are from slums. Since these areas have been sealed most of the time it becomes difficult to travel but cycle allows us to be mobile and reach places where cars can not go,” the cop told ANI on Wednesday. “Exercising is very important to stay safe from coronavirus but we do not get enough time for it. Cycling allows us to exercise during work time and interact with people,” Gheware added. As many as 3218 positive cases and 62 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours in Pune district, taking the total number of cases in the area to 59634, said health officials on Wednesday. It was the highest single-day total of positive cases and deaths till date reported on Wednesday, they added. The death toll due to the disease in the district now stands at 1,504.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-cop-cycles-across-jurisdiction-to-spread-awareness-about-covid-19/story-7hH4zeUbvcucVyIkgPHjMP.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A city secret||These days, it is difficult to recommend a place outside home that offers physical distancing possibilities.One comes close. But there are many buts about this place. It is thick with trees, but this green padding is too thin to screen off the traffic noise (Mathura Road is next door). It is very close to the touristy zoo, but tourists rarely visit it— even during the pre-corona era. It is packed with grassy slopes, graves, and even a small ruined monument, but the entire area is so small that you could cover it in 10 minutes.The forlorn signboard outside calls this place a Delhi Development Authority (DDA) Park. Inside – plenty of weedy bushes, but no flowers, and almost nobody at the moment, in this rainy afternoon. The grounds are covered with overgrown grass, but you soon notice a narrow path snaking through the terrain. This afternoon the trees skirting the pathway are shaking quite violently in the breeze, making the setting appear like a scene from Emily Bronte’s Wuthering Heights.Looking around, the whole area seems untamed, but it does not feel truly wild. Perhaps because of the continuous sound of honking cars speeding along the adjacent road. Now, the most exciting thing here to be done is to ascend the hillock upon which lie three graves. You have to carefully climb upon the slippery rocks to reach the top. Up there, giant neem tree branches bend down on to the three whitewashed tombs, each draped with a colourful chadar. The graves are said to be of a Sufi mystic and his disciples; their identities is impossible to determine. In that, these graves are similar to many other resting places of forgotten mystics that litter the city. Along central Delhi’s roadsides, a number of such mounds are memorials to revered figures whose names have been lost to history. Of course, the roads came centuries after the graves, which must have once enjoyed the solitude that is still the privilege of these three.The park is also home to a little ruin. Who built it? And why? And when? There’s no plaque around to offer even a hint.The lack of information about the landmarks in this park is truly frustrating. But think of it like this—why do we need to strip the city of all its mysteries, to decode all its secrets, and break everything about it into chunks of information, to make it guidebook worthy?In a time when Google can show results even about your most introvert neighbour, it comes as a relief to hang about in a place like this one, that has managed to remain so secretive. It is tucked in Delhi’s heart, yet hidden from view. It is supremely serene and yet crudely infiltrated by the city sounds. It is off the beaten track and yet just beside a busy road.Come here on an afternoon like this one||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-city-secret/story-Q9rRXMkU9v44VePmsJua9M.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mulls allowing nursing homes in residential areas||Plans are afoot to permit the conversion of residential plots into nursing home sites in the city with an aim to reduce the burden on government hospitals.The UT administration has directed a standing committee of the UT administrator’s advisory council to examine the issue and report on it.MAY BRING BACK 1999 POLICYThe standing committee on urban infrastructure and planning for the city, a sub-committee of the advisory council, is scheduled to meet this week and deliberate on reviving the 1999 policy which allowed nursing homes on residential plots.As per the policy, the minimum plot size for nursing home was 500 sq yard and parking space was mandated both inside and outside the premises depending upon number of beds available.In 2005, UT had discontinued the provision of new nursing homes in residential areas in view of the traffic congestion and parking problems these posed.MOVE FOLLOWS MPs LETTERCity MP Kirron Kher had recently written to the administration, stating, “The demand for allowing nursing homes in residential areas has been a persistent one by different associations. There is paucity of private doctors in the city and a lot of burden is on government hospitals. Chandigarh government hospitals are also catering to the patients of neighbouring states. If new private nursing homes are allowed in residential areas across Chandigarh, as is prevalent in neighbouring states, it will certainly decrease the burden on government hospitals and people will get better health facilities at their doorsteps.”She added, “This will also generate more employment opportunities for medical and paramedical staff.”Speaking on the UT’s earlier decision to disallow nursing homes in residential areas, former chief architect of the city, Sumit Kaur said, “Residential sectors were designed for a serene family life. These are city-level functions and generate inter-sector movement of people. These created traffic congestion issues, parking problems and even noise pollution. Later on, specialised and designated sites for nursing homes were earmarked in sectors where all these issues have been taken care of.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mulls-allowing-nursing-homes-in-residential-areas/story-GG2ZExTXjgR9HGAswZHrOL.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Admission to Chandigarh govt colleges starts from July 27||Students seeking admission to various courses at the city’s government colleges can start applying from July 27. The prospectus will be available on www.dhe.chd.gov.in from July 24.This time, the admission process for BA courses is also likely to be conducted online. For BBA, BCA, B.Com, B.Sc, B.Sc Biotechnology (hons) and B.Sc Bioinformatics (hons), students can apply through the centralised online admission process, as was the norm over the last few years. The last date for submission of forms for all centralised courses is August 3, 2020. IMPORTANT DATESThe prospectus will be available on www.dhe.chd.gov.in from July 24.Start of online submission of forms July 27, 2020Last date for form submission August 3, 2020Display of list of applicants August 5, 2020Online submission of discrepancies by applicants August 7, 2020Display list of all eligible applicants August 8, 2020Display list of applicants’ allotted college August 13, 2020||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admission-to-chandigarh-govt-colleges-starts-from-july-27/story-ELDiWvHYPeoNHWKdZoF3iI.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid care centre at Ayurvedic college in Chandigarh to have upgraded facilities||The UT administration has approved the rates for the upgraded facilities at the Covid Care Centre established at Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College, Sector 46. While admission in the general wards will be free of cost, the patients opting for private AC wards at the centre will have to pay Rs 5,000 per day. Similarly, the rates for patients requiring general AC wards have been fixed at Rs 1,500 a day. The centre will establish 20-bed AC wards and six private rooms. “Around 20 AC beds, costing Rs 1,500 a day, have been made functional from today onwards. As many as six more private AC rooms will be ready in 10-12 days,” said Naresh Mittal, general secretary of the Ayurvedic College.On May 7, the UT administrator had decided that all new asymptomatic and mild cases of Covid-19 will be sent to the Ayurvedic hospital in Sector 46, which is a 50-bed facility, while critical cases will continue to be sent to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, which provides treatment free of cost. Since the patients are expected to be admitted for at least 10 days in the Covid centres, the charges for the same can go up to Rs 50,000 and Rs 15,000.WHAT PATIENTS WILL PAYOn May 7, the UT administrator had decided that all new asymptomatic and mild cases of Covid-19 will be sent to the Ayurvedic hospital in Sector 46Facility Charges per dayWard with AC Rs 1,500Private Room Rs 5,000General Ward Free of cost||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-care-centre-at-ayurvedic-college-in-chandigarh-to-have-upgraded-facilities/story-q6tsqEVctRBixREE6T4xjL.html
23-07-2020||City||Panchkula claims ‘zero’ Covid death||Twenty days after declaring a Covid death, Panchkula administration on Wednesday said that it was a “non-Covid death.” The woman, 76, a kidney patient, had died at a private hospital on July 2. In Wednesday’s bulletin, the authorities claimed ‘zero’ Covid-19 deaths. The reason given was that “the 76 year-old female died due to chronic renal disease (Stage 5) and had been declared Covid-19 negative before death.”Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “The woman was tested positive by a private laboratory, where she was undergoing dialysis. She was tested again and her report came out negative, however, we were waiting for the death audit report, to officially declare her a non-Covid death.”Three new cases, P’kula count to 348Meanwhile, three new cases were reported in the district on Wednesday, taking the count to 348 in the district. No new infections among paramilitary men were reported. Of three fresh cases, two were from Barwala while one is from Raipur Rani. On Tuesday evening, 18 cases were also reported positive from “Panchkula urban.” The authorities have not shared further details of the cases. Out of the total 348 positive cases, 202 are active and 146 have been cured. The reports of 85 persons are awaited.Paramilitary asked to screen high-screen populationDuring a meeting, Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja asked the paramilitary forced to identify high-risk population, such as pregnant woman and those suffering from chronic diseases, and screen them. “We have suggested to them that they should conduct medical screening of the population. Basically there are 300-400 families in ITBP and CRPF. Apart from this, we have asked them to strengthen their medical dispensary with extra para-medical staff. And that they should set up their own Covid care centre, which will be supervised by us.” Over 60 personnel from ITBP and CRPF have been tested positive for the virus so far, which has become of a cause of worry for the authorities. Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “Trainings have been conducted at ITBP and tomorrow, it will be done at CRPF. It’s about the surveillance part, how to conduct house to house survey and basically it’s a training for how to prevent from the virus.”When asked about what led to sudden increase in numbers, she said: “I have been told that there was some sports activity, for which persons had come from outside. The good thing was that they quarantined those who had come from outside. Now, some might have picked up infection during travelling. One two families have also been infected, but they are contained their only.”She added that there is a sharp increase in number and we have identified some clusters where random sampling will be done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-claims-zero-covid-death/story-MJqxvxDimEtDBzOlXkqKrJ.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||61-year-old woman is UT’s 13th fatality||A 61-year-old woman became Chandigarh’s 13th Covid-19 fatality even as the city received 29 fresh cases on Wednesday. This is the seventh fatality this month. The woman was the resident of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran. She expired at a private Hospital in Panchkula.“She was diagnosed as positive for Covid-19. She had reported to the hospital with comorbidities including, diabetics, hypertension, hypothyroidism, and left Tibia fracture,” UT’s Covid-19 bulletin said. As many seven people who died of the virus in the city were aged 60 or above. Meanwhile, among the new cases, two nurses of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, tested positive, taking the UT’s Covid-19 tally to 780.Fourteen of Chandigarh’s 29 new cases are contacts of previously diagnosed cases. Four of a family, residing on PGIMER campus also contracted the infection. They are contacts of previously positive case, who returned from Bengaluru. Nine males from Sector 19, 21, 28, 37, 41, 43, 47, besides Dhanas, Badheri have also been found positive. Their source of infection is not known.Eight people were released from hospitals after recovery, taking the number of discharged people to 526.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/61-year-old-woman-is-ut-s-13th-fatality/story-G62S7RC1ZHQ8KwkcaT7IUP.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||No weekend curfew in Chandigarh||Despite a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases over the last fortnight, the UT administration has once again stepped back from imposing a weekend curfew in the city and will not be restricting crowds at public places such as the Sukhna Lake.Both the proposals were under consideration for some time, but during the war room review chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore on Wednesday, decisions were taken to identify micro-containment zones across the city and depute more officials at public places for stricter enforcement of social distancing.The city has seen a jump in Covid-19 cases this month, with 29 people reported positive on Wednesday, taking the count to 780.In June, on an average, around 4.9 cases were reported per day Chandigarh, a number that jumped to around 15.45 cases per day.On putting off weekend curfew plans, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “The prop||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-weekend-curfew-in-chandigarh/story-0RMVpkk47Kf4ulTkZJeroM.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Air India pilots unhappy with ‘lower’ pay cut taken by top management||Air India’s (AI) senior pilots have expressed discontent over the differences in pay cuts announced by the national carrier for pilots and senior management. They claim that the salaries of top AI officials have been reduced by a smaller percentage, as compared to their own. Pay of AI pilots has been reduced by 60% (40% on salary and 85% on flying allowances) owing to the new wage structure and leave without pay policy. The airline management, on the other hand, has taken a 50% cut on just their allowances.Senior pilots, unhappy with the decision, said allowances paid to high-ranking officials are a small portion of their salaries, unlike that of pilots, whose allowances constitute 70% of their salaries.Explaining the matter, a senior pilot said the airline has imposed a 40% pay cut on their gross salary and also reduced their flying allowance. “Other airlines have announced an overall percentage cut on the gross salary. Air India has announced a 40% salary cut for pilots and will also pay allowances for a maximum of 20 hours of flight time instead of 70. With the current situation, when the demand is low and flight operations are restricted, it is impossible to fly for 70 hours. All the top officials are aware of this,” said an airline official. When contacted, Air India did not comment on the matter.Another senior pilot said, “Senior management has taken a cut on just arbitrary allowances, which comprises around 20% of their salary, so their cut comes down to just about 3-5%. Deductions have been strategically applied majorly on flying allowances; this move targets only pilots and brings down a pilot’s gross salary by 60-65 % on average.”“We are still ready to take the cut in the interest of the company, but the top bosses must lead by example by agreeing to the same income loss as the frontline workers. It’s like cutting doctors’ pay during the Covid pandemic, but protecting the pay of those in the hospital accounts section,” said a senior pilot. He said that the pilots were not only flying to bring back stranded Indians but also to transport necessary personal protection equipment (PPE) and medicines during the lockdown. “If a pilot gets infected with the virus, he is de-rostered without pay. He has to prove his complete medical fitness before boarding a flight. If a pilot sustains long-term lung damage or neurological or cardiovascular damage as a side effect of Covid-19, he will lose his livelihood,” the pilot added.Jitender Bhargava, former executive director of Air India, said, “The airline’s senior management should set an example for its employees by taking at least an equivalent pay cut if not more than their staff. This wage structure is a poor decision taken by the airline.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-pilots-unhappy-with-lower-pay-cut-taken-by-top-management/story-G2BTIWV6S7vnI3YEYgGN2M.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||Unlock Teej: Mehendi craze takes over corona scare?||In corona times, when everyone is taking precautions and getting used to the ‘new normal’, one might assume that the mehendi (henna) artists would be out of work like most other professionals. But, ahead of Teej (July 23), this year the mehendi artists in Delhi-NCR are pleasantly surprised at the steady number of women visiting them, in popular markets. Women did step out to get their favourite henna designs applied on the hands. Anju from Anju Mehandi Art, Tilak Nagar, says, “We are getting customers. The number isn’t like previous years lekin bilkul suna bhi nahi hai. Customers to aa rahe hain aur hum bhi saare precautions le rahe hain is time pe. We sanitize our hands and wear face masks... And during the lockdown, we got a chance to come up with some interesting designs such as Madhubani, and a mix of Jaipuri and Rajasthani. Our customers have been loving these.”Some mehendi artists share that they are also getting pre-bookings. Raju Kumar, a mehendi artist in Karol Bagh, says, “Bridal ke liye toh pehle bhi booking aati thi par is baar toh Teej ke lie advance booking aa gai thi aur humne sabhi safety measures ko dhyan mein rakhte hue address pe jaake mehendi lagai. Ek client ko mehendi lagwane ke baad thode time ka gap diya aur sanitize kiya seat ko, tab dusre jane ko mehendi lagayi. Market me kaam mein manddi to abhi bhi hai par Teej aur uske baad Rakhi aa rahi hai to tyohaar karke log aa rahe hain mehendi lagwane.” Monika Aggarwal, a Karol Bagh-resident who went to the market to get mehendi applied on her hands, says, “I gave a particular time to the artist and he assured me that no one else will queue up at that time. That’s how I got the confidence to go for it. I’m a mehendi lover and thought that when everything is unlocking then why shouldn’t we give a chance to mehendi artists to get back to business; we need to learn to live with coronavirus. And, when I went there, I was satisfied to see that they took all the precautions. On my part, I took extra precautions, and I must say that it was quite a different experience this year.”Vicky, a mehendi artist at Central Market, Lajpat Nagar, says, “Customers are calling and inquiring about the safety measures we are taking. We are trying our best to not upset them, and are taking all safety measures at our end. Pehle lockdown mein kaafi nuksan ho chukka hai, ab aur nahi kara sakte toh precaution lena better hai. With Teej, the festive season is here, and we are trying our best ki customers khush rahe.”Mehak Maheshwari, a Greater Kailash resident, says, “For a recent wedding, we had invited mehendi artists in our house. They took all the precautions and so did we. I told this to my friends and they went to the market to see the same artists so as to get mehendi for Teej celebrations.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-teej-mehendi-craze-takes-over-corona-scare/story-sBzMrilmW9q5X24wwq8pJI.html
23-07-2020||City||38-year-old constable succumbs to Covid in Thane||A 38-year-old constable attached to Thane police commissionarate succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday. He was attached to headquarter, but was deployed in jurisdiction of Kolshewadi police station for bandobast from July 1.An officer from Thane said, “On July 13, he was admitted to Meera Hospital in Kalyan after he complained of severe breathlessness. He lost consciousness and was put on ventilator. He was then shifted to Ayush Hospital, Kalyan and then to Fortis Hospital in Kalyan for further treatment. His swab was taken and he tested positive on July 15.” He was thenshifted to Horizon Prime Hospital in Thane the next day. The officer added, “In last few days, he showed slight improvement and regained consciousness but remained critical. He succumbed on Wednesday. His family members and four police personnels are quarantined. This is the 8th police personal who died after getting infected and so far 800 tested positive amongst which 80% recovered.”Meanwhile, the Thane Municipal Corporation has conducted 1,571 antigen tests out of which 331 tested positive for Covid-19 in last three days. An antigen testing centre is set up in all the civic wards in the city.With the aim to flatten the curve and provide timely treatment to residents, Mission Zero was initiated by the civic body. Thane Municipal Corporation has nine wards and as a part of this mission; a testing centre was set up in every ward from Monday onwards. Only those with symptoms are allowed to conduct the antigen test.Sandeep Malvi, Deputy Municipal Commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation, “The testing centres in each ward is connected with the Fever OPD, as per the report received after the antigen test; the health officer determines where the patient needs to be admitted. All the necessary facilities are provided by the ward officer once a person is detected positive. So far 331 tested positive out of the 1571 tests conducted.”Moreover, Thane city recorded 327 positive cases and five deaths on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the number of positive cases was 187 however the number increased on Wednesday. Till now there have been 16,542 positive cases and 562 deaths in the city. “There could be a fluctuation in results depending on areas from where the test samples are collected or people who come for tests. We have our own testing centre and have been trying to conduct as many tests as possible everyday. The number of positive cases has been reducing in the last few days which definitely highlights that we are in control of the situation but it is too early to ascertain anything from these figures,” said Malvi.The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 421 new Covid cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 17,023. The city also recorded six deaths, taking the death toll to 272. The city now has 5,894 cases. Cases have also increased in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation which reported 303 cases on Wednesday. The total Covid 19 positive cases has now risen to 12,269. Six more people died on Wednesday taking the toll to 358. Panvel City Municipal Corporation reported 148 new Covid 19 cases on Wednesday taking the total in the region to 5,250. With 6 more deaths being reported on the day the Covid toll in the region is now 127.(Inputs by G. Mohiuddin Jeddy and Sajana Nambiar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/38-year-old-constable-succumbs-to-covid-in-thane/story-Uzqs7fIItfp9siwckHsx3L.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||Transport dept seizes over 130 buses plying despite suspended inter-state bus services||As Delhi continues to keep its interstate bus service shut, private bus operators from other states have gradually started to illegally resume services to and from Delhi’s borders, the transport department said on Wednesday. The department has launched a crackdown against such buses and seized as many as 133 private buses registered with states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan. “The enforcement branch of the state transport department seized many sleeping coaches also during this drive. Out of the 133 buses that have been seized, 92 are UP registered buses, 23 are from Rajasthan and 8 from Bihar. Our department has deployed 20 teams for the ongoing drive,” said KK Dahiya, special commissioner (transport).In Delhi, interstate bus services have remained suspended since March 21. Dahiya said the transport authorities of the respective states have also been requested to cancel the licenses of the owners of these private buses so that the action acts as a deterrent. HT had earlier reported the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had given its go-ahead to resume interstate buses to and from the national capital.“The DDMA had clarified that there is no restriction by the Centre or the Delhi government on the movement of interstate buses and that such services can be resumed. But, most of the neighbouring states have kept their interstate bus services suspended till now, which is why opening our three inter-state bus terminals (ISBTs) doesn’t make much sense. Even now, only Rajasthan has shown interest and Delhi’s ISBTs can’t be opened with just the buses of one state,” said Dahiya. Under the unlock 2.0 guidelines issued by the Central government on June 30, passengers can travel across state borders without travel passes. Under the Unlock 1.0 rules, interstate travel was allowed (since June 8), but it was subject to both states agreeing to the decision and passengers carrying travel passes. None of these requirements applies any longer. In Delhi, however, no interstate bus service has resumed until now.Before the onset of the pandemic, the three ISBTs would witness a combined footfall of over 250,000 every day. At least 3,467 buses from states such as Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Chandigarh would ply through these ISBTs every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/transport-dept-seizes-over-130-buses-plying-despite-suspended-inter-state-bus-services/story-2KhyD6oMRNQTR518w8kw1H.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh varsity completes 50 years||The Himachal Pradesh University that was established on July 22, 1970, completed 50 yearson Wednesday. A symbolic celebration of the foundation day will be held with a limited number of people due to ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Situated in Summerhill, Shimla, HPU is the only multi-faculty and affiliating university in the state that provides higher education that not only targets the urban population from across the state and the country but also a large number of students from the remote rural and tribal districts, barely touched by the benefits of education. Among its major objectives is the empowerment of the underprivileged sections of society who live on the margins of society.HPU vice-chancellor Sikander Kumar said striving towards excellence, the university aims to empower the people of the hill state. He said that HPU has led the way by spearheading the progressive move to provide free education to girl students. Besides, it reserves two seats for the ‘single girl child’ in every department. The university has reserved one seat each in MPhil. and PhD for students with disabilities. It is also the first university to have started a distance education programme. The International Centre for Distance and Open Learning (ICDEOL) at the University has contributed towards spreading education not only in the hill state but across the country. HPU has a six-storey library building, housing 2, 35, 570 books, 345 periodicals and journals with a seating capacity for 1,000.Remote access to e-resources (books and journals) facilities to readers is being provided at the doorstep. A well-equipped library for specially-abled readers has been setup. Many posts of teaching and non-teaching categories were filled up and efforts are on to fill 324 teaching and 274 non-teaching posts in the future. The process of radio frequency identification (RFID)-based automation is underway at the library, said the VC.The university also got ‘A’ grade certification for the first time by the National Assessment Accreditation Council (NAAC). The university has its own interdisciplinary journal and bilingual newsletter ‘Himshikher’. It is also among the few universities to have its own university anthem (Kulgeet). Notable alumni of the university include former president of afghanistan Hamid Karzai, Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda, chief justice of the Patna high court Sanjay Karol and many other notable persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-pradesh-varsity-completes-50-years/story-GqdoE3vqiq1oUcUWNFY0ZP.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Attendants at SKIMS allege lack of support from hospital administration||Attendants of Covid-19 patients admitted at Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) here have alleged that they are having a tough time due to lack of support from the hospital administration and rare visits by senior doctors and head of departments in the special wards set up for coronavirus cases.The SKIMS had been issuing daily medical bulletin about Covid-19 till the J&K administration ordered a gag on health institutions from speaking to the media. The attendants have also complained about the disruption of oxygen supply to the beds of Covid-19 patients, which has put their lives at risk.“I had to get the machine from my friend after the oxygen levels of my mother started dropping. I don’t know when the oxygen supply will be stopped and there is nobody whom we can approach. Therefore, we got the portable machine,” said Ahmad, whose mother is admitted in a ward at the hospital. “We have never seen senior doctors or head of departments visit these wards. They have left everything on the shoulders of juniors and many of them are overburdened and have long duty hours, “ he added.Even for minor test reports like KFT, LFT and others, the attendants have to wait for hours.A physically challenged 16-year-old patient admitted at the hospital had to wait for several hours to get an injection on Tuesday as the staff couldn’t find her veins. “When the anesthesia department was given a call they refused to come and attendants had no option but to wait. She was recovering and we don’t know what will happen to her now. Being an attendant, we can’t even raise our voice,” the girl’s mother said.Attendants of another patient Wani Nighat from north Kashmir were forced to arrange oxygen cylinder on rent when the supply was disrupted due to some issues.A doctor at the hospital said four resident doctors are deputed for seven wards which is exhausting. “They get 50 calls for IV lines which is not manageable at times and patients feel they are being ignored,” he said.SKIMS director AG Ahangar said all senior doctors are keeping tab on patients. “Our doctors regularly visit patients. The hospital has three oxygen plants and all are working fine. Due to Covid-19, the rush of patients has increased and the hospital was getting oxygen supply from a private vendor. It has developed a snag and we have arranged oxygen from another vendor,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/attendants-at-skims-allege-lack-of-support-from-hospital-administration/story-YNUfNjcX7yx8Chn8coublK.html
23-07-2020||City||Kalyan hospital reduces bill of Covid patient after local party leaders intervene||A private hospital in Kalyan was forced to reduce the bill amount of a 53-year-old Covid patient after members of the Rashtra Kalyan party slammed the hospital staffs on overcharging the patient on Tuesday. The video of Shailesh Tiwari, president of a local party and Vinod Nikam, vice president of Youth Congress, Thane zilla, slamming the hospital staffs of Meera Hospital in Kalyan (West) went viral on social media on Tuesday.“My friend’s aunt was admitted at the hospital for 11 days and they gave him a bill of ₹1.58 lakhs. When we checked the bill it showed ₹2,500 as Covid precaution charges which includes PPE kit for each day. They also charged ₹2,000 as monitoring charges. They are charging each patient with these excessive fees which is complete loot. Also the hospital isn’t charging as per the government directions, “said Tiwari.He added, “They also took bed ₹2,500 as bed charges. There are so many other charges mentioned in the bill.”The video shows Tiwari confronting the hospital staffs, asking them about the overcharging and seeking an explanation. A relative of the patient who did not wish to be named said, “After we complaint about the excess bill to the party, the amount was reduced to ₹92,000.”Dr Ashraf Memon, chief executive officer said, “The family should have discussed with the hospital about their problem as we have been considering all kind of help for our patients. They never spoke to us about it and suddenly the party members entered the hospital and slammed the staffs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-hospital-reduces-bill-of-covid-patient-after-local-party-leaders-intervene/story-UHkcJQyeX9qTlXkq0ZYq8I.html
23-07-2020||City||5 arrested for illegal sale of Covid drugs||The anti-extortion cell (AEC) of Thane Police arrested five people from Naupada for illegally selling remdesivir and tocilizumab injections, which are used for Covid-19 treatment, for ₹25,000 to ₹50,000. Two of the accused worked as medical representatives for a private firm. AEC officers received their contact numbers from an informant, following which they set up a trap. One officer posed as a dummy buyer and got two accused to come to deliver a vial of injection for ₹25,000 and nabbed them. Senior police inspector R Kothmire said, “A pharmaceutical distributor based in Wadala, Pradip Jain, is the distributor. He is yet to be arrested. He sold it to the prime accused, Amitab Das, 39, for ₹11,000. Das then sold it to Arun Singh, 35, and Sudhakar Giri, 37, who are medical representatives, for ₹17 thousand. These two finalised deal with our dummy officer for ₹25 thousand per injection. Later, they sent the other two accused Ravindra Shinde, 35, and Wasim Shaikh, 32, to deliver the medicine at Naupada.”Police arrested Das, Singh, Giri, Shinde and Shaikh. They have also seized the vehicle they were using to deliver the injections. AEC officers further said, “Apart from remdesivir and tocilizumab injections, they have abortion kits and pills which are banned in India. Some cancer-related medicines were also found. The Food and Drug Administration will join the investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-arrested-for-illegal-sale-of-covid-drugs/story-agKZRPsp3Cy8St1tOsstvJ.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||PIL seeks curb on begging activities by children during Covid-19 pandemic||The petitioner, who filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Bombay high court in 2019, has sought an urgent hearing regarding the proliferation of beggars after the relaxation of lockdown norms and the condition of child beggars in view of the pandemic. The petition had earlier sought directions to the state and local authorities to clamp down on syndicates that control and push children and women into begging, by invoking the provisions of the Maharashtra Prevention of Begging Act, 1960. However, in light of the Covid pandemic, the petitioner has sought an immediate stop on begging activities and to rehabilitate the women and children in homes so that they may be safeguarded from contracting Covid-19.The PIL filed by Dhyaneshwar Darwatkar through advocate Shekhar Jagtap was based on a 2016 survey conducted by Rainbow Foundation, an NGO. The survey had revealed that there were more than 10,000 children involved in begging only in Pune city. Of them, nearly 83% belonged to families that live on streets while 15% were street working children and 3% were children who lived alone on the streets.In light of these figures, the petition had sought immediate measures to stop begging activities on the streets by children and women and to initiate action against police officers who allowed such activities. After hearing the submissions in 2019, the court had directed the Pune authorities to file a reply.On Wednesday, Jagtap moved a praecipe for urgent hearing of the petition on the grounds that as lockdown norms had been relaxed, thousands of children had started begging. As children are susceptible to Covid-19 which poses a threat to them and to general public, an urgent hearing was sought. The praecipe also sought compliance of the orders passed in the previous hearing.The petition is expected to come up for hearing on Friday or the next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pil-seeks-curb-on-begging-activities-by-children-during-pandemic/story-KG5JBkbrG1cP5oJRGcQpiP.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal BJP president appointment: Caste factor, clean image worked in Kashyap’s favour||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) high command has made a smart move by picking young Shimla MP Suresh Kashyap as party’s Himachal unit chief.Kashyap’s defence background, non-controversial image and caste card make him a good bet for the party that is eyeing the 2022 assembly elections.Of the total 68 assembly segments in Himachal, 17 are reserved. Scheduled castes comprise 26.5% of population in Himachal – the second-most dominant community after Rajputs (37.5%). Kashyap is the first Himachal party president from the SC community. Age in his favourThe BJP has been keen on strengthening the second-line leadership in the hill state. In both Lok Sabha and assembly elections, the saffron party has given preference to young leaders. Kashyap, 49, fits into the party’s plan nicely.Also, after Nahan legislator Rajeev Bindal had to step down from the state party president’s post following a health scam controversy, the BJP had been on the lookout for a leader with a clean image to hold the party’s reins in the hill state. Bindal had resigned from his post on May 27 within four-and-a-half months of his appointment, saying he was doing so to ensure a proper investigation into the case of alleged corruption by a health department official. Defence backgroundThere are nearly two lakh serving and retired defence personnel in Himachal. Kashyap, who served in the Indian Air Force before joining the politics in 2005, will come in handy to strike a chord with defence voters.Born in Paplahan village of Sirmaur, Kashyap started his political career from the grassroots. He remained a member of block development committee, Pachad, from 2005 to 2010. He joined the BJP in 2006 and became party’s district SC Morcha chief . He was later appointed as state general secretary of BJP SC Morcha in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-bjp-president-appointment-caste-factor-clean-image-worked-in-kashyap-s-favour/story-0BnFwRbW1iMVtf7kKnNYAP.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||DNA test not conclusive evidence in rape, HC upholds trial court view||An Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has upheld a trial court view that the result of a DNA test is not a conclusive piece of evidence in rape cases, and rejected a bail plea of a rape convict from Latur district. A DNA test has revealed that the convict was not the biological father of the rape survivor’s child.According to the prosecution, the survivor, a 16-year-old hearing and speech impaired girl, was raped in February 2018, but her pregnancy came to light when she got married a few months after the incident. A day after the marriage, her husband noticed that she was pregnant, and took her back to her parents’ house.A first information report (FIR) was registered against the applicant, based on the girl’s testimony, and he was convicted and sentenced to 10 years imprisonment by a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court.The convict had moved a plea seeking suspension of the sentence and appealed for bail during pendency of his appeal against conviction, primarily on the grounds that the DNA test result of December 2018 proved that he was not the biological father of the survivor’s child, and thus, falsified the charge of rape levelled against him.An assistant public prosecutor, however, opposed the plea, submitting that in her statement in the FIR, and her testimony before the trial court, the survivor clearly stated that she was raped by the applicant, because of which she became pregnant.The prosecutor submitted that the trial court had rightly held that a negative result of the DNA test did not rule out the possibility of the applicant raping the girl. He submitted that the applicant took advantage of the fact that the survivor was handicapped, and her mother was blind, and thus, deserved no sympathy.Justice Vibha Kankanwadi found force in the prosecutor’s submissions, noting that the trial court had taken pains to point out that the DNA test cannot be considered conclusive evidence regarding rape, and cannot be solely relied on to exclude ocular evidence (testimony of the survivor).“This court agreed to the observation made by the learned trial judge that the DNA report is a corroborative piece of evidence,” said justice Kankanwadi, while approving the view adopted by the special court, and rejecting the convict’s plea.HC also clarified that the general principle is that when there is a variance between ocular and medical evidence, then the former has to be given weightage over the later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dna-test-not-conclusive-evidence-in-rape-hc-upholds-trial-court-view/story-oBqhSRqIYwK42fCzN6StVI.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Inspector suspended for naming person in FIR sans sufficient grounds||A police inspector has been suspended for allegedly naming an individual in a first information report (FIR) without sufficient grounds. The inspector also named the individual as a co-accused in abusing and assaulting a south Mumbai policeman along with Yash Shah, the grandson of film producer Bharat Shah, in November 2019.The officer had also allegedly ranted about his seniors on a WhatsApp group of police officers. He hurled abuses and made derogatory remarks about officers in the group. A departmental inquiry on this has been ordered.Inspector Anup Dange has been suspended by additional commissioner of police (south region) Nishith Mishra on July 18. Dange was previously attached to the Gamdevi police station.According to the police officers, on November 23, 2019, while on a night patrolling duty, Gamdevi police inspector Anup Dange along with his team had visited the pub, Dirty Buns SoBo, located on Bhulabhai Desai Road. The officer asked the pub staff to close down as per the Mumbai Police rule that does not permit any hotel or pub establishment to run the business beyond 1.30am deadline. Policemen also asked the customers to leave. Meanwhile, film produces and diamond merchant Bharat Shah’s grandson Yash, who was at the pub along with his friends, had a heated argument with another customer near the elevator, the police said.Police naik Santosh Pawar, 43, tried to pacify, but Yash and another customer allegedly started abusing and assaulting Pawar, and also tore his uniform. Other policemen rushed to Pawar’s help and Yash and his friends were detained by the police.The police had registered a criminal case against Yash Shah, his two friends and arrested them. The pub owner and two unidentified customers were also booked. Pawar was made complainant in the case and all seven accused were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.However, the police’s internal inquiry found that inspector Dange misguided Pawar and ordered him to name one person in the FIR who had nothing to do with the offence. After this, he was transferred to the south region control room as a punishment posting.Later, Dange allegedly posted objectionable messages about his seniors on a WhatsApp group of policemen called ‘Gamdevi Officers’. “The messages Dange posted on the group were derogatory and insulting and were also causing character assassination of senior police officers. His messages had the potential to instigate others in creating negative notions about senior police officers,” said a police officer requesting anonymity.“Such an attitude cannot be tolerated in a disciplined police force. Hence, he was suspended a few days ago pending a departmental inquiry,” another officer said. However, Dange was not available for comment.Dange also had heated argument on the same night with Bharat Shah, his son and grandson at the police station. Dange had alleged that Shah was trying to pressurize him to not to take action against his grandson and was also instigating Yash to abuse and assault policemen.Later he had registered a separate case against Shah along with his son and grandson for allegedly assaulting a police officer and creating ruckus at the Gamdevi police station. However, Shah had managed to secure pre-arrest bail in the matter from a city sessions court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/inspector-suspended-for-naming-person-in-fir-sans-sufficient-grounds/story-uQwX46cXZ26xFZO3Tl1pwN.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Yellow alert: IMD says heavy rain likely over the weekend||After five days of sporadic light showers and mostly dry conditions, the weather bureau on Wednesday predicted an increase in rain intensity expected over the weekend.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a yellow alert (heavy rain at isolated areas) for the entire Konkan coast, including Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg for Saturday and Sunday. A yellow alert has been issued for Raigad and Ratnagiri for Thursday and Friday as well.The city and suburbs can expect cloudy conditions, with very light rain or drizzles on Thursday and Friday.IMD said monsoon conditions are likely to be active due to strengthening weather factors. “A trough, extending from the Karnataka to Kerala coast, is expected to strengthen, and a weather system is likely to form in the Bay of Bengal towards the weekend,” said an IMD official.A drop in rain activity this week has led to hotter conditions across Mumbai. The island city and suburbs recorded day temperatures of 32.2 and 32.7 degrees Celsius, respectively, which was two degrees above normal.Over the last 24 hours, no rain was recorded in the city or suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yellow-alert-imd-says-heavy-rain-likely-over-the-weekend/story-83WkK936WegP55g0FlGKGK.html
23-07-2020||City||Social distancing to be strictly followed in jail||After over 20 officers at Thane jail, including the superintendent, tested positive for Covid-19, jail authorities have adopted measures employed by Arthur Road Mumbai Central Jail to curb the spread of the infection. These include maintaining adequate distance between officers and inmates in common areas and implementing a diet and exercise regimen for all its employees. No inmates have tested positive so far.Deepak Pandey, inspector general (prisons) has visited Thane Jail twice in the past month and shared a video with the jail’s staff with instructions to curb the spread of Covid-19. In the video, Pandey talks about how Arthur Road Jail, where over 181 prisoners tested positive for Covid-19 and over 90% have recovered, tackled the infection.In the past month, around 20 officers of Thane Jail have tested positive for Covid-19. Five officers are still under treatment while the rest have recovered, including two officers above the age of 45 who were in critical condition.Jail superintendent Harshad Ahirrao, who was among the Covid-positive, said, “We studied Arthur Road Jail’s measures to tackle the cases. We have over 250 employees and 3,000 prisoners. The employees did not come in direct contact with any inmate. They maintained distance while on rounds. Barricades were set up at common places like the dining area. At medical camps, prisoners maintained distance. The doctors conducting the camps wore PPE [personal protective equipment].”Ahirrao said employees of Thane Jail were divided into teams. Each team worked for 15 days and then was off duty for the next 15 days. “On returning, the employees are told to isolate for two to three days as we don’t know what they do in their off period,” said Ahirrao. Returning officers are not allocated work that would bring them in contact with prisoners for the first few days. Recently, one employee tested positive upon their return to work, due to which 19 others contracted Covid-19. All Thane Jail employees and prisoners were given an exercise regimen. Officers were also recommended yoga and healthy diets. Counselling was provided to Covid-positive employees and their families. Counselling sessions were also made available to other officials and inmates.In May, 1,000 of Thane Jail’s 4,000 inmates were released on bail, following the Supreme Court’s direction to state governments to decongest jails by releasing certain categories of prisoners so that the spread of Covid-19 may be curbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-distancing-to-be-strictly-followed-in-jail/story-KuoDlQKgtj3rWQM8eX5KRJ.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||52-year-old accused of sexually abusing minor refused bail||The special court under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act on Tueday refused to grant bail to 52-year-old man arrested for sexually abusing a 12-year-old boy since 2018.According to the case registered with Khar police station, the minor has in his statement said that during Diwali in 2018, the accused had called him to his residence to have chicken, showed him pornographic videos and sexually assaulted him.The boy said the accused continued to assault him, but he could only disclose this in January this year. It is claimed that the boy was caught showing clips to other girl students in his school by his teacher in January. The matter was taken up with his parents. It was after this that the boy opened up about the sexual abuse by neighbour. The family then filed a complaint against the neighbour with Khar police station in January.The accused was arrested on January 16 and has been in jail since. On July 17, the accused moved the court seeking bail claiming delay in registering the complaint. The accused also pleaded that there is a possibility of him contracting Covid-19 in jail.Public prosecutor Geeta Sharma opposed the plea on the grounds that the accused is staying alone in the city, hence there is a possibility that he would abscond. The prosecution also expressed concerns that the accused may repeat the offence as he stays in the same neighbourhood as the minor. The prosecution also presented medical report which confirmed that the boy was subjected to sexual assault several times.The court, after hearing both the sides, rejected the plea observing that it is dangerous to release the accused. It also noted that since December 2018, the victim was subjected to sexual abuse on several occasions and punishment for the offence, if proved, can go up to life imprisonment.Considering the nature of the offence, the victim’s age, direct evidence showing involvement of the accused in the offence, the court held the accused is not fit to be granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/52-year-old-accused-of-sexually-abusing-minor-refused-bail/story-amvsOlAq84S0nSoQRqK02J.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Excessive leopard captures in Nashik due to fear psychosis’||Fear psychosis among villagers due to human-animal conflict has led to a surge in leopard captures in Nashik, said forest officials, adding that all captured big cats may not have been involved in the conflict.The Maharashtra forest department caught a sub-adult female leopard from farmlands at Palse village in Nashik, early Tuesday morning. The animal was then transported to Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) on Wednesday. This is the third conflict-related capture within a month and 11th over eight months. Nashik forest officials said there are two more leopards in the area and plan to trap them both as early as possible. Five deaths and five serious injuries (including two children) have been reported since December 2019 at the 12-km stretch along Darna river (between Sinnar and Eklahare) where leopard numbers have risen significantly. Apart from three leopards sent to SGNP, eight were captured and released at undisclosed locations (forest areas) between December and April before human deaths were reported.The forest department on Wednesday said based on a report received from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, an adult male leopard was responsible for conflict cases. The report was based on swab samples of four of the five victims. “While DNA reports matching those of the trapped leopards are yet to be received, the latest report states that a large male leopard was responsible for four deaths. We estimate that none of the leopards captured so far were involved in the conflict,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife-west).On July 12 and July 2, a two-year-old male leopard and five-year-old female leopard were lured into trap cages at Chehedi village and Samangaon, and transported to SGNP. “The sub-adult male does not exhibit extreme fierceness nor any traits that he may have been in conflict. It is now clear that the male leopard, dangerous to human life, is still at large and is one of the two leopards yet to be caught,” said Limaye adding that releasing captured animals at the moment in Nashik was risky. “There is a fear psychosis among villagers. Once we have caught the problem animal, immediate efforts will be made to rehabilitate the three captured leopards. We have ensured minimal human imprint during their temporary stay in captivity.”Vivek Bhadane, range forest officer (RFO), Nashik said, “We are under tremendous pressure from local villagers. Any lapse in tracing the male leopard, which is yet to be captured, still poses a great threat to human safety. For this reason, capturing as many leopards and moving them to captivity, for the time being, is helping us trace the problem animal, and also acts as a temporary comfort for villagers.”Over 200 dogs, close to 100 wild boars and cattle have been killed, said Bhadane adding, “An average of 25 dogs have been killed per month since December.”Wildlife experts said Nashik had reached the worst-case scenario for human-animal conflict. “The only way forward is to have a targeted campaign and engage villagers to collectively address the issue of leopard presence in croplands. Nashik needs to have rapid response teams including villagers similar to how Junnar tackled this problem,” said Vidya Athreya, wildlife biologist.Others said the forest department was not prepared for more conflict cases. “Without any proper census undertaken, the humongous rise in leopard numbers has not been documented in Nashik. Especially when the habitat of these animals has changed from dense forests to sugarcane farms. Even if they are being released back into forests, they are returning to farmlands regularly,” said Rohan Bhate, member, Wildlife Crime Control Bureau. “A detailed location-specific study needs to be undertaken before capture numbers rise to 10 per month.”Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) said, “Leopards are using the sugarcane farms, adjacent to forest areas along Darna, as a safe zone. While hunting for dogs and other livestock, they are coming in close proximity to farmers. The department has already begun a conflict management exercise with locals and the situation is likely to improve soon.”‘Capacity at SGNP leopard rescue centre almost full’As leopard captures rise in Nashik, three hours away at SGNP, Borivli, the leopard rescue centre is reaching its capacity. The rescue centre currently has 15 leopards with the latest addition of three from Nashik. “We have three more cages left. With two more leopards planned to be captured soon, we would have only one additional cage. However, the three leopards recently brought to SGNP are only coming in close proximity to humans twice a day. Once when their cages are cleaned and when they are being fed. This is done to reduce human-imprint as much as possible. The issue is they get adapted to captivity very fast,” said Vijay Barabde, superintendent of safaris and range forest officer, SGNP.Meanwhile, Bhadane said the leopard trapped on Tuesday was 1 to 1.5 years old. However, SGNP officials said the leopard was not more than eight months old. “Even the male leopard trapped on July 12 was said to be 2 years old but he is not more than 11 months. All three leopards are healthy,” said Barabde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/excessive-leopard-captures-in-nashik-due-to-fear-psychosis/story-OMUiLF3J7fraSIvGpRsxfO.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Sheena Bora murder case: Bail plea of Shyamvar Rai rejected||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Wednesday rejected the interim bail plea of Shyamvar Rai, one of the main accused in the murder of Sheena Bora. Rai, a close aide of Indrani Mukerjea, has turned approver in the case.Rai had moved a plea before the special CBI court for interim bail for 45 days in view of the spread of Covid-19 in prison. Rai has been in jail since his arrest in 2015 and is currently lodged in Thane jail.CBI prosecutor Manoj Chalandan opposed the plea on the grounds that jail authorities are taking appropriate measures to deal with the Covid-19 situation on jail premises and all prisoners are well taken care of. CBI also pleaded that Rai is an approver in the case and cannot be released till the trial ends.After considering the objections raised by CBI, the special court rejected Rai’s plea.According to the prosecution, Bora was killed on April 24, 2012 by Mukerjea, her former husband Sanjeev Khanna and driver Shyamvar Rai. The three allegedly strangled her in a car, and later dumped her body in a bag and kept it overnight in the garage. The bag containing Bora’s body was taken to Pen village the next day and was set on fire. The remains were first found in May 2012.The case came into light after Rai’s arrest in August 2015. He was arrested by Khar police for illegal possession of a pistol. During the questioning, Rai had confessed to the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sheena-bora-murder-case-bail-plea-of-shyamvar-rai-rejected/story-4b2aGwv6Zcbjb0UGHvMElM.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Not 2020, Metro-3 tunnelling likely to be completed in 2021||One of the city’s most ambitious projects, the 33.5-km fully underground Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz), has been majorly affected by the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. While the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) was looking at completing tunnelling work by December 2020, lack of labourers, machinery and disruptions in the supply chain during the lockdown have most likely delayed work to beyond February 2021. According to officials, MMRC was undertaking tunnelling at a speed of 1,500 metre per month before the lockdown, which has reduced to 600m in the past two-and-a-half months. The number of labourers had reduced from 15,000 to 4,000 on site, which has now improved to 6,000 as migrant labourers have started coming to the city. Eighty-three per cent of the tunnelling work and 57% of the overall work have been completed.A senior official from MMRC said, “There has been a major disruption in the supply chain, availability of labour and even spare parts. Despite that, we have completed 45.6km of tunnelling work. While we did aim for December 2020 to complete tunnelling work, it might go beyond February 2021 now.” It is the stretch between Mahalakshmi and Mumbai Central that would spill over to 2021, the official said.While MMRC was expecting the first rolling stock by December 2020, that might also be delayed owing to the lockdown. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, under chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, has also stalled the car-shed work at Aarey Colony, which would further derail the project. Thackeray stalled the work in November 2019 and appointed a committee to look at alternative options for the car-shed. However, the state is yet to take a call on it.The earlier deadline for phase 1 of the fully underground corridor was June 2021, which was revised to December 2021, owing to delays caused by legal battles. In 2017, MMRC had estimated that even a day’s delay in Metro-3 would cost ₹4.2 crore. The project cost has already escalated from ₹23,000 crore to ₹32,000 crore.Two Metro lines that were to be operational by December 2020 had also been pushed to April 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-2020-metro-3-tunnelling-likely-to-be-completed-in-2021/story-gdS9gQSLN2CMSE24GsWxQL.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Despite warning, use, sale of N95 masks goes on unabated in Punjab||Despite warning issued by the Union health ministry against the use of N95 masks with valves, their use, sale and manufacturing goes on unabated in Punjab. While the residents continue to use the masks unaware of the warning, the manufacturers and traders rue that the sales had already gone down as a large number of residents do not change the mask after purchasing it for once. The manufacturers further demanded that the government should allow export of N95 masks with valves, which has a demand in the internal market.The director general of health services in the Union ministry of health, in a letter to the principal secretaries of health and medical education of states, had said on Tuesday that it has been observed that there is “inappropriate use” of N-95 masks, particularly those with valved respirators by the public other than designated health workers.President of Punjab Chemists’ Association Surinder Duggal said: “We have asked our association members to make the people aware about the government’s new guidelines that warn the usage of N95 masks. But some people are still adamant on purchasing masks with valves.”VENDING MACHINE AT CHANDIGARH RAILWAY STATION The Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDCL) has installed an automatic vending machine for dispensing 3-ply masks, N95 masks, sanitisers and gloves at the Chandigarh railway station last week.An official said that the corporation has observed an average sale of Rs 5,000-6,000 in last few days and the highest of nearly Rs 8,000 sale from the vending machine. On being asked about any plans to discontinue N-95 masks with valves after recent guidelines by the health ministry, Balbir Singh, CGM, IRSDCL, Chandigarh, said: “I am aware of the advisory, but we’re yet to receive any official notification on the same. Once we receive it, we may discontinue the N95 masks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-warning-use-sale-of-n95-masks-goes-on-unabated-in-punjab/story-CsetRRBuEhl4ImAMM7qtxL.html
23-07-2020||Pune||Covid hospital did not pay two months’ salary: Pune doctor||A doctor from Pune, who worked at the intensive care unit (ICU) of Baj RR Covid Hospital in Dombivli for two months, has complained of non-payment of salary and sudden termination by the management of the private hospital.The doctor, who tested positive to Covid-19, has been undergoing treatment at a hospital in Ulhasnagar since the past eight days. In a letter to Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi, he stated, “I joined on May 3 at the Covid hospital in Dombivli and was terminated on June 28 without any prior notice. They also assured to pay the salary of two months by July 15, but there was no further communication. When I asked the hospital management, they threatened to cancel my medical registration.” The 32-year-old, who earlier worked in a hospital in Pune as casualty doctor, joined Baj RR Hospital for three months on a contractual basis that assured ₹55,000 salary per month. He moved from Pune to Dombivli to join the hospital and had treated around 40 Covid-positive patients. However, he tested positive for Covid-19 on July 14.“I am sure the hospital got my replacement for lesser salary and hence they removed me. It’s not just me; there is another doctor and two ward boys who are not paid. I am admitted in a hospital now and if the salary is not paid how am I supposed to pay my bills. I have mailed a letter with my complaint to the KDMC chief as I am helpless,” he said.Another doctor, Pawan Saini, 28, who left the work at Baj RR Hospital on June 30, also complained of non-payment of salary.“I left the job due to personal reasons and my two months’ salary is pending. They had agreed to pay me on July 15, but now there is no communication. I don’t understand why my payment is held,” said Saini who worked at the hospital at the ward since January.When asked, Bharat Tiwari, chief executive officer of the hospital, said, “He [the doctor from Pune] was warned thrice before the termination as he fought with staffers and was also caught eating inside the ICU. As his salary was delayed, I received threatening calls from random people in the past few days. Hence, I decided to hold the salary.”“The other doctor has also ganged up with him. Unless he gives me a written apology, we will not pay him,” added Tiwari.The doctor, however, refuted the allegations saying, “These are false allegations. I was terminated without any valid reason.” Suryavanshi did not respond to calls, while KDMC health officer Dr Pratibha Panpatil claimed that she was not aware of the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-hospital-did-not-pay-two-months-salary-pune-doctor/story-a4SF8piULRugV0s9V5KsIN.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||TISS students demand internet for all||With less than a week left before the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) begins its new academic year online, student groups have asked the institute authority if it has ensured that all students have access to internet so that they do not miss out on classes. They have also demanded a reduction in fees for the academic year 2020-21.“The institute should provide alternative mechanism for students who don’t have access to internet or laptops/mobiles,” read a statement released jointly by the Progressive Students Front (PSF) and the North East Students’ Forum (NESF) on Tuesday evening. It further stated, “In the fees levied for the semester, there are components that become redundant given online education and absence of students on campus in Mumbai. Components such as medical examination fees, field work charges, computer fees, etc. should be removed.” While the students are still waiting to hear from the management about their demands, a spokesperson for TISS administration said the institute is working on the same. “We are looking at the complaints from candidates to verify if there has been any error for any particular programme,” said PK Shajahan, dean (academics), TISS, Mumbai.He said not more than one-third of the lectures will be conducted through live sessions, and added that the institute is exploring the possibility of recorded sessions to be made available for students to download any time. The institute is looking at making transcripts of the sessions available to students on email and WhatsApp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiss-students-demand-internet-for-all/story-kdS77t7LZWwXkdQ9i8s2rI.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Class 9 and 11 students to be promoted based on oral exams||Students from state board schools who have failed their classes 9 and 11 exams last year will have to clear an oral exam either in the school or online, as per a government resolution (GR) issued on Wednesday. Schools have been asked to conduct exams for of these students by August 7. “As per government rules, students who fail in Class 9 and 11 are eligible for a re-exam the same year and passing the exam would allow them to be promoted to the next class. Under the current conditions schools should conduct an oral exam of such students either by calling them to school or via video conferencing by August 7,” states the GR. Earlier this month, several parents had written to the state government urging schools to cancel re-exams and promote all students due to the pandemic. Parents said that schools should conduct online exams and should not call students to school even for orals. “It is a big risk which we are not willing to take,” said a parent of a Dadar based school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/class-9-and-11-students-to-be-promoted-based-on-oral-exams/story-iu2H24lAUxCbH6jmRhR8YP.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Cabs, autos install plastic shields for a safer ride||Mobile application-based cab services in the city have started putting protective shields in their vehicles, in a bid to curb the spread of the coronavirus. These transparent screens are being placed between the driver and passengers, to maintain social distancingApp-based cab aggregator Uber on Wednesday announced the installation of ‘safety cockpits’ in 20,000 of its cabs. The plastic screens will enable social distancing and act as a safeguard to prevent droplet transmission. The screens have been fitted in 8,000 cars till now and will be placed in more cabs, according to Uber.“We are constantly defining transportation safety standards and take all possible precautions to ensure the safety of both riders and drivers,” said Pavan Vaish, head of central operations, Uber India and South Asia.Similar protective screens have been installed in cabs operated by Ola, with protective screens for its autorickshaws as well.Black and yellow taxis and autorickshaws operating in the city are also placing protective screens in order to maintain safety. “We have asked drivers to install the shields. We are waiting for directives from the state government on the operation of autorickshaws and taxis,” said Shashank Rao, leader of Mumbai Autorickshaw Taximen’s Union.The Maharashtra government has permitted the operation of mobile application-based cabs along with black and yellow taxis and autorickshaws in Mumbai. However, only two passengers are allowed to commute per vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cabs-autos-install-plastic-shields-for-a-safer-ride/story-CIfzlrv4tXS2VK4531pbzH.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Rajgruh vandalism: Second accused arrested in Kalyan||The Matunga police on Wednesday arrested second accused Vishal Ashok More alias Vitthal Kanya, 20, from Kalyan railway station in connection with the vandalism at Rajgruh, the house of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, located at the Hindu Colony, Dadar in Central Mumbai. The first accused Umesh Sitaram Jadhav, 35, was arrested two days after the incident on July 9.“Both the accused were captured in the CCTV camera installed inside the house. Jadhav was found standing outside the Rajgruh, while More went inside the house and damaged the pots in the compound,” said senior inspector Vijaysingh Ghatge of the Matunga police station. More has no permanent place to stay so he was staying on footpath and railway station’s platform. The incident occurred on July 7. Jadhav was arrested from Matunga, while More was absconding. The CCTV footage was circulated to all the police stations across Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai and the railway police were also alerted. During the search, police team spotted More at Kalyan railway station on Wednesday afternoon. After verification, he was brought to the police station and was arrested. It does not appear that he did this intentionally, but we are inquiring further, added Ghatge. Earlier, a case was registered under sections 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of ₹50 or more) and 447 (criminal trespass) of the IPC based on the complaint of one of the three grandsons of Dr Ambedkar who reside in the house.On Tuesday evening around 5.30pm, the accused first threw stones at glass window panels of Rajgruh and then entered through the gate. He was barefoot and damaged flower pots. CCTV cameras were not damaged, a senior police officer said.The guard at Rajgruh is said to be the witness in the case.The two-storeyed heritage house of Dr Ambedkar has a museum where his books are kept along with his portrait, ashes and vessels and other artefacts.Ambedkar’s daughter-in-law and three grandsons Prakash, Bhimrao and Anandrao live at the bungalow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rajgruh-vandalism-second-accused-arrested-in-kalyan/story-iiiIUn6Cu4MOFr8pdPBh7K.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Incarceration of young boy for indefinite time antithesis to liberty: HC||Incarceration of a young boy for an indefinite period would be the antithesis to the concept of liberty, the Bombay high court (HC) said on Tuesday, while granting bail to an engineering graduate from Pune who was arrested for allegedly raping his friend.Justice Bharati Dangre has ordered the 25-year-old man to be released on a personal bond of ₹50,000 and one or two sureties in the same amount.The Pune resident was booked by Paud police station for raping his friend when a group of classmates had visited Amby Valley, near Lonavala in October 2019. The victim complained that the accused tried to force himself upon her when they stayed at a bungalow, during the night.Counsel for the accused, advocate Abhinav Chandrachud, however, maintained that it was a consensual act. He pointed out that the incident allegedly took place in the night of October 28, but the complainant disclosed the incident to her friends accompanying them a day after when they were about to depart. He added that the offence was registered belatedly on November 8, 2019, and the accused was arrested on December 16.Justice Dangre, however, refused to accept that the delay was indicative of the fact that the prosecution’s case was false.The judge said, “There cannot be a formula as to how a woman will react to an act of outrage by a male, since all women are borne into different circumstances in life, go through different things and face, experience and react differently. Each woman would turn out to be different from the other.”The judge said that the long-lived notion expressed in the words of Warren Buffet, ‘if a lady says no, she means maybe’ or in the expression of Rich Santos for Marie Claire - ‘changing nos to yeses’, were old tricks.“Whether the girl consented freely for a physical indulgence has to be searched by applying new standards of modern life and the present social scenario,” said the judge.The court, however, granted bail to the engineering graduate after noticing that at least two friends of the survivor have revealed in their statements to the police that they had seen the survivor and the accused having slept together in a bedroom.The court also took into consideration that the 25-year-old was languishing in jail for over seven months and there was no likelihood of him fleeing, as he was a permanent resident of Pune and his father runs a business of manufacturing and engineering goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/incarceration-of-young-boy-for-indefinite-time-antithesis-to-liberty-hc/story-S62cc6R28bGYwJXKI8cGfL.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Dismiss Babri case before Ram Mandir ceremony: Sena||As the ground-breaking ceremony for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya draws near, the Shiv Sena on Wednesday said that dismissal of the Babri mosque demolition case before the ceremony would be a fitting homage to the “martyrs” of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement.“When you accept [Mughal emperor] Babar was an aggressor, the Babri case itself becomes obsolete...If the Babri masjid demolition case is dismissed before the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the Ram Mandir, it would be a homage to the martyrs of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement,” said an editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana.The editorial added that even after the Supreme Court gave its verdict on the Ram Janma Bhoomi case, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) continues to Babri mosque demolition case. “The foundation is being laid for the Ram temple. Prime Minister Modi is going for the ceremony, but Babri demolition case is still on, where leaders such as Lal Krishna Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, etc appear as accused,” it said adding that this is “a strange game of the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dismiss-babri-case-before-ram-mandir-ceremony-sena/story-2SBUTzhniXF5kMdCcolL0J.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Beware of scamsters offering Mhada flats, homebuyers warned||The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) has cautioned homebuyers not to fall prey to fraudsters falsely advertising low-cost Mhada houses at Dadar and duping people of money.The racket came to light when some homebuyers approached Mhada claiming officials were calling them asking them to apply for subsidised flats. The fraudsters have also published advertisements on some housing portals. They are asking buyers to deposit money through online modes, such as Paytm, to take part in the lottery.According to Vaishali Gadpale, chief public relations officer of Mhada, people should not fall prey to such mechanisms. “We don’t have any project in Dadar. In addition, our officials do not call people to take part in lottery. We don’t want people to lose their hard-earned money to these cheaters,” said Gadpale.Mhada vigilance department has taken over the case and have started their investigation. The accused are allegedly advertising 1 room kitchen, 1 bedroom hall kitchen (BHK) and 2 BHK flats and started an account named ‘Corporate central collective hub, MHADA’ to fool victims while depositing money.One of the homebuyers, who received such call, said he was told that it was a life-time opportunity and that he had to first deposit ₹3,500 as initial payment to take part in the lottery. However, when he asked for the eligibility criteria, he was told everything would be taken care of and the details would be shared after he deposited the money. He got suspicious and approached Mhada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/beware-of-scamsters-offering-mhada-flats-homebuyers-warned/story-SoMNaicuXIdraSudlQ8zCO.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Triple talaq in Bandra: Businessman booked||Nirmal Nagar police has booked a Bandra-based businessman for divorcing his wife by uttering talaq three times. The first information report was filed following a complaint by the man’s 46-year-old wife.The woman, in her complaint, said, “I got married in November 1999 and lived in Navpada, Bandra (East). After a few years passed smoothly, my husband wanted to set up a footwear business on Linking Road, so I provided him with monetary help. However, in 2006 he almost got addicted to pornographic videos and sexually assaulted me on several occasions,” She further alleged that on one occasion she was left bleeding and had to visit a local clinic for treatment. Following the incident, she warned her husband that she would file a complaint against him if he sexually assaulted her again. But he threatened to post obscene pictures and videos of her on social media.Later, the accused allegedly demanded more money from her, and when she refused, he assaulted her with an iron rod. The complainant’s advocate Adil Khatri said, “On June 15, her husband uttered the word talaq three times to divorce her. Following this, she decided to report this incident. She visited Nirmal Nagar police station and lodged a complaint against her husband and two of his family members.” Shashikant Bhandare, senior inspector, Nirmal Nagar police station, said, “We have registered the offence and are investigating the matter. We have not arrested any accused so far.”Police have booked her husband and his two family members under sections 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offences), 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intension) of the Indian Penal Code and section 4 (pronouncing talaq) of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/triple-talaq-in-bandra-businessman-booked/story-GYXVuKbCqxUdvNAz2i8dNM.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Stomach flu cases in June lowest since 2012: BMC||The absence of street food vendors due to the lockdown has reduced cases of gastroenteritis — also known as stomach flu — to its lowest count in eight years. Other illnesses, like hepatitis and dengue, have also reported fewer patients this year, say experts.Data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows that the number of gastroenteritis cases dropped by almost 15 times in June this year to 40 cases, as compared 777 cases in June 2019. So far in July, 21 cases of gastroenteritis have been recorded. Similarly, last year, the city witnessed 282 cases of hepatitis in June while this year in June, only three cases were reported. There have been no cases of hepatitis this month so far.Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, said, “During monsoon, waterlogging and overflowing sewage lines spread bacteria and viruses. So we see the highest number of gastroenteritis and hepatitis cases, mostly caused by contaminated water. But this year, the flow of patients has gone down by almost 70%. Closure of roadside food stalls, which is the primary source of infection, is one of the major factors behind the plunge in cases.”Dengue cases have also dropped, with four cases in June this year as compared to eight in June 2019. Five patients were diagnosed with leptospirosis in June 2019 while only one leptospirosis patient was reported last month.However, there has been a slight increase in cases of malaria. In June 2019, there were 313 cases of malaria in Mumbai while last month, 328 cases were reported.“Due to limitations on the movement of people, they were not exposed as much to mosquito breeding grounds. Additionally, all construction sites are closed,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC.No deaths have been recorded due to any of these ailments since April.Due to similarities in the symptoms of malaria and dengue with Covid-19, all patients are mandatorily tested for the Sars-CoV-2 virus. “We have kept separate beds for monsoon-related ailments, but the flow of such patients is thin so far. Also, the cases of co-infection of Covid-19 with monsoon ailments are rare,” said Dr Deshmukh.Doctors said cases of monsoon-related illnesses may rise once there is heavier rain, leading to stagnant water. In July, the civic body has registered 236 cases of malaria in the city with 78 cases reported in the first week and 158 cases in the second.“We have kept over 9,000 non-Covid beds ready for treatment of such patients. Generally, cases rise to the highest by the end of August when the city witnesses the heaviest rainfall. Thankfully, till Wednesday, no deaths have been reported due to dengue or malaria,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/stomach-flu-cases-in-june-lowest-since-2012-bmc/story-GY9oCAbfbVpMc8U4ZzuoVK.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||HSC, SSC students to collect mark sheets from school, college: State board||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), on Wednesday, announced that mark sheets of students who appeared for their SSC (Class 10) and HSC (Class 12) exams this year will have to be picked up directly from their respective schools and colleges.This could pose a problem for students, as visiting their institutes to receive their mark sheets could put them at risk of getting infected with Covid-19. Additionally, travel restrictions will make it difficult for many students who live far away or have returned to their hometowns.The announcement regarding mark sheet disbursement was made after MSBSHSE held an internal meeting to come up with possible solutions for the issue.“There was a consensus that these mark sheets would have to be given by hand and cannot be sent by post or any other way as it is an important document. Colleges can, however, ensure all safety norms and give flexibility to students to collect it,” said a senior official from the board. The official said that mark sheets would reach schools and colleges within 12 days after the results.On July 16, the state board announced results for HSC examinations, and the admission process to first-year degree courses began on July 17. Since then, parents have been trying to know when and how they can collect the mark sheets considering that many students live far from their colleges. “Especially in Mumbai, it is going to be a struggle. Trains are not working, and travelling so far is not just a hassle but also very costly. Not all parents can afford it,” said Asmi Jain, a parent from Mira Road whose son appeared for his HSC exams through Jai Hind College in Churchgate.The board is expected to declare a detailed schedule and process for result distribution in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hsc-ssc-students-to-collect-mark-sheets-from-school-college-state-board/story-QzZr1YLybFtRfQngahYtRN.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims 8 lives, 745 more test positive in Haryana||Haryana on Wednesday recorded eight deaths and 724 fresh Covid-19 infections across 17 districts, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 28,186, as per the health bulletin.While 65 new cases were reported in Panchkula district, 55 more people tested positive for the virus in Ambala district and 53 new cases came up in Karnal district. In Karnal, the infected persons included eight employees of Sector-12 branch of a leading public sector bank and 16 family members of a 60-year-old man of Sector-7, who had succumbed to the infection two days ago. In Rewari, a health official said, deputy superintendent of police (headquarters) has tested positive.Two patients succumbed to the disease in Gurugram and as many died in Faridabad. Nuh, Sirsa, Jhajjar and Ambala districts recorded one fatality each. With this, the death toll has risen to 372 and the active cases stand at 6,117. The number of critical patients rose to 191 and they are undergoing treatment at 20 different hospitals of the state. While 153 patients were on oxygen support, 35 are on ventilators. Majority of the critical patients were undergoing treatment in Faridabad-based hospitals.The infection continues to spread at a fast pace in Faridabad where 174 fresh cases were recorded followed by 149 in Gurugram. Among other districts with new cases were Rohtak (13), Bhiwani (3), Jhajjar (17), Palwal (28), Mahendergarh (35), Hisar (67), Panipat (21), Nuh (15), Kurukshetra (7), Sirsa (3), Yamunanagar (2), and Kaithal (17). Meanwhile, 745 patients (119 in Gurugram, 128 in Sonepat, 154 in Rohtak and 103 in Ambala) were discharged on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-claims-8-lives-745-more-test-positive-in-haryana/story-olEHf1VkoXZow2P16m5AcP.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||In a first, case count of other MMR cities tops Mumbai’s tally||The tally of Covid-19 cases for cities neighbouring Mumbai on Wednesday exceeded the latter’s count for the first time since the outbreak of coronavirus in March. While Mumbai’s case count stands at 104,678, total infections in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding the state’s capital, rose to 105,300. These are cases recorded in Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Mira-Bhayander, Palghar, Vasai-Virar, Raigad and Panvel. Meanwhile, the state government said it is planning to set up a single command centre in either Thane or Navi Mumbai to help resolve the problem of bed availability in MMR. With patients from these cities coming to Mumbai for treatment, the city’s health infrastructure is overburdened, said state health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday. There has been a surge of Covid-19 cases in MMR, forcing many municipal corporations in the region to re-impose the lockdown in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-a-first-case-count-of-other-mmr-cities-tops-mumbai-s-tally/story-glCfUnYUNLXJPm88vSEwMK.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Turned away by 3 civic hospitals despite Covid symptoms, Bhandup woman dies||A 43-year-old Bhandup resident, whose family alleged she was turned away by three hospitals despite showing Covid-19 symptoms such as breathlessness for want of Covid test report, died minutes after she was admitted to Sion hospital, almost 12 hours later, on Monday. While Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation claimed they will seek a detailed report into the incident, the Opposition termed it a case of negligence.Sushma Bhelekar, who has been a deputy shakha pramukh of Shiv Sena, faced breathing issues on July 20, two days after she got fever. Around 10am, the family rushed her to a Covid facility set up by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation in Mulund in partnership with private doctors. “The staff from the facility told us that they couldn’t admit her as she had not been tested for Covid. I pleaded them to at least give her some treatment as her condition was worsening. They refused to do it. We have hand-to-mouth existence and I had no money to get her admitted to a private hospital,” said Anil, Bhelekar’s husband, who works in the laundry department of a hotel near the domestic airport and drives an autorickshaw at night to make ends meet. Anil, with his 20-year-old son, rushed her to civic-run SVD Savarkar Municipal Hospital in Mulund, but she was turned away, citing similar reasons. “The staff told us to take her to civic-run Babasaheb Ambedkar Municipal Hospital in Vikhroli. She was not given oxygen support or any kind of treatment at any of the hospitals. The staff at Vikhroli told us she needed ICU facility. They arranged for an ambulance that had no medical staff, but had one oxygen cylinder, so that we could take her to Sion hospital,” alleged Anil.Anil said his wife was scared to get into the ambulance. “My son and I held her hand throughout the ride and kept cheering her up. We were trying to divert her attention, but as we reached Chembur, the oxygen cylinder stopped working. We told the driver to rush her to the hospital,” he said.After reaching Sion hospital, Bhelekar died while she was being shifted from the stretcher to the hospital bed. The hospital staff declared her dead around 10pm on Monday. Anil said, “We are still in shock. We have lost everything.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “It is very unfortunate that the patient had to move from one hospital to another. To avoid this, we have advertised calling our control room 1916 or ward war room where the staff guides the callers to testing, admission and treatment. Prima facie, we were informed that the family did not contact our control rooms. We are trying our best to streamline the process for proper guidance and quicker response which is just a call away. I have directed officials to make a detailed report and will set up an inquiry into the matter if needed.”Bhelekar’s family said the body was handed over to them without conducting Covid test. They cremated her at Sion. The patient’s son has developed Covid symptoms and is awaiting test results at a quarantine facility.The protocol states that any symptomatic or suspected Covid patient directly walking in to any BMC hospital shall be treated either at the suspected patient area of the hospital or may be transferred in ambulance to the nearest jumbo Covid facility, depending upon the condition of the patient.BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said, “Why is BMC not issuing notices to the Covid care facility and the other two hospitals that denied admission? Should we let a patient die if he has not tested for Covid, but is showing strong symptoms? The BMC is fully responsible for the death and I demand that they should initiate an inquiry into the matter. Also, the municipal commissioner should publicly apologize for the negligence.”Family didn’t contact helpline: BMCAny symptomatic or suspected Covid patient walking into any BMC hospital shall be treated either at the suspected patient area or may be transferred in ambulance to a Covid jumbo facility.Private hospitals can’t deny admission to walk-in patients who are highly symptomatic either positive or suspected 1916 Helpline in case you show symptomsBMC hospitals carry out Covid tests for free, whereas in pvt hospitals, the charges are capped at ₹2,500-₹2,800Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “It is very unfortunate that the patient had to move from one hospital to another. To avoid this, we have advertised calling our control room 1916 or ward war room where the staff guides the callers to testing, admission and treatment. Prima facie, we were informed that the family did not contact our control rooms. We are trying our best to streamline the process for proper guidance and quicker response which is just a call away. I have directed officials to make a detailed report and will set up an inquiry if needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/turned-away-by-3-civic-hospitals-despite-covid-symptoms-bhandup-woman-dies/story-yAfXI5yeZe8lKh5p1hrIrI.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Daily Covid-19 case average in Mumbai dips to 1,200||In the past two weeks, Mumbai has seen an average of 1,200 Covid-19 cases per day, and a total of 16,822 cases, a drop from a fortnight ago, when the average daily cases stood at 1,300, according to figures from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The dip comes amid the liberalisation of testing and more lenient phases of Mission Begin Again, indicating the situation in Mumbai is gradually improving almost four months after the lockdown was imposed on March 23.However, on Wednesday, Mumbai saw 1,310 new Covid-19 cases, and 58 deaths, pushing the case count to 104,678, the toll to 5,875. The number of active cases stood at 23,393. The recovery rate was 71.7%, and fatality 5.6%. Mumbai has so far conducted 450,459 tests, with a positivity percentage of 23. Since Sunday, for three days in a row, Mumbai’s daily cases have been below the two-week average of 1,200. On Tuesday, Mumbai recorded 992 new cases. It was the fifth time in July that the city saw less than 1,000 cases a day. On Monday, the city recorded 1,035 new cases, and on Sunday, 1,037. “This is a sign that the situation is stabilising, it is too early to say if it is declining. As and when more opening up happens, we will be able to get a clear picture. This is seen throughout Mumbai in all wards, and growth rate is consistently falling, from 2.2% to 1.1%. Some wards have a growth rate below 1%. Hospitals now have more vacant beds too. On Wednesday, cases were a little more, but one single day there could be a spike, as it depends on how many people get tested,” said BMC’s deputy executive health officer Dr Daksha Shah. Shah also said, “Even though testing has liberalised, we can say with some certainty that there are not many symptomatic people out there, who feel the need to approach a lab and opt for a test. That is also a good sign.” However, on Saturday, the number of cases in a single day was 1,186. Last Friday, the number was 1,214. The highest number of single day cases reported this week was 1,476, on July 16, followed by 1,347 on July 15. Moreover, July also recorded the lowest number of cases since May, 785 cases on July 7. Mumbai liberalised testing on July 7, allowing any person to approach a laboratory and get a Covid-19 test done, without a doctor’s prescription. BMC expected Covid-19 cases to increase following this, but the trend has not emerged yet. Municipal commissioner IS Chahal told Hindustan Times last week, “I was expecting the cases to increase as testing has increased, Even though testing has gone up by 2,000 to 3,000 per day, our cases have gone down.” Mumbai conducts an average of 5,000 to 7,000 tests per day. According to the latest available figures from Tuesday, the doubling rate in Mumbai was 59 days and average growth rate 1.17%. On July 7, a fortnight ago, the doubling rate was 45 days, and the growth rate 1.54%. Another fortnight ago, on June 24, the doubling rate for the city was 41 days, and the growth rate was 1.72%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/daily-covid-19-case-average-in-mumbai-dips-to-1-200/story-wPjBifj9dgEWnuphIQSuWI.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||State-of-the-art ISBT Mohali without power, running on generators||It was once a dream project of the former Shiromani Akali Dal government, but the state-of-the-art Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Inter State Bus Terminus (ISBT Mohali), almost abandoned till the Covid-19 outbreak when buses for migrants and other parts of the states started running from there, has no power connection, with just a few fans and lights powered by generators.Passengers have to sweat it out all the while as they wait for their buses.ISBT was back in business after June 15 when the UT administration decided to suspend interstate operations of the Chandigarh Transport Union and other state operated buses from Chandigarh’s Sector 43, following a spike in Covid-19 cases.The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) snapped power supply to ISBT Mohali in April 2018 after its Rs 15 lakh bill was not cleared.When contacted, Sarabjeet Singh, ISBT manager, said, “I have recently joined the duty. The authorities concerned have to pay the power bill. These days we are using generators because of the warm weather.”All Punjab and Pepsu Roadways buses are now operating from the terminus, which was inaugurated on December 17, 2016, by Sukhbir Singh Badal, the then Punjab deputy chief minister.Only one section of the bus stand was made operational then, and after SAD lost the state elections the ruling Congress termed it a ‘white elephant’ before abandoning it. The company which built and operated the ISBT also went bankrupt and fled.Project that went off-trackThe ambitious Busopolis project was launched in 2009 and was to be completed in December 2011. Spread over seven acres, it was to have an inter-state bus terminal, three multi-storey towers with retail and office spaces, multiplex, five-star hotel, banquet hall, hyper markets, and a helipad atop a tower. But since its inception, the project has been mired in controversies and possession delays.While the bus terminal has become operational, the commercial towers are yet to be completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/state-of-the-art-isbt-mohali-without-power-running-on-generators/story-wb9Tuvz8fqm3psmrkGHjiO.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Cabinet decisions: Nod to ₹2,142cr canal water supply project for Amritsar, Ludhiana||The Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday approved a ₹2,142-crore project for canal-based water supply for Amritsar and Ludhiana cities, 70% of the cost of which will be financed by World Bank’s lending arm International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). Punjab government will bear the 30% cost as per a proposal mooted by the local government department for adoption of Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) under the Punjab Municipal Services Improvement Project.The Punjab cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh through video conferencing on Wednesday gave the nod for the project that will focus o four components — strengthening urban and water supply service management, improving water supply infrastructure, land acquisition and rehabilitation & resettlement, Covid crisis response and project management.The state government had in June 2018 requested the World Bank to support Punjab in the project. With technical assistance from the World Bank, the pre-feasibility reports had been prepared for both cities in 2015 and updated in 2019, which proposed the need to migrate from rapidly depleting and contaminated decentralised ground water sources to a centralised treated surface water source.The land requirement for construction of water treatment plants (WTPs) and treated water collection tanks and pumping stations close to the canals in Amritsar and Ludhiana stands at 40 acres and 50 acres, respectively.In Amritsar, the land has been acquired at Vallah village along the Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC) at a cost of ₹36.4 crore. In Ludhiana, the land has been identified near Rampur village and acquisition process is underway.Punjab to purchase seven new RNA machinesThe cabinet also gave its nod to procure seven automatic RNA (ribonucleic acid) extraction machines for the viral testing labs at three government medical colleges in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot, in addition to four more for the newly set-up viral testing labs in Mohali, Ludhiana and Jalandhar.These machines will be procured within a month, amid increasing cases of Covid in the state. The move is aimed at controlling the spread of the pandemic through increased testing by augmenting the state’s fight under Mission Fateh.The entire procurement process will be handled by the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, vice-chancellor. 305 warders to be recruited by jails deptThe cabinet also okayed direct recruitment to fill 305 posts of warders through the Punjab Police Recruitment Board by taking them out of the purview of Subordinate Services Selection Board. According to a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office, the recruitment process will be completed within four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cabinet-decisions-nod-to-2-142cr-canal-water-supply-project-for-amritsar-ludhiana/story-UdN3O9kIs1FErQvXwOi6bI.html
23-07-2020||City||Statutory vet body to go online for polls||Online voting will be held for the election of Veterinary Council of India (VCI) that will go to polls in August. VCI is a statutory body under the administrative control of Union ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy. Dr Chirantan Kadian, president of Indian Veterinary Association in a statement said the elections are being held as per the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court. Dr Kadian said over 68,000 registered vet practitioners will vote online for the polls. These will include vets from private, government, defence forces and corporate sector. The nominations were filed in June while scrutiny took place on July 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/statutory-vet-body-to-go-online-for-polls/story-AHF8W8xZq0wbAhjgEyiFjJ.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Online classes in Maha up to Class 2 also||Making amendments to their earlier Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for conducting online classes in Maharashtra, the education department on Wednesday allowed schools to conduct online classes for students from pre-primary to Class 2. As per a government resolution released late on Wednesday, pre-primary students can be asked to attend up to 30 minutes of online instruction from Monday to Friday. This has to primarily consist of assisting and guiding parents about the learning of their children. Students of Classes 1 and 2 can be asked to attend two sessions of 30 minutes each. “Of this, 15 minutes should consist of guiding parents and communicating with them, while the remaining 15 minutes could be used to impart activity-based learning to students,” stated the GR. Students of Classes 3 to 8 can attend up to two sessions of 45 minutes each, while Classes 9 to 12 can be asked to sit for four such sessions. On June 15, as the new academic year began for schools in the state, the Maharashtra government approved a set of SOPs proposed by the state education department to ensure uniformity in the conduct of online learning across the state. The SOPs had stated that students up to Class 2 cannot be asked to attend any online instruction. The move was, however, criticised by several preschool chains, educationists and parents who thought that some interaction needed to be there, even for younger students. The GR also stated that the decision to physically reopen schools would rest with the local administration of every place. As per the department’s tentative schedule relea-sed in June, schools can first start Classes 9,10 and 12 in July, followed by Classes 6-8 from August and Classes 3-5 from September. This however, is subject to local permissions and the absence of a single case in the locality for a month. The changes are in accordance with a recent MHRD document on online education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/online-classes-in-maha-up-to-class-2-also/story-MDQaNqfUbKlgKSVY5Kqt1M.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||More men testing positive for Covid-19 in tricity than women||More men in the tricity are testing positive for Covid-19 than women, reveals data from various sources. The reason, say experts is men’s travel history and more mobility.In the tricity 57.2% of those affected are men. The gap between males and females was widest in Panchkula at 66.5% male patients followed by Mohali at 59%, while in Chandigarh it’s 52%.Seventeen out of 26 fatalities were males too. In Chandigarh out of 13 Covid-19 fatalities, eight were males and five were females, including a three-day-old infant. Nine out of 12 fatalities in Mohali were males. A number of studies internationally had pointed to such trends, but experts suggested that there could be a difference in local conditions.Comparisons can’t be done now“India has the lowest mortality, which could be likely due to varied reasons. Thus, comparison with international trends can be possible only when parameters of age and death are the same. Such a trend is a mystery as of now,” said Dr Pankaj Malhotra, professor of internal medicine at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).Dr G Dewan, director of health services, Chandigarh, said the pattern was part of the social structure in which men were more mobile. However, there was no hard evidence to suggest which gender was more vulnerable. In Panchkula, according to data shared by Dr Rajiv Narwal, nodal officer, Covid-19, “Till July 17, out of a total of 223 cases, 126 were men and 75 women. The remaining 22 children included 10 males and 12 females.” Up to July 21, out of 327 cases reported in the Panchkula district, 217 were men and 109 are women. The details of one person were not known.More men are travellingAccording to Dr Jasjeet Kaur, CMO, Panchkula district, the “main reason is mobility. More men are travelling, especially after the lockdown was lifted, with many of them coming in from Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, which had a high rate of infection.”“They carried the infection to their families. I am not saying the women don’t go out for work, they do, but the percentage of men is higher.”Larger groups getting infected too included men, for instance the Jamaatis returning from the US who were found infected in Panchkula and Central Reserve Police Force and Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel, Kaur added.Dr Sonu Goel, a community health expert at PGIMER, too, pointing to the mobility factor, said “More the mobility, more chances of contracting the infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/more-men-testing-positive-for-covid-19-in-tricity-than-women/story-CQVg8bXHdu8rvPR4ct5zhI.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||6 deaths, 412 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Punjab on Wednesday reported six deaths and 412 new coronavirus cases taking the state’s tally to 11,301. The state’s death toll due to the virus reached 269, according to the media bulletin released by the state government.A 47-year-old woman of Mohalla Karaar Khan in Jalandhar died, while an additional district and sessions judge among 49 persons tested positive for the virus.Fifty-seven people contracted the infection i Patiala district. Of the fresh cases, 41 are from Patiala, two each from Nabha, and Samana, 1 from Patran and 11 from various villages.Besides, a 62-year-old resident of Nabha died of Covid-19.An employee of Punjab director general of police office among seven persons tested positive of virus in SBS Nagar.A 78-year-old man of Amar Nagar in Kapurthala died of coronavirus in Jalandhar. Besides, five more people contracted the virus.A 62-year-old Covid-19 patient from Ferozepur district died during treatment on Tuesday night.In Fazilka, 30 cases were reported on Wednesday. Besides, two cases were reported from Bathinda districtLudhiana recorded highest single-day spike of 104 positive cases. Besides, 10 people from other district also tested positive in Ludhiana on Wednesday.Meanwhile, 28 cases were reported in Faridkot, five in Moga, 17 in Sangrur and 36 in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-deaths-412-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab/story-6GUlqHp6RJSTm5YQ8JjJbK.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Vehicle lifter held in Chandigarh||The police on Wednesday arrested a 29-year-old resident of Raipur Khurd for his alleged involvement in multiple cases of vehicle theft.The accused was identified as Aasim, who was arrested in connection with a motor vehicle theft reported on July 5 at Manimajra on the complaint of one Rishikesh of Shanti Nagar.Police have recovered a stolen Alto from the possession of the accused. During questioning, Aasim told the police that he had stolen other vehicles too. He was produced before a court and remanded to two-day police custody. The accused also told the police that he had supplied stolen vehicles to a person living in Burail.Aasim has two more cases of auto rickshaw theft registered in Manimajra in May against him. He was convicted in a snatching case in 2008 and was released on probation of six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vehicle-lifter-held-in-chandigarh/story-QpIFjBGwio26JhXRpH29TN.html
23-07-2020||City||Police complaint against Ludhiana resident for ‘manhandling’ ward president||High drama was witnessed in Jaswant Nagar of ward number 19 after residents and area councillor’s husband Ashish Taparia got into a heated argument over waterlogging and ongoing road work here on Wednesday.One of the residents allegedly manhandled ward president Balbir Chaudhary who had accompanied Taparia. Following this, Chaudhary submitted a police complaint against one Vishu at the Division 7 police station.Taparia said he along with Chaudhary had visited the area for inspecting the ongoing work of draining out accumulated water so that the road could be repaired. Soon, a local leader from Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) tried to take credit of the work and a few residents also arrived there in his support.“As a heated argument ensued, Vishu started abusing us and manhandled Chaudhary. So I called up the cops and pacified the residents. A complaint has been given to the Division 7 police against Vishnu,” said Taparia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-complaint-against-ludhiana-resident-for-manhandling-ward-president/story-8xzYLaNQm7jW3YuzDaSPKI.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-SAD chief Talwandi’s son to join Dhindsa today||Former MLA of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Ranjit Singh Talwandi will on Thursday join the splinter Akali group floated by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa.Talwandi is son of former SAD president Jagdev Singh Talwandi who remained associated with Akali patriarch Parkash Singh Badal for many years.Ranjit Singh remained MLA from Raikot constituency from 1997 to 2002 and was also chairman of Punjab small industries and exports corporation.“In the Shiromani Akali Dal, politics has taken over the religion and in return religion and party both have suffered. The fate of party which has a history and legacy is uncertain. So I decided to move on,” said Talwandi.On July 8, afaction of dissident Akali leaders elected Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa as the SAD president at a gurdwara in Ludhiana. The SAD, however, termed the move illegal and fraud.Dhindsa’s son and former finance minister in the SAD-BJP government Parminder Singh also joined the new outfit. In February, the core committee of the SAD led by Sukhbir Singh Badal expelled Dhindsas from the party for anti-party activities.“Talwandis are a big name in the Akali politics. They have played a key role in building the party and I am sure Ranjit Singh will make important contribution to make Akali Dal getting back to its legacy and ethos,” said Parminder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-sad-chief-talwandi-s-son-to-join-dhindsa-today/story-EpCAP2nW6vKT7lzLrXORYK.html
23-07-2020||City||Machhiwara man dies of suspected drug overdose||A 28-year-old man died of drug overdose in Machhiwara on Wednesday. The body was found at an isolated place on Ropar road and the deceased was identified as Varinder Kumar of Machhiwara.Kumar had been missing for the past one day. The Machhiwara police initiated investigation after reaching at the spot and sent the body to civil hospital for postmortem.Kumar is survived by his widowed mother and three sisters.Inspector Sukhvir Singh, station house officer at Machhiwara police station, said that passersby noticed the body in the bushes on Ropar road and informed the police.He added that there were no injury marks on the body and it was suspected that he had died of drug overdose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/machhiwara-man-dies-of-suspected-drug-overdose/story-grrQ3VaLnbtc2iDu59epqN.html
23-07-2020||City||Ludhiana: 13-year-old foils rape bid, bites hand of the accused||A 13-year-old girl bit the hand of a 50-year-old man who attempted to rape her and escaped in Chakk Kalan village here, the police said on Wednesday.The locals nabbed the accused and thrashed him after the victim raised an alarm. The police rescued the accused, Albel Singh of the same village, and rushed him to the hospital.The victim told the police that she was a student of Class 7. On Tuesday, he had gone to the market with her mother. On the way, the accused held her hand and dragged her to a room where he attempted to rape her. But the victim bit his hand and escaped.Inspector Prem Singh, station house officer at Mullanpur Dakha, said the police rushed the accused to a hospital. A case under Sections 354, 376/511 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-13-year-old-foils-rape-bid-bites-hand-of-the-accused/story-QvfVYmeWYbd8mEYKBgXGYO.html
23-07-2020||City||Ludhiana government schools outperform private schools in Class 12 results||The government schools of Ludhiana have performed better than their private counterparts as is evident from the fact that 12,414 out of the 13,521 students who appeared in the board exams have passed, a pass percentage of 91.8.In private schools, on the other hand, out of 18,863 students who took the board exams, 2,135 failed to pass; a pass percentage of 88.6.District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur said, “In the last one year, our teachers and students have worked hard to achieve this score. We took regular meetings with the principals and evaluated all bimonthly results, and every two months, we used those to analyse the performance of the students.”“The district and block mentors of all subjects stayed in touch with meritorious students and students who scored below 40% to enhance their score. This was a collective effort due to which our district performed better than private schools and grabbed the top score,” she added. GIRLS OUTPERFORM BOYSGirls outperformed boys in the Class 12 Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) results, with 94.14% pass percentage against 89.42% among the boys. Over 6,675 boys appeared and 5,969 cleared the exam. Meanwhile, 6,846 girls sat for the board exam and 6,445 passed.Balwinder Kaur, a 19-year-old student of government senior secondary school, Rajewal, scored 99.78% in humanities stream and stood first in the district. Daughter of a farmer, Balwinder made her school proud by attaining 449 out of 450 marks in Class 12. She is preparing for the IELTS exam and wants to pursue her further studies in Canada. “I was confident that I would score full marks, but was short of one. I thank my school principal Navtej Sharma and teachers for their guidance.”Her father Netra Singh is a farmer and mother Ratpal Kaur is a homemaker. Of 1,055 schools affiliated with PSEB in the district, 224 showed 100% results. Of these, 99 are government institutions. There are a total of 181 government senior secondary schools in the district.Navdeep Romana, principal of a government senior secondary school with 100% results, said, “Around 15 students of our school have scored above 90% marks in Class 12. Of these, four have scored above 95% marks. Suraj Kumar of commerce stream scored 96.67% marks, and Sunny Kumar of non-medical stream secured 96.22% marks.”At government senior secondary school, Basti Jodhewal, 136 students appeared in the Class 12 board exams and all of them passed with 21 of these scoring above 90% marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-government-schools-outperform-private-schools-in-class-12-results/story-u2XXKIKfjVRXyTKRUCBskO.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||At 65%, Covid infection rate among males double than women in Punjab||The rate of coronavirus infection among the males is nearly double than the women in Punjab, according to the data till July 18 compiled by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).As per the data, of the confirmed Covid cases in the state, 65.1% were men while women accounted for only 34.8%of the infections. Health experts say as men are supposed to venture out in harness, the rate of contracting infection among them is more. As per the state health department media bulletin, 9,792 people in Punjab tested positive for the Covid-19 till July 18.“Men are more mobile as compared to the women in Punjab. It is very likely that they are contracting the virus while venturing out for their routine work. Men should adopt extra precautions as they can spread the virus among their family members,” said Amardeep Singh Cheema, chairman of Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC).69.1% CASES ASYMPTOMATICAs per the ICMR data, 69.1% cases in Punjab were asymptomatic, which has increased the worries of the health department. “High number of asymptomatic people is dangerous as they would roam around freely and may spread the virus,” Cheema said.Only 16% Covid-19 patients in Punjab are symptomatic, while 14.9% patients are asymptomatic, but they have symptoms of other diseases.MOST PATIENTS ARE YOUNGData shows that 23% patients in the state fall in the age group of 21 to 30, while 21% are those between 31 to 40 years of age. People between 41 and 50 years of age account for 16% cases. Patients in the age group of 51-60, 61-70, 71-80 and 81-90 are 14%, 8%, 3% and 1%, respectively.Cheema said, “Most vulnerable section of senior citizens till now has relatively lower infected rate which is the result of the cautions taken by them as advised by the state government. People in the age group of 21 to 40 should take extra precautions.”Also, 5% of the patients are the children below 10 and 9% those between 11 and 20 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-65-covid-infection-rate-among-males-double-than-women-in-punjab/story-QFIEjtqnJsqvFU2vXat6gJ.html
23-07-2020||Gurugram||Covid cases surge past 8,000 in city, but cases growing at a slower rate now||Gurugram witnessed at least 149 fresh cases being added to its tally on Wednesday taking the district’s total number of coronavirus infections to 8,127, according to the district health bulletin. Of the total cases, 1,099 are active while 6,910 have recovered. With almost 2,780 cases reported in July alone, Gurugram continues to remain one of the worst-affected districts by Covid-19 in Haryana. In Haryana, 28,186 Covid cases have been confirmed so far, with at least 724 new cases emerging in the last 24 hours. Out of these, 21,697 have recovered while 6,117 are active cases. Gurugram’s share in the overall active cases is almost 18%, which has decreased from 50% as reported in June. Gurugram, however, has shown a decline in the number of positive cases in July when compared to last month. At least 4,573 Covid-19 cases were reported in the district in June. The daily growth rate of cases has also come down from 12.6% (in May) to 2.6% (in June) and to 1.7% (in July). Between June 30 and July 20, Gurugram’s positivity rate – the total number of positive cases compared to the overall testing – declined from 13.05% to around 8.48%. With antigen test being conducted in large numbers as compared to RT- PCR tests — which is the gold standard in detecting Covid cases — there has been overall dip in positive cases reported this month. Experts have cautioned that this could lead to a false sense of security. Even going by findings of a recent serological survey for Covid antibody detection conducted on 454 people, at least 56 were tested positive, which is 12.3% positivity rate. If extrapolated to the 15 lakh population of the city (as per the 2011 census), the 12.3% translates to 1.85 lakh population who may have been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. “It is too small a survey in Gurugram to comment on. The plan is to conduct 1,800 more antibody test to study the prevalence of the infection,” said a senior health department official. Professor Rajib Dasgupta from the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said that repeated sero-surveys are required to track the time trends of prevalence as a single point prevalence is of limited relevance in case of Gurugram. “The sero-positivity of Gurugram is about 12%. Assuming that the samples are taken from among the population residing in areas of high incidence or containment zones in the urban/peri-urban areas (as is being generally done), this is not very high. This is less than many other cities (in the earlier round) where it ranged between 15% and 30%, and, about 36% in Dharavi and 40% in Ahmedabad. Since IgG antibodies appear typically three weeks after the infection, this reflects the spread for the corresponding period, presumably, Unlock 1,” said Dasgupta. The findings of the antibody survey can be easily co-related with the district administration’s predictions on the Covid-19 positive cases by July-end. The Covid-19 Health Facilities and Bed Management Report prepared in the first week of June stated that by July, nearly 1.5 lakh people will be infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus based on which the city would require at least 18,000 beds for the Covid-19 patients with critical health condition. The health department data, however, shows that currently only 145 patients from Gurugram are admitted in 40 hospitals of the city. “Presently, only 25% of the total allocated bed capacity has been utilised as most of the patients prefer home isolation. Out of the 1,099 active cases, 895 have been home isolated and 59 are in isolation centres,” said Vivek Kalia, nodal officer for Covid-19 hospital management. Data shows that till June 30, when total number of active cases were 1,289, nearly 64.23% people were in home isolation. This increased to 78.62% by July 20, when the city had 1,048 active cases. “It shows that those detected Covid-19 positive are preferring home isolation and easily getting cured. Through video calls, we are connected with the home isolated patients, who get counselled by mental health expert,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. According to him, the rate at which patients are recovering from the illness has also improved, at 85.12%. “In the last one month, testing has drastically increased in the city. In the Large Outbreak Areas (LORs) with emerging Covid-19 clusters, more than 31,000 antigen tests have been conducted. Our focus is upon timely detection of cases to reduce the fatality rate,” said Yadav. The fatality rate of the city in the last one week has come down to 1.45% from 1.50%. Two people have died in the last 24 hours, bringing the total number of the fatalities in the district to 118. The overall fatality count of the state is 372, which is almost 1.32%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-cases-surge-past-8-000-in-city-but-cases-growing-at-a-slower-rate-now/story-iohYBLdCrdMFubh9ZIsn7N.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||A lot of water has flown under this bridge: The Minto mark on Delhi’s history||It’s Wednesday evening, and the traffic on the two carriageways under Minto Bridge is smooth. A couple of men are sleeping under it on the footpaths, undisturbed by the vehicles going past them -- there’s nothing at all to show that this is the place, where, on Sunday, a mini-truck driver drowned in the waterlogged rail underpass. Even earlier in the day, the carriageways were closed for an hour. For almost seven decades, Minto Bridge — a large segmental arch spanning the width of the road — gets flooded during the monsoon, becoming a metaphor for eternal civic apathy. But Minto Bridge is not just Delhi’s flooding yardstick — it has many other stories to tell. AK Jain, an architect and former commissioner (planning) at the Delhi Development Authority, says the Hardinge and Minto bridges were built by the British in 1926 as part of the realignment process of the railway line for New Delhi railway station. The British also had a larger objective in mind. “The memories of the 1857 Mutiny were fresh in their minds and they wanted the new realigned railway line to New Delhi station to serve as an embankment for the defence of New Delhi. The British felt that in case of a threat they could close the Minto Bridge and the Hardinge Bridge underpasses, the only two entry points into New Delhi and virtually seal the city,” said Jain, who has written several books on Delhi.“And they kept the height of Minto Bridge low to ensure an unhindered visual link between the Jama Masjid in the walled city, Central Park in Connaught Place, and Parliament.”Curiously, though Minto Bridge and Hardinge Bridge were renamed Shivaji Bridge and Tilak Bridge respectively, the first refused to shed its colonial name, unlike the latter, whose old name is known only to a few. An untold story of the Minto bridge and the man it is named after. Many believe that it has to do with Minto Bridge’s persistent penchant for remaining in the news — often for wrong reasons. Minto Bridge witnessed violence during the riots at the time of Partition. There are several accounts of how those fleeing the walled city — on foot and in tongas — to refugee camps in Purana Qila and Humanyun’s Tomb were ambushed and killed near Minto Bridge.“One night, a Muslim friend named Badruddin Tyabji showed up at [Jawaharlal] Nehru’s door to alert him to an especially troubled area — Minto Bridge, which Muslims fleeing their Old Delhi neighbourhoods had to cross to reach the safety of refugee camps in New Delhi,” reads an account in Midnight’s Furies: The Deadly Legacy of India’s Partition by Nisid Hajari. The book, published in 2015, chronicles Partition and the riots that followed. “Many people coming from the Walled City were waylaid at Minto Bridge and massacred. We had to close our shops for a few days ,” says Satish Sundra, 84, who runs Ram Chander & Sons in Connaught Place, a couple of hundred metres from Minto Bridge.Ironically, the man the bridge was named after — Gilbert John Elliot-Murray-Kynynmound, the Fourth Earl of Minto and Viceroy of India from 1905 to 1910 — too had a controversial legacy.Minto received a delegation of Muslims aristocrats, led by the Aga Khan, at the Viceregal Lodge in Shimla in October 1906, and promised to meet their demand for separate electorates, which was eventually awarded under The Indian Councils Act 1909, commonly known as the Minto-Morley Reforms, enacted by the British Parliament. The act was formulated by John Morley, secretary of state for India between 1905 and 1910. This was seen as an attempt to wean away Muslims from the nationalist movement. Barely three months later, on December 30, 1906, the All-India Muslim League was founded and held its inaugural session in Dhaka.The name of Lord Minto, who ruled India from Kolkata and Shimla, has lived on in New Delhi, thanks to Minto Bridge, which first started hitting the headlines in the early 1950s for water-logging. Back then, it would often be closed for a couple of days for traffic – usually tongas, buses, and phat phatis (three-wheeled vehicles powered by old Harley Davidson motorcycle engines ) — while the water was pumped out.In the late 1960s, Minto Bridge area became Delhi’s cabaret destination with the opening of Blue Star, a restro-bar. Tucked by the side of the bridge, it soon found thousands of patrons. “There used to be three shows between 9pm to 12pm, which were a major hit. In fact, following Blue Star’s massive success, several new “restrobars” offering cabaret came up in areas such as Anand Parbat and Naraina,” said Kuldeep Chauhan, 68, a real estate agent and a restaurateur in Connaught Place. “Its reputation ensured that not many honourable men wanted to be seen anywhere near it in the evenings,” added Singh. “Not that Blue Star had introduced cabarets to Delhi. There were in fact very fine restaurants such as Alps at Janpath that offered cabarets in the 1950s, which were classy and artistic performances, but the same could not be said about the Minto Bridge cabaret destination,” said Sundra.Now abandoned, Blue Star is a derelict building with overgrown plants. There is a burnt hall inside, with a few trousers and shirts hanging from the hooks on the walls. A fire broke out inside the abandoned bar in 2010. “This place is a haven for drug addicts,” Rajesh Kumar, an elderly taxi driver said. He was aware of its colourful past. “It made Minto Bridge a nightlife destination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-lot-of-water-has-flown-under-this-bridge-the-minto-mark-on-delhi-s-history/story-28RtrRTUcpWKKXifGdEkBI.html
23-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram gets two new air quality sensors||After a delay of months, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has finally managed to install two low-cost air quality sensors in the city — one at Gurugram University in sector 51 and the other at The Energy Research Institute (TERI) Gram in Gwal Pahari village. These sensors are expected to provide more accurate information about air pollutants up till PM10. Both PM2.5 and PM10 are breathable pollutants that can easily enter the lungs and cause health ailments. Particulate matter (PM) 2.5 is the city’s most prominent pollutant and is 2.5 microns in size or smaller. PM10 is coarse particulate matter of 10-micron size or smaller.The installation of the new sensors had been pending for some time now. In February last year, the GMDA had said that it had plans to install 15 low-cost sensors across the city.In a statement released by the district administration on Wednesday, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said that accurate information provided by the new sensors was necessary for preparing an action plan to check air pollution in the city. “Earlier, the district had ambient air quality monitoring machines that gave information up to PM2.5 level. The new equipment that has been installedwill give us informations up to PM10 level,” said Khatri. He said that the installation of the new machines before the next spate of winter pollution would allow the administration to adopt necessary steps aimed at controlling pollution levels in time.Gurugram currently has four air quality monitors. The city’s air quality index (AQI) value, as reflected in the CPCB’s daily bulletin, continues to be calculated using data from these AQI monitors. One of them is operated by the HSPCB at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11, and another in Gwal Pahari is operated by the National Institute of Solar Energy. The other monitors are located on Gurugram-Faridabad Road and Sector 51.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-gets-two-new-air-quality-sensors/story-UNFfDS9iEgO4iPXqwDTKwK.html
23-07-2020||Gurugram||Three break into house of elderly couple, loot cash, jewellery in Sector 40||Three armed men broke into a Sector 40 house and allegedly robbed an elderly couple of cash and jewellery after tying them up in sector 40 on Tuesday afternoon. Police said the couple was held hostage at gunpoint for over half an hour as the robbers went about ransacking the house. They eventually made away with Rs 35,000 in cash and jewellery worth lakhs. The suspects are yet to be identified and the police are checking CCTVs in the area to identify the suspects. According to the police, the incident took place around 3.15 pm when the house owner, Ved Prakash Tandon, 80, and his wife, Kiran Tandon , 80, were in their house. Police said one of the suspects first arrived alone and rang the doorbell.A police officer privy to the investigations, requesting anonymity, said, “After Ved Prakash opened the door, the suspect enquired from the man if his wife was at home. He was asked to leave. After 20 minutes, the man returned with two others and broke the lock of the main gate and entered the house. They held the couple hostage at gunpoint and tied their hands. Over the next 30 minutes, they ransacked the almirahs of the house and stole Rs 35,000 cash and some jewellery before escaping.”Police said the first suspect, who had enquired about the woman in the house, had been sent to conduct a recce. “The couple do not have a house-help and stay alone. Their son stays in DLF Phase 3. We are checking CCTVs in the area and questioning security guards to identify the suspects,” said the police officer.A case was registered against under sections 392 (punishment for robbery) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at sector 40 police station on Tuesday.In a similar incident on July 4, three armed men had allegedly barged into a house in sector 10 and snatched the phone and car keys from a family. The suspects had fired a gunshot to intimidate the victims. In March, four men — including a domestic help — had robbed jewellery and cash worth Rs 2 crore after tying up a senior citizen and a minor in sector 45.SUV robbed in ManesarElsewhere, three men were arrested for allegedly robbing an SUV from a scrap dealer in Manesar on Tuesday night. Police said the incident was reported around 11pm when the victim, Praveen Kumar, who has a scrap warehouse in Manesar, and his two friends, were on their way to Kumar’s house in his SUV.Police said they had reached near village Naharpur on Nawada road when the suspects parked their motorcycle in front of their car. Kumar said, “I asked them why they were blocking our way. They were inebriated and when I objected to them drinking on the road, they hit me with the alcohol bottle on my head. They then started assaulting me and snatched my phone, some cash and car keys. I ran towards a warehouse and told them that their movements were being recorded in a CCTV nearby, following which they panicked and fled with my car.”Police said the victim was admitted to a private hospital for treatment of head injury and discharged on Wednesday. “The suspects were arrested from Manesar and the car recovered,” said a police official privy to the investigation.An FIR was registered against the suspects under sections 379 B (snatching) and 34 (common intention) of IPC at Manesar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-break-into-house-of-elderly-couple-loot-cash-jewellery-in-sector-40/story-6uM7FQYjPRJt3mH5WkWQpL.html
23-07-2020||Gurugram||Moderate rain, heavy flooding in city||Despite the Gurugram civic bodies preparations over the last two months to prevent flooding, moderate rainfall on Wednesday led to the inundation at most stretches in the city. However, traffic was largely unaffected.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), less than 15.5 mm rain would be classified as “light”, while up to 64 mm would be classified as “moderate”. On Wednesday, the city had received around 22 mm rain.The city witnessed spells of rain throughout the day with varying intensity. While the first two -- around 2am and another between 4.30 am to 5.30 am -- were somewhat light, the third between 10.30 am-11.30 am was a downpour that inundated most parts of the city.Such was the extent of waterlogging at some stretches that services of 11 Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) buses were disrupted.GMCBL said that eight buses plying on bus route 212 had to be diverted via sector 4/7 chowk due to “flooding by rains” at Laxman Vihar in sector 3A, while three buses plying on route 112D had to return to the bus depot in sector 53 as “the buses were unable to ply on waterlogged roads” between Dharam Colony, located in Palam Vihar Extension and Columbia Asia hospital in Palam Vihar.At around 11 am, Gurugram traffic police cautioned commuters over social media to avoid stretches such as Hanuman Chowk, AIT Chowk on Golf Course Road, Narsinghpur on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, Rampur flyover exit on NH 48, MDI Chowk, Sheetla Mata Mandir Road, Vatika Chowk on Sohna Road, IMT Chowk on NH 48, Galleria Road, sector 41/45 dividing road, sector 27/42 dividing road, Khandsa on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, Sohna Chowk, Bakhtawar Chowk, Basai Road, Kanhai Chowk, South City 2, and IFFCO Chowk on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. Chander Mohan, DCP, traffic, said that around 1,100 personnel were deployed across the city on Wednesday to manage traffic.“At most spots, we were able to manage without much difficulty despite the heavy waterlogging. With the help of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), we kept 24x7 surveillance, via CCTV cameras, on 88 key points. Wherever waterlogging was reported, the area station house officer (SHO) and traffic inspector were immediately informed to deploy their personnel to the affected points,” said Mohan. Mohan said there were no snarls reported, and they did not need to divert or block off any roads in the city.“There were only a few areas in the city where traffic moved at a slow pace such as Narsinghpur, which has some localised drainage issues and thus rainwater takes time to recede. Our personnel ensured traffic kept on moving. In addition, we had also deployed 15 cranes to tow vehicles if an emergency arises, and these were used in two instances where vehicles were removed immediately,” said Mohan.Parts of Old Gurugram also witnessed a light drizzle around 4.30 pm -5 pm.The municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said that the spells of rain affected their efforts to ensure no flooding.“By the time we started clearing patches of roads from rainwater following early morning showers, it started raining heavily around 10.30 am. This resulted in the flooding today. To fix this, we deployed all our 22 motor pumps across different parts of the city to drain out rainwater. In newer parts of the city, rainwater was cleared off most roads by around 4 pm, however, due to some parts of Old Gurugram experience rain around 4.30 pm, it took us slightly longer,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.As per the IMD forecast, the city is likely to receive such spells of rain till at least July 28.In May, HT had reported that due to civic bodies allocating most of their resources and attention towards fighting Covid-19, tenders for cleaning drains in most areas of the city were floated in the last week of May and early June, thus it was likely that the city will witness heavy waterlogging this monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/moderate-rain-heavy-flooding-in-city/story-SeOJyhn52OB25po2R7DbAP.html
23-07-2020||Gurugram||Industrial production still far away from normal, situation likely to improve from next month||Acute labour shortage forced by the Covid-19-induced lockdown has hit the industrial complexes in Gurugram and Manesar, with many running only at half capacity. They now hope that by second week of August, many of those who had left for their home towns and villages after finding it difficult to continue living here, would return to the cities.With the central government relaxing many of the restrictions from June 8 after 68 days in lockdown, industries in the areas say they have been in contact with their workers who had left. Some of them have offered to pay an advance, others have offered to pay their air fare, while still others have sent buses to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to facilitate their return. They were also hoping that measures announced by government, like paying the return train fare, would also boost their return. Manish Singh, general manager, Galaxy exports, a firm having units in Manesar and Gurugram said they were working with only 25 per cent labour. “We had sent a bus to Bihar to get labour, but only five to six people returned as they were apprehensive of another lockdown in Delhi-NCR,” he said. “Due to paucity of skilled labour we are not taking up new orders from abroad. But, we expected things to improve from next month as a lockdown will end in Bihar on July 31 and after Eid.” Gurugram based factory owners said that demand in the market was rising and supply chain was also improving. “For large industries in auto and other sectors, the situation is not so bad as permanent labour is still there but problem is being faced by small and medium enterprises and vendors, who have mostly contract labourers to do the job,” said Ashok Kohli, president, Chamber of Industries, Udyog Vihar. As per the emloyees state insurance (ESI) department office in Gurugram, the industrial hubs engage around 1.2 to 1.3 millions workers in around 5000 industrial units. The hubs contribute roughly 45 to 50 per cent of Haryana’s gross domestic product (GDP), as per the local industry associations. The Haryana government’s announcement to reserve 75% of jobs in the state to its residents, has not gone down well with the industry.Manmohan Gaind, vice president of the Manesar Industries Welfare Association and of managing director, MM Creations, an export oriented unit, said: “Demand has improved and orders are coming and the need of the hour is flexible policy to woo workers back.” He added that he would be sending a bus to Bihar to get back his workers next month as he had one earlier to make things work. Satyendra Singh, general manager, east west exports, said most workers came from districts in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “Workers are wary of returning due to the quarantine policy and lack of adequate transport facilities. We have sent train tickets for 100 workers from these districts and they will be boarding on July 28. Things on the labour front are going to improve from next month,” he said.A senior official of an auto unit said that there is huge demand from two wheelers across the country particularly in rural areas and once the labourers are here, this would boost the entire sector as a whole. “The demand is rising gradually and now we have started facing problems due to shortage of labourers as specialized workers are not available or they have shifted jobs,” said KohliThe switch of workers from smaller units to large units, which pay comparatively better has also caused trouble for the former but things are likely to improve in the coming months, the industry experts aver and are hopeful that negative things have bottomed out in the short run.“There’s a shortfall of labour right now. So it’s being taken care of through a demand-supply dynamic. There are some startups that are registering labours and matching their competencies against the requirements of the industry. We can help in easing out their issues with respect to permissions, if needed, even if takes to reaching out to district authorities in other states. In case some labour comes back to find there is no work at their previous employer, we can help them with the search,” said Munish Sharma, additional labour commissioner, national capital region, Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/industrial-production-still-far-away-from-normal-situation-likely-to-improve-from-next-month/story-S6cLnbjd0RMs1zxuuf4hhO.html
23-07-2020||Gurugram||Teenage police wing to address issues faced by Faridabad teenagers||Faridabad Police has set up a teenage police Wing to help students report abuse, harassment, stress related issues, bullying along with other issues, which they cannot discuss with their family members and friends.Police officers said that the teenage police wing, which commenced operations on Wednesday, is headed by an assistant commissioner of police ranked officer and comprises 11 officials of the district, apart from four councillors. The special police wing will pay special focus to teenagers between the age of 13 and 19 and help them deal with various issues and the menace of cyber bullying.Police said they will soon launch a helpline number for the special wing, which will be widely advertised in schools and colleges and on social media platforms.“Teenagers sometimes do not reach out to their friends and family members to discuss their trauma and end up slipping into depression. We decided to launch this wing to help such distressed teenagers and to help their parents overcome such situations,” said OP Singh, who took over as the commissioner of Faridabad police on July 1.Police said they receive many complaints related to cyber crime — cases of teenagers sending or receive obscene messages or videos from fake accounts that threaten them of dire consequences if reported. “The wing will also help students understand the right use of social media and how to create a balance between studies and usage of social media so that they are not addicted to it,” said Singh. “The special wing will also run a helpline with the help of NGOs active in this field for the parents and teenage victims of bullying, harassment, and allurement to addiction,” he said. Singh added that the initiative will also spread awareness among teenagers to reach out to their close ones and to express what has been bothering or troubling them instead of harming themselves. The wing will work in close coordination with school authorities, parents associations, and NGOs active in the area dealing with teenage problems.“We will create an interactive platform of school head boys and head girls and sports team captains. They will host listening sessions through web-conferences and face-to-face interactions to understand the problems the victims and their peers are facing, seek their suggestions in how best to deal with them and based on that it will formulate an appropriate and effective response to identified problems,” said Singh. Police said the helpline number will be operational round-the-lock once launched.The special wing will also keep a close watch on social media platforms — like Instagram and Snapchat —that are popular among teenagers to educate them about possible victimisation and encourage them to take steps to avoid falling in a trap. Police said the wing will also utilise the platform of Parents-Teacher meetings to sensitise parents and teachers about the steps they need to take to save their children from potential harm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/teenage-police-wing-to-address-issues-faced-by-faridabad-teenagers/story-mOnSTob6KUQehQhO98dfrJ.html
23-07-2020||Gurugram||Scrap dealer kidnapped, shot twice, robbed of cash; cops hunt for suspects||A 50-year-old scrap dealer was allegedly kidnapped and shot at by two unidentified men in Dhanwapur near sector 104 on Tuesday night. Police said the man sustained two gunshot wounds on his left leg and was rushed to a hospital for treatment, where his condition is said to be stable.According to the police, the incident took place around 9pm on Tuesday, when the victim, Shamshad Khan — who has a godown on Kherki Majra road in Dhanwapur — was about to head back to his home. Police said two suspects arrived in a car and took Khan hostage at gun-point.A police official privy to the investigation said, “The suspects drove him around Dhanwapur area for half an hour before taking him near the railway crossing, where they asked him to handover all his cash. When he resisted, they shot him in his left knee. The men then snatched Rs 35,000 cash from Khan’s pocket. They then took him to sector 105 near Dwarka expressway, where they again assaulted him and hit him with a stone,” said the police o0fficial, adding that Khan was beaten with the butt of a gun.Police said the suspects asked him for more cash and then shot him for a second time on his left foot. Around 11pm, they finally abandoned him on the expressway in sector 105 and fled. The victim made a phone call to his son, who reached the spot and rushed him to civil hospital, from where he was referred to a private hospital for treatment.According to the police, the suspects wanted to rob the victim and did not personally know him. “Probe has not revealed any past enmity. The suspects are yet to be identified,” said the police official.A case was registered against the suspects under sections 365 (kidnapping), 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and The Arms Act at Rajendra Park police station on Tuesday night, said police.In another incident, a group of armed men shot at a 25-year-old man in Jharsa village in sector 39 on Tuesday around 6pm. Police said the victim, Preetpal alias Chunbun, was taking a stroll on his terrace when a motorcycle and a car drove by his house. Police said the occupants of the car and the motorcycle riders fired at least two times at the victim but missed. Preetpal, sensing danger, took cover behind a table on the terrace.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “Preliminary probe suggests that the victim is associated with criminal activities. We are yet to establish his criminal records and are checking if there are any FIRs registered against him. It appears he was attacked by some rivals over past enmity. The suspects are yet to be identified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/scrap-dealer-kidnapped-shot-twice-robbed-of-cash-cops-hunt-for-suspects/story-MtnhuhNo8VQb92p0m1fd1N.html
23-07-2020||Gurugram||Badshahpur MLA, HMRTC discuss extension of Metro rail||The extension of Metro rail in the city, which has remained on paper for the last 10 years, was discussed at a meeting between Badshahpur MLA and senior officials of Haryana Mass Rapid Transport Corporation Limited (HMRTC) in Panchkula on Wednesday. The independent MLA, Rakesh Daultabad, said that the proposed route of the Metro was discussed at the meeting and he was also planning to take up the matter of the appointment of an internal consultant with Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar later this week so that the project work for the proposed route such as acquisition of land, removal of encroachments and shifting of utilities can be carried out. A detailed project report for the route extension of Delhi Metro from Huda City Centre to Subash Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, sector 9-10, Sector 5, Palam Vihar, Udyog Vihar and Cyber Hub was approved by state government in December last year but a nod from the Centre is still awaited. “I have discussed the proposed route as well as two other proposals which include the route from Rezangla Chowk to Dwarka sector 21, and another from Gurugram railway station to Rajiv Chowk and Vatika Chowk with planning advisor, HMRTC. The issue of appointing the internal consultants was also discussed apart from other issues,” he said. Daultabad further said that next week, the consultants for the metro project would give another presentation for the extension of route from Palam Vihar to Dwarka. “One presentation in this regard had already been given to the chief minister and next week the same would be presented before top government officials, “ he said. The chief contention in pursuing this project, he said, was that the development of metro involves multiple stakeholders like union urban development ministry and others as well and it was important that the projects are pursued aggressively. “We will take up this project with central government at all levels so that metro can be extended in the city,” he said. Delhi metro route has not been extended in the city since it became operational in 2009. Although Haryana government and a private real estate developer did build the Rapid metro project along the Golf Course road but the project failed to take off and this network was also taken over by the Delhi metro last year. The Gurugram metro extension will be carried out by HMRTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/badshahpur-mla-hmrtc-discuss-extension-of-metro-rail/story-YRYiCDLB7YeuL9Pc9Lt18I.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||4 injured in 4 cases of assault in Chandigarh||At a time when people have remained confined indoors for more than four months because of Covid-19, which could have a telling impact on their behaviour, four cases of assault were filed in the city on July 21, two incidents involving couples.Four men, Manu Batta, Shivam Batta, Kaku, Sachin, Manish Batta and others were accused of passing objectionable remarks at a woman from Sector 45 on Tuesday and then assaulting her and her husband when they protested.In her police complaint the woman alleged that Manu Batta and others were drinking and indulging in unruly behaviour when she and her husband reached Surya Hotel in Burail, and made objectionable remarks. The accused fled from the spot after police were informed, but Manu Batta and Sachin were arrested on the basis of footage obtained from CCTV cameras in the area, in which they were seen assaulting the couple.A woman, believed to be a friend or family member of one accused, was also arrested and sent to judicial custody, police said. A case under sections 188, 341, 147, 148, 149, 354, 354-A, 308, 395 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector 34 police station.Forcible entry and assaultIn another case, Nishu of Sector 29 alleged that he was assaulted and injured by three men on July 20 who forcibly entered his house after he visited a market close by and had an argument with them. Nishu said Suraj Parkash alias Deepu of Sector 29; Sonu Gupta of Abheypur village in Panchkula and Rohit assaulted him and misbehaved with his wife.Nishu was being treated for injuries at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. A case under sections 188, 323, 354, 452 of IPC was registered in the police station in Industrial Area.The accused were arrested.Man attacked with sharp weapon In another incident on July 19, Arun Kumar of Sector 41 alleged that Vijay Kant and his family who lived in the same locality attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon near his residence.Kumar was admitted for treatment of injuries at the Government Multi Specialty Hospital in Sector 16. A case under sections 323, 341, 506 IPC was registered at the Sector 39 police station. Two injured in Mauli Jagran Two men were allegedly hurt in a clash between two groups at Mauli Jagran.Sheesh Pal of Mauli Jagran Complex alleged that two men from the neighbourhood, Rahul and Mahesh, beat him and his brother Nek Ram near their house on July 20. As an injured Nek Ram was admitted to GMCH-32, Rahul filed another case saying he had been injured after Sheesh Pal, Nek Ram and another man had assaulted him.He was also admitted to Sector 32. A case under sections 323, 341, 506, IPC was registered in Mauli Jagran police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-men-injured-in-4-cases-of-assault-in-chandigarh/story-cZyzZ4mlJLnNahNAKA8UnJ.html
23-07-2020||City||ST buses cancelled: Nalasopara commuters protest on railway tracks||At least 200 commuters staged a protest on the Nalasopara railway tracks on Wednesday morning, after the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) temporarily stopped the operation of buses from the depot. Local train services on the Western Railway (WR) line were hit for at least 20 minutes.MSRTC said the buses were stopped on instructions from the police, after noticing a sudden rise in the number of commuters. The passengers wanted to travel in the buses, despite not being from essential services. Social distancing rules, too, were being flouted, according to MSRTC officials.Demanding permission to travel by local trains, the passengers headed to platform no. 1 of the Nalasopara railway station and blocked the railway tracks at 8.25am. A Virar-bound local train had to halt at the station for a few minutes. Local train services resumed at 8.45am.“MSRTC operates 100 to 150- odd buses to Mumbai and Thane from the Nalasopara bus depot. However, on Wednesday, no bus services were available. Agitated passengers later came to the railway station, asking the railway authorities to permit them to travel by local trains,” said an eyewitness, on condition of anonymity.“The Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) counselled the protesters, and the situation normalised by 8.45am,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR.RPF has registered a case against unknown persons under section 147 (entering any part of a railway without lawful authority), 145 (interfering with any amenity provided by the railway administration), and 174 (tampering, disconnecting hose pipe, signal gear) of the Railway Act, 1989. GRP has also filed charges of disobedience and spread of infection under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005.Later, MSRTC services resumed and extra buses were operated to clear the crowd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/st-buses-cancelled-nalasopara-commuters-protest-on-railway-tracks/story-kVBlJ1AVx0L4FPt733pSVM.html
23-07-2020||City||Family says man held for grandfather’s murder was framed, complains to CM||The relatives of a 30-year-old man, who was arrested for allegedly killing his grandfather, have filed a complaint with the Uttar Pradesh chief minister alleging that he was framed while the real culprits were let off by the Noida police.According to the family, the incident took place on June 2 when Chandra Singh left his house in village Khedi with a relative to visit a doctor. He was dropped off near Kasna around 3pm but did not come back home, after which the family tried to call him.“His phone was switched off and despite multiple attempts, he could not be reached. My father finally filed a missing person’s complaint with the Surajpur police on June 4. Using his call detail records, the police detained a woman and her relatives as it seemed he was being blackmailed by them. Nearly Rs 11 lakh was withdrawn from his account last year, up to March 2020,” alleged Chakresh Kumar, Chandra’s other grandson, in his complaint on the CM’s grievance portal.The victim’s body was identified on June 10 through a missing person’s database at the Ecotech 1 police station. It had been found on June 4 and following an autopsy and procedure, it was sent for last rites on June 8.“After that, the police started harassing us. My brother, Manvendra, was called to the police station twice, on June 12 and 16. He was beaten and was even told that he should confess to the murder and then he would be released within two months. Meanwhile, the other suspects were cleared of all charges,” alleged Chakresh.Manvendra was called for questioning again on July 7 and July 13, and was arrested on July 14, he said.“We even have CCTV footage of him (Manvendra) with his friends around 5pm on the day my grandfather went missing. But the police have framed him without any evidence. We want the case to be re-investigated and the responsible people be nabbed,” said the complainant.Meanwhile, the police have denied all allegations.“There is enough evidence against the suspect. There is no motive or technical evidence against the suspected family. Manvendra had assaulted the deceased earlier as well. The family waited two days to report him missing and now they are trying to protect him,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.Police said the suspect was after the victim’s money he had recently come into after selling a property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/family-says-man-held-for-grandfather-s-murder-was-framed-complains-to-cm/story-qoxfeGVlZmDdZLC41z32yJ.html
23-07-2020||Noida||GIMS conducts 78 successful plasma therapies||One of the first hospital in the state to administer plasma therapy to severely ill Covid-19 patients, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida on Wednesday said that it has successfully treated 78 patients.GIMS administered the experimental treatment first on May 9, 2020, and so far 54 recovered patients have donated plasma. Eight patients died despite being administered the therapy.The hospital did not disclose how many patients were still undergoing the procedure.“This is the largest number of case series of collecting plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients and patients receiving it in Uttar Pradesh,” said Brig (Dr) Rakesh Gupta, Director, GIMS.Convalescent plasma therapy, in which antibody-rich plasma from recovered patients is injected into recovering individuals to help them stave off infection, has previously been used during the Sars and Mers outbreaks (which were also caused by viruses in the same family as the coronavirus Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19).Plasma is a major component of a person’s blood, making up almost 55% of it. A plasmapheresis machine separates it from the blood and returns the rest -- the red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets -- back into to the donor who typically supplies 300-500 ml of plasma, and the transfusion process takes between 60-90 minutes. Although promising, the effectiveness of the treatment is still in the experimental stage and is allowed to be administered only in severely ill patients.“From early May to 21 July, 62 patients aged 19 to 53 years-old volunteered for screening and plasmapheresis, of which procedure was deferred in 12 donors for various reasons, ranging from anaemia, to lack of prominent vein suitable for undertaking procedure and uncontrolled hypertension. Two donors had undergone the procedure twice,” said Dr. Shalini Bahadur, associate professor of pathology and blood bank in-charge, GIMS. The eight patients who died had comorbidities (which complicated their illness).”According to the doctors while they try to maintain at least four bags of Plasma for each blood group – each containing 200ml while a patient of moderate Covid-19 symptoms is administered two bags, the current requirement is more.“We are receiving promising results so far. However, there is need to formulate policies to retain, promote and motivate recovered symptomatic Covid-19 patients to come and donate their plasma to assist in recovery of the severely ill patients in need of this therapy. We keep calling up the recovered patients and also keep motivating them to donate, we need more volunteers,” said Brig RK Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gims-conducts-78-successful-plasma-therapies/story-u6JNB0CJPhtZMxW1BtskyN.html
23-07-2020||City||Home isolation: Ghaziabad forms rapid response teams to assess patients||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday directed for the formation of rapid response teams in districts to assess the status of asymptomatic Covid-19-positive patients who opt for home isolation. The state, in an order on July 20, had allowed home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and on July 21, rolled out a new discharge policy for different categories of Covid patients.“We have asked districts to form rapid response teams which will consist of doctors who will visit the homes of patients to assess their health status and permit home isolation. The team will also get an undertaking signed from the patient and a copy of directions to be followed will be given to them. The patients must keep themselves in complete isolation from other family members,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health).The state government has also rolled out a new number – 1800 1805 146 – meant especially for patients opting for home isolation. Officials said that such patients can call up and seek advice from doctors over the phone on this number.In compliance with the government’s directions, Ghaziabad officials have formed nine teams, consisting of doctors and pharmacists/staff nurses.“The role of this team is to visit the homes of patients and assess their health status. The teams will also meet the patient’s family members and will also take up contact tracing. Besides, they will also put up stickers at the homes of the patients in case the patient is allowed home isolation. In case there are family members in the house who have co-morbid conditions, home isolation will not be allowed as the patient may pass on the infection which could affect others severely,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.The administration has also roped in six static teams who will be stationed at the district control room and will be in touch with patients under home isolation.“The teams will be in touch with the patients over the phone three times in a day and will seek details of patients’ oxygen level, temperature, etc. If the teams observe any complication, the patient will be shifted to a Covid facility. Meanwhile, our surveillance teams will visit the patient’s house upon getting information, and will take up testing of the patient’s family members through rapid antigen kits. We have also decided that home isolation will be allowed only for new patients while those already admitted to Covid facilities will be discharged after they complete their duration of stay,” Pandey added.Till now, anyone, with or without symptoms, who has tested positive for the coronavirus disease was not allowed to stay in home isolation and needed to get admitted to government’s L1 (for asymptomatic cases), L2 (for cases with mild symptoms) or L3 (for critical cases) category hospitals, paid private Covid hospitals or paid isolation facilities in hotels.The new directions now allow asymptomatic patients to remain in home isolation with certain conditions – an undertaking promising compliance with all norms needs to be submitted by the patient; a consulting doctor to declare the patient asymptomatic; patient to ensure round-the-clock availability of a caregiver; minimum two toilets at home and separate isolation room at home. Patients will also have to purchase medical kits equipped with pulse oximeter, thermometer, mask, gloves, among others.In their revised guidelines issued on Tuesday night, the UP government said that asymptomatic patients in home isolation will be considered as recovered if they do not show any symptoms for 10 days.“Such patients will be shown as recovered on the UP portal and will further have to remain in home isolation for eight more days. In case they show any symptoms, they will be referred to the appropriate Covid facility,” the government order said.The district magistrate added that he has also directed officials to insert one more clause to the ‘action plan’ being formulated for patients in home isolation.“The concept is called ‘friendly watcher’. Under this, we will assign people in two neighbouring houses and one house in front of the patient’s house to keep track of movement of the patient as well in case their condition deteriorates. The owners/residents of the three houses will also be given our control room number where they can provide us information,” Pandey added.The officer said that the action plan will be rolled out on Thursday.The officials of the Ghaziabad health department said that multi-layered teams have been assigned the task of monitoring home isolation patients as there is risk involved.“We will be strictly monitoring the patient but it is also vital that a patient and his family provides us with genuine information and not hide details which could be vital for health,” said an officer from the health department, who asked not to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/home-isolation-ghaziabad-forms-rapid-response-teams-to-assess-patients/story-WISv9HRPlvXsWP4c5RsgwN.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||State Assembly speaker’s staffer tests positive||Maharashtra legislative Assembly speaker Nana Patole’s officer on special duty (OSD) tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, along with two of his family members.The state legislature secretariat has decided to screen the remaining employees in Patole’s office. The speaker’s office has been sanitised and the OSD’s cabin has been sealed.“I have not come in contact with the officer for the last few days and have no symptoms. However, if the need arises, I will get myself tested,” Patole said.“More than 17 employees, including a few police personnel, have been infected so far. A clerk-cum-typist succumbed to the infection. Though Patole held a meeting on Tuesday with his staff members, the OSD was not present. There is no need for mass testing of the staff,” said an official from Vidhan Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-assembly-speaker-s-staffer-tests-positive/story-ywFqfoilO1sgJFOsnroNEM.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||Downpour brings Delhi to its knees again||Just around three hours of rain on Wednesday morning threw the city into disarray, with prolonged snarls throughout the day made worse by at least five cave-ins and waterlogging on major arterial roads, leading to traffic being diverted, forming bottlenecks across the national capital. The downpour left several residential areas flooded, with the city’s agencies getting into yet another blame game, days after Delhi witnessed waterlogging after the first heavy rain spell on Sunday.The Capital in the last four days alone has recorded 120mm of rain. IMD data shows that between July 1 and July 20, Delhi received 124.9mm rainfall. Till July 19, Delhi had a rainfall deficit of 47%, which went down to 29% till Tuesday.In the heart of the Capital, a section of Ashoka Road caved-in, causing a 10-feet fissure, forcing Delhi traffic police to cordon the stretch off and divert traffic. Vehicles had to be stopped on the stretch between the Windsor Place and Jaswant Singh roundabouts. A New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) official said, “The area around it has been cordoned off, and an NDMC engineering team is working on site to repair the sewer line and road.”Portions of roads also caved-in on the Mahipalpur bypass and the link road near Nawada metro station on Wednesday because of waterlogging. Traffic between Vasant Kunj and Mahipalpur was severely affected because of the cave-in on Mahipalpur bypass. The bypass is also an important connect for those travelling between Delhi and Gurugram.According to the police, the snarls also took place due to diversions put in place after a portion of Bhairon Marg caved-in on Tuesday morning. Even before the rain started on Tuesday, during the morning peak traffic rush, vehicles were directed to take alternative routes, causing jams to cascade to Noida Link Road, Sarai Kale Khan, IP Estate, Vikas Marg, ITO, Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway, Ashram, Mathura Road and Nizamuddin Railway Bridge. The rain made snarls worse during the day, traffic officials said.“The cave-in on Bhairon Marg became a real problem as the stretch is already a traffic jam-prone zone because of ongoing construction. Road maintenance agencies have started pumping water out, but the portion won’t hold till the rain continues and the soil underneath dries,” a senior traffic official said.Complaints of miles-long delays were also reported from Chirag Delhi (towards Nehru Place), Mayur Vihar Link Road, Mathura Road (near Nizamuddin railway bridge), Lajpat Nagar (Ring Road), under Uttam Nagar Metro station, Munirka (under the flyover), and outside the Karkardooma court complex.Sunaina Parimal Das, a commuter on the Noida Link Road, said it took her over an hour to reach Patparganj from Connaught Place on Wednesday evening. “I have not been able to travel at a speeds beyond 20kmph. From ITO, throughout Vikas Marg and then on the Noida Link Road, vehicles were moving at snail’s pace,” she said.Similar chaos was also reported from Girdhari Lal Marg, Guru Ravidass Marg, under Mayapuri flyover, under Prahladpur flyover, Dhaula Kuan (towards Gurugram), Naraina (towards Loha Mandi), Ring Road (from Sarojini Nagar to Hyatt Hotel flyover), and Mahipalpur.The scenes of traffic jams and waterlogging in different parts of the city led to citizens posting pictures of vehicles caught in serpentine jams on the roads. According to PWD and the civic bodies at least 63 places in the city reported waterlogging.Just two days after severe waterlogging under central Delhi’s Minto Bridge, as a precautionary measure, Delhi’s traffic police diverted vehicles from the route for nearly an hour as water started accumulating on the road again on Wednesday after the shower. A 56-year-old man had drowned in the underpass on Sunday morningHowever, while this saved vehicles from getting stuck on the Minto Road, Connaught Place was flooded with rain water, and saw vehicles crawling on the outer circle, Barakhamba Road and Mandi House roundabout.While commuters had to brave the severe congestion, residential areas were not spared the effects of the rain, with areas such as South Extension-1, Lajpat Nagar, parts of Defence Colony, BK Dutt Colony reporting waterlogging. In Defence Colony, for instance, water flowed back on to the streets from drains. Satyendar Jain, Delhi PWD minister, said waterlogging incidents are being tackled effectively. “Our priority is to clear roads of waterlogging immediately and for this we have deployed 1,400 pumps all over the city. In case of high-intensity rain, there may be waterlogging on streets at certain places but I assure that it would be cleared immediately,” Jain said.Anamika Mithilesh, mayor, SDMC, said water was pumped out immediately after rain stopped. “We have cleaned the drains, but people have started throwing garbage in the open in several places, which also causes problems,” she said.Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said,“We have desilted our drains, but since PWD’s bigger drains are yet to be cleaned, water back flows in smaller drains and inundates residential areas and markets,” he said.SS Singh, an urban planner and a researcher at IIT-Delhi, said lack of a proper pre-monsoon plan is the reason behind the repeat of this picture every year.“This just shows how inept our agencies are in handling the basics of city planning. This year they might have an excuse that they were busy handling Covid-19 management, but we see roads flooded every year, what is their excuse for that?” Singh said.Delhi traffic police in a statement said, “Additional staff was deployed to help direct traffic across the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-hours-of-rain-100-chaos-delhi-s-monsoon-story/story-0R7llFl166mURW2RgmIRpO.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government to purchase 500 ambulances for rural areas||To augment healthcare services in the state, especially in rural areas, the Maharashtra government has decided to purchase 500 ambulances and has released around ₹90 crore for the procurement of the same. An order to this effect was released by the state health department on July 17.Officials said this will help the state fight the Covid-19 outbreak.Deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar had, while presenting budget for 2020-21, made the announcement about buying the ambulances to replace the old ones over the next two years. However, in view of the outbreak and the difficulties faced by the people in rural areas, the government has now decided to procure 500 ambulances in this year only. As most of the ambulances in these areas are old and cannot be repaired, it has become hard for the state to provide health facilities to the people, said an official from the health department.The department needs a total of 731 ambulances. Of the 500 ambulances that are going to be procured, 253 will be for primary health centres functioning at zilla parishad level, 137 for rural hospitals, 106 for district, sub-district and women hospitals, and four ambulances are going to be handed over to regional mental hospitals, states the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-purchase-500-ambulances-for-rural-areas/story-ugZxcNUwDQItZ61A5CJRtK.html
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Interim relief to ex-DSP in Kotkapura firing case||A day after a Faridkot court issued arrest warrant against then Kotkapura deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Baljit Singh, Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday stayed his arrest till further orders in an FIR registered in connection with the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident.While issuing notice to the Punjab government, the court of justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa said that he be not arrested till next date of hearing on July 27. The court acted on the plea of Baljit Singh, seeking pre-arrest bail in the FIR registered on October 14, 2015. He had argued that the entire gamut of allegations has already been gone into in another FIR registered on August 7, 2018, at Kotkapura against him as well as other accused in which challan too has been filed. He had cited challan report submitted in the 2018 FIR to buttress his claims and further submitted that all through he had been associating with the special investigation team (SIT) and would continue to do so in the future.The SIT probing 2015 police firing incidents had summoned Baljit to join investigation on a couple of occasions but he had failed to appear. Fearing arrest, he had moved an anticipatory bail plea in the court of District and Sessions court at Faridkot last week but it was dismissed. On Monday, the district court had allowed an application for his arrest filed by SIT. BIR THEFT: DERA FOLLOWERS FILE BAIL PLEA Five dera Sacha Sauda followers arrested in a case of theft of a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015, on Wednesday filed bail applications in the Faridkot court.The court of duty magistrate Suresh Kumar listed the matter for July 24.On July 4, deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra-led SIT arrested seven dera followers in the case of theft of a bir of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015. However, Sukjinder Singh and Shakti Singh were released as they were already got bail from a Mohali court. While Nishan Singh and Ranjit Singh alias Bhola, Baljit Singh, Randeep Singh and Narinder Sharma are lodged in Bathinda jail in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/interim-relief-to-ex-dsp-in-kotkapura-firing-case/story-62pPfqjwiUBUiChFBYPDAJ.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi court hands sex racket operator Sonu Punjaban 24-year prison sentence||A Delhi court on Wednesday sentenced alleged sex racket operator Geeta Arora alias Sonu Punjaban, 35, to 24 years in prison on charges of kidnapping, immoral trafficking, prostitution among other offences for abducting a minor and forcing her into prostitution for four years in 2009. Stating that Punjaban had ‘crossed all limits to be called a woman’, the court said a person who had committed such acts had no right to live in a civilised society and that the best place for her were the four walls of jail. According to police, Punjaban gained notoriety for exploiting women and forcing them into flesh trade. Punjaban, whose real name is Geeta Arora according to police records, ran one of the biggest prostitution rackets in Delhi and nearby states in early 2000. Additional sessions judge Pritam Singh also sentenced Punjaban’s accomplice, Sandeep Bedwal, 41, to 20 years in prison for the abduction and rape of the 12-year-old girl. Apart from the present case, Punjaban has five other cases involving murder, the immoral trafficking act and the POCSO act against her. This is her first conviction in the multiple crimes. Punjaban was arrested in December 2017 from a hideout in Delhi and presently lodged in Mandoli jail in judicial custody.The court directed the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) to pay a compensation of Rs 7 lakh to the girl. “In India thousands of children are kidnapped every year. Very few of them are recovered. Minor girls are kidnapped on the pretext of marriage to be sold in flesh industry where they are sexually exploited on a daily basis. (This) is also one of those cases where a minor innocent girl was trapped in the name of love and kidnapped in a pre-planned manner to force her into flesh trade,” the judge said in his order. The court sentenced Punjaban to two jail terms of 14 years for offences under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act and 10 years for other offences under the Indian Penal Code, including selling and buying of a minor girl for prostitution and criminal conspiracy, while stating that she would stay in jail for 24 years. Bedwal was sentenced to 10 years for kidnapping, kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, procuration of minor girl, selling a minor girl for prostitution, criminal conspiracy of IPC and another 10 years for offences under section 376 (rape) of IPC. The court also imposed fines of Rs 64,000 and Rs 65,000 on Punjaban and Bedwal, respectively. On July 16, the court had convicted Punjaban and Bedwal for kidnapping the minor girl on the pretext of marriage and her rape. Police had said the girl was sold several times to different people for prostitution. In 2014, she managed to escape from the house of a man who bought and married her. She went to a police station and on her statement, an FIR was registered. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bhisham Singh, who has been part of the probe team ever since the case was transferred to the crime branch in 2017, said the court’s judgment vindicated the saying that “justice can be delayed but not denied”. “I am happy because we as a police team could help the victim get her due justice. She was less than 13 years when she was kidnapped,” said DCP Singh. Retired Delhi Police officer, Ashok Chand, who was an additional commissioner of crime branch, said, “I had been part of teams investigating cases related to Sonu Punjaban and her associates. Now that she has been sentenced to 24 years in one of the cases, many of her victims may feel they have got justice.” Punjaban’s first husband Vijay Singh, a gangster, was killed in a police encounter in 2004. Her second husband, Hemant Singh, was also killed in 2006 by a police team in Gurgaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-court-hands-sex-racket-operator-sonu-punjaban-24-year-prison-sentence/story-mCVSOwL7pIyUQDgOizkNlK.html
23-07-2020||Noida||Shot in front of daughters, Ghaziabad journalist dies||A 35-year-old Ghaziabad-based journalist who was shot in the head in an attack in front of his two daughters on Monday night succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday, prompting opposition parties to criticise the Uttar Pradesh government on the law and order situation in the state. Vikram Joshi, who made a complaint with the police alleging harassment of his niece on July 16, was attacked around 10.30pm on Monday when he was returning home on a two-wheeler along with his two daughters, the police said about the crime, which was caught on CCTV. He worked as a journalist with a local Hindi daily, Jan Sagar Today.According to an investigator, a group of nine men attacked Joshi about 500 metres from his sister’s house in Mata Colony while he was returning on a motorcycle along with his two minor daughters. The group of men first assaulted him and one of them, Chotu alias Shahnoor, later opened fire at him with a countrymade gun, the police said. They said Joshi visited his sister’s house to attend the birthday celebrations of one of his nieces.Senior superintendent of police Kalanidhi Naithani said Joshi filed a police complaint on July 16 that one of the suspects in the attack, Ravi, and his accomplices were harassing his niece. He said nine men were arrested on Tuesday and Pratap Vihar police post in-charge Raghvendra Singh was suspended for dereliction of duty as he did not pay heed to the harassment complaint lodged by Joshi.Days before the attack, Joshi was also engaged in a scuffle with Ravi, Akash and Shahnoor after he raised objections to illegal betting by them, Naithani said. The accused are bookies and were operating in the area, the SSP said. “Ravi received injuries in the incident and from that day, he was planning to take revenge from Joshi,” he said.“The investigation is on in the case and six of our teams have arrested nine suspects, including Chotu alias Shahnoor. More arrests are likely,” Naithani added.“As for the family’s allegations of harassment of a niece of Joshi by the suspects, we have registered an FIR in this matter on July 21 against several men, including prime suspect Ravi Kumar, who was named by the family,” the SSP said.The police identified the nine arrested suspects as Ravi Kumar, Shahnoor alias Chotu (goes by a single name), Mohit Kumar, Dalvir Singh, Akash Nath, Yogendra Singh, Abhishek Kant, Abhishek Mota and Mohammad Shakir, adding that they were working to nab a suspect Akash Bihari, who is on the run.During the attack on Monday, CCTV footage showed, one of his daughters ran back to her aunt’s house, while the other tried to help a bleeding Joshi. Shortly after being shot, Joshi was admitted to a private hospital, where he died during treatment early on Wednesday. He is survived by his wife, three children and mother.Doctors at Nehru Nagar’s Yashoda Hospital, where Joshi was admitted, said he was in a critical condition when he was brought in. “He was admitted to the ICU and put on ventilator support ever since he was brought in. There was hemorrhaging and blood loss due to critical gunshot wound. He also suffered a cardiac arrest and died at 4.01am on Wednesday,” Dr Sangeeta Garg, chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Hospital, said.Condemning the incident, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi criticised the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government over the law and order in the state. “Journalist Vikram Joshi was killed for opposing the molestation of his niece. My condolences to the bereaved family. The promise was of giving ‘Ram Raj’, but gave ‘Gundaraj’,” he said in a tweet. The Samajwadi Party announced a financial help of Rs 2 lakh to Joshi’s family and demanded that the state government provide Rs 25 lakh to the next of kin and bear all education expense of his children.Bahujan Samaj Party chief Maywati tweeted: “The way heinous crimes like murder and those against women are continuing unabated, it is clear that instead of law and order, jungle raj is prevailing in UP. Crime virus of criminals is more active than coronavirus in UP. People are fed up and the government must address this issue.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal demanded “strictest punishment” for the accused.According to the police, after the fight on July 16, the two parties lodged separate complaints at the local police post. Joshi alleged that the men harassed his niece. However, the police post incharge made the two parties reach a compromise.“It is because of the harassment that we had a fight with these men on July 16. But police did not lodge our complaint even then. My sister went to the SSP’s office and gave a complaint but nothing happened. They were planning an attack on us a day before Joshi got shot. Chotu and the others had come to Ravi’s house with firearms. When my sister saw this, she called me up and I, along with Vikram and other family members, confronted them,” Joshi’s sister Payal, who goes by single name, said.“Chotu and the others threatened us but Vikram sorted out the matter. On the night of July 20, he was going back home when the group shot him,” she said.The family also raised concerns over their safety and said the men may come out on bail and attack them. “We have provided them police cover,” Naithani said.The district administration said in a statement: “The UP government has announced a financial aid of ₹10 lakh to Joshi’s family. Free education will be arranged for his children and the family was also assured of a job to his wife as per her qualification.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/journalist-joshi-dies-police-lodge-fir-over-niece-s-harassment/story-WImTxOu23oO8V1EVvFtpFP.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||Heavy showers in Delhi reduce rain deficit||Delhi recorded “heavy” category rain in many parts of the city on Wednesday morning, with weather officials saying most stations covered the rain deficiency on Wednesday, which will be reflected in their records on Thursday. Delhi’s rain deficiency since June 1 was 43% on Tuesday, which reduced to 29% on Wednesday. Safdarjung recorded 67.3 mm, Palam 81.2 mm and Lodhi Road recorded 71.9 mm rain on Wednesday.Rainfall of 64.5 to 124.4 mm in a day is considered ‘heavy” by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The heavy spell of rain is due to a combination of factors, meteorologists said.“The monsoon trough (line of low pressure) is passing south of Delhi. It is passing along Bikaner, Palwal, Badaun, Bahraich, Muzaffarpur and north-eastern states. Because Palwal is just south of Delhi, it is bringing a lot of rain here. There is also a trough (area of low pressure) in the westerlies. Moist south-westerly winds are blowing from the Arabian Sea. These are contributing to rain,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.The monsoon trough is likely to shift to the east Thursday onwards, leading to gradual reduction in the rains. The western part of monsoon trough is now lying to the south of its normal position and eastern part runs close to the foothills of Himalayas. In addition, the convergence of moist southerly-southwesterly winds from Bay of Bengal over north-east and adjoining east India is likely to continue for 24 hours till Thursday.According to IMD’s Wednesday bulletin, rain intensity and distribution over northwest India was likely to reduce significantly from Thursday but widespread and heavy rain is likely over central, east, northeast India and Maharashtra during the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-showers-in-delhi-reduce-rain-deficit/story-iAohLs2PbPhVpltKC22yFL.html
23-07-2020||Delhi||Man held for killing wife and two minor children in West Delhi||Three days after a man killed his wife and two children at their rented home in outer Delhi’s Shiv Ram Park near Nihal Vihar, police arrested the 39-year-old man on Tuesday from Paschim Vihar. Police said the man was living on the pavements posing as a homeless person in order to avoid arrest. The man, Gagan Kumar Sahu, was planning to flee to Nepal, officials said.Police officers associated with the case said Sahu told them that he had become insecure and was enraged with his wife, Preeti Gupta, as she often threatened to leave him and take along her children. Police said two days before the murders, the couple had a fight and the woman had assaulted Sahu. Police said this left Sahu seething with anger. “He planned to take revenge by killing his wife and children,” said a senior investigator, who did not want to be named.On Saturday night, the investigator said, Sahu went to bed after dinner and pretended to sleep. “Sahu heard Preeti speaking on the phone, after which he took out a hammer and killed her,” the officer said.Sahu first allegedly attacked his wife. When their two children, aged 9 and 7 years, woke up on hearing their mother’s screams, Sahu allegedly attacked them as well with the hammer, killing all three on the spot.“He then washed his hands, changed his clothes, and hid the bloodstained hammer in the kitchen before leaving the house around midnight,” the officer said.On Sunday, around 11.30am, Preeti’s father Ram Chandra Gupta, who lives in the same area, came to check on her as she was not answering his calls. Gupta found Preeti and the two children dead on the bed and their faces smashed in. He raised the alarm and alerted neighbours. The police were called and the three were shifted to a nearby hospital, where they were declared brought dead. Gupta suspected his son-in-law’s role in the murders, as he was missing. A murder case was registered and the police sent a team to Sahu’s native home in Jamalpur, Bihar. Another team kept surveillance on Sahu’s relatives and friends to whom he might go for shelter.“As we knew Sahu did not have money, we activated our intelligence network and we came to know that he had been seen at different places in outer Delhi. Our team searched and caught him sleeping on a pavement in Paschim Vihar area on Tuesday night,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-held-for-killing-wife-and-two-minor-children-in-outer-delhi/story-KAFxNHgaJz5WP2tCtNzuTK.html
23-07-2020||Mumbai||Single command centre in MMR to manage beds||The state government is planning to set up a single command centre in either Thane or Navi Mumbai to help resolve the problem of bed availability in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). With patients from neighbouring cities coming to Mumbai for treatment, the city’s health infrastructure is overburdened, said state health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday.There has been a surge of Covid-19 cases in MMR, forcing many municipal corporations in the region to re-impose the lockdown in July. On Wednesday, MMR reported 2,447 new cases while Mumbai had 1,310 new cases. The cities other than Mumbai in MMR have so far reported 105,300 cases of Covid-19.“We have a single command centre in Mumbai for testing and bed management. The dashboard developed gives real-time data on the availability of beds across the city and helps the administration in their management. At present, no one gets a bed for Covid-19 treatment directly. He or she has to call the helpline or ward level war room. In case of MMR, I found beds at field hospitals in Thane city are empty while other cities are facing shortages of beds,” Tope said.The issue has also been discussed with Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde, both of whom support the idea of a single command centre. The command centre is likely to come up either in Thane or Navi Mumbai, with the help of Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA).“Because of non-availability of beds, people from Thane and other areas are coming to Mumbai for treatment and burdening the city’s health infrastructure. The command centre will resolve that problem,” Tope said.The state health minister further clarified that restrictions would continue to be relaxed gradually.“We have started the process of unlocking the state and there is no chance of again imposing lockdown. We have allowed functioning of private and government offices, hotels and restaurants. I am aware that health-conscious citizens and those working at gyms are facing difficulties. We will resolve their problem very soon and bring a standard operating procedure (SOP) to ensure distancing is followed,” said Tope. Meanwhile, in a meeting held on Tuesday, chief minister asked experts of homoeopathy, Ayurveda and unani medicine to submit a treatment protocol for Covid-19. “It’s time for Ayurveda and unani medicines to prove their significance,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-plans-single-command-centre-in-mmr-for-bed-management/story-4l2yPPUqlNXcT0Db21aDAN.html
23-07-2020||Pune||Pune’s Ruby Hall successfully performs liver transplant on HIV positive patient||PUNE Doctors at the Ruby Hall Clinic in Pune performed a liver transplant from a brain-dead donor to a recipient with a pre-existing HIV condition. The liver transplant team at Ruby Hall Clinic successfully completed the transplant, to be one of only a handful of liver transplant units in the country to have successfully done so.The 54-year-old resident of Pune suffered from critical end-stage liver disease due to rare immunological damage owing to the HIV infection. His MELD score (which ranks the degree of sickness and need for a transplant) was 22 which implied a three-month mortality rate. Like most HIV patients, he too was advised the use of HAART (highly active antiretroviral therapy) which enables HIV patients to live longer lives.Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), Pune, said, “Earlier we have had kidney transplants, but this is the first time an HIV positive patient has successfully received a liver.”The patient became the perfect candidate for a liver transplant after the blood group matched the donor. Both the recipient and the donor were screened for Covid-19. Dr Manoj Shrivastav, chief hepatobiliary and liver transplant surgeon, said, “In addition to the detailed decision-making that exists with most organ offers, the presence of HIV infection and the current pandemic added a new layer of dual complexity to this particular case with regard to the protection of the operating surgical team, nurses and paramedical staff. One was the protection from exposure to body fluids, and needle stick injury, owing to the HIV positive status of the patient. The second was strict universal safety precautions from the Covid-19 infection. We minimised personnel in the operation theatre and strictly adhered to the use of PPE kits while meticulously following internationally laid down universal safety precautions guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ruby-hall-successfully-performs-liver-transplant-on-hiv-positive-patient/story-IHpfOyYHW3qjKERyPPvJCJ.html
23-07-2020||Pune||Fresh guidelines puts entire admission process for SSC students to junior colleges online||The Deputy director of education in Pune issued fresh guidelines for Class 11 admissions on Wednesday, asking junior colleges and schools to ensure that Class 10 students do not have to be physically present to complete the admissions.The online admission process for Class 11 for this academic year began on July 7, though the Class 10 SSC results have not yet been declared by the state board.“This year due to the Covid-19 pandemic the Class 11 admission process is going to be completely online and we have already started it. For better coordination between schools, junior colleges and our department, a divisional control room will be formed. Accordingly, guidelines have been issued for the junior colleges and for students,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune.As per the guidelines, once the admission rounds are declared, all schools and junior colleges should make prior arrangements for admissions so that students need not have to physically be present at the premises.Colleges are instructed to make all the online arrangements for admissions through their websites, with online payment modes, and help phone lines. For students, the guidelines state that students should collect and scan all the required documents for admissions. The price of this year’s admission manual has been reduced to Rs 125 by the department. All students, parents, and school and junior college staff are instructed to take proper safety measures during the admission process, the guidelines state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-guidelines-puts-entire-admission-process-for-ssc-students-to-junior-colleges-online/story-cz2p2FbefEDeu5c3BFUCXL.html
23-07-2020||Pune||Rural police’s dog squad sniffs out biggest drug seizure in 3 yrs: Cannabis worth Rs 86 lakh hidden under the floor||One person has been arrested and another accused is on the run from the Pune rural police after cannabis worth Rs 86 lakh was found at a residence in Kamshet.Dhanaji Vitthal Jite (48), a resident of Taje, Maval, Pune, has been arrested, while Santosh Ramchandra Walunj, a resident of Pawana nagar road, Kamshet, Maval, is absconding.“This is one of the biggest seizures by Pune rural police in the past three years. The arrested man is a wholesaler and a kingpin. His arrest will help track down various others smugglers in the district. The dog squad was instrumental in sniffing out the drugs. I congratulate the dog squad and I declare Rs 10,000 reward for the squad,” said Sandeep Patil, superintendent of Pune rural police, while addressing the local media about the raid.The police received information that a large quantity of cannabis was being stored at a house in Pavana chowk, Kamshet.The information was received by assistant superintendent of police Navneet Kanwat, sub-divisional police officer at the Lonavala division of Pune rural police.The drugs were found stashed under the floor surface in the living room of the house. The seized drugs weighed 578.500kg, according to police.The raid was conducted jointly by the local crime branch as well as officials of Kamshet police station.A case in the matter was registered at Kamshet police station under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rural-police-s-dog-squad-sniffs-out-biggest-drug-seizure-in-3-yrs-cannabis-worth-rs-86-lakh-hidden-under-the-floor/story-MpD4e1mPc8wGdSZyMtzNVK.html
23-07-2020||Pune||3 in Pune police custody for aiding RTI activist’s evasion of arrest||PUNE: Three men accused of helping RTI activist Ravindra Barhate evade arrest by the Pune police in an extortion case, have been remanded to police custody by a local court on Wednesday.Vishal Dhole, Aslam Pathan and Siddharth Dange, all in the 25-28-year age group, according to senior police inspector Pratibha Joshi of Kothrud police station, have been remanded to police custody till July 29. “Dange has been a close aide of Barhate since 2007. These men were instrumental in helping him escape from Pune after the news was flashed in the media of a case registered against him. They helped him with travel, money and accommodation in Solapur. They even travelled with him to Solapur,” said PI Joshi.The three were arrested on Tuesday. Barhate is also wanted in two other cases in the city. In the case registered at Kothrud police station, Barhate was booked for allegedly extorting Rs 1.5 lakh from a realtor named Sudhir Karnataki (64); this is while allegedly demanding Rs 2 crore in order to not file a sexual assault case against him. Barhate was booked along with a dismissed police constable Shailesh Jagtap, journalist Devendra Jain, Amol Chavan - man with a criminal record, and a woman who is a complainant in the sexual assault case against Karnataki.The police are looking into the claims made in a public interest litigation (PIL) against Barhate that allege his involvement in dealings of various pieces of land that collectively, are valued at Rs 2,670 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-accused-of-aiding-rti-activist-barhate-s-evasion-of-arrest-in-police-custody/story-U5fTgOoR12GKfEE2mLfV5M.html
