24-07-2020||City||3 held, over 5,500 litres illicit liquor seized in Mohali village||Cracking down on illicit liquor trade in the state, the excise department officials on Thursday seized 5,500 litres of illicit liquor during a raid conducted at a godown in Devinagar village of Dera Bassi.Divulging the details, a spokesperson of the excise and taxation department said that a special team seized 5,500 litres of illicit liquor from 26 drums of 200-litre capacity each and six drums of 50-litre capacity each. During the raid conducted at the premises of M/s Binni Chemicals godown, a Mahindra Bolero (PB 65 Z 7657) was also impounded.The spokesperson added that owner of the godown Rajesh Kumar alias Bobby, a resident of Sector 2, Panchkula, failed to produce any document and did not possess a licence to sell or store liquor. A communiqué has already been sent to the Dera Bassi SDM in this regard for initiating necessary action, he added.The owner and two labourers identified as Mahesh Kumar and Ajay Kumar were arrested from the spot. A case under the Punjab Excise Act was registered against the accused at Dera Bassi police station.During interrogation, the accused revealed that he had started selling liquor during the lockdown period and he was also selling spirit to the sanitiser manufacturers. Investigations are in progress to trace further links of the accused in the case.The spokesperson added that the firm raided by the excise team was on its radar and under constant surveillance for the past few days. The investigation revealed that the firm was also involved in the illicit sale of various types of acids besides spirit without any licence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-held-over-5-500-litres-illicit-liquor-seized-in-mohali-village/story-VQ9wZ1Dv08WeC6kjgyZH2K.html
24-07-2020||City||Double jolt to jewellers as gold prices soar amid pandemic blues||Dealing a major blow to the jewellery business amid a pandemic-induced slowdown, gold prices crossed ₹52,000/10 grams on Friday, while silver was valued at ₹61,000/kg.City-based jewellers rued that while the rising prices have attracted a few investors for pure gold (24 carat), there have been no takers for designed jewellery at their stores. They said the Covid-19 pandemic had badly hit the business as no lavish weddings were taking place at the moment, and that uncertainty loomed over trade prospects during the festival season this year.Ludhiana jewellers’ association president Anand Sikri said, “There are no customers and the jewellers are sitting idle, waiting for purchases to happen. Till now, people were restricted by the fear of infection, and now the rising prices have added to the problem. The few showing up buy only pure gold for investment purposes, but the response is tepid due to low purchasing capacity and high rates.”As per the jewellers, no orders for silver rakhis were placed this year, as the lower and middle class families were already struggling to make ends meet amid the financial crisis. Gold and silver were priced at around ₹40,000/10g and ₹46,000/kg respectively before the lockdown. However, the skyrocketing rates are pushing buyers away from the precious metal.A jeweller from Chaar Khamba road in Model Town, Karan Arneja, said, “The business is at an all time low as people, who are hugely impacted by the economic slump caused by Covid-19, can’t afford gold or silver jewellery at the current rates. Jewellers are now working to reduce their fixed expenses to deal with the business slowdown.”“Residents here are instead selling their gold jewellery to manage their finances in these tough times,” said Arneja.Experts believe that gold prices are likely to increase further by Diwali this year.Tribhuvan Thapar, a jeweller from Sarafa Bazar said, “The government should step in and provide some relief to the sector as the business is suffering like never before. The future doesn’t look promising either as gold rates are expected to touch ₹60,000 by Dilwai this year.”Echoing Thapar’s views, silver trader Puneet Kapoor stated that in the demand in the market, the future of their businesses seemed irresolute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/double-jolt-to-jewellers-as-gold-prices-soar-amid-pandemic-blues/story-FlEJvqLN6k0mjWHGivALgO.html
24-07-2020||City||Ludhiana’s 114-year-old Clock Tower being restored to original glory||Despite losing its splendour over time, Victoria Memorial Clock Tower, fondly called Ghanta Ghar, has looked over the city’s shoulder for over a century now. To spring it back to its original glory, the Ludhiana municipal corporation is giving the monument a much-needed makeover.Elated by the tower’s revival, old-timers and historians of the city say they are eager for the completion of works, which are expected to be over by the end of this month.Established in 1906, Clock Tower is the city’s most prominent and last surviving landmark from the pre-Independence era.As per the ₹66-lakh project, which is being taken up under the smart city mission, the MC will touch up the tower’s facade, repair its mechanical clock, and light it up. A few trials of colourful lights installed at the tower were held earlier and the sight had fascinated the residents.Sharing their memories from the Partition, retired Punjab Agricultural University professor Amarjit Singh Hayer (85) and Central University Bathinda chancellor Sardara Singh Johl (92) narrated how the there were only two prominent buildings in the city at that time, and Clock Tower was one of them.Hayer said, “Apart from being an iconic structure, Clock Tower was one of the two major landmarks of the city. The other one was Subhani building. The tower was erected during the British era on Grand Trunk Road which led up to Peshawar. At that time, there was no development in Ludhiana west and the areas like Chaura Bazaar, Field Ganj, Daresi Ground and other parts of the old city were densely populated. Clock Tower and Subhani building were used to convey directions to commuters. But with time, the tower lost its limelight and now numerous multi-storey buildings have come up around it, diminishing its visibility.”Johl recalled the time he used to visit the city in the late 1940s from Noor Mahal, where his family had got temporary allotment after Partition.“The bell of Clock Tower was functional in 1948 and used to ring after every hour. The tower is like a monument of the city and must be preserved. The elevated road and multi-storey buildings have reduced its visibility, but the government should save it for the coming generations. Unfortunately, not much has been given to its maintenance in the past,” he said.Reviewing the status of the smart city project on Friday, Punjab cabinet minister and MLA (Ludhiana west) Bharat Bhushan Ashu said, “Most of the work has been done and the project is expected to be completed by the end of this month. The clock is being repaired and the tower is also being cleaned from the inside. A few lighting trials have also been done and the tower will don a new look soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-114-year-old-clock-tower-being-restored-to-original-glory/story-JDgAfa3W1qkXVftaBzhkNK.html
24-07-2020||City||Electrician found dead at under-construction site||A 35-year-old man was found dead at an under-construction site in Sukhdev Nagar of Daba on Friday morning. The deceased has been identified as Munish Kumar of Azad Nagar, who worked as an electrician. Daba station house officer (SHO), inspector Pavitter Singh said some locals had informed the police after spotting the body at the site. When cops reached there, they found a motorcycle near the body. Besides, there were injury marks on the victim’s head and face, which led the cops to suspect that he may have accidentally fallen into the pit dug up at the site and succumbed to his injuries.Inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the statement of the victim’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/electrician-found-dead-at-under-construction-site/story-XIj40PCejCMvoVM736sngI.html
24-07-2020||City||Delhi MCDs target Delhi govt over water logging crisis||New Delhi:  Mayors of the three BJP-led municipal corporations on Friday alleged the Delhi government departments were to be blamed for the waterlogging crisis in parts of the city. They also demanded that funds for this quarter, which has been due to the three civic bodies, be released at the earliest.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash, South Delhi mayor Anamika Mithilesh and East Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain in a joint press conference alleged that they were not getting enough cooperation from the various Delhi government departments to deal with the Covid crisis as well as in handling issues such as waterlogging.“Delhi has been battling Covid and the city government woke up only after Union home minister Amit Shah took the matter in his own hands. Now, waterlogging is another issue troubling people and even a death has occurred because of it. We have been trying to work with the AAP government, but they are not cooperating enough,” Jai Prakash said.A 56-year-old driver of a mini truck had reportedly drowned near the waterlogged Minto Bridge in central Delhi on Sunday.Prakash said that before the monsoons, the corporation held a meeting with officials of the public works department (PWD) and those from the flood and irrigation department to check preparedness. Five agencies are associated with addressing the issue water logging --- PWD, flood department, Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development (DSIIDC), Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and the three civic bodies.“The Delhi government departments had claimed that they had done de-silting, which proved to be false in the torrential rain on Sunday. Four major agencies are with the city government. Civic bodies only look after drains that are four feet deep. The department must be prepared well in advance. Minto Bridge has been getting submerged in water every year,” said Prakash.He said he will visit Kirari on Saturday, where waterlogging is a major issue. “I have requested Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to join in and help the people,” said Prakash.The three mayors said funds “due” to the corporations must be released so that they are able to pay their staff. “I had met the CM last week, after which he had assured to release the due funds, but it has not been done so far. Rs 1,108 crore of the first and second quarter of the North Corporation is due, which must be released immediately,” said Prakash.The south mayor said they are exploring all possible revenue generation sources to deal with the situation and trying to be self-sustainable. “Our funds have been due. However, rather than expecting financial assistance from the government, we plan to generate funds on our own,” said Anamika Mithilesh.East mayor Jain said, “We had met the team of Delhi finance minister Satyendra Jain. The file for disbursement of funds has still not moved from his table. Of the around Rs 1,600 crore funds due under the planned head as well as BTA (basic tax assignment), only Rs 91 crore has been released so far.”While the east civic body has paid salaries to its staff until June, the south corporation has paid until May. North corporation officials said the salaries of its sanitation staff, junior and senior resident doctors have been paid till May while the rest of the health care staff and teachers on Covid duty have been paid till April. The rest of the staff has been paid only until March.AAP targets MCDsIn a seperate press meet, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday said it would start a protest if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations do not clear the salaries of doctors in hospitals under their jurisdiction in three days.“The whole world is going through the Covid-19 pandemic, which is the worst-ever crisis in the history of mankind. Our country India is also hit by this pandemic and the medical fraternity is relentlessly working to save the citizens. The doctors, nurses, paramedics, other health officials are trying their best to provide the best health facility to all of us,” said AAP’s national spokesperson and Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha.He said, “It is unfortunate that in Delhi, the capital of India, the medical staff in two hospitals under the BJP-ruled MCD have not received their salaries since March. We all talk about respecting doctors, we salute them, and the central government showered flowers from fighter jets to show respect to our Covid warriors. But the BJP cannot pay their salaries.”Spokesperson for AAP and Kalkaji MLA Atishi said, it is very “saddening to see that the BJP has not paid the salaries of doctors of Kasturba Hospital and Hindu Rao Hospital in the time of Covid pandemic . “...The AAP govt has already disbursed the required amount to the MCDs but due to BJP’s corruption, the doctors are not getting the salary...When the audit of North MCD was done, financial irregularities of more than three thousand crores was found. In the South MCD also, financial irregularities of more than Rs 1,250 crore were found,” Atishi alleged.She said, “The MCDs get money from taxes, property taxes, advertisement, etc., but the BJP leaders put this money on their pocket. They do the same with the money given to the MCDs by the Delhi government.”Chadha said, “AAP demands that BJP should not violate the rights of doctors. They should immediately pay the salaries of the doctors who are working relentlessly in the times of pandemic. The BJP has no right to disrespect the health workers and Covid warriors of Delhi. If the BJP cannot respect the health workers of Delhi, then at least they should uphold the rights of the doctors by giving them their salaries...If the BJP does not pay the salaries of the doctors within three days, then AAP will launch a huge protest. We challenge the MCDs that if they do not pay the salaries of the doctors, then AAP will take to the streets for the rights of the health workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-mcds-target-delhi-govt-over-water-logging-crisis/story-FsKKSlYjCowBQIHmcOWasM.html
24-07-2020||City||Auto driver held for killing friend over money in Ludhiana||The police on Friday arrested an autorickshaw driver for the murder of his friend, who succumbed to injuries at a hospital here.The accused has been identified as Sandeep Singh Gopi (40) of Mahadev Nagar in Dhandhari, while his accomplice Murgi is on the run.As per the police, Sandeep and his accomplice thrashed Manoj Singh Bhardwaj (45) of Mahadev Nagar following a dispute over ₹3,000 and left him at an isolated place considering him dead. However, Manoj gained consciousness after a while and with great difficulty reached a nearby clinic for medical aid. From there, he was rushed to the civil hospital, where died during treatment.The victim is survived by three children and wife Anu Devi, who told the police Manoj used to work in a factory in Ludhiana for the past several years. On July 20, he met Sandeep on his way back home and went to his house where Murgi also arrived. The accused duo beat him up and fled, she said.“Before his death on July 22, my husband told me that Sandeep was asking him for money to buy drugs. When he refused, both Sandeep and Murgo thrashed him,” said Anu Devi.Sahnewal SHO inspector Inderjit Singh said Manoj had suffered internal injuries. He died on the night of July 22. The police received his autopsy report on Friday, based on which a murder case was registered against the accused, the SHO said, adding that a hunt was on to arrest Murgi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auto-driver-held-for-killing-friend-over-money-in-ludhiana/story-FpsKymoyKLfjSohRnz5csN.html
24-07-2020||City||Custodial death: Ludhiana police seeks stay on FIR against cops||The police department has filed an application seeking a stay on the registration of FIR against Division Number 5 station house officer (SHO) Richa Rani and other cops in the custodial death case of a financial firm employee, who had been arrested on charges of vehicle theft. The matter has been listed for next hearing on July 31.The incident had taken place in February this year. The deceased, Deepak Shukla, had been picked up by the police on February 22 and presented in the court on February 24. The court had sent him to judicial remand but the police allegedly kept him in their custody illegally till February 25.During the hearing of the case, police stated that due to the delay in medical examination, they got late and decided to keep Shukla in custody for one more night. KIN CLAIM HE WAS TORTUREDShukla’s father had stated that the cops had demanded Rs 1.5 lakh bribe from the family for not registering a vehicle-theft case. “On February 26 when I went to meet my son, I found that he was unable to walk properly. Deepak told me that the cops had tortured him. I immediately moved court and lodged an application but the next day around 6am, we got a call from the jail that Deepak had died,” he said.The court of additional chief judicial magistrate had on March 6 ordered an FIR against Division Number 5 SHO sub-inspector Richa Rani, ASI Charanjit Singh, ASI Jaskaran Singh and other police personnel, but the police did not take any action.The victim’s uncle, Rakesh Shukla, claimed that the police constantly tried to keep the family away from court proceedings. He alleged that the summons sent to them had been sent on the wrong address. The family has also filed a writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana High court seeking FIR against the errant cops. Next hearing of the case is on August 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/custodial-death-ludhiana-police-seeks-stay-on-fir-against-cops/story-VlWclHBTNO8nyuGL4uM3yL.html
24-07-2020||Noida||Noida admin all set to start call centre manned by retired health officials||In a blend of experienced and fresh hands, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has decided to set up an exclusive call centre in the administrative block of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, wherein only retired doctors/paramedics or young NSS volunteers will speak to Covid-19 patients, who have opted for home isolation, through phones daily, for 10 days continuously.District magistrate Suhas LY said it will be an innovative call centre, which will incorporate the doctors and paramedics who are over 60-years-old. “These retired medical officials can’t go out on field visits. While the young volunteers will help them in building a proper database of the patients, they (the doctors and paramedics) can evaluate and assess the symptoms of the Covid-19 patients given their experience. These doctors will also help patients prevent Covid-19-related complications. In case the patient develops chronic symptoms, they will also be assisted by the call centre for hospital admission,” he said.He also said that patients have to give their health updates, with daily temperature recordings, on the call centre. “Patients could submit their queries and grievances as well with the call centre for easy redressal. It would also provide behaviour change communication to all patients regarding proper usage of three-tier medical masks and hand washing with soap and water for 40 seconds. The call centre would facilitate in monitoring the other people coming in contact with the patient by asking their daily routine from them. It will be manned by doctors, counsellors, volunteers, and Covid heroes,” he said. Suhas further said that there will be two ambulances available with the call centre to facilitate the transfer of patients to the hospital and the allotment of an institutional facility will be allotted by the integrated call centre. “Infrastructure for the call centre will be in the conference room in the academic block of GIMS. The daily calls will certainly help patients increase their awareness and comply with instructions given by the physicians for home isolation strictly,” he said.The DM added that patients once given recommendation for home isolation will also be given a Covid-19 kit containing all essential equipment which will be required. Meanwhile, the district administration, on Friday, declared a fresh list of 361 containment zones, including 320 in category-1 and other 41 in category-2. The DM said that containment zones in urban areas will be of a 250 metre-radius or an entire mohalla (a floor in which the patient resides in a society) in case there is a single positive case and a radius of 500 metres. “If there is more than one positive case, a buffer zone of 250 metres will be taken as containment zone. In rural areas, the entire village will be taken as containment zone if there is one case, if there is more than one case, the adjoining area of the village will also be taken as buffer zone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-admin-all-set-to-start-call-centre-manned-by-retired-health-officials/story-L9qSNZ8EZyD92XUgMr25iM.html
24-07-2020||City||Five killed in two separate accidents in Gautam Budh Nagar||Five people, including two students, were killed in two separate accidents in the Gautam Budh Nagar district on Thursday night. While three of them were crushed under a train in Dadri, two were killed in a road mishap in Surajpur.The Dadri incident took place around 8.30pm in Bodaki village, the police said on Friday. The deceased were identified as brothers Jeetu and Deepak, students of classes 9 and 10, and their friend Sonu, who was in his early twenties. Police officials said that all the three were sitting on the railway tracks with their earphones on and did not hear an incoming train. “We got a call on the police helpline about the accident. But by the time a team rushed to the spot, their families had already taken the bodies and cremated them last night itself,” said Sateesh Kumar, assistant commissioner of police, Zone 3.According to the police, the train had applied brakes and stopped after hitting them, but it could not prevent the accident.The tracks are next to the village where the boys lived, the police said, adding that the deceased’s families have not filed any official complaint.In another incident, two men were killed while two others received minor injuries when a speeding Brezza car crashed into a bicycle and a motorcycle.“The accident took place around 8pm when the car crashed into the two two-wheelers near the railway road,” said Ankur Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2.The deceased were identified as Sundar (50), the car driver, and Aditya Gaur (25), the cyclist. Another car passenger, Laxmi Devi, and motorcycle rider, Babloo, were injured in the accident, the police said.Police officials said that the car was speeding and hit the cycle and bike after which the driver hit his head on the windshield and the vehicle crashed into a pole, along with the cycle. Locals informed the police and the victims were rushed to a hospital where two of them were declared brought dead.Gaur was the sole earning member of his family and worked at a factory, said the police. His family has filed a complaint against the driver and a case of rash driving and negligence has been registered against him at Surajpur police station, the police said.The bodies were handed over to the family following the autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-killed-in-two-separate-accidents-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-bGv1vtJjR2viOtyx1CjJaM.html
24-07-2020||Noida||In a first, woman constables get active traffic duty in Noida||For the first time, Noida traffic department has deployed women traffic constables on active duty in the city from Friday.The district currently has 405 constables, including the six new women personnel who had volunteered to join the department.Out of the six, four would be trained under the supervision of a head constable, while the other two are currently on leave and will be deployed as soon as they rejoin.“I joined the police department nearly four years ago and came to the traffic department almost a year ago. All of us are working together and we are equipped for issuing fines also. Today, we were in the sectors 15A to 18 belt and depending on further instructions, we will continue with our assignments,” said 29-year-old Akshita Agarwal, one of the four constables engaged today.Sangeeta (27), Aruna (27), Priyanka (30), Neelam (34) and Antim (29) were the others who volunteered for the job.Senior traffic police officers said that, for now, the women traffic constables are deployed for a few hours during the morning and evening peak hour traffic before they are given a permanent assignment. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) for traffic Rajesh S said that the women were trained in traffic protocols during the lockdown.“We are planning to deploy them near the Indian Oil roundabout near sector 14, which is a comparatively less dense crossing, for now. These women will be an inspiration for others as well to take up the mantle. Afterwards we will move them to busier intersections like the Gaur chowk,” said DCP Rajesh.Officials are hopeful that the commuters would respect women officials more and that will help reduce the arguments between the traffic police and the public.“We have put in a request for more personnel and hopefully more female constables will be sent for active field duty,” said the DCP.The Noida traffic department currently has four traffic inspectors - one for each zone and one for the office, seven traffic sun-inspectors and 105 head constables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/in-a-first-woman-constables-get-active-traffic-duty-in-noida/story-T0oJxLav5ReDGkWq1Bu7aM.html
24-07-2020||City||Tenders floated for all weather swimming pool in Ludhian: Punjab cabinet minister||Reviewing the projects being taken up under the Smart City Mission at the MC’s Zone D office on Friday, Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said tenders worth Rs 5.79 crore for the all weather swimming pool project near Rakh Bagh have been issued and the work is expected to start shortly. The building of the swimming pool, which was established around two decades back, was lying in shambles. The meeting was also attended by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner, Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, MC Additional Commissioner-cum-CEO Ludhiana Smart City Ltd, Sanyam Aggarwal, besides several others.He said that all existing sports facilities would also be renovated and improved under the Smart City Mission. These include a new athletics synthetic track at Guru Nanak Stadium, development of basketball court and badminton courts at Shastri Hall and a table tennis stadium, Ashu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tenders-floated-for-all-weather-swimming-pool-in-ludhian-punjab-cabinet-minister/story-FXhDtThw94r42taPe9Gk4L.html
24-07-2020||Noida||Break in rain for two days, heavy rain likely next week, says IMD||After a wet week, the weather department on Friday predicted no rain for the weekend and a slight rise in temperature.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), monsoon activity will, however, return, with Noida, Ghaziabad and the rest of the National Capital Region likely to see moderate rainfall between July 27 and 29, with heavy rain predicted for Tuesday.On Friday, no rain was recorded in Noida and Ghaziabad. Weather analysts said the monsoon line of trough – a low that oscillates around Delhi and brings rains to the region – has shifted southwards.“The trough line has shifted southwards and is currently passing over Bikaner and Gwalior, so chances of rain for at least the next two days are very low. There is, however, the availability of moisture in the region and a cyclonic circulation is building up over south-west Uttar Pradesh. All of this can lead to very light drizzle over some small patches of NCR like Faridabad and Gurugram. But the chances are less,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD, said Friday, adding that these conditions may slightly increase the mercury.He however said that the region will again see monsoon rains next week, when the line of trough oscillates again.“The temperature may rise by a degree and hover around 36 degrees Celsius. However, the line of trough will oscillate again towards the north, passing over Delhi-NCR from Monday July 27, so the region will see good rainfall. July 28 may see heavy rainfall activities as well,” said Srivastava.On Friday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 35.4 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season’s average, against 34.6 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 26.1 degrees Celsius, same as a day earlier.Noida has so far seen moderate and heavy spells of rain over the last five days that covered about 3% of the overall seasonal rainfall deficit. The region has so far seen 15.5mm rainfall since June 1 till date, which is 91% in deficit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/break-in-rain-for-two-days-heavy-rain-likely-next-week-says-imd/story-tWkXS3yjzUoNizk21ksuCN.html
24-07-2020||City||Ludhiana police trace missing Delhi resident to Phagwara||The Ludhiana police on Friday handed over a Delhi resident, who had gone missing on June 10, to his relatives here, after the cops located him in Phagwara, around 40 km from here.As per the police, Rajinder Kumar (27) is suffering from depression. For around one and a half months, he kept roaming the villages and slept in the open till he was found.On June 13, a missing report for Rajinder was given by his cousin Sandeep Singh of Guru Nanak Nagar to the Dehlon police. Sandeep told police that Rajinder had visited him on June 2 and left for Delhi on June 10, but did not reach there. Following this, the police lodged an FIR under Section 346 of the IPC and initiated investigation.When the matter reached Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, he formed an SIT comprising additional deputy commissioner of police Dayama Harish Kumar Omparkash, assistant commissioner of police Mandeep Singh and inspector Sukhdev Singh.The ADCP said posters and pamphlets with pictures of the missing man were circulated across the state. On Friday, the police received information about the man and traced him to the Phagwara bus stand.Inspector Sukhdev Singh said Rakesh has depression and is availing treatment for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-trace-missing-delhi-resident-to-phagwara/story-3QRNIEfc23CzXMmlfyaNYJ.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Clear rubble from Laxmi Nagar demolition within 48 hours, HC orders east civic body||The Delhi high court directed the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) to clear the rubble from a demolition drive in east Laxmi Nagar market within the next 48 hours. The drive was conducted on July 6-8 displacing several families, on the orders of the high court. The court also said the onus of providing accommodation to displaced families was on the Delhi government, as over the years, officials of the public works department (PWD) or the road owing agency had either not been vigilant or had ignored the extensive encroachments.The east civic body had demolished 56 houses constructed on a service road of the Master Plan Road following a court order on clearing encroachments. On July 17, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had visited the spot and ordered that the people affected by the drive be immediately shifted to temporary shelters. He had also directed officials to begin an in-depth study of the high court and whether a court order for demolition can be issued in the times of a pandemic.Justice Najmi Waziri on Thursday said the Delhi government may consider appropriate measures for fixing responsibility, as a deterrence, while also noting that the photographs shown to the court show a huge amount of debris littering the street and pavement.“The purpose of the demolition of houses remains unserved -- i.e. to restore the public street to public use immediately. Let the EDMC clear the entire rubble within 48 hours,” the court said, while stating that an affidavit, along with photographs, be filed by the executive engineer of the EDMC before the next date of hearing.On Thursday, advocate Anurag Dhar Dubey, representing 15 petitioners, told the court that the life and health of the 121 displaced families are at stake. He contended that authorities carried out the demolition from July 6 to July 8 with absolute disregard to the plight of even those residents who were home quarantined on account of Covid-19. He said residents were treated in an inhumane manner and all their means of existence were destroyed.Appearing for the Delhi government, its additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan told the court that the displaced persons have been accommodated in a neighbourhood school. He said 50 families have already been shifted there and 50 more are expected to be shifted by Thursday or Friday.The court directed Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) and deputy commissioner, Delhi government, to ensure that requisite measures are in place to contain the spread of Covid-19 and provisions are made to ensure the health and well-being of displaced persons.However, the court clarified that the temporary arrangement is only for the next couple of weeks, until the petitioners find an alternative residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/clear-rubble-from-laxmi-nagar-demolition-within-48-hours-hc-orders-east-civic-body/story-rVLZkB9J04h42UXE5Z1msK.html
24-07-2020||City||DDA to discuss MPD-2041 with public||New Delhi: To ensure better citizen participation in the preparation of the Master Plan of Delhi-2041, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has launched an interactive microsite to facilitate its plans to hold online meetings with stakeholders in August and September.DDA officials said it will share all developments related to the master plan with the public and seek their views through the site, adding that the move comes because of the limitations imposed by the outbreak of Covid-19. “A public engagement calendar will be published shortly, so that we can hold meetings and interactions with all stakeholders such as resident welfare associations (RWA), industry and market associations, professional bodies, and others,” a senior DDA official said.To prepare the vision document, the land-owning agency has roped in the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA).The NIUA, which is an advisory body to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry, has already held meetings with focused groups that had experts from various fields, such as health, pollution, mobility, heritage, renewable energy, gender issues, urban design and planning, and others. The advisory body has completed work on the various chapters of the MDP-2041. The first step was to have focussed group discussions with experts, professionals and civil society groups on specific aspects of the plan.“The date and time of the public consultation meetings and events will be shared on the portal,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dda-to-discuss-mpd-2041-with-public/story-56sGq3KjwMID7F1wdRwHML.html
24-07-2020||Noida||Lotus buyers vote for Jaipuria Group to complete over 3,000 unfinished flats||Homebuyers of Lotus Panache and Lotus Boulevard have voted in favour of SMV Agencies Private Limited, also known as Jaipuria Group, for the construction of their pending 3,100 flats in the two delayed housing projects.According to the interim resolution professional (IRP) appointed by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Jaipuria got 85% of votes, while 15% votes went to Purvanchal Projects Limited in the online voting.NCLT had given its nod to start insolvency proceedings against 3C group’s subsidiary Granite Gate Properties, which was developing the two Lotus projects.In January last year, homebuyers had dragged the 3C group to NCLT which appointed Chandra Prakash an IRP in the case. The resolution professional has been trying to select a new developer, who can take over the two projects and deliver flats. Three realty firms -- SMV Agencies, Purvanchal Projects and UV Asset Reconstruction Limited --had submitted their respective bids with an intention to take over the stuck housing projects. In the online voting, UV Asset did not get any vote, said Prakash on Friday.“The Jaipuria’s resolution plan will be submitted to NCLT, which is likely to approve it in a month or so. Once the plan is approved, the two housing projects will be transferred to the new developer. The developer will finish these projects in 24 months,” said Prakash, the NCLT-appointed IRP.As per the resolution plan, Rs 350 crore will be required to finish the two projects and Rs 425 crore will be collected from the homebuyers.“The good part is that Rs 650 crore has to be recovered from the developer, who misused the funds collected from buyers,” said Prakash.In 41-acre Lotus Panache, while 1,200 flats have been delivered so far, around 2,800 units are yet to be finished. In 36-acre Lotus Boulevard, 3,000 buyers have shifted into their flats, while another 300 are yet to get theirs. Despite repeated attempts, officials of Jaipuria Group could not be contacted for comments.“If Jaipuria is finalised by NCLT, then it will be good for the project and the homebuyers because this company is already working in these projects as a contractor. The buyers will be able to get desired quality from this developer,” said Sahil Sehti, lawyer for the homebuyers.NCLT is likely to finish the handover process in the next six months. The homebuyers said that finally they will be able to see the work happening at the site after a long wait.“We have been suffering for the past 10 years due to the fault of the developer. Now, we hope that our flats will be delivered in 24 months,” said Amit Chauhan, president of Lotus Panache welfare association, a group of homebuyers. The 3C group’s subsidiary Granite Gate Properties had started developing these two projects in 2009-10 with a promise of delivery in 2013-14. “We are troubled but never lost hope and kept using legal route to get justice. Finally, we are on way to get the justice,” said Chauhan.In December 2018, the corporate insolvency proceedings were started against 3C group when its promoters were arrested for allegedly diverting funds collected from homebuyers to other projects. While they were released on bail, the cases against them remain pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/lotus-buyers-vote-for-jaipuria-group-to-complete-over-3-000-unfinished-flats/story-TNA8ksCWphbUynwvTlV3ZJ.html
24-07-2020||City||Ludhiana market body wants lockdown relaxation for Rakhi||In view of Raksha Bandhan, market associations in the district are demanding relaxations in the Sunday lockdown till August 3. The traders and sweet shop owners rue that the Sunday lockdown would play spoilsport for customers who want to purchase gift items, garments and sweets for the festival. Punjab Pradesh Beopar mandal state general secretary Sunil Mehra and district president Arvinder Singh Makkar said, “The market is already going through a slowdown. Traders were hoping the sales would pick up steam during Raksah Bandhan, but the Sunday lockdown will prove a hindrance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-market-body-wants-lockdown-relaxation-for-rakhi/story-FxmPFTX0ZZzxmRSbXFNAdO.html
24-07-2020||Gurugram||Shankar Chowk flyover to open in September||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has pushed back the opening of the Shankar Chowk flyover to the first week of September instead of August 15. Officials said that the non-availability of labour and the ban on construction during the lockdown delayed the project. The Shankar Chowk flyover project is part of ₹162 crore flyover and underpass project that is being developed by NHAI with contributions from GMDA and private developers. It will help commuters coming from Cyber Hub and DLF phase 3 to move towards Udyog Vihar and Delhi with ease. Recently, the authority had stopped work due to non-payment of funds by some stakeholders but officials said it had been resumed after GMDA released around ₹10 crore. Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI said that flyover would be opened for traffic in first week of September and work was in progress. “We will be able to complete the work by end of August now as construction was delayed due to lack of labour. We are also hoping the remaining contribution will also be paid soon,” said Sharma. Sourabh Singhal, NHAI consultant for the project said that only work of three top slabs is remaining in the flyover and it will be completed by August 10.”The rest of the work like connecting ramps and finish would also be completed by end of August,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/shankar-chowk-flyover-to-open-in-september/story-j3L7rL07cQyEirjK0zqmCJ.html
24-07-2020||Noida||Work to begin soon on ₹30 crore park dedicated to Indian scriptures, saints||The Noida Authority on Friday said it is likely to start work on a park in Sector 78, named ‘Vedvan’, which will be devoted to Indian scriptures and saints. This park will be home to newly-built group housings. Besides this, the authority is hiring agencies for other horticulture projects that include development of two wetlands and a small park, in a bid to beautify the city.“The Vedvan theme-based park is devoted to Indian scriptures and the saints who wrote these scriptures. The objective is to give residents or visitors an opportunity to understand old scriptures and how these writings can have a positive impact on our lives. The decision on which saints to be included is yet to be taken,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty (OSD) of the Noida authority, who is heading the horticulture department.Vedvan will have different varieties of medicinal plants and traditional Indian fruit bearing trees. “Families would be able to take children to these parks and educate them about spiritual and medicinal values of the trees,” said Singh.The authority has made a detailed project report of this project, which costs ₹30 crore.“We have made the DPR for this project. Now, the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi will vet this project as per rules. And subsequently, the authority will approve this project in its board meeting scheduled next month. Once this is done, we will float a tender to hire an agency to develop this unique park. We will start work at the site soon after these formalities are completed,” said Singh.The authority said it will take a month’s time to finish all formalities and float a tender.Meanwhile, the two wetlands to be developed by the authority are located in sectors 54 and 91, for which the budget is very small.“These wetlands will help in ground water conservation. Apart from this, we will develop a park on a budget of ₹6 crore in Sector 33A in front of the Shilp Haat. We will plant trees and beautify the barren land located in this sector,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/work-to-begin-soon-on-30-crore-park-dedicated-to-indian-scriptures-saints/story-hkIulGKymsM93Rqm47YgLK.html
24-07-2020||City||Ludhiana college shines in Panjab University BEd exams||As many as 12 students of BCM College of Education bagged top positions in the BEd special education first and third semester exams declared by the Panjab University on Thursday. In the first semester, the college secured first, second, third, sixth, eighth and ninth positions. In third semester, they bagged first, second, third, seventh, eighth and tenth positions in the varsity. In semester 1 , Prerna Sharma topped in the varsity with 81.50% . The second position was secured by Deepamala Yadav with 81.25% while the third position was clinched by Roma with 80.75% . The sixth and eighth positions were bagged by Mukesh and Simranjit Kaur who scored 72.50% and 72% respectively. The ninth position was secured by Simranjeet Kaur with 71.75 % . In semester 3 exams, Priya Arora topped Panjab University with 82.34 % . The second position was bagged by Chakshu Sharma with 79.66% marks. The third position was clinched by Shyamli Arora with 79.31% marks. Prabhleen Kaur stood sixth with 75.72%.Pallavi Garg and Chahat Bansal secured eighth position in the varsity with 75.10% marks. Richa Mittal bagged the tenth position and scored 74.41% marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-college-shines-in-panjab-university-bed-exams/story-dpI1pbUONVsDS18dHgfP6N.html
24-07-2020||Gurugram||Jail inmate tries to kill self after testing positive for Covid-19||A 27-year-old jail inmate, who was arrested in a cheating case, allegedly attempted to take his life after he tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday at the Civil Hospital. The police said he was rushed to PGIMS Rohtak, where his condition is said to be stable.According to the police, the inmate, who was arrested and booked under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 14 police station recently, was lodged in Bhondsi Jail. On Wednesday, he experienced fever and after a check-up in jail, he was taken to Sector 10 Civil Hospital, where he was admitted for treatment. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “His samples were taken and on Thursday evening, he was informed that he had tested positive for Covid-19. He was admitted in the prisoner ward at the time. After hearing the results of the tests, he panicked and tried to kill himself but the police officials deputed outside rescued him. He was taken to PGIMS in Rohtak, where his condition is stable.”The police said the inmate will be booked under Section of 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 10 A police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/jail-inmate-tries-to-kill-self-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19/story-Ru7hevqCMzQkg93fcDxnPL.html
24-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Plasma bank to be ready soon; finding donors remains a challenge||The district’s own dedicated plasma bank will become operational in the next three to four days, officials from the health department and district administration said on Friday. They added that similar facilities are already operational at PGIMS Rohtak and ESI Hospital in Faridabad. The move, they said, would ease the challenge of finding donors — or patients who have recovered from Covid-19 — who are willing to provide plasma for the treatment of critical and moderately ill patients in Gurugram. Responding to a question at a press conference on Friday, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said, “A website has been built to facilitate the functioning of the plasma bank. The district administration has also been working on finding donors. In the next three to four days, we are hoping to start the facility.” Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, added, “We have prepared a database of recovered patients and are reaching out to them for plasma donation.”Shubhi Kesarwani, officer-in-charge of the project, however, said that volunteers are seeing a poor ‘conversion rate’, despite reaching out to several hundreds of recovered patients, urging them to come forward and donate plasma. “We have prepared a data base of over 4,000 recovered patients, and Red Cross volunteers are busy calling them up, one by one. So far, we have seen a poor response. There is a lot of apprehension among recovered patients and most of them cleanly refuse to donate. So far, we only have around 50 consenting donors,” Kesarwani said.While officials were reluctant to point to one singular reason as to why people are refusing to donate, they said that it is likely due to a fear of revisiting hospitals and medical centres, particularly after having endured the ordeal of recovery. They also said that stigma associated around the illness could very well be holding back the search for donors.Once launched, Gurugram’s plasma bank will be the third such facility in Haryana, after Rohtak and Faridabad. Health minister Anil Vij, on Thursday, had inaugurated a plasma bank at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak, which has also been carrying out an independent clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma therapy in treating moderately ill patients. So far, as part of the trial, PGIMS Rohtak has administered plasma therapy to at least 10 patients, of whom three have been discharged, one patient has died, two are not responding well, and one more patient is responding relatively better. The status of the other three patients could not be verified. A doctor at PGIMS, Rohtak, who was closely involved in the trial and requested anonymity, said, “We have administered plasma therapy to 10 patients, and the results are not very promising. But then, the sample size is also small. Plasma therapy as a useful modality still needs supporting evidence, but in the absence of other treatments, the ICMR and the Indian government are allowing it as compassionate or off-label use.”The doctor was of the opinion that Gurugram, though well-equipped to administer plasma therapy, would continue to face challenges in finding consenting donors. “We have faced this same issue in Rohtak, and it is the same scenario across the country,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-plasma-bank-to-be-ready-soon-finding-donors-remains-a-challenge/story-FiSycrlOVMcd5qsgpfTvLL.html
24-07-2020||City||No headway in Vikram Tyagi disappearance case, SHO sent to police lines||The Ghaziabad police Friday transferred to police lines the station house officer (SHO) of Sihani Gate after senior officers, during a review, found that in the past month and a half, several major crimes -- car robbery, kidnapping and snatching -- have taken place in his jurisdiction and no headway was made in any of the pending cases. One of the major pending cases is related to the kidnapping of 36-year-old project manager of a construction company, Vikram Tyagi, who went missing on the night of June 26. Nearly a month after Tyagi went missing, the Ghaziabad police is yet to crack the case and the police brass have now roped in the UP special task force (UP-STF) to conduct a parallel investigation in the case. “The SHO of Sihani Gate police station was sent to police lines on account of lax supervision even after several crime incidents took place. On our part, we have investigated every possible angle in the Tyagi case and we will continue with the investigation. The STF has been roped in and their dedicated teams will work to solve the case now. So far, there is no ransom call and no body has been found. The blood found in Tyagi’s car was his, as per forensic reports,” Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city), said. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kalanidhi Naithani did not respond to repeated calls seeking his response on the issue. Tyagi, on the night of June 26, was on way home to Raj Nagar Extension in his Innova Crysta when he went missing. His phone came as “switched off” after 7.45pm when his family tried reaching him and, following a hectic search for him, they filed a complaint with the police. The police registered a case under kidnapping and started investigations. The day after he went missing, Tyagi’s car was found in Muzaffarnagar, about 100km from Ghaziabad, with bloodstains inside and some damage to the rear of the car, which suggested that something has rammed the SUV. The bloodstains were found on the middle seats of the SUV and its registration plates were missing, the police said. The police said they have also come to know that two men were spotted in the car at a checkpoint near Khatauli in Muzaffarnagar district the night before the car was recovered. “Several of our teams were roped in. We scanned dozens of CCTV camera footage from checkpoints at toll plazas and other places. A hectic search was launched to trace the man but we are still clueless. At present, we are treating it as a case of kidnapping but we have no ransom call or a body,” Mishra said. RK Mishra, deputy superintendent of police (STF), said he received directions on assisting with the investigation five days ago. “Dedicated teams from Noida and Meerut units will begin investigation in the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-headway-in-vikram-tyagi-disappearance-case-sho-sent-to-police-lines/story-PHq228qvTWn43y4XGwaE9O.html
24-07-2020||City||In past two days, only 23 qualify for home isolation in Ghaziabad||Two days since Ghaziabad prepared itself to offer home isolation for asymptomatic patients, only 23 patients were found to be eligible for it. District officials said that the patients were asked to submit an undertaking promising to follow home isolation guidelines.With rising cases, the Uttar Pradesh government on July 20 had allowed asymptomatic infected people to isolate themselves at their home thereby reducing the strain on the health infrastructure.The district set up nine rapid response teams at the Covid control room and got in touch with about 200 such people till now, apart from keeping in regular contact with all positive patients daily.“So far 23 positive cases were found eligible for home isolation and 16 consented. It is too early to say how many patients will be eligible for home isolation, but we will be able to get an estimate within a week,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “In the meantime our teams will get in touch with all positive patients to know whether they will opt for home isolation or not.”The conditions for home isolation include the undertaking from the patient, a consulting doctor to declare the patient asymptomatic, round-the-clock availability of a caregiver for the patient, a minimum of two toilets at home and separate isolation room. Patients will also have to purchase medical kits equipped with pulse oximeter, thermometer, mask, gloves, among others. In their revised guidelines issued on Tuesday night, the UP government said that asymptomatic patients in home isolation will be considered as recovered if they do not show any symptoms for 10 days. “Those who were not willing for home isolation considered the potential risk to their family, while there were others who did not have the facilities as mandated by the guidelines. So, we are keeping track of all possibilities and also focussing in early treatment and early discharge of patients from our Covid facilities as per the revised discharge guidelines,” he added. According to official estimates, the asymptomatic patients account for about 70% share in total cases in the district. “As per the latest guidelines, the asymptomatic patient can be discharged from the 10th day of their sample. Earlier, it was on the 10th day from the date of admission to a Covid hospital. So, there was a gap of about 2-3 days which has now been reduced due to delay in receiving test reports. So, asymptomatic patients can be discharged faster,” said an officer from the health department who wished not be named. “Now with rapid antigen tests, the reports are received within an hour and we have made sure that patient is admitted maximum within 12 hours of his test/sample.”Between June 21 and July 21, the district discharged about 2,351 patients. With the latest guidelines, 688 patients were discharged in just three days till July 24.“With active systems in place now and control room working in integrated manner, we have been able to upload 86% of our contact tracing data of patients to our portal. With home isolation in place, we are also scaling up the monitoring of patients at home besides taking care of timely discharge of asymptomatic patients from our Covid facilities,” Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-past-two-days-only-23-qualify-for-home-isolation-in-ghaziabad/story-ZQXugzsyUPC8NDDI9hrUmK.html
24-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Senior citizens least tested group despite being most vulnerable||Even though they are recognised as a high-risk group, those above the age of 60 had been tested the least for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)in Ghaziabad district till date, according to district health data. They also showed the highest test positivity among the age groups. According to the records maintained by the district health department, out of the total 78, 659 samples sent for testing till July 24 afternoon, the share of elderly (60+) tested was 5.37 %. Out of the total 4,277 senior citizens tested so far, at least 428 have tested positive-- a positivity rate of 10.13%. According to the data, those between the age group of 21-40 years have been tested the most at 55.58% (43,717 samples); with a total of 2,068 cases, the TPR—– the proportion of people testing positive to those tested expressed in percentage – for this age group stands at 4.73%. The second most tested people are those in the 41-60 years age group; out of 17,988 tested (22.87 % of total tests), 1,415 have tested positive with a TPR of 7.87%. They are followed by those between 11-20 years of age: out of the total 8,174 tested (10.39% of total tests), 366 have tested positive (TPR 4.48%). Children have the lowest TPR of 3.76; 4,553 (5.79 % of total tests) in the age group of 0-10 years have been tested, out of which 171 have turned positive.The district administration said it plans to ramp testing for senior citizens during the door-to-door surveillance exercise that will start from Saturday on the orders of the chief minister.“Other age groups have been tested more as younger people generally move around more when compared to the elderly who prefer to be at home and follow social distancing. The chief minister on Friday has asked for door-to-door survey activities to be taken up in seven cities, including Ghaziabad, and we have directed our surveillance teams to trace cases of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and test more senior citizens,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.Experts said that with more testing for senior citizens shall also see a decline in positivity rate.“The senior citizens have been tested the least and only in cases where a family member had positive or they have come in contact with an infected person. The test positivity rate is high as only selected cases were being tested. Once testing expands, the positivity will decline like in other age groups,” said DR VB Jindal, president (Ghaziabad chapter), Indian Medical Association.Residents also want more senior citizens to be tested. “Since the outbreak of Covid-19, senior citizens have been considered as a high-risk group and the majority of them are confined to homes and are taking precautions. As many among the elderly choose to be at home, maybe that is why there were tested less. If the health department deploys some mobile testing vans, we can expect more senior citizens to be tested,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi apartments’ resident’s welfare association.Of the total tests, rapid antigen kits were used to test about 41,859 samples, while the share of tests done through RT-PCR testing (real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) is about 35, 243. The rest, 1,557 tests were conducted through TrueNat machines.“For the first four months, till June 24 we could conduct only about 600,000 tests. However, in the next one month (till July 24), 1.1 million more tests were done and the increase in testing is helping us out in early detection of case and subsequent early treatment,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health).Meanwhile, the chief minister has directed for 100,000 daily tests in the state.“The CM has directed that districts with a population over 3 million will conduct 2,000 rapid tests per day while others will take up 1,000 rapid tests per day. The CM has also directed for door-to-door survey in seven districts like Kanpur city, Lucknow, Ghaziabad, and Ballia among others,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-senior-citizens-least-tested-group-despite-being-most-vulnerable/story-rcCjbjITp6Cp6yZjqgHE3M.html
24-07-2020||Noida||Two booked for raping 14-year-old neighbour||Two youths in their early twenties were booked by the police for allegedly sedating and gangraping their 14-year-old neighbour in a village in Rabupura area on Thursday.The police are on the lookout for the two suspects. According to the complaint lodged by the girl’s family, the alleged incident took place on Thursday night when the girl was on her way home after delivering some milk at her brother’s house who lives in the same neighbourhood. She had been missing for a few hours after which her family started searching for her. “When she didn’t come back home for a while, we started looking for her. Around 8pm, we found her in a semi-conscious state on a deserted stretch near some agricultural fields in the village. She later recounted the whole ordeal to us,” said the girl’s father in the police complaint. Police officers said that in her statement the girl alleged that when she was on her way home, the two suspects—one of whom was also well known to the family—pulled her into in a deserted alley near the fields, sedated her and then raped her after which they fled leaving her in a semi-conscious state. A medical examination has been ordered for the girl, they added.“Based on the family’s complaint which came today morning (Friday), a case has been registered against the two suspects under section 376D (gangrape) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. A medical examination has been ordered for the girl and the report is awaited,” said Vineet Kumar, station house officer, Rabupura police station.“Both the suspects are on the run at the moment and a search is on for them. Three teams have been dispatched to all of their known hangouts, and we are also speaking to their families. We will arrest them soon,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-booked-for-raping-14-year-old-neighbour/story-HbI9d889OnnZ2qmhmzkkuI.html
24-07-2020||City||Ludhiana vet varsity organises e-brainstorming session for dairy farmers||A national online brainstorming session on ‘Pre-Mid-Post Covid-19 Challenges of Dairy Farmers/ Entrepreneurs’ was organised by the dairy technology department of College of Dairy Science and Technology at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu), here on Friday.This session was part of Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana project titled ‘Enhancing profitability of farmers through value addition and entrepreneurship development’.It was organised under the leadership of research director Dr JPS Gill, and college dean Dr SK Uppal.Total 16 farmers from four states, including Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu, and nine subject matter specialists from Punjab, Haryana, Bihar and Gujarat attended the session.The session began with an introductory address by dairy technology and organising secretary head Dr S Sivakumar. The discussions were coordinated by Dr Sunil Kumar, Dr Rekha Chawla and Venus Bansal.The dairy farmers also asked their queries related to manufacturing of milk products, extension of their shelf-life, e-portal sale, functional foods, etc.Dr Atanu Jana from SMC College of Dairy Science in Anand (Gujarat), Dr Sanjeev Kumar of Bihar Animal Sciences University and Gadvasu experts cleared the farmers’ doubts and also highlighted and introduced new variants of products in the Covid-19 scenario.Dr K Ponnusamy from ICAR-NDRI, Karnal, answered the queries related to creation of self-help groups.The discussion over livestock management practices and nutrition strategies to avoid thermal shock was delivered by Dr Sandeep Kaswan and Dr Jaswinder Singh respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-vet-varsity-organises-e-brainstorming-session-for-dairy-farmers/story-rUSLo6EztiPfnI990UnTiM.html
24-07-2020||City||Ludhiana records 100+ cases for third day in row||The city recorded one death and 105 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the count to 2,275. It is for the third consecutive day that the city has recorded 100-plus new cases. It currently has 707 active cases.The deceased is a 62- year-old man from Ghumar Mandi, who died at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The city’s death toll now stands at 51.Among the fresh cases are 12 employees of the stressed asset recovery branch (SARB) of State Bank of India (SBI), two health care workers of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and a staff employee from CMC Dental College.Four cases were reported in Rajguru Nagar, three from Raghunath Enclave at Barewal and Oswal Colony in Giaspura respectively.As many as nine cops, all male, aged between 29 and 51 were also found infected.The nine cops, all constable and head constable rank personnel, had been deployed at nakas to check Covid-19 violations. This comes a day after a 54-year-old driver, a 33-year-old naib reader and of ADCP-III Gurpreet Purewal had tested positive.BJP DISTRICT GEN SECY FOUND INFECTEDBharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s district unit general secretary Sunil Modgil, 50, has also tested positive. He is the second saffron party leader in the city to catch the virus. Earlier, Gurdev Sharma Debi, who was suffering from cough, cold and fever for nearly a week, tested positive, following which he was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) on July 19. BJP spokesperson Satish said that all party offices in the state will remain closed till July 31 amid the outbreak. On Thursday, Congress leader Kamaljit Singh Karwal had also tested positive for the virus. Besides, Congress councillor from ward 88 Manpreet Singh Mani and former youth Congress district president Rajiv Raja are also battling the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-records-100-cases-for-third-day-in-row/story-5B3KDaFjdF7z1V6PQ72NvM.html
24-07-2020||Gurugram||In two weeks of lockdown, 128 illegal registries done: RTI reply||Over 120 property registrations were carried out in Gurugram without a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the department of town and country planning during a part of the Covid-19 induced lockdown period between April 20 and May 4, according to a reply to a Right to Information (RTI) request.The issue of such illegal registrations, that violated section 7A of the Haryana development and regulation of urban areas Act, 1975, is not new and has been repeatedly raised by the department of town and country planning (DTCP). The rules state that for registration of agricultural land less than two kanals, its owners had to take an NOC from the DTCP before a sale. Following similar allegations in other parts of the state, the Haryana government had banned the registration of property deeds from July 22 to August 17 starting that it wanted to introduce a robust system to curb such malpractices. The RTI was filed by city-based activist Ramesh Yadav. The reply from the district revenue department was provided on July 23. “Taking advantage of the lockdown, a sizeable number of property deeds of agricultural land in controlled area were registered by the revenue authorities across the district, he said. “Such violations have been carried out across the state during the lockdown and the matter should be probed in detail.”The RTI reply stated that 128 such registrations had happened between April 20 and May 4, the period for which the request was filed. Two registries were carried out in Chauma village, 74 in Sohna tehsil, two in Wazirpur tehsil, 10 in Qadipur tehsil, 10 in Harsaru and 30 in Badshahpur tehsil between April 20 and May 4. Yadav says that a scrutiny of records after May 4 will throw up a lot more of such registries, which will boost unauthorized colonization in the city. “Agricultural and whatever is not licensed has been sold as small plots and registered by revenue authorities. I have repeatedly written letters to the government in this regard but the action of banning registries has come too late,” he said. Last month, the director, town and country planning had also written to the district revenue authorities regarding rampant registration of property deeds of small plots without NOC. Following that, the Gurugram deputy commissioner had issued directions and attached DTCP officials with tehsils and sub-tehsils to work in coordination with revenue officials and prevent such registries.Makrand Pandurang, director, DTCP, said that the department had raised the issue several times with the local authorities. “The illegal registration leads to development of unauthorised colonies where people live in poor civic conditions as it has no infrastructure. The government also loses lot of revenue in terms of development fees. This needs to be strictly curbed and the new system is likely to ensure this once it is implemented,” said Pandurang. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, who is also the head of revenue department, said that the issue was being probed. “Employees who have carried out such violations are liable for disciplinary action and punishment will be given as per the civil services rules,” said Khatri. “A more robust and dynamic property registration system will be implemented and it will reduce the human intervention to the minimum.” Basti Ram, district revenue officer, did not respond to repeated phone calls and messages seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/in-two-weeks-of-lockdown-128-illegal-registries-done-rti-reply/story-jLxdlh36HYyzwvYKkYJKsL.html
24-07-2020||Gurugram||Recent spate of crimes, internet calls: What led sleuths to Bhondsi Jail DSP||A day after the deputy jail superintendent (DJS) of Bhondsi Jail was arrested in a raid for allegedly supplying mobile phone SIM cards and narcotics to inmates in jail, the police on Friday said the arrest of the DSJ and his aide was facilitated by an investigation launched by the police, after a spate of recent crimes in Sohna, Pataudi and Rewari areas revealed that jail inmates were increasingly using mobile phones to give directions to their aides outside to plan and execute crimes. On Thursday, DJS Dharmbir Chautala and his alleged associate, Ravi alias Goldy, were arrested after a raid during which 11 4G SIM cards and 230 grams of charas (a type of cannabis) were allegedly recovered from the jail superintendent’s house. A preliminary probe had found that Ravi, who was earlier arrested for drug-peddling, used to allegedly source the contraband and supply it to Chautala, who then sneaked it into the jail and charged ₹20,000 for a 4G SIM and ₹5000 for a packet of 5 grams of charas from inmates. A senior police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that in recent crimes, a pattern was noticed about communication from jail between inmates and some suspects, which led the police to investigate the link. During the probe, it was found that the DJS was involved in supplying the SIM cards and other contraband items to jail inmates. Some recent incidents of crime further deepened the suspicion of the police. “On June 26, a brick kiln owner was shot dead in Sohna by three men, who had arrived in an Alto car. The police arrested the Alto car owner, who told the police that he had received a WhatsApp call from an associate in jail, who told him to provide his car to the inmate’s cousin for the crime. In another recent double murder case in Rewari, a criminal lodged in Bhondsi jail had told his henchmen to execute the crime. In Pataudi, a gangster had made an extortion call from a jail. The crime branch investigated the common link of gangsters increasingly using WhatsApp or voice-over internet protocol calls to run their network which led to the trail,” said the senior police official, adding that senior jail officials are exempted from routine checking, which might have helped the DJS to allegedly sneak in contraband items. On Friday, a crime team of city police questioned several inmates, who were allegedly in touch with the accused deputy jail superintendent, about the alleged nexus. At least two SIM cards and 12 mobile phones were recovered from the inmates after a search operation. Another police official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Several gangsters run their extortion rackets from jail premises using phones. Kaushal, who was arrested last year, had told investigators that his henchmen, who were lodged in Bhondsi Jail, ‘ran his book’ from the jail. From cigarettes and mobile phones to drugs, everything is smuggled and sold at inflated prices in the jail.”Sandeep Malik, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sohna, whose team led the raid on Thursday, said, “ During preliminary questioning, the accused DSJ had confessed to supplying sulpha on one or two occasions. He has revealed the names of certain inmates to whom he had supplied mobile phones. His associate Ravi was earlier arrested. During his arrest, he came in touch with DJS Chautala. Ravi was aware of the network of certain criminals outside the jail and used to supply drugs, phone and other contraband items for them. He later started supplying items to Chautala, who charged hefty sums from inmates.”The accused men, Chautala and Ravi, were produced in a district court on Friday and sent to judicial custody in Bhondsi Jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/recent-spate-of-crimes-internet-calls-what-led-sleuths-to-bhondsi-jail-dsp/story-pYwwywVsjleBx6LXkvdJOP.html
24-07-2020||City||Ludhiana BJP unit stages sit-in against power tariff hike in Punjab||The district unit of BJP on Friday staged a sit-in protest outside the office of electricity board chief engineer against not waiving the fixed charges on industrial connections and hike in domestic power tariff in the state.The protesters also submitted a memorandum to the chief engineer in this regard.BJP district president Pushpinder Singhal said the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government has backtracked from its announcement, which shows that it is not serious about the problems of people and industries in Punjab.Singhal alleged that the state government also increased the charges on domestic electricity supply by tweaking some regulations. He said the government did not withdraw fixed expenditure incurred on electricity bills of industrial consumption medium supply and large supply connections from March 22 to May 22, despite industrialists’ requests.Since the shutdown of industrial units was not voluntary, but done in compliance of official orders, it becomes the responsibility of the government to waive the fixed power expenses, he demanded.“It is a matter of great sorrow and shame that the elected representative of the state is trying to rob people by adopting such tactics. Industries in Punjab are not in a position to pay these charges,” stressed Singhal.BJP district media chief Satish Kumar and district vice-president Yogendra Makol among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-bjp-unit-stages-sit-in-against-power-tariff-hike-in-punjab/story-Z55f4LPQaZczUQC3VCaduK.html
24-07-2020||Gurugram||To resume operations, firms mass test employees in violation of norms||The Gurugram health department on Friday said they have come across private companies and factories conducting mass Covid-19 testing of their employees even if they were asymptomatic, a practice not permitted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The guidelines for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing state that in case of asymptomatic patients, only those who have been in direct contact or are high risk contact of an already confirmed Covid-19 case can give their samples for coronavirus testing. Their samples have to be collected on the fifth and 10th day after coming in contact with a confirmed case. “As per the ICMR guidelines, mass sampling for Covid-19 is not permitted,” said Dr. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. “It has, however, come to the notice of the health department and private labs that factories and companies want all deployed employees to be tested, even if they are asymptomatic,” he said.After 68 days of lockdwon, factories and companies have resumed operations in many parts of the city. However, with the threat of coronavirus infection still large, many have wanted to get their employees tested quickly.Some tied up with private labs to conduct mass testing of their employees. Many who tested positive left the city without information the district officials. “Mass sampling is currently not happening but there have been incidents in the past where such cases have come to notice,” said Yadav.The department has not taken any action against any private lab or company yet.Currently, private labs in Gurugram are collecting 400-500 samples every day. Labs can conduct mass testing, also called pool testing, of all those showing symptoms and those who came in contact with a positive case or are within a containment zone or hot spot area. To ramp up testing, the Union ministry of health and family welfare, in the first week of June, allowed private labs to test for the disease on the prescription of any registered practitioner.“The Centre has strongly advised states/UTs to take immediate steps to facilitate testing at the earliest by enabling all qualified medical practitioners, including private practitioners, to prescribe Covid test to any individual fulfilling the criteria for testing as per the ICMR,” reads the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/to-resume-operations-firms-mass-test-employees-in-violation-of-norms/story-vvYDmPfZOUUo4c2LTACkmJ.html
24-07-2020||Gurugram||MCG increases its target of planting saplings by three times||Following an overwhelming response from the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of the city, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has now increased its target for planting saplings this monsoon season by almost three times. Prior to the start of its plantation drive on June 27, the MCG had initially set a target of planting 40,000 saplings by the end of the monsoon season. However, officials said, so far, 275 RWAs have registered for the drive, thereby raising the total demand of saplings to 1.2 lakh or almost three times the original target. As a part of the drive, which is being carried out every weekend until the city stops receiving rain, the MCG is providing saplings to the RWAs free of cost. Members of the RWA and officials of the MCG then plant sapling together at a designated point either within the residential area or at vacant land outside the premises. This is the first time that the MCG has initiated a plantation drive on such a large scale. As per MCG officials, the rationale behind this drive is to increase the diminishing green cover of the city. According to a 2019 Forest Survey of India (FSI) report, only 9.2% of Gurugram’s total geographical area is under forest cover In 2017, the same was 9.3%.“We did not expect such a big turnout from the RWAs in the city. As such, initially, we only kept a target of planting 40,000 saplings These saplings have been developed in our own nurseries and are being distributed among the RWAs. We have arranged for more saplings from the forest department and will try our best to distribute as many saplings as possible before the monsoon season ends. Our objective this year is not only to increase the city’s green cover but to also to ensure that the saplings survive,” said Devendra Bhadana, executive engineer, MCG, horticulture wing.Bhadana said that the MCG will also be keeping a record of all the saplings that were planted this monsoon to ensure that they are properly monitored and have a high survival rate.“One of the problems we faced in the past was that after saplings were planted, no proper follow-up was carried out. As a result, a majority of the saplings perished. We now want to ensure our efforts don’t go to waste. By assigning the responsibility of maintaining the saplings to the local RWAs, and by keeping a log of the total number of saplings planted, the type of sapling planted, and the area where it was done, we can keep a constant check on its condition,” said Bhadana.As per MCG officials, with the help of 120 RWAs out of those who have registered, the civic body has so far planted more than 20,000 saplings across the city so far. Some of the sapling planted by the MCG include gulmohar (royal poinciana), simal (bombax ceiba), kachnar, babool (gum arabic tree), and peepal (sacred fig). The MCG is also asking RWAs to donate old, broken or discarded tiles, bottles, crockery, CDs, jute materials, old clothes, metal objects, tyres, glass, plastic and wooden crates so that they can recycle them and make objects, such as face masks, tyres, wooden pots, decorated bottles and tile pieces. Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson Qutub Enclave RWA, said,“Last week we planted 10,000 saplings in our private colony. Since then, more residents have come forward demanding saplings. We will be asking MCG for another round of plant saplings in two weeks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-increases-its-target-of-planting-saplings-by-three-times/story-94ZhFj0HwlTPgEAEbgpIDI.html
24-07-2020||City||Online session on holistic living held at PU’s regional centre in Ludhiana||An online session on ‘Holistic view of life: Health, beauty, happiness and much more’ was organised at the University Institute of Laws, Panjab University Regional Centre (PURC), Ludhiana, on Friday.The keynote speaker on the occasion was Pooja Gandhi, a practising yogini and R&D manager in an MNC.The session commenced with a welcome and formal introduction of the speaker by PURC director Prof Ravi Inder Singh and convener Meera Nagpal respectively.While interacting with the young minds, Gandhi discussed how one can improve our physical and mental well-being without any expensive equipment, gadgets or courses. She covered a variety of topics from building one’s immunity during Covid-19 to fitness and importance of exercising daily. She also talked about some practices that can help individuals lead a healthy and happy life.Gandhi highlighted how different yogasanas and pranayamas can cure and prevent lifestyle disorders such as constipation, stress, depression, PCOS/PCOD, thyroid, diabetes and addictions etc. She also shared some natural beauty hacks for the students, besides interesting facts like one amla has more Vitamin C than 20 oranges, taking hot and cold baths alternatively is a perfect anti-aging formula, etc.The session was concluded with an interactive and engaging question-answer round.Kritika Kochhar, a BA LLB third year student, said, “The session was quite inspiring and I found the health and beauty tips very resourceful and worth trying.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-session-on-holistic-living-held-at-pu-s-regional-centre-in-ludhiana/story-1T54mfz9cA1uS0fBKBJ8jK.html
24-07-2020||City||Already spent Rs 300 crore on covid care and migrants: CM on SAD charge||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has hit out at the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for questioning the government on Rs 64 crore reserves in the CM Relief Fund for Covid Support. “The source of financing covid-related expenditure is totally irrelevant. My government has already spent Rs 300 crores on providing Covid care and related expenses. We have done much more,” he said, adding, “The CM Relief Fund being questioned by the SAD has been set aside by my government for emergency purposes, to be used as and when needed.” The SAD had questioned the government on only Rs 2.28 crore being spent out of CM Relief Fund. “If the Akalis were at all concerned about covid care in the state, they should ask the Centre why they had failed to support the Punjab government in this critical time,” said the CMHe added Rs 64 crore that the CM fund had was drop in the ocean compared to crores of rupees already spent by his government on infrastructure upgrade, setting up of Covid Care Centres, roping in additional medical and para-medical staff, purchase of PPE kits and other essential equipment. In addition, the state government had spent Rs 29.5 crore on enabling 5.2 lakh migrant workers to go back to their home states via 398 Shramik Special Trains, the CM added. He also added crores had been spend on food and essential supplies to the poor and marginalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/already-spent-rs-300-crore-on-covid-care-and-migrants-cm-on-sad-charge/story-9usNlDEcPw7cCJfkirvvAI.html
24-07-2020||City||Ambala man arrested for allegedly conducting gender test||In a joint operation, health department officials of Ambala and Yamunanagar on Friday conducted a raid at an Ultrasound Centre near Tangri River on Jagadhari road here and arrested a man for carrying out sex determination tests.The agent was allegedly acting as a middleman and violating the rules of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC-PNDT) Act. The police also seized a machine and ₹20,000 in cash from the accused who will be presented before a local court on Saturday.As per details, the Yamunanagar health department intimated their counterpart in Ambala about the act and a joint raid was conducted to nab the accused.“We were told that the tout is coming to Ambala to carry out an illegal gender determination. The officials had then sent a decoy customer with whom a deal of 30,000 was struck. The tout was nabbed by the police,” said Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh.“The records of the centre are being checked. If any violation comes to the fore, doctors will be suspended and their licence could be cancelled or an FIR can be lodged against them too,” he added.Station in-charge of Mahesh Nagar police station Inspector Jaswant Singh said, “The accused identified as Neeraj of Dulyani village in Mullana area has been arrested with ₹20,000. We’ve also sealed a machine and lodged an FIR under the PC-PNDT Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-man-arrested-for-allegedly-conducting-gender-test/story-P57sfYF4YQQgj7g63J7bLJ.html
24-07-2020||City||Do not insist on details of mentally ill for Covid test: HC to ICMR||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Friday said mobile number, government-issued identity card, photographs or even a residential proof should not be insisted upon for Covid-19 test of mentally ill homeless persons and asked the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to come out with a clarification in this regard.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said ICMR should issue a clarification by way of a circular or an official order that the identity proof, address proof and mobile number are not required for testing mentally ill homeless persons.“Guidelines have to be given by you (ICMR). You put it in black and white for the states’ benefit. You only need to clarify in two-three lines that mobile number, address proof and identity cards are not required for testing mentally ill homeless persons,” it said.Earlier, on June 19, the ICMR had issued an advisory that every person who was to be tested for Covid-19 has to provide a government-issued identity proof and should have a valid phone number for tracing and tracking the individual and his/her contacts. The bench was hearing a PIL moved by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal seeking directions to ICMR and Delhi government to issue guidelines for Covid-19 testing of mentally ill homeless persons in the capital.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma, appearing for ICMR, sought time to take instructions from the government regarding the observations made by the bench.The high court, thereafter, listed the matter for further hearing on August 7.The high court on July 9 had asked ICMR to consider the plight of the mentally ill homeless persons and see if they can be tested without insisting upon a mobile number, government identity card and residential address proof.In response, ICMR had filed an affidavit, stating that government identity card and telephone number was sought to ensure proper tracing and treatment of positive cases and their contacts as “Test/Track/Treat” is the best strategy to control the Covid-19 pandemic. It said since health was a state subject, the state health authority concerned may consider adopting a suitable protocol to ensure the strategy of “Test/Track/Treat” is followed and the grievance raised in the PIL is addressed.The plea had said the Delhi government had not taken seriously the lack of guidelines on Covid-19 testing of mentally ill homeless persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/do-not-insist-on-details-of-mentally-ill-for-covid-test-hc-to-icmr/story-XHPWhZ3DCmn8JZeKBuhzeN.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||How prepared are common service centres for varsity final-year exams, asks HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought to know how prepared the Common Service (CSE) centres were. The centres were set up to facilitate the exams of Delhi University’s final-year students who lacked the infrastructure to appear for online Open Book Exams (OBE). The high court simultaneously posted the pleas challenging the University Grants Commission’s direction to conduct the exams for a later date after it was informed that the Supreme Court would be hearing similar matters.Justice Pratibha M Singh, during the hearing, also issued a notice to the owner of CSE Academy to appear on July 27 and inform the court about the preparedness of the centres for both mock tests and main exams. CSE Academy has been engaged by the Ministry of Electronics and Technology and has an agreement with the Delhi University.Justice Prathiba M Singh also asked the academy owner to provide the list of centres where the Delhi University final exams will be held. She also asked senior advocate Sachin Datta (ADVOCATE FOR WHOM?) to find out whether a private party or organisation has also been engaged to help conduct the exams.The high court was hearing a plea challenging Delhi University’s decision to hold OBE, as per the UGC guidelines, for final-year undergraduate students.At the outset of the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was representing the University Grants Commission (UGC), told the court that various petitions challenging the UGC guidelines for final-year exams in central universities had been listed before the Supreme Court on Thursday and were likely to be listed again on July 27.He urged that these petitions be taken up for hearing after the apex court hearing. Following this, the court posted the matter for further hearing on July 30.Advocate Apoorv Kurup, appearing for UGC, submitted a report by a UGC committee headed by professor RC Kuhad on the final guidelines for the examination.Earlier this week, the high court had asked UGC to clarify if final-year examinations could be conducted using Multiple-Choice Questions (MCQ), open choice questions, assignments and presentations, instead of long-form exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/how-prepared-are-common-service-centres-for-varsity-final-year-exams-asks-hc/story-FUeqQIAlGLRdDExXbyDPVM.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Two of an ATM card-cloning gang held||The Delhi Police on Friday said they busted a gang of swindlers who travelled to Delhi from their hometown Hisar in Haryana, lived in hotels or rented rooms and cloned ATM cards by stealing data and overwriting on invalid or stolen plastic cards using hand-held skimming devices.The gang has six members, and the cyber cell of the crime branch arrested two of them, identified as Ramesh Kumar, 29, and Sonu Singh, 22. The police recovered 21 cloned debit cards of various banks, a skimming machine, and two cellphones that they used in the crimes.Senior crime branch officers said that the gang’s modus operandi differs from other gangs’ involved in similar frauds. Unlike other gangs that usually tamper with ATM keypads or replace the card holder’s debit card with a fake while engaging them in a conversation, members of this gang impersonate bank executives and scan the cards’ data via skimming devices on the pretext of rectifying issues faced by the cardholders. The racketeers had purchased the skimming devices online, the officers said.“To avoid getting caught, they mostly visited ATM booths in secluded areas in Delhi-NCR that are not manned by security guards. They usually targeted elderly persons or those with a rural background. They would secretly note the cardholders’ PIN and used it to withdraw money using cloned cards,” said the deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell, crime branch) Bhisham Singh. The gang has been active in Delhi-NCR for the past few months, but its members were never caught as they would maintain a low profile and use several tricks to avoid police attention. “The arrested men told us they would transact low amounts using the cloned cards since they believed that card users rarely lodge complaints with banks or the police for low amount frauds,” said a senior crime branch officer associated with the team that busted the racket.On July 19, one Amit Goel,33, withdrew ₹8,000 and was counting the currency notes when a masked man using the other machine in the ATM booth in Delhi’s Karampura pointed out that the machine was asking for his cellphone number.“I fed my contact number, but the machine did not accept it. Since I was holding cash and other items in my hands, the man offered to help me. He took my debit card, inserted it into the machine and fed my cellphone number, which the machine accepted. Thereafter, we both left,” said Goel.According to Goel, his card stopped working, and he got a ₹500 transaction message. Goel thought the money was deducted by the bank as a usual charge for availing various facilities such as netbanking.“I ignored it and did not lodge a complaint. It was only when I got a call from the crime branch office who told me about the fraud that I realised that I had been cheated,” said Goel.Another crime branch officer said that his team members had received information through their criminal intelligence network about this gang and they were collecting information about the suspects.On July 21, the officer said they received information that the suspects would come to an ATM booth in outer Delhi’s Prem Nagar to withdraw money using the cloned cards. “We conducted a raid and arrested two of the men with 21 cloned cards and a skimming device. We have solved two cases with these arrests and are working to find the original holders of the remaining 19 cards. Raids are on to nab the four other members of the gang who are on the run,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-of-an-atm-card-cloning-gang-held/story-nL1mpYieV6JfD3GsZBG2PL.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Visitors start trickling in to Dilli Haat, govt to offer artisans a rental cut||Days after it reopened to public, the Dilli Haat near INA Market in south Delhi, a much visited hub of crafts, art, culture and food, is gradually reclaiming its artisans and visitors. The ticket counters are still closed, as entry is free until August 15.Until 3pm Friday, at least 30 visitors had come in, said the security team manning the entry. Many craft shops are yet to open shop, as artisans from far-off states have not been able to return to the capital owing to restrictions on travel on account of Covid-19.According to officials managing the haat, on the occasion of Hariyali Teej (July 23), 163 visitors had come -- the highest footfall since it reopened on July 4 after remaining shut for nearly three months since the nationwide lockdown began on March 25.Many said they dropped in just to get a breath of fresh air. However, many visitors said they had expected food stalls to open, but only one or two were doing business. Except for two government-run food stalls --the Tamil Nadu cafe and Mother Dairy outlet -- all others are expected to open by August 1, said officials.Yashika Joshi, who had come with her family from Gurugram, said, “It was getting too suffocating being at home and working from home for almost four months. Besides, malls do not allow children entry, so we came here to just hang around for a while.”Although sales are yet to pick up, artisans said at least there is something to look forward to, which is better than sitting at home.“I set up my stall on Thursday. The sales are about 20%. In two days, I’ve made around ₹5,000-7,000, while earlier, before the lockdown, I used earn around ₹35,000-40,000 a day,” said Eijaz Hussain, an artisan from Lucknow, who sells traditional women clothing. The craft shop owners, housed in permanent shops, too said visitors are not buying the finer stuff as much as they did earlier. “I opened the shop on July 20. Since then, I have sold just two or three items. People are not purchasing as they used to. We are hoping that the footfall increases over the weekend, as the weather too is now pleasant,” Ritu Parvez, who runs a Banarasi handloom shop, said.A food stall owner, who did not wish to be named, said their major concern was not having enough staff or as much business to pay the rent. “We had requested the Delhi tourism department to consider reducing rent by 50%, as there is not much business. Every food stall used to have at least 10-15 workers, most of whom had gone back to their home states,” he said.Officials from the tourist department said of the 166 craft shops, 28 are open at present while six or seven of the 46 commercial stall artisans are also back.Sanjay Goel, managing director, Delhi Tourism department, said \the footfall is slowly picking up and they also plan to cut the rents in all categories by almost one-third. “A decision has been taken in this regard. We will make the rents for all types of stalls almost one third of the existing rates until August 31. After that, we will review the situation. With reduced rentals, we expect more stall owners to return and business to pick up.”He added that additional staff has been deployed to maintain social distancing while thermal screening is mandatory before entry into the haat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/visitors-start-trickling-in-to-dilli-haat-govt-to-offer-artisans-a-rental-cut/story-vjL4tNNeufU3a4xEWdqEtN.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Extension of bails, paroles meant to contain Covid-19 spread in jails, clarifies high court||A Delhi high court Friday clarified its order on the extension of interim bail and parole and said it was extending these repeatedly only to prevent the possible spread of Covid-19 among jail inmates from those returning after the expiry of their bail or parole period.A three-judge bench of chief justice DN Patel, justice Siddharth Mridul and justice Talwant Singh said they are extending the bail/parole so that prisoners do not return and spread the virus further.The clarification was given after a plea was moved by a convict whose interim bail was not extended by a judge stating that the July 13 order of the high court, extending all such reliefs till August 31 was not applicable to the convict.The judge said the July 13 order was only applicable to those eligible for interim bail or parole as per the criteria laid down by the high powered committee (HPC) which was set up on the Supreme Court’s directions to decongest prisons and thereby contain the spread of Covid-19 within the prison walls.During the hearing, the bench said it did not go into merits of each case while extending the bails and paroles. It said that the “order of the full bench was being confused with the directions of the HPC”.The bench further said the extension order was passed as the director general of prisons had said the jails were overcrowded and it would be difficult to contain the spread of Covid-19 if they are not decongested.“You cannot approbate and reprobate in the same breath,” the bench told DG Prisons, represented by Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain.The bench said though there was no ambiguity in its July 13 order, it will clarify it further.The July 13 order had come on a suo mottu plea by the high court in April to ensure that expiry of orders during restricted functioning of the courts would not affect litigants, lawyers or prisoners since they would not be able to approach the courts during the lockdown, which was in force then.The detailed order of Friday (July 24) is awaited. The main petition is listed for hearing on August 24 when the bench would decide on whether to further extend the interim orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/extension-of-bails-paroles-meant-to-contain-covid-19-spread-in-jails-clarifies-high-court/story-JWu8Z0Z69nMNAkUGihHnOL.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three govt schools from rural areas in Ludhiana receive edu dept awards, funds||Three Government schools from rural areas of Ludhiana have been selected by the Punjab education department as best in the district in the middle, high and senior secondary levels under the Scheme 63 award. These are—- Government Middle School, Kular, Government High School, Babarpur, and Government Senior Secondary School, Karamsar. From all 22 districts of the state, the state education department selected one school in each category after they excelled on five parameters of the grading process-- results, infrastructure, co-curricular activities, school management committee and public contribution and students’ attendance. A grant of ₹4.54 lakh has been issued by the DPI office and e-transferred to the bank accounts of the schools. As per details, GMS, Kular, received ₹ 90,909, GHS, Babarpur, received ₹1,36,363 and GSSS, Karamsar, got ₹2,27,272.On June 26 last year, district education officers and heads of middle, primary and secondary schools were informed regarding the grading process. The school principals or in-charges uploaded their school’s details on e-Punjab web portal. On basis of the information, the state department selected the winner. GMS, Kular, is a self-made smart school and has a strength of 58 students with five teachers. The school in-charge, Bhupinder Singh, said, “Villagers have contributed a lot in improving the school building and infrastructure and now the school can offer better facilities to students. We will utilise the funds sent by the state for the betterment of the school,” he said.GHS, Babarpur, has a strength of 105 students and offers all facilities including smart classrooms, library, edusat lab, computer lab and water facilities with RO installed. Hardev Singh, DPE-cum-incharge, said, “The state funds can be used to maths and science parks so that students get practical exposure.”Principal of GSSS Karamsar, Gurmeet Kaur, said, “I joined the school six months ago and tried to make a difference. After receiving donations from NRI’s and former students, over Rs 2 lakh had been spent on improving infrastructure and repair work. I will utilise the funds sent by the state to maintain the school playground so that students can excel in the sports also. The school’s Class 12 result was 100% and the topper , Pawandeep Kaur, scored 94.4%.” District education officer (secondary), Swaranjit Kaur, said, “I congratulate the heads and staff of the three government schools. This will motivate other government school principals to make extra effort to achieve this award.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-govt-schools-from-rural-areas-in-ludhiana-receive-edu-dept-awards-funds/story-fcNLXIIHA51Rl6VbfTa0OL.html
24-07-2020||City||Hold virtual rallies of youths, Sikhs and Dalits in every block, Nadda to Punjab BJP||Chandigarh In his first interaction with the Punjab unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) since taking over as the national president of the party, Jagat Prakash Nadda on Friday exhorted the state unit to hold three virtual rallies of youths, Dalits and Sikhs in every organisational block in the state. He gave the party workers a timeline of two months to hold these rallies, as he attended the meeting of the state unit via videoconference. Nadda, who belongs to Himachal Pradesh, has also served as election in-charge for the party on couple of occasions during assembly polls.“Take people from all religions together and let us unitedly work together for the development of state and the party,” he said. “Besides giving the task of holding three virtual rallies at every booth, the party president specifically asked all leaders to infuse energy to make the party strong at every booth,” said state general secretary of the party, Subhash Sharma.Nadda’s remarks hold political significance at a time when local BJP leaders are usually almost always keen to stake their claim on eking out an increased number of seats to contest from their alliance partner in the state, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the assembly polls. “Nadda also asked state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma to give the party a new direction and work hard to strengthen the organisation at booth level, in order to make history,” a senior leader, who was party of the meeting said.Senior leaders added Nadda called for stronger committees and induction of more youth in the party, with focus on those nearing 20 years. State BJP chief Sharma said, “The party state unit will go all-out to strengthen itself in all 117 assembly segments of the state. We also seek a CBI probe into the embezzlement in distribution of food material that the Centre had sent to Punjab during the covid-19 pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hold-virtual-rallies-of-youths-sikhs-and-dalits-in-every-block-nadda-to-punjab-bjp/story-nXIK3D8e2BXBaErw8PfHxN.html
24-07-2020||City||Release Shagun to all beneficiaries under Ashirwad scheme: SAD||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday demanded that the Congress government must release “Shagun” money under the Ashirwad scheme immediately to all Scheduled Caste (SC)/Backward Classes (BC) brides. Party spokesman Pawan Kumar Tinu claimed it was shocking that the benefit of the scheme was not disbursed over the past year. The payment paid as Shagun is Rs 21,000. “The Congress government has a history of discrimination towards Dalits, who form a major chunk of the beneficiaries. Earlier it did not release scholarship to SC students leading to the reduction of total strength of students in state colleges. Now, they are denying Shagun to SC brides,” he said.Seeking CM Captain Amarinder Singh’s intervention, Tinu said state government was not taking any steps to correct injustices being done unto Dalits by his government. The SAD leader said SC/BC welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot had also failed in his duties and should be sacked forthwith.Tinu also reminded the chief minister of the promise made to the SC and BC communities that the disbursal under the Ashirwad scheme would be increased to Rs 51,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/release-shagun-to-all-beneficiaries-under-ashirwad-scheme-sad/story-Zwoky0ziHU9cQnvBM1cMYK.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||State universities will have to conduct final year exams: UGC||The University Grants Commission (UGC) in its affidavit filed before the Bombay high court in public interest litigation, which challenged the government’s decision of not conducting final year exams, has reiterated its stand that all state universities will have to conduct final year exams as per the revised guidelines issued by it, on July 6. The revised guidelines have stated that universities may reduce the time from three hours to two hours without compromising the quality, or conduct the exams through online/offline or blended mode till the end of September 2020. The UGC has submitted that appearing for the final year exams is mandatory and state universities have to adhere to its guidelines.The affidavit prepared by Dr Nikhil Kumar, education officer, UGC has mentioned that the UGC had constituted an expert committee under the provisions of the UGC Act to make recommendations regarding the conduction of terminal/final year exams in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The committee in its first decision had recommended that the exams were to be conducted in the month of July. The recommendations issued on April 29, 2020, were in the form of “UGC Guidelines on Examinations and Academic Calendar for the Universities given Covid-19 pandemic and Subsequent Lockdown”.However, in light of the pandemic, the committee was reconvened and on July 6 it made recommendations to extend the deadline for conducting the terminal or final year exams till the end of September. The revised guidelines, however, also gave the option of reduction in time of the exam or conducting the exam through online, offline or blended mode. The affidavit further states that it is the apex regulating body for all state universities and hence they have to abide by the guidelines issued from time to time including the guidelines issued.The affidavit also rebuts the decision of the Maharashtra government to do away with the exams altogether and adopting an evaluation method to grant degrees which is contrary to the guidelines of the apex regulating body. The UGC said, “The decision of the respondent - state of Maharashtra - to hold terminal semester/ final year examinations for undergraduate or postgraduate students of traditional and professional courses (subject to the decisionof the apex regulatory body concerned), at a later date (which may be even beyond September 2020), or to graduate such students and confer on them degrees without appearing for the final year or terminal semester examinations, is contrary to UGC’s guidelines. Such a decision will also be an encroachment on the legislative field of coordinating and determining the standards of higher education which is exclusively reserved for parliament under Entry 66 of List I of Schedule VII of the Constitution.” The affidavit by UGC was filed after the court sought to know its stand with regards to public interest litigation filed by Dhananjay Kulkarni, a former professor through advocate Uday Warunjikar. Kulkarni had challenged the June 19 resolution of the state government which stated that final year exams would not be held due to the Covid situation in the state and they would be assessed and given degrees based on the assessment of the previous exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-universities-will-have-to-conduct-final-year-exams-ugc/story-PD88M461LbmRnFoy4ZXa5O.html
24-07-2020||City||BJP leader among 10 booked for embezzlement of Batala MC funds, 5 held||Taking action in case of embezzlement of funds of the Batala municipal council, which has now been dissolved, the vigilance bureau has booked 10 persons including former civic body president and BJP leader Naresh Mahajan. Of the 10 booked, five were arrested on Friday.On complaint of ex-vice-president of the former civic body, Harinderpal Singh Kalsi, an FIR was registered on Thursday under Sections 409 and 120-B of the IPC, and Sections 7 and 13(1) (A) (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, at the VB Amritsar range police station.Besides Mahajan who was district Gurdaspur president, the then chief sanitary inspector, sanitary inspector, accountant, superintendent, stenographer, and sub-fire officer are also named in the case.VB (Amritsar) SSP Parampal Singh said, director local bodies department, Punjab, Chandigarh had constituted an enquiry committee to look into misappropriation of funds. “This committee held the accused persons guilty of embezzlement of funds, misuse of funds for lifting of garbage, sweeping, misuse of funds collected from regularisation of illegal colonies, scam in recruitment of contractual labourers, misuse of funds with regard to hiring of Innova SUV on rent, providing undue benefit to two firms,” he said.“A case has been registered against the aforesaid persons and investigation is underway. Five accused have been arrested so far. Efforts are on to arrest the remaining accused,” the SSP said, adding, “VB (Gurdaspur) DSP Prem Kumar is the investigation officer.”Names of the arrested persons have not been disclosed yet.Meanwhile, the VB sleuths have also arrested Jaswinderpal XEN PSPCL, Ranjit Sagar Dam, Shahpur Kandi Dam, Pathankot, amid allegations that he amassed property disproportionate to his known sources of income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-leader-among-10-booked-for-embezzlement-of-batala-mc-funds-5-held/story-DabXn0rGmLeLhQaAodIBaO.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||PPCB announces relaxation for industries||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has announced some relaxations for the industries, including extension of validity of statutory clearances without inspection.A spokesperson said that the move is aimed at encouraging investments in the state amid the pandemic. Detailed guidelines to this effect have been issued by the PPCB which finalised the relaxations on directives of the CM, during its 184th meeting.PPCB chairman Prof SS Marwaha said the board has extended validity of consent to establish/operate, authorisation, registration and any other mandatory regulatory clearances up to July 30, in view of the covid crisis.Validity of the said clearances has also been extended up to March 31, 2021, with certain stipulations on submission of application without conduct of any inspection by the board.To ensure participatory regulatory compliance of environmental regulations, industries operating without consent of the board have been given time till December 31 to apply for clearance under the Voluntary Disclosure Scheme (VDS). They can do so with exemption to deposit consent fee prior to November 1, 2018 and payment of one-time notional fee of Rs 5,000.Further, to facilitate brick kilns to obtain consent under the Water Act, 1974, their owners have been given exemption from depositing the consent fees prior to November 1, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ppcb-announces-relaxation-for-industries/story-l1shjhmVP6NkxgDYAjTVoJ.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||1,025 fresh coronavirus cases take Delhi’s tally above 1.28 lakh; death toll now 3,777||Delhi recorded 1,025 coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.28 lakh, while the death toll from the disease rose to 3,777, authorities said.Thirty-two fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Delhi health department bulletin issued Friday evening.The number of active cases on Friday was 13,681, down from 14,554, the previous day.  Till date, the highest-single day spike for Delhi is 3,947, reported on June 23.The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 3,745 on Thursday.The Friday bulletin said, the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 3,777 and the total number of cases mounted to 1,28,389.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/1-025-fresh-coronavirus-cases-take-delhi-s-tally-above-1-28-lakh-death-toll-now-3-777/story-5tNQAv3mrp5eHCI7ZR78ZN.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Woman on morning walk loses chain to snatcher in Chandigarh||Two bike-borne miscreants snatched gold chain from a woman, who was out for a morning stroll in Sector 42, Chandigarh on Friday. The victim, Jasbir Kaur, was returning home at 5.40 am when one of the accused, with his face covered, came from the rear and snatched her gold chain. The accused sped away after committing the crime.In a scuffle with snatchers, the woman fell on the road and also received minor injuries. She was taken to a hospital for first aid. The entire incident was caught on a CCTV camera installed nearby. Cops have registered a case under Sections 379 A (punishment for theft) and 356 (whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any person in an attempt to commit theft) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 36 police station and started a probe in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-on-morning-walk-loses-chain-to-snatcher-in-chandigarh/story-LRKZPphwGkwApxIiB06q7I.html
24-07-2020||City||Days before Udham Singh’s death anniv, officials inspect work on memorial in Sunam||Days before the 81st death anniversary of Udham Singh (July 31), senior officials of Punjab tourism department have started inspections of the construction site of his memorial in Sunam.Seven months back, the work was stopped due to shortage of funds and it was reportedly resumed this week ahead of his death anniversary.On the eve of his 118th birth anniversary in 2016, Union food processing and industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had laid the foundation stone of the memorial. However, Punjab tourism and cultural affairs minister Charanjeet Singh Channi, during a state-level function last year, had claimed that the memorial will be built on four acres on Sunam-Bathinda highway at a cost of Rs 2.6 crore.Principal secretary tourism Husan Lal, department director Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar, Sangrur DC Ramvir and local Congress leader Daaman Bajwa inspected the ongoing work of the memorial on Friday.Bajwa said that there were some hurdles in the work due to delay in payments. “Due to covid situation, the work had to be stopped for at least two months, after which some payments got delayed which I brought to the notice of the CMO and the department. The work is now back on track,” he added.Meanwhile, some organisations demanded construction of a museum dedicated to Udham Singh. “His belongings are stored in different parts of the state. There should be a museum and a library in the memorial where his books, mortal remains, and other articles can be displayed,” said Rakesh Kumar, a Sunam resident, who has penned a book on Udham Singh.Sunam SDM Manjeet Kaur said construction was resumed and the memorial will be completed within two to three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/days-before-udham-singh-s-death-anniv-officials-inspect-work-on-memorial-in-sunam/story-57gmyak05OiGdBiGz962OP.html
24-07-2020||City||30 booked for playing cricket near sea, violating lockdown norms||The police are on the lookout for 25 people who allegedly violated lockdown rules by gathering for a cricket match at Arnala beach in Virar on Friday afternoon and later jumping into the sea to escape arrest. The youth swam for some metres and then managed to get inside a moving fishing trawler.The police said will arrest the youth after the trawler returns to the base, as it is believed to be from the area.“A patrolling team saw a group of around 30 people playing cricket and approached them to take action. Five were detained by the police, but the remaining jumped into the sea and climbed into a trawler. They will soon have to return home and we will arrest them then. We also have video evidence against them,” police inspector Mahesh Shetye of Arnala police station said.The police said the 25 accused will be booked under sections 188 (disobedience), 269 (spreading infection) and 353 (obstruction of government servant on duty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“Citizens should understand that Arnala is one of the Covid-19 hot spots and 148 people from the fishing community have already been tested positive for the virus,” said Shetye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-booked-for-playing-cricket-near-sea-violating-lockdown-norms/story-5761DOAlrBnHlkVgoZk9eJ.html
24-07-2020||City||MBMC chief fire officer recovers from Covid||A chief fire officer of Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) defeated Covid-19 after battling the virus for 25 days. Prakash Borade was admitted in a Mira Road hospital after he tested positive on June 29. He was put on ventilator support after his condition had worsened during the initial days of treatment. He was discharged on Wednesday. Borade said he will re-join duty after completing the 14-day home quarantine protocol.Meanwhile, the twin cities of Mira-Bhayander till Thursday night has recorded a total of 7,289 positive cases with 247 deaths. Many civic employees including deputy commissioner and police personnel have tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mbmc-chief-fire-officer-recovers-from-covid/story-5w8O2Hp18z9HpAFlZ1svIJ.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||One-day surge of 9,615 Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra; 278 more dead||Maharashtra reported a single-day spike of 9,615 Covid-19 cases on Friday, which took the number of patients in the state to 3,57,117, the health department said.With as many as 278 deaths reported during the day, the fatality count mounted to 13,132, it said in a statement.A total of 5,714 patients were discharged on Friday, that increased the number of recovered persons to 1,99,967.Currently, there are 1,44,018 active cases in the state, the department said.So far, 17,87,306 people have been tested across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/one-day-surge-of-9-615-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-278-more-dead/story-JF7lpDeKoBGGqqjgQUhUMP.html
24-07-2020||Dehradun||272 people test positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand, state tally rises to 5,717||Uttarakhand on Friday reported 272 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 5,717.Out of 5,717, a total of 3,441 people have recovered successfully, bringing the recovery rate in the state to 60.19%.According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Friday evening, 272 fresh cases included maximum 90 from US Nagar district, followed by Nainital (77), Almora (31), Dehradun (30), Haridwar (29), Champawat (11), Pithoragarh (2) and one each from Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts.The state also reported deaths of two Covid-19 positive patients at AIIMS Rishikesh, including that of a 47-year-old man and a 45-year-old man.In the case of 47-year-old man, the death summary provided by the hospital said the cause of death was “Hyperkalemia, Severe Metabolic Acidosis”. In the case of 45-year-old man, his death summary provided by the hospital said he died due to “Autonomic Dysfunction due to Myasthenic Crisis, Covid-19 Pneumonia”A total of 62 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now with nine patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to comorbidities and other causes, added health officials.Many of 272 fresh cases were reported in case of people who had travel history from Delhi, Punjab, Gujarat, and Maharashtra. But in large number of cases (115 cases), travel history was not available.The fresh cases included 129 contacts of earlier positive cases. One healthcare worker from Dehradun district also tested positive. Ten positive cases were also detected at a flu clinic in Nainital and 4 at a flu clinic in US Nagar.Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee also reported its first case of Covid-19 after an outsourced employee attached to the institute’s finance and accounts department tested positive for the virus on Friday, said Sonika Srivastava from IIT’s media cellForty-two COVID-19 patients were also discharged from different hospitals in the state on Friday with a maximum 32 from Dehradun district.The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 19.92 days, while the infection rate is 4.57 %. The state has so far tested over 1.35 lakh samples of which results of over 7300 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 173 containment zones in four districts including maximum 139 in Haridwar, followed by 20 in US Nagar, 11 in Dehradun in 3 in Uttarkashi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/272-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-state-tally-rises-to-5-717/story-FPJvuG1EIO5CXvsPUYCo6J.html
24-07-2020||City||GNDU inks pact with Taiwanese institute for agri research||The Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) signed an MoU with the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, National Chung Hsing University (NCHU), Taiwan, on Friday, for cooperation in the field of agricultural research and innovation.The GNDU has established a centre for Agricultural Research and Innovation under the Rashtriya Uchchattar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA-II). “The focus is to build a world-class ecosystem for promoting research and finding innovative and meaningful solutions in the field of agriculture. The centre has the mandate to integrate research and outreach education in agriculture, food systems and the environment to establish an ecologically and economically sustainable model,” said vice-chancellor (V-C) Jaspal Singh Sandhu.This centre and the department of agriculture of the university jointly signed the MoU with the NCHU, which is known for its outstanding contributions to research and development in the field of agriculture and natural resource conservation.“A broad agreement has been reached to promote cooperation in teaching, training and innovative research. This will facilitate exchange programmes and provide an opportunity for awarding joint PhD degrees,” the V-C said.“Meanwhile, PUM (Programma Uitzending Managers), Netherland, has identified senior expert Carel Zwinkels for strategic mentoring of the centre. Carel has over 40 years of horticultural technical experience,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gndu-inks-pact-with-taiwanese-institute-for-agri-research/story-jI0GyfzMrfzcYBHFK2gawI.html
24-07-2020||City||Dombivli girl tests negative two days after she test positive to Covid-19||A 19-year-old girl from Dombivli who tested positive to Covid -19 in reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, tested negative in the second RT-PCR test carried out just after two days. The girl along with her family had been to a funeral of an 80-year-old relative on July 14 in Ulhasnagar, the deceased tested positive three days after his death. Total 19 people who attended the funeral along with this girl got themselves tested, however only the girl tested positive on July 19. Her family got suspicious about the report and did another test on July 21 which showed report as negative.Minal Barsagade, 45, mother of the 19-year-old girl said, “Two different reports within a span of two days have confused us. We did the proper RT – PCR test both the times from separate labs, but are now clueless on what to do. My daughter, husband and I are in home isolation though and she does not have any symptoms so far.”Prashant Patil, secretary Indian Medical Association (IMA), said that the results fluctuate depending on various factors and this is a commonly seen phenomenon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dombivli-girl-tests-negative-two-days-after-she-test-positive-to-covid-19/story-X72aVr5QOaLnloqiPiaTCI.html
24-07-2020||City||No Chinese member in Nalanda varsity board for 8 months now, no move to appoint one||PATNAThe Chinese seat in the governing board of Nalanda University, an international institution funded by the Central government in the foothills of Rajjgir, around 100 kms from Patna, has been lying vacant for eight months now and officials say there is no move either to appoint a new Chinese representative in the wake of Galwan clash and current standoff. The term of Chinese representative on the Nalanda University’s governing board, Prof Wang Bangwei, ended in November 2019.“There is no movement on this issue. I don’t think in the present circumstances (India-China standoff), there is something like this (having Chinese representative on Nalanda University board) on our minds,” said a Ministry of External Affairs official, who was not willing to be named. Prof Wang Bangwei is professor and director of the Institute of Oriental Studies and Oriental Literature Research Center at Peking University. His research included textual studies of Buddhist literature (of Sanskrit and its Chinese translation), history of Buddhism (both of China and of India) and Sino-Indian cultural interactions, among others. He had been the member of the Nalanda University governing board since its inception and involved with the setting up of the institution.“At present, there is no Chinese representative. It is not decided at the university level. We have representatives from other Asian countries,” said Nalanda University vice-chancellor Sunaina Singh. Ancient Nalanda had profound influence of China. The Chinese traveller Hieun Tsang (now Xuan Zang) stayed here in the 7th century AD and left a detailed description of the excellence of educational system and purity of monastic life practised here. He also gave a vivid account of both the ambience and architecture of this unique university.It was the reason why China was involved in developing the new Nalanda University. The NU governing board had also held its third meeting in Beijing on October 14-15, 2011.The proposed Xuanzang centre for Asian Studies with the Chinese collaboration also remains a non-starter. Former Nalanda University Chancellor George Yeo had signed an MoU with Peking University president Lin Jianhua on May 26, 2016, during President Pranab Mukherjee’s China visit. Later, the Consulate General of People’s Republic of China in Kolkata, Ma Zhanwu, had also visited the university to work out the modalities, but after that nothing happened, while China came up with its own version of Nalanda University, Nanhai Buddhist College on Nanshan Mountains in Hainan Province, in 2017. “Nothing has happened on the Xuanzang centre. It has remained stillborn since its inception. We are starting two new centres, Centre for Bay of Bengal Studies and Centre for Conflict Resolution, this year,” said the V-C, adding the university did not have any student or faculty member from China, though there were quite a few from East Asian Asian countries and even Cambodia and Romania. (With inputs from HTC, New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-chinese-member-in-nalanda-varsity-board-for-8-months-now-no-move-to-appoint-one/story-9g2W4NAJGhdog9NOoGMvTP.html
24-07-2020||City||Covid concerns: In a first, Bihar House to meet under new roof for more room||PATNAFor the first time, the full session of the Bihar Legislature will be held outside the legislature premises to conform to social distancing norms, being as it is held under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic, which has hit Patna hard. The brief four-day monsoon session, the last session of the 16th Assembly, is scheduled from August 3 and will be held at Gyan Bhawan at the Samrat Ashok International Convention Centre in the state capital, which has a much bigger seating capacity than the central hall of the state legislature. Sources said the session could also be further truncated, but the decision would only be taken at the customary all-party meeting before the start of the session or the business advisory committee meeting comprising members from various political parties, which happens on the first day of the session itself. As Governor Phagu Chouhan has already summoned the Legislative Assembly on the recommendation of the cabinet, the Bihar government, acting on the request of the Bihar Legislative Assembly, has recommended him to issue a modified summon letter. Assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary said his secretariat had written to the Bihar government that it would not be possible to hold the session in the central hall, which does not have space to accommodate all 243 members with desired seating arrangement. “The government was requested to look for some other place where social distancing norms could be properly followed. The government has selected Gyan Bhawan at the Samrat Ashok International Convention Centre for it, as it has enough space and open entry and exit points,” said Choudhary. The state-of-the-art convention centre to the north of Gandhi Maidan was inaugurated in 2017 and is one of the iconic structures built during the Nitish Kumar government. Choudhary said the Assembly session would be held in the conference hall on the second floor, which has a seating capacity of 800, while Legislative Council session would be held in the meeting hall on the first floor. Bihar is one of the five states having bicameral legislature having two Houses. “Despite trying various combinations, we could not ensure proper distance between two members in the central hall. Ultimately, the speaker said that the government should be asked to explore other options. For the Bihar Legislative Council, however, there is no space issue, as the 75-member House has 21 vacancies. But both Houses need to run close by. The ministers often have to shift from one House to another,” said a senior Vidhan Sabha official. The Budget session of the Bihar Legislature had come to a premature end on March 16, 15 days before schedule, amid the Covid-19 outbreak and following a unanimous view at the business advisory committee. It was scheduled to end on March 31. Samrat Ashok International Convention CentreFoundation stone laid by Nitish Kumar on February 8, 2014Built at a cost of Rs 500 crore, inaugurated in 2017 Has a 5,000-seat main conference hall, built with around 21,600 tonnes of steel, and is called Bapu Sabhagar Gyan Bhawan got a scholarly start in 2017 with an international seminar on Mahatma Gandhi to launch the year-long centenary celebrations of Champaran Satyagrah||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-concerns-in-a-first-bihar-house-to-meet-under-new-roof-for-more-room/story-tOBGGkVMwxOBXQv0sNcTgM.html
24-07-2020||City||Rice millers need not visit any office for online registration: Ashu||Chandigarh Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Friday appealed all rice millers of the state not to visit any district and field office for any work related with registration. He added elaborate arrangement had been made for online registration of rice mills on https://anaajkharid.in to avert the possibility of spread of covid 19 and to bring about transparency. He added no office was to be visited for works regarding Registration of New Rice Mills; Capacity Enhancement of existing Rice Mills; De novo Registration in case of change of Partnership/Constitution of Rice Mills; Registration of Lessee Rice Mills; Submission of CMR Security; Submission of Levy Security; Application to issue Release Order and Online deposit of Non-refundable RO fee, and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rice-millers-need-not-visit-any-office-for-online-registration-ashu/story-dmGGgV4ydW3CUAFJM6mtRI.html
24-07-2020||City||Wanted in ransom call, gangster Bishnoi in Muktsar police custody||Bathinda A Muktsar court sent gangster Anmol Bishnoi, presented before it after being brought on a production warrant from a Rajasthan jail, to police custody for three days. Police have brought him for investigation in a case where a Muktsar-based mobile phone dealer had received a telephone call for a ransom of Rs 10 lakh on July 4. Muktsar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rajbachan Sandhu said Anmol was suspected to be behind the crime. Sandhu added Bishnoi is brother of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and the former was lodged in Jodhpur jail. Muktsar City SHO Mohan Lal said Anmol was facing at least 12 cases, including murder, attempt to murder and ransom in Rajasthan and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wanted-in-ransom-call-gangster-bishnoi-in-muktsar-police-custody/story-t4ZPl30TEDG0FPiEFhhQqM.html
24-07-2020||City||Jalandhar: With spike in cases authorities finding it hard to shift patients||Jalandhar With an average of over 50 persons testing positive for covid-19 in the district for at least the past month, the process of ‘tracing and shifting’ these individuals to the civil hospital’s Covid Care Centre is proving to be a testing one for the health authorities. The two major impediments are the shortage of ambulances, with only 23 available with the administration, and the second is the wrong address that some who test provide to the authorities. In some cases, health functionaries also have to deal with patients who feel stigmatised and refuse to engage with the authorities. From 733 positive cases on July 1, the district now has 1,901 positive cases on July 24, with 65 cases reported on Friday. With ambulances needing proper disinfection and sanitisation after each round, health officials are forced to appeal to patients to come to the hospital or Covid Care Centre in their private vehicle. Deputy Medical Commissioner Jyoti Sharma said that the district has a fleet of 18 (108-ambulances) and 5 from other sources in the district. “Naturally, with increasing cases, we are facing a tough time in managing ambulances. Now, we send out ambulance for positive patients only till 8pm. People who do not share correct information add to our woes.”She said that after procuring the sample for covid-19 testing, people are advised to remain in isolation at home but most people do not comply with norms.“Sometimes, we have to seek the help of police to ensure that positive patients do not continue to roam around, till they are hospitalised or are isolated,” she adds. Officials admit that there have been cases when police and health departments have not been able to trace a patient, as wrong address had been submitted. A senior police officer, on request of anonymity, said, “In some cases, patients are traced. It is usually the migrants who are the most trouble and we fail to trace them.”Nodal officer Dr TP Singh said cases were traced and some took time, but with the help of the police department they tried to trace all patients. “In some cases, migrants have returned to their native places before receiving treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-with-spike-in-cases-authorities-finding-it-hard-to-shift-patients/story-d644VmV5mXwgckWXEB5HKN.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Thunderstorms, heavy rainfall likely in Delhi and adjoining areas tonight: IMD||Thunderstorms with moderate to heavy rainfall are likely to occur at many places in and around Delhi in the next two hours, including Rohini, Bawana, Burari, Badili, Sangam Vihar, Akshardham, ITO, Lajpat Nagar, Lodi Road, Safdarjung Enclave and Rajiv Chowk, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday evening.Sporadic rain and cloudy skies kept the temperature low on Friday in the national capital and scattered rains are predicted over the next two to three days, the IMD said in its bulletin.Roads in and around the Palam Technical Airport were waterlogged following rainfall on Friday evening. The IMD had earlier predicted a thunderstorm with light to moderate rainfall in the area, in a weather update issued at 5 pm.“The monsoon trough is now south of Delhi. So, the city will receive only light rainfall over the next two to three days. The axis of the monsoon will again start shifting northwards on July 27, leading to moderate to heavy rain in the capital on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday,” Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre, said.On Friday, the Safdarjung Observatory recorded a maximum temperature of 35.4 degrees Celsius, close to normal for this time of the year. Humidity recorded during the day was about 94 per cent.According to IMD data, the Safdarjung Observatory has recorded 225 mm rainfall in July so far, which is 44 per cent more than the normal of 156.4 mm. The Palam and Lodhi Road weather stations have also recorded 31 and 58 per cent more rains in July. Earlier the IMD had said that the monsoon reached Delhi on June 25, two days earlier than the usual date. Normal rainfall has been predicted for the national capital during the ongoing monsoon season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/thunderstorms-heavy-rainfall-likely-in-delhi-and-adjoining-areas-tonight-imd/story-zAiHjSzlABmdwBg6oo6ERN.html
24-07-2020||City||Sex racket busted at Amritsar spa, 2 Uzbek women among 12 arrested||AMRITSAR With the arrest of 12 people, three women and nine men, the police claimed to have busted a sex racket being run in at a spa centre on Mall Road here on Thursday night. Two Uzbek women were among those arrested from Svain Thai Spa Centre whose manager, identified by police as Taaz, is absconding.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP-North), Sarabjit Singh, said, “Sadar station house officer (SHO) Parveen Kumar got a tip off that a sex racket is being run at the spa centre taken on lease by Taaz. A team led by the SHO raided the spa on Thursday night and made the arrests.”“The uzbek women had come to India on work visas. The men are residents of Amritsar and Tarn Taran. All the accused are in their late 20s. The manager was not present on the spot,” said the ACP.The police have also registered a case under sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 of the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act, 1956, against the 12 accused and the manager at Civil Lines police station.“Also, the accused have been booked under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code as they were operating the spa centre during the Covid-19 lockdown in violation of the norms. The accused were produced in a court and sent in judicial custody. Efforts are being made to nab the manager,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sex-racket-busted-at-amritsar-spa-2-uzbek-women-among-12-arrested/story-P9iLqHVdvuIryabbG17KfM.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||HPC classification of prisoners discriminatory: PIL||While a petitioner NGO challenged the classification of prisoners to be released on interim bail/parole by the High Power Committee (HPC), the Bombay high court reiterated that the temporary bail/parole was ‘charity’ and ‘grace’ being extended to inmates and hence they could not claim the facility as a right. The observations were made after the NGO submitted that the HPC classification was against fundamental rights of the inmates. The NGO which is run by activist Medha Patkar submitted that the interim bail/parole was directed by the Supreme Court to decongest jails so that social distancing norms recommended by the ICMR, central and state governments to curb the spread of the Covid 19 virus could be observed, thus saving the lives of prisoners and prison authorities, hence it could not be termed as ‘charity’ and ‘grace’.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Madhav Jamdar while hearing the PL filed by National Alliance for People’s Movement was informed by senior advocate Satish Talekar that the HPC had made a classification of prisoners eligible for interim bail/parole/furlough beyond the scope of the directions issued by the Supreme Court for decongestion of jails to curb the spread of the Covid 19 pandemic within jails.Talekar submitted that while the apex court had only said that the release of prisoners who have been convicted or are undertrial for offences for which prescribed punishment is up to 7 years or less, with or without fine as criteria, the HPC had gone ahead and classified prisoners based on the crime. This Talekar said was discriminatory and arbitrary and as the HPC had gone beyond the ambit of the SC directions, the HPC decision should be set aside.The state on its part informed the bench through public prosecutor Deepak Thakare that following order of another bench of the HC, it had been considering the release of prisoners serving life sentences and had released many such prisoners, hence the grouse of the petitioner was not valid.The bench had directed that the pre-condition for emergency release could not be fixed and had to be based on merit. The current bench observed that it would treat the order as a precedent and reserved its order in the present petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hpc-classification-of-prisoners-discriminatory-pil/story-PdlaOpQoXS0fp97jDiZhAN.html
24-07-2020||Lucknow||Liquor shops outside containment zones to remain open on Saturday, Sunday lockdown: UP govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday said that the liquor shops outside containment zones would remain open during the Covid-19 lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays.In an order, the government informed that the liquor shops will not be closed during the weekend from 10 pm on Friday till 5 am on Monday. Other than the containment zones, liquor shops in the state shall remain open on all seven days.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh is 58,104, including 21,012 active cases. While 35,803 cases have been cured/migrated/discharged, the death toll stands at 1,289.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/liquor-shops-outside-containment-zones-to-remain-open-on-saturday-sunday-lockdown-up-govt/story-ToEuXxWXIieiz6Wt8Q4STI.html
24-07-2020||City||Chandigarh’s Covid-19 tally rises further to 823 with 23 new cases||With 23 new Covid-19 cases reported on Friday, Chandigarh’s infection tally climbed to 823.Among these, 275 are active and 13 have died. The new cases have been reported from 12 different areas, including Sectors 19, 22, 24, 30, 38 West, 41, 42, 43, 45 and 48, besides Manimajra (Sector 13) and Behlana.Twelve new cases are of four members each from two families in Sectors 30 and 19, two people from Sector 42 and one each from Sectors 45 and 19. They are all contacts of already diagnosed cases.A 52-year-old man from Sector 19 has contracted the infection from a positive patient in Amritsar, while a 54-year-old woman from Sector 45 has picked the infection from a family contact.Besides, nine males and two females, whose source of infection is unknown, have also been diagnosed with Covid. The males are aged 30 (Sector 24), 50 (Sector 22), 52 (Manimajra), 23 (Behlana), 25 (Sector 48), 47 (Sector 45), 24 (Sector 41), 28 (Sector 22), and 54 (Sector 43).The females are a 42-year-old from Sector 38 West and a 26-year-old from Sector 45.Meanwhile, four people – three from Sector 50 and one from Sector 25 – have recovered, taking the count of recovered persons to 535.19 NEW CASES IN MOHALIMohali on Friday confirmed 19 fresh Covid-19 cases, even as 22 patients were discharged after recovery. The district now has 662 confirmed cases – among these 228 still active. While 421 patients have recovered, 13 have succumbed to the virus.Among the latest cases are four members of a single family from Mundi Kharar – three males, aged 63, 38 and four, and a 57-year-old female.Two men from a Dhakoli family, aged 38 and 24, also tested positive, while two men, aged 32 and 38, are from Dera Bassi.A 57-year-old man is from Phase-10 and a 46-year-old man from Sector 117. A 63-year-old man is from Sunny Enclave, Kharar, and a 39-year-old from Dhakoli.The remaining seven patients are females. These include a 65-year-old in Sohana; a 56-year-old in Sector 78; a 50-year-old in Mauli Baidwan; a 41-year-old in Saidpura; a 35-year-old in Park View Street, Kharar; another 35-year-old in Banur and a 23-year-old in Mullanpur.21 FRESH CASES IN PANCHKULAPanchkula reported 21 new cases on Friday, taking its count to 514.Among the total cases, 235 are active, while 283 have recovered.The fresh cases include seven ITBP personnel, all aged between 28 and 35.A 54-year-old woman and a 32-year-old man were tested positive in Sector 19. A 25-year-old man and a 39-year-old man are from Sector 10, while a 29-year-old woman is from Sector 25.A 76-year-old man, a 76-year-old woman and a 22-year-old woman are from Sector 12.Two persons, a 43-year-old woman and a 17-year-old boy, are from Sector 4, while a 23-year-old woman and an 18-year-old boy are from Sector 16. Pinjore confirmed one case – a 21-year-old man, while a 37-year-old woman is from Raipur Rani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-s-covid-tally-rises-to-662-with-19-new-cases/story-V2ubL75It50ztRYUZIeeeJ.html
24-07-2020||Bangalore||World Bank, NPMU laud Karnataka’s progress under Atal Bhujal Yojana||The World Bank and National Project Management Unit (NPMU) have lauded Karnataka’s progress under the Centre’s Atal Bhujal Yojana and said that this model can be emulated by other states, revealed a statement from the state Chief Minister’s Office (CMO).Atal Bhujal Yojana is being implemented on a pilot basis in Tumkuru district.“199 villages of six taluks come under the ambit of the scheme. As per the guidelines of the scheme, Minor Irrigation and Ground Water Development Department has taken up data collection, preparation of water security plan and other primary activities,” the statement said.The World Bank and NPMU have selected Dabbegatta of Madhugiri Taluk and JC Pura of Chikkanayakanahalli taluk.They have instructed to prepare a detailed water budget and water security plan and submit them to the Central government to avail additional incentive for Tumkur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/world-bank-npmu-laud-karnataka-s-progress-under-atal-bhujal-yojana/story-HFC4Ms9nH1zBpBHCJUd4yJ.html
24-07-2020||Lucknow||UP records largest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths||Tightening its grip over Uttar Pradesh, Covid-19 claimed a record 50 lives in the state on Friday as the deadly virus infected 2,667 people more in the largest single-day spike till date. The Covid-19 death tally stood at 1,298 on Thursday while the total number of cases touched 58,104. With new cases, the state also witnessed the highest single-day surge in fresh Covid-19 cases, which pushed the tally of total Covid-19 cases in UP to 60,771. Briefing reporters here, Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad on Friday said the count of active cases in the state stood at 21,711 on Friday. As many as 37,712 patients have recovered from Covid-19 and have been discharged, he said. He, however, added that as many as 2,712 fresh Covid-19 cases have been reported in the state in the last 24 hours. The figure 2,712 quoted by Prasad also includes 45 cases reported on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-records-largest-single-day-rise-in-covid-19-cases-and-deaths/story-TAUYRQ6ToIDDQqrmpW8SKJ.html
24-07-2020||City||Sack, arrest Hisar market committee secretary on basis of Sonali Phogat’s complaint: Women panel||Haryana state women commission has recommended to the state government to immediately “arrest and dismiss from service” the Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh, who has been at the centre of a raging controversy involving BJP’s flamboyant leader Sonali Phogat.Sonali Phogat, 40, is known as a social media sensation because of her huge following on social media platforms such as Facebook and now disbanded Tik-Tok video app. She had unsuccessfully contested October 2019 Haryana assembly election from Adampur segment.During a visit to the Balsamand Mandi in Hisar in the first week of June, Phogat had thrashed Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh with her slipper. Her videos slapping Sultan Singh were widely circulated on social media. Phogat was on a visit to the grain market after farmers had alleged that Sultan Singh was creating hurdles in the procurement process. It is alleged that she lost her cool after Sultan Singh behaved inappropriately, an allegation the latter has denied stoutly.Both the BJP leader and mandi secretary had lodged complaints against each other.While in her complaint to the police Phogat said the official made indecent remarks against her, Sultan Singh lodged a counter-complaint against her, denying the allegations.SIX POINT RECOMMENDATIONSAccording to Pratibha Suman, chairperson of the state women commission, a three member high-powered committee comprising Suman Bedi, Namrata Gaur and Dr Raj Singh was set up to hold an inquiry into the complaint received from Phogat against Sultan Singh.Suman said she has sent a six-point recommendation to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and agriculture minister JP Dalal on July 23 on the basis of the inquiry committee report.While recommending “disciplinary action” against Sumedha Kataria, administrator of agricultural marketing board for “not taking seriously the directions of the commission,” the inquiry panel has commented adversely about Hisar deputy commissioner (DC).“The commission did not receive the desired help from Hisar DC from whom the commission had sought some certified documents,” Suman said.As one of Haryana’s prominent khaps, Binain Khap, had given the state government ultimatum to arrest Phogat, the inquiry committee has recommended to lodge an FIR against Shamsher Singh Nain, the self styled president of the Binain Khap. “He used obscene language at a public platform in Jind (Sachha Kheda) panchayat against Sonali Phogat...,” the committee mentioned.The inquiry panel has held that the prime accused Sultan Singh sent messages about Phogat through social media platforms and recommended to lodge an FIR under the IT Act.The inquiry panel has also stated that Sultan Singh submitted “tempered documents” before the commission and tried to mislead the inquiry committee on the basis of wrong documents.“Because of this he should be dismissed from service on disciplinary grounds with immediate effect and all the post retirement benefits must be stopped, apart from lodging an FIR,” the commission has said.The inquiry panel has further said the accused official should be arrested on the basis of FIR Phogat had lodged on June 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sack-arrest-hisar-market-committee-secretary-on-basis-of-sonali-phogat-s-complaint-women-panel/story-rSJlZ7IM0wJ0VV8tbiM67O.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||One booked for sending obscene messages to make-up artist||The Oshiwara police on Wednesday booked an unknown person for allegedly sending obscene messages to a 25-year-old makeup artist from Jogeshwari.According to police, the woman, on July 14, received a message from an unknown person, in which he said that he got her number from his friend, who told him that she is into prostitution, and for which she charges ₹3,000.She was shocked to see the message, however, she ignored it. But on July 21, she again received an obscene message from the same number, following which she decided to register a complaint.“Following her complaint, we have registered the offence and investigating the case,” said an officer from Oshiwara police station.Police have booked the unknown person under sections 354 (D) (stalking), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 67 (punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form), 67 (a) (punishment for publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act] of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/one-booked-for-sending-obscene-messages-to-make-up-artist/story-rZ2tNrmY1ZZaZ3xS0Jy1NM.html
24-07-2020||City||Three more Covid care centres to be set up in Ambala district||Amid surge in virus cases, the Ambala administration has decided that the four blocks of the district will have their own Covid care centres. Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Three new Covid care centres will come up in Barara, Ambala city and Ambala Cantonment. We already have a centre in Naraingarh’s Bhurewala village. These centres will cater to asymptomatic or patients with mild symptoms.”At a meeting convened here on Friday, deputy commissioner (DC) Ashok Kumar Sharma asked the SDMs of all four blocks to look for places that can be used as Covid care centres. The DC also asked the civil surgeon to ensure that positive report of a patient reaches the concerned SDM, SMO and PMO from the laboratory so that rapid medical action can be implemented to prevent the spread of virus. “In case of a sudden increase in positive cases, the SDM can also stop activities in the particular area and resume it accordingly. The municipal corporation authorities also have to challan those not wearing masks especially in the cloth market areas,” he added.As per the official figures of the health department, the district has reported 321 infections in last one week (till Friday evening) and the total number of positive cases has almost reached 1,200 mark. However, there are only 239 active cases in the district at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-more-covid-care-centres-to-be-set-up-in-ambala-district/story-Vr75xMmsDjWwxEizBMOfxH.html
24-07-2020||City||Punjab opens special Covid care centres for under-60 mild/asymptomatic patients||Chandigarh Augmenting its covid care capacity for mild asymptomatic cases, where the patient is under 60 years, the Punjab government has opened Covid Care Centres (CCCs) with 7,520 beds in 10 districts. Similar centres, with 100 beds each, would be opened soon in the remaining 12 districts. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said the capacities of beds in various districts are Jalandhar (1,000); Amritsar (1,000); Patiala (470); Bathinda (950); Ludhiana (1,200); Sangrur (800); Mohali, Mohali (500 bed capacity at Gian Sagar Hospital and 1,000 bed capacity at Chandigarh University); Pathankot (400); Fazilka (100) and Faridkot (100).These centres are running in Meritorious Schools or other institutions and the capacity can be enhanced to 28,000 beds, if cases surge further. District administrations and the health departments are managing these and are being used to keep positive patients having none of any symptoms and without any co-morbidity like chronic diseases, such as diabetes and hypertension, in isolation.The centres are equipped with bed, adequate sanitation and security facilities with doctors, nurses, pharmacists, hospital administrators and counsellors monitoring it around the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-opens-special-covid-care-centres-for-under-60-mild-asymptomatic-patients/story-r126HRNQ3JPqx8bNgGyt3K.html
24-07-2020||City||Jind man held for killing his 5 kids in last 2 years: Police||A 38-year-old man was arrested in Haryana’s Jind district after he confessed to killing his five children in the last over 2 years, including two of them recently, a senior police official said on Friday. The man, identified as Jumma, is a labourer and belongs to a village in Jind’s Safidon, a police official said, adding that his wife is pregnant with the sixth child. He is a native of Uttar Pradesh.While addressing a press conference, additional superintendent of police (ASP) Ajit Singh Sekhawat said the bodies of two of his daughters, aged 11 and 7, were recovered from the Hansi-Butana Link canal near his home in Didwara village on July 20, five days after the accused had lodged a police complaint stating the duo had gone missing. “However, during the course of investigation, Jumma kept changing his statements which raised suspicion,” the ASP said. The police presumed that he was under mental stress due to the death of his children and did not subject him to sustained questioning at the moment. The village panchayat was later involved in the investigation, and the man confessed before them and later, the police, that he killed his five children. Jumma admitted that he drugged his two minor daughters and threw them in the canal a few days ago, the ASP said. “We arrested him on Thursday evening, and he has been charged with murder,” he added.Earlier, Jumma’s three children, all below 11, had also died mysteriously. At that time, he had told his neighbours that one of his sons died in sleep, a daughter died while playing and another son started vomiting and died. “He has now confessed that he killed those three children as well. While two of them were strangulated by him, one was administered a poisonous tablet,” the ASP said. Shekhawat said in the recent case, while the accused administered some intoxicants to two of his daughters before throwing them in the canal, he had also given some drugs to his wife. “He had kept his wife, who was pregnant with the sixth child, under heavy sedation during past few days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jind-man-held-for-killing-his-5-kids-in-last-2-years-police/story-dTTQBFHmCjH1jxnxoYRZTK.html
24-07-2020||City||Haryana govt cannot continue subsidy on cotton crop insurance premium: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday clarified that his government cannot continue subsidy on cotton crop premium under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY).While interacting with reporters here, Khattar said the state government had given 3% subsidy on the premium amount for cotton crop since the last two years but this year they have decided to withdraw it. “Cotton is a commercial crop and the farmers are required to pay 5% of the amount insured as premium. This year, our government has decided to pay premium for those farmers who have been switching over to other crops from paddy in specific zones,” the CM said.HT had earlier reported that cotton growers in Haryana are a worried lot as their share of premium under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana has been increased from Rs 620 per acre to Rs 1,650 this time after the state government withdrew 3% subsidy provided on the premium.Under PMFBY guidelines, a farmer is required to pay 2% of the sum insured in case of kharif crop and 1.5% in case of rabi crop (5% for horticulture crop) as the premium and the balance is shared 50:50 by the state and the Centre.This year, farmers’ premium share under the government insurance scheme was hiked up to Rs 50 per acre for paddy, Rs 10 per acre for maize, Rs 40 per acre for bajra, Rs 1,030 per acre for cotton, Rs 8 per acre for barley and wheat, Rs 15 per acre each for gram and sunflower and Rs 130 per acre for mustard.‘Political parties should follow social distancing norms’On being asked about political parties, including the BJP, violating social distancing norms, the CM said people associated with political outfits need to follow the protocol. “I am aware that few people are not following the norms. I urge all Haryana residents to follow social distancing norms and wear masks when they step outside their homes,” he added.He said the upcoming Baroda by election is a challenge for the Congress and opportunity for the BJP as they are yet to open their account in the rural dominated constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-govt-cannot-continue-subsidy-on-cotton-crop-insurance-premium-khattar/story-Jr6z9TsNBiXE02BMDzZmqN.html
24-07-2020||Pune||SC refuses to entertain plea against home delivery of liquor in Pune, Nashik||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to entertain a petition filed by the Maharashtra Wine Merchants Association (MWMA) against the home delivery of liquor in Pune and Nasik, which was allowed in view of the Covid-19 lockdown.“We are not interested to hear this petition. Liquor is not an essential thing, why we should make an urgent order,” a bench of the apex court, headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar said while refusing to entertain the petition.The petitioner, Maharashtra Wine Merchants Association (MWMA), had knocked the doors of the apex court, against the home delivery of liquor in Pune and Nasik.The excise department of the Maharashtra government had in May this year allowed the home delivery of liquor with certain guidelines and precautions which are to be followed during its delivery in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. (With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-against-home-delivery-of-liquor-in-pune-nasik/story-fi6auPjdogsEQzfsB92T2N.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Haryana govt’s action against industrial units highly inadequate: NGT||Action taken by Haryana government against large scale violation of laws by industrial units for alleged contamination of ground water is highly inadequate, the National Green Tribunal said on Friday. Withdrawal of ground water without any assessment of impact of such extraction needs to be taken seriously against all the non-compliant industries, the green panel said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Haryana resident Ramesh Chand with reference to the allegation of pollution caused in the process of dyeing by the industrial units, resulting in contamination of ground water in Khandra village in Panipat district, Haryana. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that as per the analysis results of the underground water samples, few parameters were exceeding the acceptable limits. According to the report filed by State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), two non-complying units have been closed and prosecution is under process. Compensation has been assessed and three units have not resumed their operations after lockdown, the report said. The NGT said the report showed large scale violation of law by the industrial units for which action taken so far is highly inadequate. “Illegal extraction of ground water without any assessment of impact of such extraction needs to be taken seriously against all the non-compliant units... Compensation needs to be recovered for the entire period of violation up to the last five years,” the tribunal said. The NGT asked Haryana government to take further action in the matter and file report filed before the next date by e-mail. The matter is posted for next hearing on January 5, 2021. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/haryana-govt-s-action-against-industrial-units-highly-inadequate-ngt/story-BweCLHdtOqoxKKZlm5holO.html
24-07-2020||Pune||Four arrested for duping two in Pune’s KCB||Four men were arrested by the Pune police crime branch Unit 4 for duping two men of Rs 3 lakh each by promising them a job in the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) as cleaners. Two of them are suspected to have duped four other people as well.Three of the four were identified as Avdhut Tukaram Kashid, a resident of Kadlas in Solapur; Dayanand Damodar Jadhav, a resident of Mangalvedha in Solapur and Bharat Krushna Kate, a resident of Sangola in Solapur, according to police. Their police custody remand till July 22 had led to the arrest of a fourth accused identified as Pramod Bhagwan Gurav, a resident of Karad, Satara and a native of Mumbai. Gurav is in police custody till Friday.The four had duped two men identified as Tukaram Dhore and Ganesh Akhade by forging signatures of the Pavan Kumar Singh, CEO of Khadki Cantonment Board on their joining letters for the job of cleaners. They had taken an amount of Rs 3, 00,000 from each of the two men for the forged document.Jadhav and Gurav have together duped four more men in a similar way, according to a statement issued by Unit 4 of Pune police crime branch.Gurav and Jadhav had extracted the logo of KCB from its website using scanning software, according to the police.The suspected forgery came to the notice of KCB after one of the victims arrived at the board office in December with an appointment letter with signature of Pramod Kumar Singh, chief executive officer, KCB, according to senior police inspector Rajendra Sahane of Khadki police station.A case under Sections 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc.), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document as genuine), 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-arrested-for-duping-two-in-kcb-job-fraud/story-7kqDPs99JbbAEN4OVtKdWM.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||American congressman seeks refugee status for Afghan Sikhs, Hindus||An influential American congressman has praised India for giving refugee status to Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan and urged the Trump administration to do the same for the persecuted religious minorities from the war-torn country. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) said on Thursday that there had been a recent spurt of attacks on Hindus and Sikhs in Afghanistan by terrorists at the behest of their ‘external supporters’ and India has been providing necessary visas to members of these communities . “We have been receiving requests from the members of these communities. They want to move to India, they want to settle down here, and despite the ongoing Covid-19 situation, we are facilitating these requests,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. He said once those who want to come and settle in India arrive in the country, their requests will be examined and acted upon based on existing rules and policies. Responding to India’s move, Congressman Jim Costa said in a tweet, “This marks an important step toward protecting Afghanistan’s Sikh and Hindu communities from imminent destruction at the hands of terrorists”. “While I’m pleased that India has offered them refuge, more needs to be done to ensure their safety in the long term. I will continue to advocate for more permanent solutions that will provide these families with security, economic stability, and a brighter future,” Costa said as he referred to a news story from The New York Times. In April the lawmaker had written a letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo seeking similar refugee status for Hindus and Sikhs from Afghanistan. “In April, I wrote to Secretary of State Pompeo urging him to provide help to these families and consideration for potential resettlement in the US,” Costa tweeted. In its news story, The New York Times reported the statement of Ministry of External Affairs that India has decided to facilitate the return to India of Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members facing security threats in Afghanistan. MINORITIES EXPERIENCED YEARS OF PERSECUTIONAccording to the daily, the Hindu and Sikh communities in Afghanistan once numbered in the tens, if not the hundreds, of thousands, with well-established businesses and high-ranking positions in the government. But nearly all have fled to India, Europe, or North America over decades of war and persecution. Last month, a bipartisan group of 20 US senators urged the Trump administration to grant emergency refugee protection to Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan facing persecution as religious minorities. “Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan face an existential threat from ISIS-K because of their religion. To protect religious freedom, we urgently ask that you take these essential steps to defend these threatened religious minorities,” they said in the letter. The Sikhs and Hindus once numbered around 2,50,000, but now fewer than 1,000 people live in Afghanistan due to decades of persecution, the senators wrote. A heavily armed Islamic State-Khorasan (ISIS-K) suicide bomber stormed a gurdwara in the heart of Afghanistan’s capital on March 25, killing 25 Sikhs and injuring eight others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/american-congressman-seeks-refugee-status-for-afghan-sikhs-hindus/story-jzlLUjMsSPK0LCCGnfBkAJ.html
24-07-2020||Pune||Positivity rate increases during lockdown in Pune city||If the district administration imposed the lockdown to bring down Covid infection in Pune, the growing positivity rate indicates it hasn’t served its purpose.City’s positivity rate, according to figures shared by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), during the lockdown has increased from 17.11% on July 12 to 19.03% till July 22, a period when PMC drastically increased swab testing. By July 23, when lockdown ended, it stood at 19.18 percent.The PMC had insisted that it will use the lockdown period for 100 per cent contact tracing and 100 per cent testing. However, PMC has not been able to complete this task as the average contact tracing has been 10.79 per cent. At the same time, doubling rate of positives has come down from 19.71 per cent on July 12 to 14.46 per cent on July 22.The 10-day lockdown imposed in the PMC jurisdiction from July 13 to 23, in which its severity was high for first five days, ended on Thursday with Pune returning back to pre-lockdown (June 12) situation.Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “The lockdown has helped us in certain ways, the recovery rate of Pune has increased and it is at top in the country. The current recovery rate of Pune is close to 64 per cent. We all are working to bring down the number of positive cases and through public support I am sure that it will come down.” During the second phase of latest lockdown, the PMC offered some relaxations in its limits with grocery and vegetable shops were allowed.Talking about this increase in the positivity rate Dr Bharat Purandare, infectious disease physicians from Deenanath Mangeshkhar said, “If the positivity rate is increasing of the city which means the infection is getting more intense and there is no need to worry about it. It is good as the herd immunity will come when the positive cases will reach to a certain number and bad news is that some of them will die from these infected people. The positivity rate of Italy and other European countries was around 60 per cent couple of months back.Fortunately in India and in our Pune the rate is still low may be due to our geographical conditions, we have more young population and our immunity power is more. And this increase is accepted the positivity rate will increase geometrically and when a significant portion of population is infected then herd immunity comes and the pandemic comes down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/positivity-rate-increases-during-lockdown-in-pune-city/story-RbIJsuvbngItaqzRISfXHK.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||20 held as Punjab Police bust drug cartel spanning 50 districts in 11 states||Chandigarh: In one of the biggest crackdowns on the supply of pharmaceutical opioids across the country, Punjab Police has busted an inter-state drug cartel operating in more than 50 districts of the country spread across 11 states, using the hawala channel route. Twenty people have already been arrested with a cache of drugs, drug money and five vehicles, in an operation that spanned over eight weeks. Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta said the drug cartel, known as the Agra Gang, was pushing pharmaceutical opioids (drugs) into markets across India by diverting drugs in huge quantities from the drug manufacturers, suppliers, wholesalers and retail chemists spread out across the country. Of the 20 people arrested so far, 16 are from Punjab, two from Uttar Pradesh and one each from Haryana and Delhi. BARNALA POLICE TEAM BUSTED DRUG SYNDICATE With the arrest of these gang members, a well-oiled network of drug syndicate pushing consignments to the tune of 10-12 crore of intoxicating pharmaceutical opioids in the form of tablets/capsules/injections/syrups per month into Punjab and other parts of the country has been smashed. Thousands of youngsters who were or could have got hooked to these drugs have been saved from abuse and addiction. The gang was busted by a Barnala police team, comprising of Pragya Jain, IPS, ASP Mehal Kalan, Sukhdev Virk SP(D), Ramninder Deol DSP (D), inspector Baljit Singh, in-charge CIA, working under the supervision of Barnala senior superintendent of police Sandeep Goel. The arrest of the 20 men, including one of the cartel’s kingpins, were made from various locations in Punjab, Haryana, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. As many as 27,62,137 intoxicating tablets, capsules, injections and syrup bottles were seized from them, along with drug proceeds money of Rs 70,03,800, said Gupta. BUSTED MATHURA GANG IN MARCH The Barnala police had in March similarly busted a Mathura Gang and seized 44 lakh intoxicants and Rs 1.5 crore drug money in the biggest-ever such haul by Punjab Police. The case began to unravel in May with the arrest of Balwinder Singh, alias Nikka, and four others along with 2.85 lakh intoxicating tablets (Tab Clovidol) during investigation into an NDPS case registered at Mehal Kalan police station. This led to the arrest of Julfikar Ali with 12,000 intoxicating tablets (Tab Clovidol). Julfikar’s questioning revealed the role of Harish as one of the masterminds in the influx and supply of pharmaceutical opioids into Punjab. Following these arrests, the Barnala police spent over two months developing the leads, laying out surveillance plans and a trap, with a special team being sent to West Bengal from where Harish was arrested. It was Harish who disclosed the working of the gang and its chain of supply of psychotropic drugs not only in Punjab but in over 11 states of the country. Subsequent raids in UP, Haryana, Delhi and Punjab led to the arrest of other gang members along with seizure of a large quantity of pharmaceutical opioids, the drug proceeds money and vehicles. KINGPIN POSED AS MEDICAL REPRESENTATIVE The DGP said Harish posed as a medical representative to establish contact with chemists and pharmacists by using address and phone numbers that he easily found over internet and social media. The contraband smugglers used a pre-identified network of couriers /transport /goods carriers, operating from cities such as Delhi, Agra, Amritsar, Jaipur, Gwalior and Bhopal, and delivered consignments to locations in different states with the help of fake/undervalued bills using local transporters. Payment and transfer of money was done using the hawala channels, and also through multiple cash transactions into bank accounts created for this purpose. MISUSE OF PHARMACEUTICAL OPIOIDS The intoxicants seized are mostly pharmaceutical opioids. Many of these pharmaceutical products have legitimate and important medical use; however these products cannot be sold without a medical prescription from a registered practitioner. The gang was diverting these intoxicants, which are medically used for pain relief and treatment for opioid dependence, for extra-medical use, which can lead to drug overdose and even death. The DGP said that the operation carried out by Punjab Police and the recovery of pharmaceutical opioids is significant and is a major hit to the supply of drugs in Punjab, as according to Magnitude of Substance Use in India-2019, a study commissioned by ministry of social justice and empowerment, Government of India, pharmaceutical opioids (which itself includes a variety of medications of the opioid group) are the second most commonly used opioids in India (0.96%), after heroin (1.14%). It is estimated that the harmful use/dependent use of pharmaceutical opioids constitutes 40% of the drug problem in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-held-as-punjab-police-bust-drug-cartel-spanning-50-districts-in-11-states/story-N60yMizYSSw7Dqe7ZvxDlJ.html
24-07-2020||City||Covid-19 pregnant women deliver, recover in Patiala; 25 of 40 discharged||Patiala Believed to be a vulnerable category of population to covid-19, of 40 pregnant women who have tested positive for the disease, to date in the district, almost all have given birth to healthy babies. The women are also fine. Two women had to undergo medical termination of pregnancy, as surgery was too risky an option of the both the mother and the child. Dr Parneet Kaur, head of gynaecology department, Rajindra Hospital, said, “Of these women, 25 have been discharged and 15 are still admitted in hospital as they are yet to complete their isolation period. All, however, are fit and fine.” Thirty-one of these women are from Patiala, three from Ludhiana and one each from Sangrur, Mohali, Fatehgarh Sahib, Kaithal, Gurgaon and Hamirpur. Pregnant women constituted around 4% of patients in the district, which were 1,217. An official of the health department said, “Successful results of these cases will shatter the fear of covid-19 among the most vulnerable section of population,”Doctors said the process of delivery was challenging, as they have to wear Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits. “Deliveries and surgeries are most challenging, as we are in PPE kits and when in that kit, you cannot hear anything. We communicate through sign language to seek help and equipment from our team. Our vision can also blocked because we are wearing these kits,” said Dr Parneet.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra, “A separate isolation facility with 13 beds has been setup at the gynae department of the Rajindra Hospital. We have to be extra cautious and diligent in treatment of pregnant women.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-pregnant-women-deliver-recover-in-patiala-25-of-40-discharged/story-5MOsA788BQB9rvlcdTNs0K.html
24-07-2020||Noida||Man involved in robberies on Delhi-NCR highways nabbed by UP STF||A member of a nomadic gang of robbers that targeted vehicles on Delhi-NCR highways was arrested by the Special Task Force of the Uttar Pradesh Police from Haryana on Friday, officials said. Accused Dinesh alias Dinne, a native of Najafgarh in Delhi, was held from Palwal, Haryana in the morning by the Noida unit of the STF along with the local police, the officials said. “Dinesh is a member of the Bawariya Gang which waylaid vehicles on Yamuna Expressway, the Eastern and the Western Peripheral Expressways in UP and Haryana. The gang robbed and assaulted passengers and has been involved in hundreds of such cases,” Additional Superintendent of Police, STF, Raj Kumar Mishra said. The accused was also involved in the sexual assault of a 14-year-old boy along the Western Peripheral Expressway in January this year after they punctured a tyre of a vehicle and looted the passengers, he added. Dinesh worked for Babloo Bawaria, the leader of the gang who was shot during an encounter with the STF in Aligarh earlier this month and died during treatment at a hospital, Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-involved-in-robberies-on-delhi-ncr-highways-nabbed-by-up-stf/story-7ACyWz2tddyqDV7mx7i0OI.html
24-07-2020||Pune||Lockdown over, non-essential services to restart in Pune from today||After 10-days of restrictions (July 14-July 23), the Pune civic administration ended its lockdown in Pune as of midnight, with the city returning to its pre-lockdown status of July 13, according to fresh orders issued by municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar.Kumar, in his order issued on Thursday, allowed non-essential shops and delivery of food from restaurants, along with the free movement of residents in non-containment zones, between 5 am and 9 pm.Other restrictions on malls, gymnasiums, dine-in at restaurants and religious houses will continue as the earlier order of the state government, valid up till July 31.While the administration considered the option of business activity only being closed on weekends, officials decided on the old ‘even-odd’ formula, under which shops on the right-hand side of the street are open on even dates, and those one the left will be open on odd dates.Non-essential outlets are allowed to carry out operations between 9 am and 7 pm.The PMC order states that autorickshaws, cabs and private vehicles will be allowed to ply without e-passes, though, not with more than two persons in a vehicle besides the driver. Movement will be allowed for essential purposes to avoid unnecessary crowding. The civic body has also permitted people to exercise in public playgrounds, though public gardens will continue to remain closed.Kumar also revised the micro-containment zone map of the city, reducing the number of areas under restrictions from 109 to 87.These containment zones, as per the PMC order, will not witness any commercial activity except essential services.Vikram Kumar said, “The micro-containment zone policy will continue in the city and citizens from containment zones cannot leave the area while others cannot enter these areas. Only shops selling essential commodities will be allowed.”The only major change is for marriages. Earlier, 50 people could attend the function, but now only 20 people will be allowed to be present. All religious places will continue to be closed.Restaurants can offer take-aways, while food delivery services are also allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lockdown-over-non-essential-services-to-restart-in-pune-from-today/story-HKs05t7XThLKbtl9CPhypN.html
24-07-2020||Pune||PCMC to increase bed-capacity by 400 per ward with schools converted into Covid care centres||Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is planning to convert civic schools into Covid-19 care centres to make isolation and medical facility easily accessible to patients, amid the rise in positive cases.All schools and colleges in Pimpri-Chinchwad are shut due to the coronavirus pandemic. The civic body runs 105 primary and 18 high schools in the twin cities.“Covid-19 care centres in such schools will make isolation and medical treatment easily accessible to patients. In every ward PCMC schools will be coming up with such facility,” said Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.“Patients will not have to travel a long distance to reach such facility as it will be nearby their homes, which will provide them comfort,” he said.“We have been told to have 400 beds in each ward, so four schools will be utilised in every ward. At many places Covid-19 care centres in schools have already started while at some places it will start in a few days,” said Manoj Lonkar, assistant commissioner/ward officer, F zone.On Thursday, Yashwantrao Chavan Primary and Secondary School, Thergaon was cleaned and preparations are underway to convert it into a Covid-19 care centre. The beds will arrive at the school by Monday.“There are 27 rooms in the school and eight beds can be accommodated in one classroom. So overall there will be 216 beds available in the school,” said an official from the school.“All these steps have been taken by PCMC due to the spike in positive cases in the last 15 days,” added Lonkar.As of Thursday, there are 13,794 positive virus cases in PCMC and 258 deaths.Covid-19 cases in PCMC as of Thursday (figures will be updated at 8pm)Total progressive positive cases: 13,794Total active cases: 5128Total recovered cases: 8,416Death: 258||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-to-increase-bed-capacity-by-400-per-ward-with-schools-converted-into-covid-care-centres/story-3cZkveBqONDNhnZ1g9SCFP.html
24-07-2020||Pune||Number of critical patients in Pune likely to touch 3,000 by July-end: Saurabh Rao||The district administration is taking steps to strengthen the medical infrastructure as it estimates 3,000 Covid-19 critical patients in the city will need ICU, oxygen support and ventilator beds by the end of July.Saurabh Rao, IAS officer on special duty for the administration’s response in fighting Covid-19, said, “As per the rise in positive cases in the city, the projections are that there would be 27,000 cases by the end of July. Hence, the need to have at least 3,000 more beds with ICU, oxygen support and ventilator supports to handle critical patients.”As on July 22, Pune health department reported 609 critical patients with many complaining shortage of ICU beds. The city has witnessed patients succumbing to infection for want of beds.As per the PMC records, number of critical patients on June 1 was 174 while the figure touched 347 on July 1.The senior official held a meeting with private hospitals on Thursday and said that the latter have been roped in to address the situation.Rao said, “Private hospitals have accepted our request to convert deluxe and semi-deluxe rooms to accommodate more beds. Hence, one bed has been added to single-bed deluxe rooms and more beds have been put in semi-deluxe rooms.”Private hospitals have also agreed to admit patients despite bed shortage.Rao said, “Hospitals will not refuse patients for lack of vacant beds in ICU. Critical cases will be provided immediate treatment with whatever facility available before checking for bed vacancy on real-time dashboard and informing the patients’ relatives.”The state official said that the administration will create a jumbo medical facility and expression of interest has been invited from Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). The facility is expected to be ready in 15 days after issuing the work order.Convert pvt vehicles into ambulancesDistrict collector Naval Kishore Ram said that the administration will acquire 500 private vehicles and convert it into ambulances. The step has been taken to check the surge in positive cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/number-of-critical-patients-in-pune-likely-to-touch-3-000-by-july-end-saurabh-rao/story-FL3JLGakQsyQWdS2f9z5FI.html
24-07-2020||Pune||Non-essential shops in Pimpri-Chinhwad to stay open from 9am to 5pm on odd-even basis||In Pimpri-Chinchwad non-essential shops will remain open from 9am to 5pm on odd and even formula in non-containment zones from Friday.The area was under lockdown from July 14-July 23.According to new orders issued by Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, the shops on the right side of the roads will remain open on even dates while shops on the left side will remain open on odd dates.The order also states that if people do not follow social distancing rules then shops will close down completely.Medical shops, home delivery of foods and e-commerce services will be allowed to function from 8 am to 10 pm. The passes issued by PCMC will be valid for people till July 31.The tea shops which were open before July 14 have been ordered to shut down along with paan shops.Manufacturing industries and IT companies have been permitted to function with 50 per cent of staff while all the government offices will be continuing working with 15 per cent staff. While it is compulsory to have 6 feet distance between two workers in shops.In the containment zone, medical stores, banks, milk, vegetable, fruit shops and chicken and mutton shops will be allowed to function from 10 am to 2 pm.PCMC police will continue to take strict action against people who will be not wearing face masks in public places and fine on spitting will also continue.The civic body has also appealed to industries to continue work from home for whomsoever it is possible.The action will be taken against people under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code who do not follow the guidelines. These orders will stay intact until the PCMC civic body issues next orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/non-essential-shops-in-pimpri-chinhwad-to-stay-open-from-9am-to-5pm-on-odd-even-basis/story-L0g4ZWo7TdnvfUnmfNmqtL.html
24-07-2020||Lucknow||Raise daily Covid testing to 1 lakh, conduct door-to-door survey in 7 districts: Yogi to officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Friday asked officials to work out a plan for enhancing the coronavirus testing capacity in the state to one lakh per day.He also directed them to conduct door-to-door survey in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Kanpur Nagar, Varanasi, Allahabad, Gorakhpur and Ballia districts, according to an official release.In a meeting with senior officials, the chief minister also said testing more will help check the spread of Covid-19 infection. In districts having a population of 30 lakhs or above, 2,000 rapid antigen tests should conducted daily, while in others at least 1,000 tests, he said. Besides, at least 35,000 tests should be conducted daily across the state using the gold standard RT-PCR method, he said.He asked for effective medical screening by surveillance teams which he said should be done on a mission mode and warned against any laxity.He also asked district administrations to take necessary steps to use private hospitals as COVID-19 facility if required.He also asked them to take the help of NCC cadets and people associated with civil defence for ensuring proper arrangements in coronavirus containment zones.The CM also gave directions on special cleanliness and sanitisation campaigns on Saturday and Sunday. He directed the officials to ensure no communicable disease breaks out in flood-affected areas during the monsoon season, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/raise-daily-covid-testing-to-1-lakh-conduct-door-to-door-survey-in-7-districts-yogi-to-officials/story-joEiI1K91BLuAccJthxM5L.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana man arrested for killing his five children in last four years: Police||A 38-year-old man has been arrested in Haryana’s Jind district after he confessed to killing his five children in the last four years, including two of them recently, a senior police official said on Friday.The man, identified only as Jumma, is a labourer and belongs to a village in Safidon in Jind, he said, adding that his wife is pregnant with the sixth child.The bodies of two of his daughters, ages 11 and 7, were recovered from the Hansi-Butana Link canal near his home in Didwara village on July 20, five days after the accused had lodged a police complaint stating the duo had gone missing.However, during the course of investigation, Jumma kept changing his statements which raised suspicion, Jind Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Ajit Singh Shekhawat told PTI over the phone.The police presumed that he was under mental stress due to the death of his children and did not subject him to sustained questioning at the moment.The village panchayat was later involved in the investigation, and the man confessed before them and later, the police, that he killed his five children.Jumma admitted that he drugged his two minor daughters and threw them in the canal a few days ago, the ASP said.“We arrested him on Thursday evening, and he has been charged with murder,” said Shekhawat.Earlier, Jumma’s three children, all below 11, had also died mysteriously.At that time, he had told his neighbours that one of his sons died in sleep, a daughter died while playing and another son started vomiting and died.“He has now confessed that he killed those three children as well. While two of them were strangulated by him, one was administered a poisonous tablet,” the police officer said.Shekhawat said in the recent case, while the accused administered some intoxicants to two of his daughters before throwing them in the canal, he had also given some drugs to his wife.“He had kept his wife, who was pregnant with the sixth child, under heavy sedation during past few days,” he said.Asked if Jumma had taken the steps under the influence of some ‘tantrik’ (occultist), Shekhawat said the accused is believed to have mentioned something in this regard to the villagers, but no such statement has been made before the police yet.The police will seek the help of a mental health expert in the case to further question the accused and find the exact motive which led him to kill his own children, he added. PTI SUN VSD IJT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-man-arrested-for-killing-his-five-children-in-last-four-years-police/story-3qYIdbtN6UkR7RcvxdBTJL.html
24-07-2020||Indore||Unable to find a job, Indore woman with PhD degree sells fruits||A woman who sells fruits on a cart and who lashed out at municipal officials here on Thursday has done PhD in Materials Science. Her siblings too are well educated and sell fruits as they did not find jobs.Raisa Ansari, who lives at Bakery Street in Pardeshipura with her family said she wanted to be a scientist but did not get a job anywhere.Speaking to ANI, Ansari said, “I have done PhD in Materials Science and wanted to be a scientist but did not get job anywhere. I sell fruit here but the municipal officials are bothering us. We are being forced to move from here to there like cattle. Our religion may be the reason why we are not getting jobs but we are proud to be Indian. I am still looking for a job.”Raisa’s mother Ayesha Ansari said she herself is not educated, but has four children of whom three girls and one boy studied a lot but no one got job.Speaking to ANI Ayesha said, “I have four children and they are well educated. I have not studied but all my children are educated but did not get job so all of them sell fruits.”“When the matter came to marriage, one of the daughters got married. Raisa and Shahjahan Bi wanted an educated boy, but they were not able to find a suitable match because of their complexion and sometimes they rejected the proposal because of dowry, so both are single. Two of my grandchildren are studying biology. They will become doctors,” said Ayesha.Meanwhile, people in the neighbourhood lauded the family’s abilities. They said theirs was an educated family had to sell fruits as they did not get jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/indore/unable-to-find-a-job-indore-woman-with-phd-degree-sells-fruits/story-Hp3fEIOwAM0pXQf0szynLO.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Tablighi Jamaat: Delhi court allows 53 foreigners to walk free on payment of fine||A Delhi court Friday allowed 53 people from Indonesia, Kyrgyzstan and South Africa to walk free on payment of fines, after they accepted mild charges under the plea bargain process, related to various violations including visa norms while attending the Tablighi Jamaat event here during the Covid-19 lockdown.Metropolitan Magistrate Archana Beniwal allowed 40 Indonesians, 12 Kyrgyz and One South African to walk free on payment of Rs 5,000 fine each, said advocates Ashima Mandla, Fahim Khan and Ahmed Khan, appearing for them.The Sub-divisional magistrate of Defence Colony, who was the complainant in the case, Assistant Commissioner of Police of Lajpat Nagar and Inspector of Nizamuddin said they have no objection to it.Till date 908 foreigners have been allowed to walk free on payment of varying fines after they accepted mild charges under plea bargain process and 46 foreign nationals have claimed trial before the court.  Under plea bargaining, the accused plead guilty to the offence praying for a lesser punishment. The Criminal Procedure of Code allows for plea bargaining in cases where the maximum punishment is 7-year imprisonment; offences don’t affect the socio-economic conditions of the society and the offence is not committed against a woman or a child below 14 years.The foreigners were chargesheeted for attending the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz event in the national capital by allegedly violating visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines, issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak in the country.They were granted bail earlier by the court on a personal bond of Rs 10,000 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tablighi-jamaat-delhi-court-allows-53-foreigners-to-walk-free-on-payment-of-fine/story-fVjRwd0c5rI6VCrxYlqLtK.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||52-year-old kidney patient dies due to Covid-19 in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh||A 52-year-old man died of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday night, taking the state’s coronavirus toll to 11. The patient was a resident of Amb village in Jawalamukhi and died in Kangra. So far, three people have died due to Covid-19 in Kangra district. The man had kidney and liver ailments for which he was undergoing treatment at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Research and Education (PGIMER), Chandigarh, from where he was discharged on July 22. He was admitted to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College and Hospital, Tanda, on July 23 after which his samples for Covid-19 were taken. After he tested positive, he was being taken to the Zonal Hospital in Dharamshala as per the protocol but he died on the way in the ambulance, Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said. 41 FRESH CASES As many as 41 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state on Friday, taking the Covid-19 tally in the state to 1,875, of which 705 are active cases. Twenty fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Sirmaur district while ten Covid-19 cases were reported in Mandi. Five new cases were reported in Kangra district, of which four were army personnel; two cases were reported in Kinnaur district and once cases each were reported in Una and Bilaspur districts. A 25-year-old army personnel, a resident of Norbulingka, Dharamsala with travel history to Leh tested positive and has been shifted to the Military Hospital, Yol. A 22-year-old army personnel, is a resident of village Mandher in Baijnath, who had travelled from Leh on July 18 also tested positive. He has been shifted to the Military Hospital, Palampur. Bilaspur superintendent of police (SP) Divakar Sharma said, “A 25-year-old police personnel, a resident of Kullu, tested positive in Swarghat, Bilaspur. All personnel at Swarghat police station have been quarantined and will be tested for Covid-19.” Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal said so far eleven people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state, 1,142 patients have recovered, and 15 have migrated out of the state. With 434 Covid-19 cases, Solan is the worst hit district in the state, followed by Kangra with 375 cases. Hamirpur has 228 cases, Sirmaur 194 , Una 172, Shimla 121, Chamba 86, Bilaspur 68, Mandi 70, Kinnaur 41 and Kullu has 22 cases. With four Covid-19 cases, Lahaul and Spiti is the least affected district. Meanwhile, amid spike in cases in Mohalla Govindgarh in Nahan and Dadahu town of Sirmaur district, the adminsitration has ordered restrictions in both the areas from 9:00pm on July 24 till 9:00am on July 27.Mohalla Govindgarh in Nahan has been declared as a containment zone.Deputy commissioner RK Purthi said all shops except those selling essential goods in Nahan and Dadahu will remain closed from 7:00am to 9:00am. The DC has ordered the closure of all liquor shops in the towns till further notice. However, all government banks and offices will remain open as usual and employees have been asked to follow social distancing.Movements of residents is prohibited except for medical emergencies. Sanitisation will be carried out in Nahan and Dadahu.Any person who will violate these orders will be punished with imprisonment which may extend from six months to two years under Section 269, 270 and 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 to 60 of Disaster Management act 2005, said the DC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/52-year-old-kidney-patient-dies-due-to-covid-19-in-kangra-district-of-himachal-pradesh/story-nnAWvgDy5oiwnkPqpfA2VJ.html
24-07-2020||Pune||2,368 new coronavirus cases in Pune district, 58 deaths||Pune district reported 2,368 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours taking its Covid-19 case count to 62,002, a health official said on Thursday evening.The death toll in the district reached 1,562 with 58 patients succumbing to the infection since Wednesday evening.“1,661 new cases were detected in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, which now has 40,721 patients. But 779 patients were also discharged from hospitals,” the official said.With 399 new cases, the tally in Pimpri Chinchwad area stands at 14,145. Meanwhile, the ten-day `special lockdown’ imposed in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad cities on July 14 will end on Thursday midnight, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/2-368-new-coronavirus-cases-in-pune-district-58-deaths/story-xywXX4TU7gtIuXoodFaNZK.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration challenges single-bench order allowing registration of car with artwork||Chandigarh: The Chandigarh administration has challenged a Punjab and Haryana high court single-judge judgment allowing the registration of a vehicle with artwork on its body. The administration is learnt to have requested the high court for an urgent hearing in the matter before a division bench. If not allowed, the petition can be filed but won’t be taken up immediately as only urgent cases are being heard in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.On July 15, the single-judge bench of justice Jaishree Thakur had directed the Chandigarh administration to register the car within two weeks. The permission for the same had been denied in 2019.The multi-coloured car, an Ambassador Grand Harit-C-1800, belongs to high court lawyer Ranjit Malhotra, who bought it from a diplomat of the European Union posted in Delhi in July last year.The registering authority in Chandigarh refused to register the vehicle stating that the colour of the original vehicle had been changed from white to multi-colour. No vehicle can be altered to change the original specification made by the manufacturer, the UT maintained.Following this, Malhotra moved the high court, claiming that the reason for buying the vehicle was the artwork by a Mexican artist Senkoe.“The reason for denying registration merely on the ground that there is artwork on the body of the vehicle, where the base remains white, defies logic. Any reasonable person can easily make out that a white car had some artwork done upon it. Like a canvas with a spray of flowers, the base colour of the canvas would remain as it is,” the single-judge bench had said, allowing his plea.POTENTIAL LAW ENFORCEMENT PROBLEMNow, the UT says allowing registration of this car would cause a serious potential law enforcement problem as in common practice a motor vehicle is identified by its registration number and colour by the authorities. The colour of a motor vehicle takes precedence since it is the most recognisable/distinguishable feature of a vehicle for its prima facie identification by authorities, including law enforcement, the plea prepared by the UT says.The main argument it has taken is that the single-judge bench misinterpreted Section 52 of the Motor Vehicles Act.According to Section 52, no owner of a motor vehicle can alter it beyond the particulars mentioned in the certificate of registration, which are provided by the manufacturer. The manufacturer issues a sale certificate, which contains the colour of the vehicle. Thereafter, it is reflected in the registration certificate and hence the same cannot be altered.It has cited the Chandigarh Motor Vehicle Rules, 1990, which do not allow alteration of colour. Colours such as olive green are not allowed to be painted on motor vehicles except defence vehicles is another argument by it.It has also stated that case of the petitioner was not formally rejected, as contemplated under Section 45 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and the administration was treading carefully since any decision in this case would be cited as a precedent in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-administration-to-challenge-single-bench-order-allowing-registration-of-car-with-artwork/story-dMbtzxmguSurN10nBrD1QJ.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Interim bails, paroles extended to prevent Covid-19 spread in jails, says Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Friday said it was extending interim bails repeatedly to prevent the possible spread of Covid-19 among inmates from those returning to jail after the expiry of their bail or parole period during the persisting pandemic.“We are only concerned that those released (on bail or parole) should not return and spread the infection amongst the prisoners,” the high court said.The clarification by a full bench headed by Chief Justice D N Patel came as an application was moved by a convict whose interim bail was not extended by a single judge who was of the view that the high court’s July 13 order extending all such reliefs to August 31 was not applicable to the convict.The single judge said that the July 13 order was only applicable to those eligible for interim bail or parole as per the criteria laid down by the High Powered Committee (HPC) which was set up on the Supreme Court’s direction to decongest prisons for preventing spread of Covid-19 there.During the hearing held via video conference on Friday, the full bench, also comprising of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh, said it did not go into merits of each case while extending the bails and paroles.It said that the “fallacy” in the instant matter was that the “order of the full bench was being confused with the directions of the HPC”.“Please do not confuse this (full bench order) with directions of the HPC,” the court said. The bench further said the extension order was passed as the Director General of Prisons said that the jails were overcrowded and it would be difficult to prevent spread of Covid-19 if they are not decongested.“You cannot approbate and reprobate in the same breath,” the bench said to DG Prisons, represented by Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain.The bench said that though there was no ambiguity in its July 13 order, it will clarify it further.The July 13 order had come on a plea initiated by the high court on its own in April to ensure that expiry of orders during restricted functioning of the courts would not affect litigants, lawyers or prisoners since they would not be able to approach the courts during the lockdown prevailing then.The detailed order of Friday (July 24) is awaited.The main petition is listed for hearing on August 24 when the bench would decide whether to further extend the interim orders.Presently, the hearings in the high court and district courts are being done through video conferencing due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/interim-bails-paroles-extended-to-prevent-covid-19-spread-in-jails-says-delhi-hc/story-tkeBrSRN9MVriImOUQKCeI.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||From August 1, Himachal Pradesh Police to maintain separate register for crimes against women, children||Shimla: In view of the rising crimes against women and children in the state, the Himachal Pradesh Police will maintain a separate register of offenders who commit crimes against women and children in every police station of the state from August 1.A standing order on the creation and maintenance of register number 26 at every police station was issued by state director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu on Thursday.At present, 25 registers are maintained at every police station of the state.In register number 26, crimes such as rape, unnatural sexual offence, molestation and indecent assault, outraging the modesty of a woman, obscene and indecent representation of women, sexual harassment like passing sexually coloured remarks/sexual gestures/words/ stalking/flashing, eve-teasing, cruelty against women, domestic violence, immoral trafficking of women and children, kidnapping or abduction of women for sexual offence, dowry death, child marriage, forced abortion, child pornography, cyber crime against women and children, abetment of suicide by woman on account of sexual offence and any other crime against women and children will be recorded.Kundu said that the purpose of this order is to make investigation of sexual offences in the state a priority and ensure police action is swift, professional and transparent. To this end, a continuous monitoring of identified perpetrators is required.Kundu said that crime data of the past few years reveals that crimes against women and cases under the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act have been on the rise in the state. Though first information reports (FIRs) are registered and after completion of investigation chargesheets are filed in courts yet the conviction rate leaves much to be desired. Any delay or shortcomings in such investigation creates agitation, anxiety and unrest in the minds of people.Therefore, there is an urgent need to maintain this register in the state for cases of sexual offence so that such cases and offenders of are under surveillance of police and are successfully persecuted, delivering justice to victims, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-august-1-himachal-pradesh-police-to-maintain-separate-register-for-crimes-against-women-children/story-lqgtns75NlKRDi9JlBTxZM.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||NGT orders pollution control board panel to look into release of untreated chemical waste from Baddi pharma units into rivers||Shimla: A joint committee of the Central Pollution Control Board and Himachal Pradesh Pollution Control Board will study the dumping of untreated waste into the Sirsa and Sutlej rivers by pharmaceutical companies at Baddi in Solan.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the committee to submit an action taken report within three months. The state board will be the nodal agency for compliance and coordination.The orders were passed by a bench, comprising chairman justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, justice SP Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda, on a petition by an NGO, Veterans Forum for Transparency in Public Life on July 22.In its application, the petitioner urged the court to direct the authorities to take remedial action against the discharge of waste in the central effluent treatment plant (CETP) at Baddi by Acme Life Sciences, Nalagarh, and Helio Pharmaceuticals, Solan, to prevent the pollution of Sirsa and Sutlej rivers.According to the applicant, the CETP is not connected to pharmaceutical units at Barotiwala and Nalagarh that are discharging effluents directly into the rivers.Even after treatment in effluent and sewerage plants, pharmaceutical ingredients still come out from the industries unless the ETP/STPs are specialised.At present, the CETP is not designed to neutralise active pharmaceutical ingrediencts (API).NO DISPOSAL SYSTEM IN BBN FOR INDUSTRIAL EFFLUENTSThe treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) does not receive sludge generated from the industrial units at Nalagarh.The industries in Baddi generate 20,779 kilo litres /day (KLD) of effluent of which 17,894 KLD is being treated at the CETP and the remaining 2,885 KLD is disposed of by occupiers directly into the Sirsa river.There is no existing sewerage system for disposing the industrial effluents in the Baddi Barotiwala Nalagarh (BBN) industrial area and no demarcation in residential and industrial areas.MULTI-RESISTANT PATHOGENS REACHING WATER BODIESThe presence of Ciprofloxacin in the concentration of 296.1 ug/l was found on chemical analysis. The concentration of Ciprofloxacin in the effluent discharge of M/s Acme Life Sciences works out to be 13,455 times of the prescribed limit.Applicants said that the increasing occurrence of multi-resistant pathogens is a global threat to human health and it is finding its way into water bodies through industrial discharge and also due to the heavy use of antibiotics in human and veterinary medicine.The next hearing is on January 4, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngt-orders-pollution-control-board-panel-to-look-into-release-of-untreated-chemical-waste-from-baddi-pharma-units-into-rivers/story-fV1YdgeasD7aDkSqhxXusM.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||New Covid-19 cases found at housing complexes in Maharashtra’s Thane||With close to 74,000 cases of Covid-19 recorded in Maharashtra’s Thane district so far, the authorities on Friday noted that new infections are being detected in housing complexes and not slums as seen before.As many as 1,718 cases were reported in Thane district on Thursday, taking the tally to 73,922, while the toll has gone up to 2,053, an official said.Fresh Covid-19 cases are now emerging from big housing complexes and not slums as seen before, Thane municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma said.“We have to concentrate more on housing complexes and impose certain restrictions on them,” he said, adding that residential buildings will now have to record movement of visitors.Among the major towns and cities in the district, Kalyan has recorded 17,389 Covid-19 cases and accounts for 24 per cent of the region’s tally, he said.The toll in Kalyan has reached 281, with nine deaths reported on Thursday, he added.Thane city comes close second with 16,859 Covid-19 cases and 586 deaths, the official said.There were 24,209 active cases in the district as of Thursday, while mortality rate stood at 2.7 per cent, he said.Meanwhile, two Covid-19 patients escaped from at the civic-run CSMH at Kalwa town late on Thursday and efforts were underway to nab them, deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malavi said.As per official data, neighbouring Palghar district has recorded 242 fresh cases of Covid-19 and nine deaths on Thursday.With this, the district’s tally has gone up to 12,839, while the toll reached 244, it was stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/new-covid-19-cases-found-at-housing-complexes-in-maharashtra-s-thane/story-3nqr4f8siWar4zD1sZA2dM.html
24-07-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 403 new Covid-19 cases; recovery rate at 45.40%||Jharkhand on Thursday reported 403 new cases of Covid-19, while three more persons lost their lives due to the disease, the state government said.One person died on Wednesday night and the other two died during the day, it said in a bulletin.The death toll rose to 67 with the latest fatalities.There are 3,845 active cases in the state at present, it added.The total count of confirmed cases is at 7,166.So far, 3,254 people have recovered and discharged from different hospitals.While the mortality rate is 0.93, the state’s recovery rate is 45.40 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-403-new-covid-19-cases-recovery-rate-at-45-40/story-N4Ezv6PCYHvHdKkwmFzJkK.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: His moveable feast||The smell is deliciously pungent. A slight scent of garlic also arises, as its cloves start being stir-fried in hissing oil. The curry, however, has been simmering in the blackened pot for some time already. It is late morning and Salman Khan is in his kitchen.Actually, the lungi-clad rickshaw puller has set up a makeshift wood-fired stove just next to Turkman Gate, one of the four surviving Mughal-era gateways to the Walled City.He says he is preparing a mutton dish. Nothing unusual in that really. But what is odd is that Mr Khan is cooking at this hour of the day, when usually he would be busy plying his rickshaw inside the Walled City lanes.“My friend got these goat pieces from a lady near the Amrood Walli Masjid,” he says, referring to a mosque not far from this spot. The woman warned, however, that the meat was a little old, a bit stale maybe. The friend, who too is a rickshaw puller, nevertheless took the meat, which was packed in a plastic bag. He had it tied to his rickshaw’s handle and carried on with work. “He called out on spotting me behind Delite Cinema, and shared half the meat with me.” They discussed the quality of the meat and unanimously agreed that cooking it quickly was the wise thing to do, lest it gets completely spoiled with the day’s increasing heat and humidity.“So I came here, lit the fire and now I’m cooking it for myself,” says Mr Khan. The stove consists of a few pieces of wood shoved inside a tiny shelter of stones—all of this stuff he gathered from the footpath “yaha-vaha (here and there)”.In his late 30s, Mr Khan lives with a few other rickshaw pullers on a footpath near the Red Fort. He says he sleeps on the passenger seat of his rickshaw and that he dines daily on roadside food stalls. But there are exceptions, of course, like this morning. Besides, very rarely he gets to eat mutton. “I always have dal chawal and subzi in the dhaba, near the Ramlila Maidan.” Sometimes he does treat himself to fried fish served in the carts that line the road facing New Delhi railway station, Ajmeri Gate side.Mr Khan, whose family lives in the village in Bihar, says that nobody taught him to cook. “I learnt it on my own,” he says in a flat tone, as if this was no big deal. He picks up the red chilli powder pouch and empties it all into the pan. “The mutton subzi should be very spicy,” he mutters in a very low voice, as if explaining away this indulgence to himself alone.The impromptu cook now covers the pot with a lid—it’s his thali actually—and stares silently at the fire. He admits that he keeps his plate and pan in the storage space inside his rickshaw’s passenger seat all the time. “This way you can cook wherever you want.”Meanwhile a handful of passers-by walk past him without noticing his cooking pot. A stray dog is asleep nearby. A few minutes later, Mr Khan lifts up the thali, peers enquiring into the pan, sniffs, looks thoughtful and declares, “it’s almost done.”He sombrely says he will get some rotis from a dhaba nearby, and finish off half the curry right now. “I will save the rest for dinner, and have it with dal and rice in the dhaba tonight.”The dish will travel with him during the day in his rickshaw, along with his customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-his-moveable-feast/story-RGVQMscmxjzR1Thdzi99RK.html
24-07-2020||Patna||Floods continue to wreak havoc in Bihar, 7.65 lakh people affected||As many as 7,65,191 people were affected due to floods triggered by incessant rains in Bihar while 13,877 people have been staying in shelter homes, the state government said on Thursday.People in various districts of the state have been hit hard by floods for the last few days.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 21 rescue teams in Bihar.“The rescue operations are underway. In Bihar, the water flow depends on rains in Nepal’s Terai region. The evacuation is selective in most places as the rural people decide when they should go to the camp, but they are persuaded to do so if the situation is severe,” said NDRF Director-General (DG) SN Pradhan.No deaths have been reported in the state so far but people are facing snake bites, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/floods-continue-to-wreak-havoc-in-bihar-7-65-lakh-people-affected/story-ta6lQ3RWSNGEb3XvBaHyvN.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab minister urges National Health Mission staff to not go on strike||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Thursday urged the staff of the National Health Mission, Punjab to not go on strike or any mass casual leave.Pointing out that the health workers are at the forefront in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, he said that the state government was doing everything to serve the people of the state.“At this juncture, the staff working under NHM should not even think of such a move as this would not only be anti mankind but also against their call of duty,” the minister added, as per the statement by the state’s Information and Public Relations Department.According to the statement, the minister observed that it was time for authorities to live up to the expectations of the people of the state. “He further said that despite all odds, the Health Department recently gave NHM employees 6%+12 per cent special Covid-19 increment about two months back,” the release added further.He said as done in the past, “the state government is always open to any genuine problems being faced by the staff and anyone facing any problems can contact him directly,” the statement said further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-minister-urges-national-health-mission-staff-to-not-go-on-strike/story-9MteN3lVAHHECA7FfMqfuN.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||IMD downgrades yellow alert for Mumbai, predicts moderate showers||A day after issuing a yellow alert for heavy rain in isolated areas for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the weather bureau on Thursday downgraded its warning, predicting only light to moderate showers from Friday to Monday.While the city could witness occasional intense rain spells between Thursday night and Friday morning, light to moderate thundershowers are expected throughout Friday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said.Independent meteorologists, however, said an increase in rain activity was expected, but unlikely to cause any inconvenience to commuters or waterlogging.Meanwhile on Thursday morning, residents in the suburbs woke up to moderate thundershowers, even as light showers were reported from remaining parts of the city. The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 49mm of rain between 5.30am and 8.30am, while 0.2mm rain was recorded in Colaba, representative of south Mumbai. Parts of eastern suburbs recorded moderate showers, with Vidyavihar and Chembur receiving 45.8mm and 34.6mm rainfall. In the western suburbs, the rainfall ranged between 25mm and 33m for most locations, with Oshiwara recording the heaviest rainfall at 33mm. In the island city, Dadar and Worli recorded 33.2mm and 32.8mm of rainfall between 5.30am and 8.30am. Thane and Navi Mumbai recorded isolated moderate to heavy rain since Wednesday. IMD classifies 2.5mm to 15.5mm as light rain, 15.6mm to 64.4mm as moderate rain and 64.5mm to 115.5mm as heavy rain.“Owing to a lack of strong weather system, monsoon conditions are not likely to be as active as expected along the north Konkan coast, and the rain activity is expected to shift towards interior Maharashtra and along south Konkan,” said an IMD official.Professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, said, “Due to an offshore trough created by an Arabian Sea system, the west coast is very likely to receive moderate to heavy rain between Friday and Sunday. Mumbai may witness some heavy rain (70-80mm over 24 hours), mostly on Sunday.”Owing to an increase in moisture incursions over the city, the frequency of showers is expected to increase over the weekend, said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom. “It will be light rain with few moderate spells towards the suburbs,” he said.Meanwhile, both the meteorologists said that the city was unlikely to receive any more major heavy rain spells till the end of the month. “No significant weather systems would lead to weak monsoon winds and less moisture,” said Deoras.Balasubramanian added that subdued rain activity till the end of the month may be followed by heavy rainfall during August first week, if a weather system develops in the Bay of Bengal.Mumbai received its July rainfall target on the 15th of the month, and recorded 1,300mm rainfall (154% excess) until Thursday, against the target of 840.7mm. The city received 75% of its seasonal rainfall target until now over 53 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-downgrades-yellow-alert-for-mumbai-predicts-moderate-showers/story-nj3NpxiDDLgJpQBGvdXErJ.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||India’s 1st low-cost air monitoring study to be conducted across 15 MMR spots in November, says Maharashtra pollution control body||Come November, a first-of-its kind study in India using low-cost sensor-based technology will be undertaken across 15 locations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to accurately measure the harmful pollutant concentration in the air.The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and the Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur (IIT-K) signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) last week to undertake the sensor technology assessment between November 1 this year and May 31, 2021. Based on the study’s success, such monitors would be rolled out across MMR, followed by 18 non-attainment cities (cities with particulate matter concentration below the national ambient standards), to identify pollution hot spots through hyper-local air monitoring, source distribution and associated health impacts.MPCB made the announcement during a web-based seminar on Thursday organised by Delhi-based communications initiative Climate Trends.The sensors will be installed across MPCB’s 15 existing real-time air monitoring stations –10 in Mumbai, one each in Navi Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan, Vasai-Virar, and Dombivli. They will monitor PM (particulate matter) 10, PM2.5, ozone, oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and sulphur oxides (SOx).“We want to identify if the data received from these sensors is technically sound and the readings match with our existing technology. If the results are accurate, we will submit a report to the Centre and scale the programme,” said VM Motghare, joint director (air quality), MPCB.Professor SN Tripathi, head of civil engineering, IIT-K and apex committee member, National Clean Air Programme said that such a study has not been conducted anywhere in the country before. “The idea is to look into the stability and accuracy of low-cost sensors. The end goal is to assess how they measure pollutants, stability of calibration models and the final use for hyper-local monitoring,” he said.MPCB also announced the expansion of the state’s existing air quality monitoring network across 18 most polluted cities, with the installation of 98 real-time and 126 manual monitors.“Tenders will be invited for the first phase [47 monitors] of real-time monitor installation in less than a week. Maharashtra will soon have India’s largest air quality monitoring network by next year, including 207 manual [122 new and 81 existing] and 122 real-time [98 new and 24 existing] monitors,” said Motghare. Motghare said that the motive behind the sensor-based study is to initiate air pollution hot spot monitoring, for which it is important to understand the applicability of low-cost sensors first. “This type of technology has not been approved by the Central Pollution Control Board so far. A much smaller exercise carried out last year, failed to yield encouraging results,” he added.Ambient air quality monitoring is conducted through a manual method (analysis of pollutants measured once every six days where data is transferred manually), continuous method (automatic real-time data collection of pollutants measured) and real-time low-cost sensors (based on light scattering technology using small equipment).According to MPCB, manual monitors cost ₹8 lakh per station per annum, while the continuous ones cost ₹1.5 crore per station every year. This includes the purchasing cost, maintenance and number of pollutants measured. Independent researchers said low-cost monitors are bought for ₹50,000 to ₹2 lakh (including maintenance), based on the number of pollutants they measure. States such as Meghalaya, Bihar and Haryana carried out similar studies, but used only five low-cost sensors each. Tripathi said in consultation with MPCB, leading startups had been invited for the project.“Their sensors will be co-located with MPCB’s reference monitors. A report on the results will be submitted to MPCB, followed by further deliberations to scale this for the entire state,” he said.Independent experts said the country needed a much wider network of air quality monitors combined with constructive data usage.“Currently, monitors are unevenly placed in urban areas, which means our understanding of rural air pollution is limited. The current monitoring requirement will cost the country ₹10,000 crore, even as researchers estimate the need for at least 4,000 monitors to bridge the data gap,” said Shloka Nath, executive director, India Climate Collaborative, a philanthropic organisation working on solutions for climate crisis challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/india-s-1st-low-cost-air-monitoring-study-to-be-conducted-across-15-mmr-spots-in-november-says-maharashtra-pollution-control-body/story-RWAccErSE5UmRrykbPpRUK.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||Defer undergraduate medical exams, start the new academic year: Maharashtra minister||The state has objected to the exams of undergraduate medical students in the state – scheduled to take place between August 3 and 29 this year – and has asked the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) to postpone them until Covid-19 situation comes under control. The decision will affect around 24,000 medical and dental students in the state. State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said that the exams should not be held putting at risk the lives of students. He also directed MUHS to start the academic year of the first three years. “Covid-19 is highly infectious. Parents are very worried about students’ health. The state is ready to hold exams, but students are not ready to appear for them. We suggested [MUHS] to start the academic year for first, second and third-year medical students without conducting exams. They can be conducted whenever the situation becomes conducive,” the medical education minister said.Deshmukh said final-year students should be allowed to commence with their internship, so that their services can be used for the ongoing health crisis, and they also will not have to lose their time.“Final-year students should be allowed to start internship even without conducting exams so that their services can be used in the battle against the pandemic and students also won’t lose their time,” he said.The directives came at a time when the state is already having differences with the University Grants Commission (UGC) over the issue of conducting final-year exams of non-professional and professional courses.The state disaster management authority, headed by the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in its meeting held on July 13, decided that Maharashtra is not in a position to hold final-year exams, considering the high number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the state. The July 13 decision came a week after UGC directed all universities to conduct final-year exams either in online, offline or blended modes by September-end.When asked about the UGC directives, Deshmukh said that the state is ready to conduct the entrance exams of super specialty courses for postgraduate students, scheduled on September 15, as students are on campus and do not need to travel unlike undergraduate students who are at their respective districts. “We will also discuss the issue with the Medical Council of India (MCI) to make this possible,” the medical education minister said.Officials transferredThe state appointed Parimal Singh as commissioner of family welfare and director of National Health Mission. He will take charge from Anup Kumar Yadav, who has been appointed as special sales tax commissioner in Singh’s place. Chief secretary’s deputy secretary, Kiran Patil, has been appointed as Raigad CEO, while Anil Dongre is the new chief officer of the Mumbai Building Repairs and Reconstruction Board. Yogesh Mhase has been appointed as chief officer Mhada.(Inputs from Surendra P Gangan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/defer-undergraduate-medical-exams-start-the-new-academic-year-maharashtra-minister/story-D911zFoYfVxmkuzURllhuM.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||4 cops assaulted 22-year-old, claimed death was due to mob lynching: ACP informs Bombay HC||The assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Bandra division, on Thursday, informed the Bombay high court (HC) that he has identified four personnel from Juhu police station who assaulted Raju Velu Devendra, a victim found outdoors during the Covid-19 lockdown. The ACP said he would propose the initiation of departmental action against the four personnel.Juhu police had so far maintained that the 22-year-old was a victim of mob lynching. They claimed that on March 30, Devendra was brutally assaulted by a mob when he attempted to commit a robbery. The police had registered an offence against eight purported members of the mob.On Thursday, government lawyer Purnima Katharia supported the ACP’s stand. She informed the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Anuja Prabhudessai that she had viewed the CCTV footage covering the incident of assault on the deceased and did not find any proof of a mob lynching.“Only the four policemen are seen to have used fiber lathis in a bid to discipline the deceased,” she said. The lawyer, however, added that further investigation was required to ascertain if the deceased succumbed to the injuries caused by the policemen.The lawyer was responding to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by lawyer and human rights activist Firdause Irani, which raised concerns about police excesses during enforcement of the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection.On March 30, Devendra and his family were going to visit a relative when a police team chased them and caught the deceased. The policemen allegedly informed the relatives that Devendra was being taken to Juhu police station. The next morning, police claimed the 22-year-old was found lying at Nehru Nagar Chowk. They took him to a hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.The investigation into the case was entrusted to the ACP, Bandra division, in view of the allegations against the policemen.On Thursday, HC noted that two important witnesses in the case, the mother and brother of the deceased, have not cooperated with the investigation, and their statements have not been recorded. Taking note of this anomaly, the bench has directed the ACP to issue fresh notices to them and make an endeavor to get their statements recorded.Expressing displeasure over the delay in investigating the case, HC also directed the ACP to speed up the probe and submit a progress report by August 5. The next hearing on the matter has been posted for August 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-cops-assaulted-22-year-old-claimed-death-was-due-to-mob-lynching-acp-informs-bombay-hc/story-9JCOrCZasp5jYiOoYNDHPP.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||Parents in Mumbai welcome new guidelines on online learning for students upto Class 2||Parents in the city welcomed the state education department’s recent decision to allow online learning for students up to Class 2. Many, however, said the government has to regulate the timings prescribed and should ensure that schools follow all the guidelines to conduct online classes. “Students in the lower classes require some form of interaction with their teachers and peers even if it is not actual ‘learning’. Considering the current situation, kids cannot go out and play or meet their friends. Having an online session helps them at least meet their teachers and peers virtually,” said Avantika Sinha, an Andheri-based parent. Arundhati Chavan, president of the PTA United Forum, said that schools should adhere to all the norms laid down by the government concerning such classes. “For the younger students, these classes should be more on the lines of interaction than one-way teaching. This will keep kids engaged without putting them under too much stress. Timings laid down by the government also need to be followed. The government should keep schools in check as far as these norms are concerned,” she said. On Wednesday, the education department amended its earlier standard operating procedures (SOPs) for online classes in the state and allowed schools to conduct e-classes for students from pre-primary to Class 2. As per the new guidelines, pre-primary students can attend up to 30 minutes of daily online instruction from Monday to Friday. This has to primarily consist of assisting and guiding parents about the education of their children. Students of Classes 1 and 2 can attend two sessions of 30 minutes each daily.Swati Popat Vats, president of the Early Childhood Association, said, “As we grapple with this pandemic, I am very happy with the revised guidelines of the Maharashtra government. It is high time that all the states realise that banning something is not going to help the students, parents, or teachers. Our priority right now should be that the education of our children will continue in developmentally appropriate ways.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parents-in-mumbai-welcome-new-guidelines-on-online-learning-for-students-upto-class-2/story-Nxsv9k3dbfRfLgL29XOyOO.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to start jumbo Covid-19 testing for front line staff from Friday||As part of its jumbo antigen testing drive, starting July 24, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will begin test 10,000 Covid-19 frontline workers, including police officers, medicos and volunteers. Additionally, eight private laboratories will also begin testing residents quarantined in housing societies in north Mumbai.After procuring 1 lakh antigen kits earlier this month, BMC has been testing around 500 people every day since July 3. The jumbo antigen testing drive will target more than 3,000 people daily.Similar to the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, which is considered a gold standard, rapid antigen kits detect the presence of molecular pathogens of the novel coronavirus. While RT-PCR takes almost eight hours to give results, antigen-based test use nasal swab samples and results are available in 30 minutes.“Of the more than 9,000 people tested at both CCCs [Covid care centres] and hospitals, only 1% who tested negative have turned positive in the RT-PCR tests. With this promising success rate, we have decided to test around 10,000 frontliners from Friday,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “At present, the civic body is conducting an average of 5,500 RT-PCR and around 500 antigen tests every day, which will now increase to 9,000 with the jumbo testing scheme. While positive cases are likely to rise, it will help diagnose asymptomatic frontliners and speed up treatment,” he said.Since early July, BMC has been testing high risk contacts at the CCC-1 centres (where high risk contacts are kept for observation) in Dahisar, Borivli (West), Kandivli, Malad, Goregaon, Mulund, Ghatkopar and Andheri (East). Sanjog Kabare, assistant municipal commissioner of P (South) ward said, “We are making a list of private residential buildings with the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Currently, antigen testing is being carried out in nine wards, and have instructed the laboratories to so the same.”Kabare said antigen tests in south Mumbai are being undertaken at certain hospitals like King Edward Memorial (KEM), BYL Nair and Kasturba Gandhi Hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-start-jumbo-covid-19-testing-for-front-line-staff-from-friday/story-NOhg7XlTlhJQHfZL7xJbwL.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||Rapid antigen tests: 5 wards in north Mumbai see 7% positivity||Rapid antigen tests conducted on more than 9,000 people across the city have shown that Mumbai has a Covid-positivity rate of 13%. The infection rate is highest in residential areas, say authorities, but the spread is limited. In the five wards with the most Covid-19 cases, the positivity rate is 7%.On July 2, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started rapid antigen tests at the five wards with the most Covid-19 cases — R (North), covering Dahisar; R (Central), covering Borivli (West); R (South), covering Kandivli; P (North), covering Malad; and P (South), covering Goregaon. The tests are being conducted on high-risk contacts who are under observation in Covid care centres (CCC1).As of Thursday, 3,923 high-risk contacts from these five wards have been tested and 277 are Covid-positive. In R (Central) ward, 99 out of the 1,000 tested were positive for Covid-19. In R south, 81 of the 905 tested were positive. P (North) ward has the most active cases (1,816) and of the 1,026 high-risk contacts tested, 57 were Covid-positive. In P (South) ward, out of 435, 32 tested positive. R (North) ward has the lowest number of positive patients (554) in antigen testing and of them, eight were found positive. “We have observed that the infection rate is the highest among people in residential areas. But thankfully, the spread of the virus among high-risk contacts is still under control due to timely contact tracing and isolation,” said Sandhya Nandekar, ward officer for R (North) ward.BMC confirms Covid diagnoses by running a second analysis through reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests on individuals with symptoms even if their samples test negative in rapid antigen tests. Of the 3,923 who have undergone rapid antigen testing, only one false negative case was reported from P (South) ward. “Three people with symptoms were again tested using RT-PCR. Of this, one negative person turned positive in the second analysis,” said a ward official.Till Thursday afternoon, 9,371 people from eight wards, private hospitals and three civic-run hospitals had been tested with rapid antigen kits. Of them, 1,214 are Covid-positive, giving the city a positivity rate of 13%. The positivity rate is highest in hospitals where a large number of symptomatic close contacts were tested with rapid antigen. At BYL Nair Hospital of the 805 people tested, 252 were Covid-positive, giving the hospital a positivity rate of 31%. “At CCCs, we run antigen tests on a large number of symptomatic individuals. Thus, the count of positive patients will be higher in hospitals,” said an officer from Nair Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rapid-antigen-tests-5-wards-in-north-mumbai-see-7-positivity/story-F00fXHE3UzcyFyYRLBqjTO.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||One-year-old girl recovers from Covid-19 in Jammu||With Covid-19 cases increasing in Jammu, a one-and-a-half year old girl from a remote village of Sunderbani tehsil in Rajouri district has rekindled hope among those combating the infection.Rajouri additional district commissioner Thakur Sher Singh congratulated the young patient on twitter on Wednesday. Singh also posted images of the officials handing gifts to her.Singh said, “The girl, who had influenza-like symptoms was hospitalized at GMC Rajouri on July 7. She tested positive on July 10. She was hospitalised with her mother at Government Medical College, Rajouri.”“The one-year-old was discharged on Wednesday. It was a heartening sight. I decided to share the news to motivate people and to express gratitude to our corona warriors, be it from health, administration or police,” he added.The girl and her family had travelled from Punjab.“We had to admit the girl’s mother because she was too young. Her mother did not test positive,” he said.Rajouri has witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. The district has so far recorded 497 positive cases of which 374 cases are active. There have been 121 recoveries and two deaths.Rajouri has established a new Covid-care center in Rajouri hospital, which has a 180-bed capacity and is equipped with all required infrastructure and basic facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-year-old-girl-recovers-from-covid-19-in-jammu/story-h4uc5ilh3qV1lpTapU6UoN.html
24-07-2020||City||Hospital refunds ₹3.36 lakh to Covid patient after civic body sends notice||A private hospital in Dombivli, which had charged Covid patients exorbitant bills for treatment, faced action by the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) and had to return ₹3.36 lakh to the patient after the civic body’s intervention.Last month, KDMC formed a committee to look into complaints of overcharging or denying admission to patients. This committee found that the private hospital had charged the patient a bill of ₹4.81 lakhs. The patient’s family complained to the civic body on July 13, following which the civic committee intervened.“There was a complaint from a family about overcharging. We served a show-cause notice to the hospital asking the hospital to return the excessive amount,” said Vinay Kulkarni, officer in-charge of the committee.KDMC on Thursday said it has deployed its staffs at all the 24 hospitals that has tied up with the civic body to treat Covid patients. The staff will check bills of patients during discharge and in case of over-charging will report to the committee. The appointed staff will update the committee on weekly basis.“So far 24 hospitals have agreed to treat Covid patients and 80% of the beds in these hospitals will be under our control. In order to ensure there is no overcharging or denial of beds, we have appointed our staffs at these hospitals. If we receive any complaint, action will be taken,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.The committee had received complaints against four hospitals followed, following which show-cause notices were served. A dedicated helpline number 0251-2211866 is also functional for such complaints from patients.Sreeniwas Ghanekar, founder of Alert Citizens Forum, Kalyan, said, “We have been asking the civic body to act against hospitals which are overcharging or denying beds to patients. This move by KDMC is a remarkable one and it will help the patients in many ways. People can still approach us if they have complaints, we will follow it up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hospital-refunds-3-36-lakh-to-covid-patient-after-civic-body-sends-notice/story-HXF3TlC36XEAnYTNdZpYnL.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||Shivaji slogan in House does not violate norms: Sanjay Raut||The Shiv Sena on Thursday said that slogan hailing Shivaji does not violate constitutional norms after a controversy erupted as Vice-President and chairman of Rajya Sabha M Venkaiah Naidu expressed his disapproval over BJP MP Udayanraje Bhosale chanting “Jai Bhavani, Jai Shivaji” after taking oath on Wednesday. “I have never thought that this slogan violates any constitutional norms. The slogan ‘Jai Bhavani, Jai Shivaji’ was as important as ‘Jai Hind’ and ‘Vande Mataram’,” Raut said and added that various other slogans in the both the Houses of Parliament have been shouted by lawmakers earlier. Raut added that Naidu is a person who follows the rules and therefore this issue should not be dragged. “Rules of the House and sentiments of members are two different issues,” the Sena MP said.In a video clip of the oath ceremony, Naidu is heard telling Udayan Raje: “For your future reference, no other slogans are allowed in the House”. On Thursday, Naidu tweeted making it clear that he did not mean to insult anybody. “Always been a strong and vocal admirer of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and worshipper of Goddess Bhawani. Reminded members that as per conventional practice at the time of taking oath no slogans are given. No disrespect at all,” he tweeted.Former Lok Sabha MP and Shiv Sena leader Chandrakant Khaire staged a protest in Aurangabad against the “insult” of king Shivaji. Shiv sainiks also protested in Navi Mumbai over the issue.Raje, a descendant of Shivaji, dismissed the issue and said there was no insult to the 17th-century warrior king. “He (Naidu) said you can take the oath, but do not add anything else to it... it is not in line with the Constitution… But some people have created a controversy out of it. Had (Shivaji) Maharaj been insulted, I am not the one to keep quiet. I would have resigned at the very moment,” he said. “Naidu did no wrong. Had he done so, I would have sought his apology,” Bhosale added.Raut added that he agrees with the BJP MP and said he merely brought up the issue after followers of Shivaji Maharaj felt that the descendants of Shivaji were insulted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shivaji-slogan-in-house-does-not-violate-norms-sanjay-raut/story-vvBSyJc7wT3Xgd3qRfnsQL.html
24-07-2020||City||4 of family held for woman’s murder in Boisar||Boisar MIDC police on Thursday arrested four members of a family for murdering Bulbul Jha, 20. The accused are Jha’s husband Deepak, 21; his father Pawan Jha, 50; mother Bachudevi, 45; and his sister Nitu Mukesh Thakur, 30. The four were arrested from Gurugram, Haryana, where they were allegedly living under false identity, said senior inspector Pradip Kasbe of Boisar MIDC police station. The four arrested accused have confessed to the crime but are not revealing how they murdered Jha in February 2019. They will be produced before Palghar court on Friday, said Kasbe.The murder came to light after the landlord of their chawl in Ganesh Nagar, Boisar broke open the door of their room following non-payment of rent for three months, and found the remains of Jha stuffed in a plastic drum. Kasbe said the murder took place in February 2019 and the room has since been locked. The accused had allegedly told the landlord not to rent out the room to anyone else and paid rent for March through money transfer. “We traced the money transfer shop in Gurugram and sent a team of four policemen there. The accused somehow learnt about police coming to arrest them and were planning to leave, but were caught,” said Kasbe. In February 2019, Deepak had attempted to set Jha on fire, following which he was arrested and then released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-of-family-held-for-woman-s-murder-in-boisar/story-vtORAUJUMuGGK6W6dU4BnO.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||Seamless travel: MMRDA invites bids for common mobility phone app||The city has taken its first step towards contactless, seamless travel. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) on Thursday has invited bids for a mobile technology partner to develop and operate a common mobility application under its integrated ticketing services (ITS) project as well as a banking partner for transactions. Owing to the pandemic, the authority set aside various options and has decided to create a “journey planner”, a mobile application to enable a contactless and seamless travel across public transport systems. MMRDA metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev said, “We are very happy to take a big step towards seamless travel in Mumbai. We worked on this project during lockdown and have coordinated with different public transport authorities to enable this. The platform will enable commuters to plan their entire journey with just a click.” In a meeting earlier in July, chaired by the state’s urban development minister, MMRDA approved the revised proposal which is likely to roll-out from December 2020. Once operational, Mumbaiites can use the application to plan their journey by making a payment on the app, which will create a QR code that can be used for the journey. The application will work across Metros, monorail, BEST buses, app-based cabs and the suburban railways. State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Thursday tweeted, “A long standing promise now being realised by CM Uddhav Thackeray ji for MMR. Ease of living and travelling is the main intent.”Currently, each transport mode in Mumbai has its own ticketing system — for suburban trains, commuters can use the ATVM card apart from the physical tickets, Mumbai Metro One also its own card, Mumbai monorail has a token system, while all payments for taxis and auto-rickshaws, even BEST buses, need to be done through cash. Across the world, big metros have single or multiple common mobility cards — London has the Oyster card; Hong Kong, the Octopus card; Sydney has the Opal card; Toronto has Presto; and Manila has the Beep card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seamless-travel-mmrda-invites-bids-for-common-mobility-phone-app/story-7Pq6FkOnJRlzPgFAkAHXlJ.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to build digital repository of health records, patient data||The Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is planning to set up a public digital infrastructure with individuals, doctors and health records connected to a grid as part of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM). The institute in collaboration with NDHM will provide a comprehensive health ecosystem that will have digitally empowered individuals, doctors, and health facilities, facilitate electronic signatures, enabling paperless registrations and payments, leading to streamlining of healthcare information.The system will digitise health records of patients, inclusive of various documents, such as diagnostic reports, discharge summary and prescriptions, shared by various health establishments and doctors to help patients effectively manage their care.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said they had received intimation from the Union health ministry to develop the system for which they had appointed a nodal officer.“Last year we received 30 lakh patients, so maintaining the record is a huge task. The activity will be completed in a time-bound manner, and all norms of data privacy will be strictly adhered to,” he said.Dr Ram has nominated Dr Sarita Mahajan, chief medical officer, Staff Clinic, as the nodal officer for the purpose of support and cooperation with the National Health Agency (NHA). Gaurav Kumar Dhawan, deputy director of administration, PGIMER, said discussions with NHA, which was implementing the system, were underway. “In this regard Dr Indu Bhushan, CEO, Ayushman Bharat, had visited the institute and delivered a detailed presentation of NDHM implementation. We will be holding more meetings on the requirements and development of this system. We presented our digital system to them and more features will be added,” Dhawan said. Among the first features to be rolled out will be the digital health identifier, “Swasthya Account”, which will help individuals create their identity in the national healthcare system for ease of access to their personal health information.A comprehensive central repository known as “Digi Doctor” will also be compiled of all healthcare providers and practitioners (HCPs), uniquely identified in India, to provide a one-stop solution for streamlined medical practice.A health facility registry will collate information on healthcare facilities uniquely identified in India, which will maintain, store and facilitate exchange of standardised data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-build-repository-of-health-records-patient-data/story-lGeDoxVuxh4EMxGcEpHpJN.html
24-07-2020||City||School-turned-Covid centre in Kalyan to begin operations in 3 days||The first school in Kalyan to be converted into a dedicated Covid health centre is set to open in next two to three days. Haji Kalsekar English Medium School at Govindwadi, once transformed, will help locals get treatment for Covid-19 on time. Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi on Wednesday took a stock of the centre spread across 1 acre. Asra foundation, which runs the school, had approached KDMC offering the school premises to help battle Covid-19, following which the decision was taken to convert the school.An associate of the foundation said, “When curbs were imposed in our area in June due to increasing cases, we decided to offer the school space for treatment and isolation of people living in the locality so that they don’t have to rush to other places in search of beds. Also isolation at homes in Govidwadi and nearby areas is not possible as most of them live in small houses. The school will not reopen anytime soon, so why not use the infrastructure.” The centre is set to admit patients in the coming two to three days while the work of setting up 110 oxygen beds, 10 intensive care unit beds and 70 normal beds is currently under progress. The centre will have 12 doctors, 20 nurses and 20 ward boys and a physician. The open area of the school will be used as isolation centre, while three floors with seven classrooms each will be used to set up the beds.A fever clinic and testing facility in the school premises has already been set up and began operation in June.Suryavanshi said, “Patients from nearby areas can get tested at the centre and also get admitted if required. The work of the centre is almost done. Patients will be admitted there in two-three days. Several doctors and residents have come forward to help the civic body to set up the Covid care centre.”The centre will be useful for residents of areas like Ghass Bazar, Ansari Chowk, Doodh Naka, Rohidas Wada and Govindwadi in Kalyan (West) which has a population of around 80,000 people and has been recording around 30-40 cases each day, according to KDMC health department.“Earlier when the civic body initiated surveying these areas in June, residents insisted upon setting up a centre in their locality as they don’t want to go to other quarantines centres. The locals living there came up with the idea of using the school. This will help in early admission and treatment, thus reducing fatality count in the area,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/school-turned-covid-centre-in-kalyan-to-begin-operations-in-3-days/story-5wXKSESv9Acqyt36KzwztJ.html
24-07-2020||City||Now, you can deposit earnest money online during bidding for UT tenders||Chandigarh The UT administration has finally implemented the online payment of earnest money for participation in its e-tenders. The online application was awaiting implementation for around a year since it was developed.It is intended to remove scope for manipulation in the tendering process.The implementation follows the recent allegations made against the UT engineering department for allotment of tenders when most bidders couldn’t deposit earnest money to participate in the tendering process because of the lockdown.An online payment gateway has been integrated within the e-tendering mechanism, which allows the bidders to deposit the earnest money through online banking transactions.The system, developed by the National Informatics Center, Chandigarh, in June last year was to become operational by July-end.Before its implementation, while the tenders were floated online, many other steps involved in the tendering process were manual rather than online. The details of the tenders were available online, but bidders had to deposit earnest money physically, though the tendering was done online.The decision to introduce it came after some contractors complained that they couldn’t participate in bidding process of a hostel in government educational institution on account of their inability to deposit earnest money due to the lockdown. In the said tender only two local bidders could deposit the earnest money.Also, depositing earnest money through physical banking transaction exposes the identity of the bidder, as well as the total number of bidders. It shows how many people have come to participate in the tendering process. This opens up the scope for manipulation of the entire e-tendering process,” said a senior UT official.The new system allows for the protection of identity of the bidders. “There have been instances in the past when the disclosing of the bidder’s identity and their number had impacted the outcome of the process. Bidders have been even pressured in some cases,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-you-can-deposit-earnest-money-online-during-bidding-for-ut-tenders/story-Dzojszj1kr5N0vo2aEx5KM.html
24-07-2020||City||4 schools get notice for pressuring parents for fees; schools deny claim||Thane zilla parishad education department has served notice to four schools seeking explanation after the schools demanded fees from parents. The education officer has given a warning to the schools to abide by the guidelines issued by the state government and not to pressure parents for fees during the lockdown.The Maharashtra government, in a government resolution issued on March 30, has directed all the schools in the state not to pressure parents of students for fees during lockdown. The four schools are Universal High School, Lokpuram Public School, Rainbow International School and New Horizon Scholars School. Sheshrav Bade, education officer of Thane district, said, “We received a few complaints from parents regarding fees, so we sent a notice to these schools. The schools can discuss with the parents teachers association and only collect basic fees.” However, Bade insisted that no schools should enforce fee payment during the pandemic.All the schools denied having forced any parent to pay fees. However, a parent from Universal High School, on condition of anonymity, said, “The school is compelling us to take a loan from an organisation suggested by them and pay the fees. If I could afford a loan, I would have already paid the fees.Jesus Lal, CEO of Universal High School, said, “We have a tie-up with an organisation that will offer loan to the parents to pay school fees wherein we will be paying the interest for the same. Most of our parents have paid the fees already and around 10% who are facing problems during the lockdown have been given concession or waiver of fees.”Lipika Chandra, principal of Lokpuram High School, said, “We have given concessions to parents who are not in a position to pay fees. We are considering the current scenario. However, those who are interested to pay are also welcome as we have other expenses to meet as well.”Jyoti Nair, principal of New Horizon Scholars School, and Raju Balbale, owner of Rainbow International School, has denied receiving any letter from the education department and complaint from parents. Both the schools have been giving parents concession in fees during lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-schools-get-notice-for-pressuring-parents-for-fees-schools-deny-claim/story-p8REnAHTRmTqs9KP9cH6pN.html
24-07-2020||City||Housing societies to check residents: TMC chief||As part of the various efforts to flatten the curve, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Thursday has asked housing societies to check residents with pulse oximeter and thermal gun. Society members aged below 10, those who are unwell and senior citizens should be tested regularly. TMC commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma said, “If the oxygen saturation levels are low for any individual, the concerned person should be recommended to a fever clinic or a general physician for further check-up at the earliest. A record should be maintained of those who are unwell, children and senior citizens. Also, all rules of social distancing and wearing masks should be mandatorily followed within the premises of housing societies as well.”The civic body must also be informed if any resident is admitted to hospital for non-Covid reasons.Shirish Shinde, a resident of Everest Complex, Kolshet, said, “We are already taking a lot of measures and have asked residents to inform us if anyone feels unwell. Moreover, we do not allow any outsiders into the premises. All essentials are made available through home delivery. Barring those who step out to go to work, all others have been asked to mention at the gate the reason for going out. We shall accept this decision as it is helpful for society members.” Meanwhile, cabinet Minister and Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde on Thursday asked all those who visit people’s houses such as house helps, cleaners, electricians, plumbers to be tested via rapid antigen tests. “As they visit various households, it is essential to ensure their well-being first. We have noticed a spike in cases in high-rises in Mumbai after the lockdown ended, so we need to take certain measures to ensure the same is not repeated in Thane,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/housing-societies-to-check-residents-tmc-chief/story-nLVK7iPVP5XIS9a6ZMy9iO.html
24-07-2020||City||GPs, volunteers, priests: Mumbra’s Covid warriors||On April 3, Mumbra reported its first case of Covid-19. Soon enough, the number of cases increased. In May, there were 351 Covid-positive cases and 547 were recorded in June. Yet in the past three weeks, the daily caseload from this congested suburb has been less than 10. In July, Mumbra has reported 193 cases so far. From struggling to implement the lockdown to containing Covid-19, the success story in Mumbra was made possible by local volunteers, general physicians (GPs) and Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) working in tandem.Mumbra, with its 9 lakh population, is approximately 31 kilometres from Mumbai and lags behind in terms of development and infrastructure. The area saw an influx of residents after the 1992 riots in Mumbai, when many Muslim families fled to Mumbra. Today, 80% of the population is Muslim and many live in unauthorized chawls and vertical slums.When the lockdown was initially announced, residents of Mumbra did not take the threat of Covid-19 seriously, say locals. “Till Ramzan [April 24 to May 24], the markets were flooded, there was no social distancing,” said Mumbra-resident Imran Hakim. When TMC attempted to survey neighbourhoods to detect patients, locals refused to cooperate. Barricades set up around containment zones were occasionally torn down, said assistant municipal commissioner of Mumbra, Mahesh Aher. On April 10, TMC actually locked over 38 buildings – with lock and key – to keep residents inside. However, the number of cases kept rising. “The number of cases increased the most in May, during Ramzan, after which we started the strict implementation [of lockdown],” said Aher.Faced with these obstacles, TMC took help from locals: GPs who kept their clinics open; volunteers who helped the civic body conduct its surveys; and maulvis who spread awareness regarding Covid-19 with their morning calls to prayer.Hakim, 32, is among the 30 volunteers who worked with TMC to survey residents. “People were not allowing the survey in most areas so the corporation hired us volunteers who went door to door to convince people. Most residents knew us and were more open to us. We surveyed the residents of the buildings where positive cases were found, especially targeting those who are old or have comorbidities. We explained to them the consequences of not allowing the survey,” said Hakim.Another volunteer Haroon Dalvi, 30, said, “Gradually, we along with TMC officials managed to reach out and convince most people, especially in areas like Chand Nagar, Rashid Compound and Amrut Nagar where there were more cases than in the rest of Mumbra. We also sanitized each and every building where positive cases were found. The temperature and oxygen levels of the people in the building were recorded.”Mumbra has one dedicated Covid hospital (Kalsekar Hospital) and one Covid care centre (at Kausa Stadium). Hemange Ghode, medical officer at Kausa Stadium, said, “We did not allow home quarantine in Mumbra at all. Compulsory institutional quarantine was imposed. This helped prevent the spread. Extensive screening, contact tracing, cracking down on violators and compulsory quarantine helped to flatten the curve. We also kept a tab on migrants who left and also on those who are now returning. It is true that people don’t listen 100%, but in Mumbra, we have managed to convince 70% residents to stay at home.”Local GPs have played a big part in tracing and counselling patients. Dr Moinuddin Raut, 49, president of Medical Practitioners’ Association, said that while most GPs across Thane city closed down their clinics, those in Mumbra remained open. “There was lot of fear of being quarantined among people, due to which they did not visit fever clinics or any TMC-run medical camps. People are always comfortable sharing their illness with their family physician and with this motive, we opened all clinics in Mumbra. Residents trust these family physicians and got treated for most ailments. We also counselled those with Covid-like symptoms to get tested and treated.” Only doctors who are above 55 years of age did not keep their clinics open.Asif Shaikh, 32, a resident of Amrut Nagar in Mumbra, said, “There were many cases of malaria and typhoid. GPs helped reduce these cases. Senior citizens who had comorbidities like diabetes or blood pressure also could seek help from their regular GPs.”To curb the spread of Covid-19 through overcrowding in markets and bylanes, TMC imposed heavy fines and set up barricades. Aher said, “We imposed a fine of Rs 15,000 on shopkeepers who violated lockdown. People were fined Rs500 for not wearing masks and crowding vegetable markets. We collected over Rs.7.5 lakh as fines and over 15 cases under section 188 were registered against people who tried to obstruct surveys.”A police official from Mumbra said approximately 200 cases were registered against those violating lockdown restrictions and patrolling was increased. Teams of police officers also worked to spread awareness in over 5,000 buildings in Mumbra.TMC also set up a perimeter of 250 metres around containment zones and those within this area were not allowed to leave even for essentials. “Essentials were delivered near the barricades and one person was allowed to carry them inside. We also appointed five nodal officers in charge of co-ordinating contact tracing, transportation of people to quarantine centres, implementation of containment zones, coordination with general practitioners and to crackdown on violators,” said Aher.The corporation used mobile apps and global positioning system (GPS) to track Covid-positive patients.Mumbra now accounts for 1,142 of Thane’s 16,542 positive cases. At Kausa Stadium, where patients with mild symptoms are admitted, 225 have been admitted altogether and 150 have been discharged. There are 91 active patients at present. So far, Mumbra has had 74 deaths due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gps-volunteers-priests-mumbra-s-covid-warriors/story-1U2uV0xa1RE8DGRTWHskJM.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Reconsider holding exam for final-year students: HC to Panjab University||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday asked the Panjab University to consider whether it can promote final-year students on the basis of their score in the previous semesters. The direction was passed after the petitioner students, who have approached the court demanding scrapping of the exams, told the court that the Maharashtra government and Central University of Tamil Nadu have decided to pass students on the basis of their performance in previous semesters.Some PU students will have to travel from far-off places like Leh and Ladakh to take examinations for the final semester, they told the court. The order was passed by the HC bench of justice Ritu Bahri on the plea of six students. The students have challenged the varsity’s directive for final-year students to appear for their last-semester exams. They have argued that students from across the country study at PU and due to the Covid-19 pandemic, most of them have had to travel back to their home towns, which has further made it impossible to return without risking their health.PU has nearly 200 colleges affiliated to it in Chandigarh and Punjab, with a huge base of students from Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab, besides some students from far-off places, including north-eastern states. “The travel will not just force students to face uncertainty and risk, but they will also have to self-quarantine for multiple days according to the state guidelines. Thus, practically making it impossible for students to come and give the examinations and head back to their home after every exam,” they have told court. The high court, while deferring the hearing till August 13, said the interim order as passed on July 15 will continue. It was on July 15 that high court had restrained PU from holding exams in July. On July 18, the varsity had decided to promote all students except outgoing batches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/reconsider-holding-exam-for-final-year-students-hc-to-panjab-university/story-lwJQvuKLSe2GGwXOkwciUI.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||100 cases in four days as Chandigarh Covid-19 count hits 800 mark||It took Chandigarh just four days to add 100 cases to its tally that hit 800 with Thursday’s 20 fresh cases. In the tricity, Chandigarh has reported the highest number of cases while it has conducted the least number of tests as compared to neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula. At 6.7%, UT’s test positivity rate — a ratio of positives among those tested — is the highest in the tricity vis-a-vis Mohali’s 3.4 % and Panchkula’s 2.27%.Mohali has recorded 13 deaths of the 643 positive cases which accounts for the highest case fatality rate of 2.02%, followed by Chandigarh with the same number of deaths out of 800 confirmed cases. Panchkula, officially, has recorded no death due to Covid-19 so far.With more cases coming to the fore and less people being discharged, Chandigarh’s recovery rate, which it till recently topped the among UTs and states at 88%, has dropped to 66% since the onset of July. Meanwhile, 20 fresh cases in UT were recorded from 12 areas of the city of which 15 are contacts of the previous cases. A secretary deputed with a Punjab and Haryana high court judge tested positive for Covid 19 on Thursday. He resides in Zirakpur while he was tested in Panchkula. The court in a statement said: “Secretary in the court of Justice Alka Sarin has tested positive for Covid 19. The health authorities are tracing all contacts, besides making arrangements for their testing and quarantine.”Among the cases detected on Thursday, five are the family members of an already positive case from Bapu Dham colony. Three family members of a Covid patient from Ramdarbar were also found infected. One case each has been reported from Sectors 21, 38, 40 42, 61, besides Mauli Jagran and Dhanas, while two cases were reported from Manimajra and three from Sector 32. One death, 33 fresh cases in Mohali A 52-year-old man from Sector 66 in Mohali died of Covid-19 on Thursday, thus becoming the 13th fatality related to the disease in district. Besides, Mohali on Monday witnessed 33 fresh cases, taking the count to 643 in the district. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the patient was suffering from blood sugar and died during treatment at Indus hospital in Mohali. He has been cremated as per the protocol, he added.RTA office sealed in MohaliWith an employee of Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Mohali, testing positive for Covid-19, the authorities sealed the office at district administrative complex in Sector 76. The civil surgeon said the samples of all employees will be taken for testing. The district recorded 33 cases on Thursday and the patients have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Also, 20 patients were discharged on Thursday bringing down the number of active patients to 231. The district has recorded 643 patients till date, of which 399 have recovered and 13 died.12 infections in PanchkulaTwelve new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Panchkula district on Thursday, taking the toll to 369.The new cases include a 30-year-old from Sector 25, a 33-year-old man from Saketari, a 35-year-old man from sector 7, a 37-year-old woman from Sector 21, a 24-year-old woman from Sector 20, a 24-year-old man from Sector 20. Rest six cases are from Pinjore. One person is untraced.Out of 369, 222 case are active and 147 have cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/100-cases-in-four-days-as-chandigarh-covid-19-count-hits-800-mark/story-ZqSJEONDWW6kCQrhOrr0CK.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||Air India defends differential pay cut for senior pilots and management||A day after Air India’s (AI) senior pilots expressed discontent over the differences in pay cuts for pilots and senior management, the national carrier on Thursday defended its decision saying wages would later be reviewed in accordance with the airline’s improved financial condition.In a tweet, after a review meeting with the ministry of civil aviation, Air India said the move to rationalise wages has been taken due to the impact of Covid-19 on the airline’s finances.One of the airline’s three tweets read, “Recent decisions of Air India board regarding rationalisation of staff cost were reviewed in a meeting at @MoCA_goi this evening. The meeting reiterated that unlike other carriers which have laid off large number of their employees, no employee of Air India will be laid off.”On July 22, HT had reported on claims made by senior pilots that salaries of top AI officials have been reduced by a smaller percentage, as compared to their own. The pay of AI pilots have been reduced by 60% on an average — 40% on salary and 85% on flying allowances — owing to the unilaterally applied new wage structure, in addition to implementing leave without pay policy for employees. The airline management, on the other hand, has taken a 50% cut on just their allowances.The national carrier said they had not deducted basic salaries for any employee. “There has been no reduction in the basic pay, DA and HRA of any category of employees. The rationalisation of allowances had to be implemented on account of the difficult financial condition of the airline that were exacerbated by COVID-19. (sic)”“Flying crew will be paid as per the actual number of hours flown. As domestic and international operations expand to reach pre-Covid levels and the financial position of Air India improves, the rationalisation of allowances will be reviewed,” the national carrier concluded. The airline, however, did not comment on pay cuts of its management officials. “Our question still remains unanswered: How much pay cut is being given to management officials, and why are they not charged on their major component of the salaries instead of allowances, which barely contributes to their total salary,” said a senior pilot. Mumbai-based Executive Pilots Association (EPA), a union comprising senior-most pilots flying long (more than seven hours) and ultra-long flights (for more than 12 hours), wrote to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday that the decisions are adversely impacting the morale of pilots. “The recent decision of the management adopting compulsory leave without pay (LWP) model as well as the massive wage cut of the employees/pilots’ emoluments has led to serious discontentment and heart burn among the entire workforce,” read the letter. They also pointed out that decisions related to LWP scheme and wage reduction have been made without consent of any unions. The airline has been facing backlash for its imbalanced pay cuts for flying crew and management officials. Airline employees from various departments, including engineering and ground staff, have written letters to the airline management on the LWP scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-defends-differential-pay-cut-for-senior-pilots-and-management/story-x4PpbJvXkucMOvpunzbNbP.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four injured in clash between two groups in Ludhiana||Four members of a group were injured after their rivals opened fire on them in Rasulpur village, Jagraon, on Thursday. Condition of one of the victims is serious, police said.The victims have been identified as Gurpreet Singh, Maninder Singh, Amandeep Singh and Kaka Singh who got into a scuffle with Gurpreet Singh, Hardev Singh, Harwinder Singh and Sukhjivan Singh of a rival group a few days back. Following this, a case was registered against members of both groups.They went to court on Thursday for the hearing of the case and on returning, clashed again. Maninder said members of the rival group opened fire on them. Police initiated investigation after reaching the spot. The accused managed to escape the scene.All victims were rushed to Jagraon Civil Hospital. Gurpreet suffered three bullet injuries and has been referred to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).Inspector Harjinder Singh, station house officer at Hathur police station said police will lodge an FIR after recording statement of injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-injured-in-clash-between-two-groups-in-ludhiana/story-lmHcrOORWJMZK5L8g28eHN.html
24-07-2020||City||Health dept teams collect nine samples of milk products from Sangrur, Ludhiana||Tightening the noose on suppliers of spurious milk and milk items including desi ghee, cheese, dairy whitener and curd, teams of the health department conducted raids and collected nine samples from three places in Ludhiana and Sangrur on Wednesday and Thursday.The teams found that cheese was being sold at Rs 190 per kg when the market rate is around Rs 300 per kg. The chain of this entire illegal activity is attached to Rajasthan from where the milk was being transported, officials said.The raids were conducted in Sangrur on Wednesday night, while the teams collected samples from Tajpur road and area near Bus stand in Ludhiana on Thursday morning.The team was led by assistant commissioner Amritpal Singh Sodhi including food safety officers Sandeep singh and Yogesh Goyal. In total, nine samples of desi ghee, biscuits, dairy whitener, instant tea, milk, cow milk, cheese and curd were collected and sent for testing. Andesh Kang, deputy director of food and drug administration, Punjab, said, “The raids were conducted following a tip off and it is suspected that inferior quality milk was being transported to a village in Sangrur from Rajasthan. The cheese was also being sold at very low rates. The samples have been collected and sent to laboratory for testing,” Food business operators directed to get themselves registered to avoid action District health officer Rajesh Garg has directed food business operators to get their food safety licence and registration done with the department failing which action will be taken against the establishment. For this, an application can be submitted online at www.foodlicensing.fssai.gov.in and the fee can be paid online.Food business operators including owners of restaurants, hotels and bakeries should ensure cleanliness in the kitchens and the chefs and workers should masks.Officials said that in June, 2020, 79 samples of food items were collected of which two samples of desi ghee were found unsafe for consumption and 6-7 samples were of sub standard quality. In July, around 70 samples collected from bakeries, liquor vends, grocery etc, have been sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-dept-teams-collect-nine-samples-of-milk-products-from-sangrur-ludhiana/story-Fo2fZnTZOLTgzgAgVdS8hN.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||Adapt and adjust: City finds its new survival mantra after 4 months of lockdown||Mumbaiites have restyled their life to adjust to the lockdown due to Covid-19 – from juggling work and personal life while working from home, battling insomnia, a disrupted body clock cycle, to rethinking how outdoor businesses can adapt, managing house work without hired helps, and making key life events such as engagements and birthday parties happen as per plan.Corporate professionals say they experience longer working hours and increased workload while working from home, with little distinction between work life and family life. Parents are looking for newer and innovative ways to keep their children engaged productively. Homemakers, mostly women, say housework never gets over, and those dependent on businesses that demand outdoor work or material interactions, such as dancers, photographers, shop owners, restaurateurs, are looking for ways to keep their finances flowing. “This is not here to stay forever. But we don’t know when it is going to go. It is a matter of being patient and overcoming this tide. We have to adapt,” said Archana Basu, 37, an Odissi dance teacher. Basu moved her dance classes online after lockdown, and interacts with her students over video calls and recorded videos. She also juggles home schooling her daughters, and working a corporate job online that is based in another time zone halfway across the world. “I am lucky my primary income is not from dance. There are a lot of challenges in taking dance classes to the virtual world. In dance, everything is based on rhythm, but there is usually a lag in video calls.”Basu has begun to record her dance sessions and send them to students, who replicate them for homework and send back recorded videos. “I have also started taking fewer students per batch on a video call, but that means more batches and more work. Many students are signing up, as parents have also reached a tipping point with children,” Basu said. Anuradha Gupta, 47, who works in a corporate firm, said, “It takes discipline while working from home to log in at a certain time, meet deadlines. It is also important to clearly distinguish between work and personal life. I find myself thinking, if I am not doing office work, I am doing house work. Then why not put a few more hours completing office work?”Gupta, who is a single parent, has found a way to meet work and personal life balance by sticking to a strict schedule. “I wake up, cook and set up my seven-year daughter’s school lessons on the computer. Then I take a bath and change into work clothes as though I was going to office. By 8pm, I change out of work clothes. This way I am able to distinguish between work hours and time with my daughter. Also, I am always ready for a video call! When I am working, I tell the people at home ‘I am not here. Assume I went to work as usual’.”Bhagyashree Parab, 46, who lives in Dombivli, and works with a private shipping firm in Fort, said, “There is a discipline in catching a train early morning for work, even though I now save four hours of commute and I can use that time elsewhere. I am also saving the money I spent on commute. Now I spend more time with my daughter, but there is a flip side to staying at home - housework never gets over. What I would do in a rush before leaving for work every morning, I now pace out throughout the day. I get disappointed when no one at home helps me with house work. Earlier I had the opportunity to at least share this with my girl-gang at work. The prospect of meeting my colleagues and friends was exciting. Now it gets monotonous.” On the other hand, Suraj Balakrishnan, 31, a corporate media professional, said, “My body clock cycle has gone for a toss. I end up watching something till 3am or 4am, and barely get sleep on a working day. Then I sleep a lot over the weekend and wake up at 2 pm or later. But I am trying to maintain a routine.”Balakrishnan, who is also a football enthusiast, is now hooked to the football season. He said, “For three months there were no live games, or television shows. This live football season has given me something to look forward to in the present.”Balakrishnan also got engaged three weeks ago, in the middle of lockdown, in a small ceremony with family. “It had to be done at some point and this was planned for May. We still pushed it forward a little, but it looks like this scenario is here to stay. So we should get on with our lives,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/adapt-and-adjust-city-finds-its-new-survival-mantra-after-4-months-of-lockdown/story-jOVv188hPWvMdkvQkoHxaL.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||4 months of Maha lockdown: Did city’s health infrastructure get better?||While the city remained on its toes through the four months of lockdown, as the case count crossed 1.04 lakh and toll crossed 5,800, it managed to ramp up its health infrastructure in the period, according to both Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and experts. The latter, however, feel the city still needs to boost the testing numbers.HOW IT ALL BEGANAs the first case was detected in mid- March, BMC and the state urged citizens to work from home and shut gyms and restaurants on March 13. On March 19, BMC said non-essential shops will be opened on odd and even days, but three days later, the state announced a lockdown, a day before the nationwide lockdown, allowing only essential shops to remain open for two months.The first relaxation came in the form of opening electrical and hardware shops, considering the complaints from essential businesses that electrical appliances had developed a snag and required to be fixed. Later, wine shops were opened in the first week of May owing to revenue deficit. However, they were shut on May 5 owing to violation of norms of social distancing. On May 8, the state transferred BMC chief Praveen Pardeshi to the urban development department, making 1989 batch Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer Iqbal Singh Chahal the new commissioner. In mid-May, Chahal allowed home delivery of liquor with help of e-commerce websites. On June 2, BMC allowed re-opening of parks and playgrounds for physical activity, non-essential shops to remain open on odd and even days and private offices to work with 10% strength as part of Mission Begin Again. In the last week of June, BMC allowed reopening of salons and beauty parlours, and reopened hotels from the second week of July.HEALTH INFRAIn the initial phase of lockdown, the major challenge for BMC was to create health infrastructure and scale up testing and tracing. BMC went from having sole Kasturba Hospital for isolating Covid-19 patients in March to more than 22,000 beds to handle critical cases and additional 74,000 beds in quarantine centres to isolate high-risk contacts and those having mild symptoms.According to data from the state health department, Mumbai recorded 151 positive cases and seven deaths as of March 31, which went up to over 6,000 cases and 250 deaths by the end of April. By the end of May, Mumbai had over 39,000 cases and over 1,200 deaths that went up to over 77,000 cases and over 4,500 deaths by the end of June. As of July 22, Mumbai had over 1.04 lakh cases and over 5,800 deaths. In the past 51 days after relaxations, 61,186 cases have been reported in the city. In this period, the fatality rate increased to 5.68% from 3.25%. One of the reasons is the addition of 1,500 deaths by BMC after reconciliation of figures. In this period, the recovery rate of the city, too, went up to over 70%, from 40%.BMC currently has 17 private labs in addition to the government labs, where daily collection of samples has gone up from 100 in March to 7,000 samples in July. The first 1 lakh mark of testing samples was crossed on May 6, followed by crossing the 4 lakh mark on July 14. As of July 21, BMC had tested 4.50 lakh samples.In this span of four months, BMC undertook several measures to liberalise testing policy, from initially allowing only symptomatic patients and high-risk symptomatic patients. On June 23, BMC announced that it was procuring 1 lakh rapid antigen kits. On July 7, BMC announced a protocol that allowed everybody to get tested without any prescription.Downward curveSeveral areas like Worli, Dharavi, Mankhurd, Govandi, Byculla, Mumbai Central and Mazgaon that were earlier known as hotspots are now showing signs of improvements. According to the data for the past one month, 50% cases are from suburban areas namely Dahisar, Borivali, Kandivli, Malad, Andheri, Bhandup, Mulund, etc. BMC said cases in these areas have increased owing to aggressive screening and testing in these areas. On the other hand, daily cases in the earlier hotspots have gone down. Experts claim to conclude that the curve is going downwards or flattening in certain areas of the city, BMC needs to release area-wise testing data.Siddarth Paliwal, a private health consultant from Mumbai, said, “Area-wise testing data will help analyse and comment on why a particular area may be seeing more or less cases.”BMC said the focus now is on detecting cases from high-rises, considering post relaxations people have started going out, allowing house helps, electricians, mechanics in their house. Dr Shashank Joshi, an expert member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task-force, said, “This virus has taught us a lot of things in four months. It started to spread from those who were coming from abroad initially from where it spread in the densely populated slum population. Post relaxations, it has gone towards high-rises, where maximum cases are being reported currently.”BMC in the last two months has also announced several initiatives such as ‘Chase the virus’ that involves aggressive screening and tracing maximum high-risk contacts behind every positive case, followed by ‘Mission Zero’ that involved aggressive screening, tracing and testing in areas that have high growth rate. Other initiatives include ‘Mission Universal Testing’ that involves changing testing protocols from time to time to ‘Mission Save Life’ to change treatment protocols to bring down the fatality rate.DID LOCKDOWN HELP?Madhav Sathe, former professor of microbiology at Nair Hospital, said, “Globally, the first four to six weeks of lockdown are very useful, and subsequent relaxations give a much better picture when it comes to the number of cases. We can’t imagine the situation without lockdown in a city like Mumbai. The lockdown gave a buffer period for the authorities to tackle and handle the pandemic, and Mumbai did very well at scaling up health infrastructure, however, it was not done in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and rest of Maharashtra. In Mumbai, 6,000 RT-PCR tests are being done daily, by now, this number should have been around 12,000 to 15,000 tests daily. In MMR and Thane, the tests are fewer.”Dr Shashank Joshi from Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force said, “We might have lost economically, but we can’t afford to not have a lockdown. We have much better health infrastructure. Testing should have been liberalised earlier. We also had citizens who did not follow lockdown. We could have tackled the issue of migrant labourers earlier.”Going ahead, there will be a staggered re-opening, civic officials said. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, last week told HT, “We are planning to reopen restaurants in the coming days. Theatres, malls might be reopened in a staggered manner. The monsoon will be crucial. We have to control cases considering we can’t eliminate them until the vaccine arrives”Chahal in an interaction with HT last week had said, “Mumbai does not have a lockdown in the real sense anymore. If you leave aside malls, every shopis opening. On an average, we have one crore people on the road every day, so it can’t be called a lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-months-of-maha-lockdown-did-city-s-health-infrastructure-get-better/story-7mhEe2n2Bc1r2eHWPBnvQJ.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||4 months of Maha lockdown: State government lost ₹55,000 crore in tax revenue||The four months of lockdown cost the state exchequer ₹55,000 crore in tax revenue against the budget estimates. Although there are no estimates available for the economic losses and how it will affect the state GDP, manufacturing, services, real estate and hospitality are the worst-hit sectors, according to government officials and industry insiders. After starting a partial shutdown from March 14, the Maharashtra government imposed a complete lockdown across the state from March 23. By then almost all commercial-industrial activities had come to a halt, as shops, establishments and offices were shut down and local train services were stopped.Rajiv Podar, president, Indian Merchants Chamber, said, “The industrial sector witnessed 50%-70% production losses during the lockdown, mainly because of scarcity of labour, insufficient mobility and logistical support. Although it would be early to predict, Maharashtra can see a shrinkage of 3.5%-4.5% in state GDP compared to last year. It will depend on the duration of the lockdown and time taken to bounce back. The state should now provide support to the manufacturing sector, with working capital and focus on creating rural demand. By engaging the rural population in agriculture activities, rural agriculture infrastructure and their income level can be raised, which can in turn help revive other sectors like FMCG, infrastructure.”Nayan Shah, president, Credai-MCHI, said most of the ongoing 11,000 real estate projects in Mumbai Metropolitan Region have either been stalled or are progressing at 15% of their expected pace. “The industry is going through major challenges, be it in terms of operational costs or interest paid on the loans or shortfall of construction workers. Gaining back the confidence of financial institutions, customers and even labourers is a challenge. A majority of the 11,000 projects registered with RERA are stalled due to the lockdown. The government should immediately extend a helping hand by reducing stamp duty, premium rate and fees for nod by local authorities,” he said. Amitabh Taneja, chairman, Shopping Centres Association of India, said, “A mall usually generates sales of ₹60 crore a month and stores goods worth ₹300crore-₹400 crore at any given point. Stocks worth hundred of lakhs with the retailers are getting damaged and the value is expected to be lost, if not sold immediately. On the other hand, the exchequer has lost at least ₹8,000 crore in four months towards GST. The lockdown may see a loss of 50 lakh jobs employed in malls and with retailers,” he said. Maharashtra has 75 malls and 50% of them are in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.Although the state relaxed the curbs and allowed industrial units to operate from April 20, only 65,208 of the 7.34 lakh industrial units started their operations. Besides the fear of Covid-19, shortage of labourers, disruption of supply chain, logistics and slowdown have resulted in lukewarm response from industries. Deepak Sood, secretary general, Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham), said, “The losses to the economy could go up if we look at the drop in GST collection and GDP growth rate. India is in a better position than most other countries and things are moving back to normalcy rapidly. It may take three-six months to revive, depending on the sector. The rural economy is doing well and is expected to perform better this year, owing to satisfactory rainfall. Although Maharashtra is the worst-hit by Covid, it is a major contributor to the country’s GDP and is expected to bounce back sharply.”The Maharashtra government suffered losses of ₹26,000 crore against a targeted revenue of ₹45,000 crore in March, the last month of the fiscal. With the tax revenue losses of more than ₹23,000 crore in April and May and estimated losses of more than ₹10,000 crore in July, the state exchequer’s accumulated losses have reached over ₹55,000 crore. “We were expecting the annual revenue receipt to be hit by ₹70,000 crore, but in the current scenario, it may be more. We have already borrowed ₹30,000 crore for monthly salary and pension bills, recurring establishment cost and incidental expenses such as Covid-19 and cyclone. We have already curtailed the expenditure on development works worth ₹70,000 crore,” said a state government official.A major chunk of the state revenue comes from GST, excise on liquor, stamp duty and registration and taxes on vehicles. “The revenue from excise dropped to ₹2,436 crore against estimates of more than ₹5,000 crore till July 20. Similarly, the GST revenue dropped to ₹12,906 crore against the estimated collection of ₹25,600 crore till July 20. With the extended lockdown in various parts of the state this month, the revenue losses are more than ₹10,000 crore than the estimated collection in July,” another official from the finance department said. “From raising revenue and borrowing to austerity measures and cutting capital expenditure, steps are being taken to cope with the situation,” said Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, finance. Industries minister Subhash Desai said, “The losses are huge, but it is also difficult to predict the economic losses to the state owing to the lockdown. The state economy will bounce back after the unlocking is completed. We have taken steps to attract industries and investment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-months-of-maha-lockdown-state-government-lost-55-000-crore-in-tax-revenue/story-RVn8vrdG5cL9twkV7IWtGP.html
24-07-2020||City||2 held for breaking into Bhiwandi warehouse, stealing ₹6.9 lakh worth goods||Bhiwandi crime branch unit 2 on Wednesday arrested two men accused of breaking into a Bhiwandi warehouse and looted electronic goods worth ₹6.9 lakh in June. The accused allegedly drilled a hole in the wall of the warehouse to gain access to the goods. The two arrested have been identified as Vaibhav Pawar, 20, and Sanjay Das, 28, both residents of Bhiwandi. “We got some tip-offs regarding the two, following which we traced them and seized a laptop, speakers and LCD monitor. Goods worth ₹5.6 lakh have been recovered, and we are still investigating their modus operandi. The duo had drilled a hole in the wall and entered the warehouse,” said Sheetal Raut, senior police inspector, Bhiwandi crime branch.The accused have been charged for house break-in under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In another case, the Bhiwandi crime branch traced 40 mobile phones that were stolen in the last 1.5 years. “There were various complaints regarding mobile theft. Were traced the phones and have now asked those who filed theft complaints to visit the police station. However, everyone has to follow a strict safety protocol by ensuring they wear masks and maintain social distance,” said Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-held-for-breaking-into-bhiwandi-warehouse-stealing-6-9-lakh-worth-goods/story-JLU68kHP3oSTFavWshWmBN.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||4 months of lockdown in Maharashtra: Ground reality||Even after four months of lockdown with relaxations in curbs, the spread of Sars-Cov-2 is not showing any signs of slowing down in Maharashtra, even though the situation seems to be improving in Mumbai.The Maharashtra government started a gradual lockdown since mid-March, after the first case of Covid-19 was reported in Pune on March 9. It announced lockdown across the state, sealing district and state boundaries, a day before the nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24. However, the numbers of cases and fatalities are rising to record highs, after the curbs were lifted to boost the state economy. According to the data, nearly 78% of the total cases have been recorded after the lockdown restrictions were lifted by the state government. State officials said the number of patients and toll could have been more had it not been for timely lockdown, travel restrictions, social distancing, and other interventions.The state on Thursday reported 9,895 new Covid-19 infections — its second-highest single-day spike — taking the tally to 347,502. Maharashtra has 140,092 active cases with 194,253 recoveries. The state’s recovery rate improved to 55.9% after 6,484 more patients recovered in the past 24 hours.Mumbai reported 1,245 new infections and 55 deaths, taking the caseload to 1,05,923 and toll to 5,930. With 298 fatalities reported in 24 hours, the state toll was pushed to 12,854.State health department officials said the surge in cases was expected to continue through August, and the cases can plateau in September. Health department officials also dismissed that Maharashtra has reached the community transmission stage.LOCK, UNLOCKThe Maharashtra government announced a gradual relaxation in curbs from June, as part of its Mission Begin Again. It provided relaxations for outdoor physical activities, including running, jogging, cycling, among others, from June 3. Subsequently, it opened up market areas, shops, except malls and shopping centres, from June 5. It also allowed private offices to open up with 10% of its staff from June 8.Maharashtra recorded 74,647 confirmed Covid-19 cases and 2,855 fatalities during the lockdown between March 24 and June 3. Since the relaxations were gradually lifted, while keeping the lockdown intact, the state has registered a whopping 262,747 cases and 9,699 fatalities between June 3 and July 22.Anup Kumar Yadav, health commissioner of Maharashtra, said the lockdown helped ready the infrastructure needed to tackle the cases. “The lockdown has been beneficial not just in terms of low numbers, but it has given time to prepare the health infrastructure needed to tackle the cases that come after the restrictions are lifted,” Yadav said. He added that restrictions were lifted to restart economic activities as Covid-19 will not go away so soon.In the past one month, the active case count has gone up in semi-urban areas, rural areas and satellite towns in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The local administrations have resorted to stringent curbs on movement of people and introduced lockdowns. “Municipal commissioners or district collectors can decide on lockdown. It has proven to be an effective way to contain the spread. The effects of such limited period lockdown show after 10 to 15 days,” a senior bureaucrat said.In Mumbai, the daily average rise in cases has been 1,200 for the past couple of weeks. State authorities said lower positivity rate amid more testing is a good sign. Dr Om Shrivastav, an infectious diseases specialist and a member of state government-appointed task force on Covid-19, argued that higher number of cases should not be the parameter for assessment. “Instead of going into the numbers, we should look at the case fatality rate (CFR), which is lower in the state (at 3.72%). We have done quite well in the lockdown period and later too. Dharavi has emerged as a model for the entire country and even state on how to contain the spread,” Dr Shrivastav said, adding that the Dharavi model can be replicated elsewhere in the state.the controlOn May 1, the overall positivity rate in the state was 7.51%, which doubled in a month to 14.84% on June 1. The positivity rate has increased to 20.01% on July 22. In other words, seven out of every 100 samples were turning out to be positive on May 1, which climbed to nearly 15 samples on June 1.Experts said high positivity rate is a reflection of the increase in the prevalence of the virus. However, state health department officials differed. They said a higher strike rate in tests was a result of targeted testing.The positivity rate in most days of July has been between 22% and 25%. The state has been conducting an average of 35,000 tests for the past few days. Maharashtra has been seeing over 8,000 cases daily for the past seven days, including 10,576 new cases on July 22.“The decision to unlock activities in the state was taken consciously. It was made keeping the economy in mind. How long can a lockdown last and at what cost? Initially, the industries, shops and businesses were allowed in areas that did not have a high number of cases. Gradually, the state decided to extend it to Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Pune districts as well areas that see a major chunk of business activities. We had anticipated that the cases would rise once the restrictions are lifted and that has happened. However, things are not out of control,” a senior state bureaucrat said requesting anonymity.Following the unlocking of activities, the number of daily cases shot up in parts of MMR, Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad and Solapur districts. “There are no projections, but looking at the current trend, the cases are expected to rise till August, after which we can probably see a plateau. In Mumbai, it is expected to happen earlier, as the cases are not growing at that speed now,” Yadav said.While Kerala became the first state in the country to announce that it has reached the community transmission stage, the Maharashtra health department has denied it. “We are not in the community transmission stage. The numbers are growing, but are not multiplying, which happens in that stage,” Yadav said. Dr Shrivastav said people must continue to adopt measures they did during lockdown. “We need to make sure that we don’t lose the advantage we had during the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-months-of-lockdown-in-maharashtra-ground-reality/story-NR2QHQ7041JcTtdcNM4IyN.html
24-07-2020||City||28-year-old held with 8kg poppy straw in Vashi||An LPG cylinder delivery man was arrested on Wednesday by Navi Mumbai police with 8kg of poppy straws worth ₹3.2 lakh. The drug is commonly used by truck drivers, who consume it to remain awake during long hours on the road.The special squad of the zonal deputy commissioner of police received a tip-off, following which the team, led by assistant inspector Gangadhar Devde, conducted a raid in the village of Kopri in Vashi on Wednesday afternoon. The accused Sunil Bishnoi, 28, a resident of the village, was arrested, and the drugs were found in his possession.“During the search of his person, we found around 312 grams of the poppy straws in crushed form. After Bishnoi was taken into custody, we raided his house and found the remaining drugs. They are valued at ₹3.2 lakh,” said Devde.Bishnoi had reportedly been peddling drugs for extra income for the last two years. He procured the contraband from Rajasthan, said police, adding that they suspect the drugs were smuggled via the Afghanistan-Pakistan route.“Poppy straw is often used to make heroin, but in India, it is more commonly used by truck drivers in powder form [bukki]. The drug is sold at ₹40,000 per kg in the Indian black market,” said a Navi Mumbai police officer.Bishnoi was charged under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Police are now attempting to identify Bishnoi’s contacts in the chain of command to find out from whom he procured the drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/28-year-old-held-with-8kg-poppy-straw-in-vashi/story-p7yVOe0qtBctuEgKXcAOQI.html
24-07-2020||City||Lt Gen Saini visits his alma mater in Kapurthala||The Vice-Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General SK Saini on Thursday visited his alma mater, Sainik School, Kapurthala. He was received by Major General Balwinder Singh, Chief of Staff, HQ 11 Corps, Brigadier Deepak Sheoran, station commander, Kapurthala Military Station, and Col Vikas Mohan, principal, Sainik School, Kapurthala. The officer said that he is proud to be part of a school where each cadet is nurtured, cared for and persona sculpted to make him a confident person, ready to explore diverse opportunities offered by the world. Saini said that Sainik School, Kapurthala, has been instrumental in producing innumerable intellectuals and warriors who have reached the zenith of their careers across diverse professions and the school’s contribution to the defence forces and the nation has been praiseworthy. He congratulated and applauded the school authorities and the staff for the quantum jump in the improved result of the UPSC NDA written exam wherein 29 of its cadets qualified the UPSC NDA Written Exam, NDA 144th Course and 10 cadets qualified the SSB. He also congratulated the school as one of its alumni Lt Akashdeep Singh Dhillon bagged the prestigious ‘Sword of Honour’ at the recently held passing-out parade at Indian Military Academy, Dehradun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lt-gen-saini-visits-his-alma-mater-in-kapurthala/story-bnVXncaKJouReqcCT5VuRM.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||4 months of Maha lockdown: Economy needs a boost, say experts||How long will the lockdown continue? Four months after the country’s most industrialised state went into a lockdown, a day before the national lockdown was imposed on the midnight of March 24, Maharashtra is treading cautiously while answering this question. While some curbs have been lifted, the surge in cases has made the government defer the plan for more relaxations, even as experts stress the need to open the economy faster.After four phases of the lockdown till May 31, the state government rolled out its Mission Begin Again from June 3, allowing activities in a calibrated manner. Beginning with jogging, cycling at grounds and parks, shops and establishments were allowed to open on alternate days and private offices were allowed to open with 10% of their staff. Salons and beauty parlours were opened from June 28, and hotels from July 8 in subsequent phases.“We were planning to allow more staff in private offices and add more means of public transport to enable smooth operations of offices from the first week of July. However, a sudden spike in cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, excluding Mumbai, and Pune and other districts forced us to defer it. Stricter curbs were imposed in these areas. Although cases in Mumbai have stabilised, activities can’t open up in the city due to heavy movement of floating population from the neighbouring cities,” said a Sena minister.A section of the state cabinet and even the bureaucracy is split over the strategy. The differences between the three ruling parties came to the fore during the lockdown as NCP chief Sharad Pawar was in favour of opening up more activities, while CM Uddhav Thackeray exercised caution. “Barring containment zones, activities should be opened up now, as the economy is badly hampered. The state lacks consistency in its strategy of unlocking the activities. At this pace, there will be no normalcy at least for two months,” said a senior state government official.Neeraj Hatekar, professor of economics, Mumbai University said, “Serological surveys in areas like Dharavi show 40% of the population has already been infected. If the doubling rate in Dharavi is more than a year, as projected, let us open up industries there. Offices, industries, shops in Mumbai should be opened up, as the growth rate has dropped to 1.07%. If the government fears transmission from neighbouring cities like Kalyan-Dombivli and Thane, unlocking can be rolled out in Mumbai first. Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nashik are the nerve centres of the economy,” he said. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said there would be no more lockdowns and gradual unlocking will be rolled out. He said the government was also thinking about increasing the percentage of employees in offices. Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health consultant, said, “It has been four months of lockdown and nobody knows if the risk of the infection recedes in the next six months. Instead of waiting more, the state should start opening the sectors which are organised, disciplined and require lower footfall. Instead of asking people to stay home, they should be sensitised.”Industries minister and Sena leader Subhash Desai said, “The decisions will depend on the preparedness. Many political leaders like deputy CM Ajit Pawar were against the lockdown in their districts a few weeks ago, but they had to impose it in their areas like Pune. The situation was similar in Aurangabad, which I represent as the guardian minister. We had allowed industrial activities which led to a large number of patients in areas like Waluj. After a 10-day lockdown, there is drop in patients and deaths.” He said lockdown and unlocking will be a back-and-forth process. “It may or may not take two months to get to normal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-months-of-maha-lockdown-economy-needs-a-boost-say-experts/story-99sShMIgazxUQ9Xsu2YSoI.html
24-07-2020||City||Migratory birds throng the Vasai-Virar, Palghar saltpans||A flock of around 200 to 300 flamingos, white ibis, storks, open bills and other migratory birds have been sighted along the saltpans and tracks between Naigaon and Vasai in the past few weeks.“Attracted by the wetlands and lush greenery of the twin cities of Vasai-Virar during the monsoon, many migratory birds are seen visiting the area,” said Sachin Main, president, Nature and Environment Society of Thane (NEST), an animal welfare organisation based in Vasai.Nature photographers captured the birds in their lens at Gogte salt pan, Umelmaan, Vasant Nagari, Rajivli and the marshy patches near Vasai fort and other surrounding areas, said Main.“The birds, particularly the flamingos, come from Kutch in Gujarat, and it is a pleasant sight to find a new bird species every day along the Vasai-Virar stretch,” said Sanjay Rahate, another bird lover from Vasai, who has clicked many pictures of the birds. “Flamingos and open bills also visit the Kelwe beach area in Palghar in winters,” said Rahate.The birds feed on crabs, worms, small fish and other marine products in the marshy wetlands. “However, as there are rice fields in Vasai-Virar also, the birds also flock there, but are under threat from locals, who kill the flamingos for their meat. NEST has decided to undertake a campaign to create awareness on the issue among the locals,” said Main.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migratory-birds-throng-the-vasai-virar-palghar-saltpans/story-nBYEKS4t74UmK6vKNfjwzM.html
24-07-2020||City||₹8.94 lakh worth steel stolen during transit; Taloja police book transporter, truck driver||Taloja police recently registered a case of theft against a transporter and truck driver after a steel businessman lost 17,200kg of steel material worth ₹8.94 lakh in transit to Nashik. According to the complainant, the consignment was delayed by a couple of days, and only one-third of the material reached the companies in a different truck.The complainant, Manohar Patil, 45, recorded his statement with Taloja police on Monday, naming the transporter, identified only as Rahman, and an unknown truck driver, for stealing the metal.Patil had accepted orders for two companies in Nashik, one of which was to receive 7,320kg of steel sheets while another consignment of 7,380kg steel sheets and 17,000kg steel coil was for the second company.On June 22, the consignment was loaded on a truck provided by Rehman. The delivery was to be made the same night.Patil told police that Rehman only provided the driver’s contact number and did not mention his name.When Patil called the driver the same night, his phone was unavailable. Rehman later informed Patil that the driver’s phone fell in the water and was not working. He promised that the delivery would happen the following day.When neither of the companies received the material on June 23, Patil went to Nashik to look for the driver. Rehman told him the truck was along the Satpur-Ambad Link Road, but Patil did not find it there.“Rehman then told Patil that the driver must have slept off after getting drunk. On June 25, the companies received a partial consignment in a different truck,” said an officer from Taloja police station.Patil alleged that Rehman, in connivance with the driver, stole 1,320kg steel sheets and 15,880kg of steel coil during transit. Taloja police have registered a case of criminal breach of trust under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Rehman and the unknown truck driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-94-lakh-worth-steel-stolen-during-transit-taloja-police-book-transporter-truck-driver/story-RrG0kKRheVnSXFfhvWc6IK.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Week-long online workshop for Ladakh students at PU||Panjab University has started a one-week online workshop for the students of Ladakh. It is being conducted by the department of Sophisticated Analytical Instrumentation Facility (SAIF) of the university. The e-learning initiative was taken to connect students, researchers and academicians located in remote areas, especially Ladakh students.Vice-chancellor Prof Raj Kumar said, “Panjab University intends to reach remote areas which lack resources.” He encouraged the participants to utilise the facilities at SAIF.Dr Aijaz Ahmad Dar from Kashmir, Stanzin Itga from Leh, Dr Mohmmad Ishaq from Kargil and Dr Ramesh K Sharma from Panjab University coordinated the workshop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/week-long-online-workshop-for-ladakh-students-at-pu/story-vTSL0LEWpxPirjDieCwrAK.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||Robber steals dry fruits worth ₹2.93 lakh from truck parked in Vile Parle||A 51-year-old Juhu-based businessman filed a police complaint after an unknown person allegedly stole a consignment of dry fruits worth ₹2.93 lakh from his transport truck parked at SV Road, Vile Parle. According to Juhu police, the incident occurred on July 18, around 11pm.The complainant Nilesh Shah told police that he had parked his truck near Radha Krishna Hotel, from where the unknown accused broke the shutter of the truck and stole the dry fruits.The accused reportedly stole 66kg of apricot worth ₹1.08 lakh; 46kg of walnuts worth ₹33,400; 49kg of cashews worth ₹52,000; 50kg of dates worth ₹39,329, along with other items, worth a total of ₹293,079.On July 19, when Shah went to his truck, he found that the lock was broken, and the dry fruits were missing.“We have registered the offence under section 380 [theft in dwelling house] of the Indian Penal Code [IPC]. We are scanning CCTV footage of the area and investigating the case,” said an officer from Juhu police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/robber-steals-dry-fruits-worth-2-93-lakh-from-truck-parked-in-vile-parle/story-7CNzERtcpQspgGLwiVPHiM.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana civil hospital gets advanced life support ambulance||In a first, the Ludhiana civil hospital has received an advanced life support (ALS) ambulance which has facilities including life support system, oxygen supply and equipment for proper monitoring of serious patients. The ambulance will be used for Covid-19 patients. However, the department lacks trained staff to operate the ambulance and has been stationed at civil hospital for now.Senior medical officer (SMO) Amarijit Kaur said, “ALS ambulances have been sent by the state government to different districts including Ludhiana. This will play a crucial role in saving lives of serious patients when they are shifted from one place to another.”“However, the department lacks trained staff to use the equipment in the ALS ambulance, due to which it is not being used for now. We have asked the department to provide trained staff,” the SMO said.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Earlier, we had basic life support (BLS) ambulances in the district, but now the government has provided the ALS ambulance. The ambulance will soon be made operational with trained staff for taking care of patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-civil-hospital-gets-advanced-life-support-ambulance/story-HTDJOMFHAgZotOhdYZhs0J.html
24-07-2020||City||Mohali police to probe Sangrur granthi’s suicide||The Mohali police will be investigating the suicide case of granthi Lovepreet Singh, 22, as the incident had taken place there, Sangrur superintendent of police Sandeep Garg said on Thursday. The granthi had been found dead at Gurdwara Amb Sahib, Mohali, on June 13 night, hours after he had joined an NIA (National Investigation Agency) probe into a sedition and Arms Act case registered in Amritsar. His kin and political leaders, including leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, had demanded judicial probe into the death. Meanwhile, Sikh outfits have announced to hold a march from Gurdwara Amb Sahib to the CM’s house in Chandigarh on July 27 to seek justice for Lovepreet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-police-to-probe-sangrur-granthi-s-suicide/story-ztWlbHkFUm1230GKolMgZJ.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||IL&FS case: PMLA court seeks report on condition of Taloja prison||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Thursday called for a report from Taloja prison on the measures taken by the administration to deal with the spread of Covid 19 in the facility.The special court was hearing a plea filed by Karunakaran Ramchand, former managing director (MD) of Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (IL&FS) and IL&FS Transportation Networks (ITNL), for interim bail on the grounds of the spread of Covid-19 in jail. On Thursday, the court directed the Taloja prison authority to submit a fresh report concerning the overall condition of the Taloja prison in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. The report needs to include the number of infected inmates and any Covid deaths.The court noted that the authority had previously been directed to submit the report, but it was not done. Further, the authority had submitted the medical report of Ramchand, but it was not attached to the information on the overall condition of the prison in context to Covid-19.Hence, the court issued fresh directions to the prison authority to submit the report by the next hearing scheduled on July 28.Ramchand was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on June 19 last year for his alleged role in money laundering through IL&FS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/il-fs-case-pmla-court-seeks-report-on-condition-of-taloja-prison/story-fAHDz90iENNFae6uFMV1oO.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rumi Jaffrey records statement with police||Director, writer and actor Rumi Jaffery recorded his statement with Bandra police, in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, on Thursday. According to the police, they have recorded statements of more than 40 people so far. On Tuesday, Bandra police had recorded film critic Rajeev Masand’s statement.Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 9, said,” We are recording Jaffery’s statement in connection with [Sushant Singh Rajput’s] death case.”On June 14, the actor was found dead in his suburban Bandra apartment. In the initial investigation, the Mumbai Police had found that the actor was under medication for depression. On Monday, Bandra police recorded statements of three psychiatrists and a psychotherapist whom Rajput had consulted.The officer said they have recorded statements of his cook, Neeraj Singh, house help Keshav Bachner, manager Deepesh Sawant, creative manager Siddharth Ramnathmurti Pithani, sisters Neetu and Meetu Singh, father KK Singh, television actor Mahesh Shetty, casting director Mukesh Chhabra, business manager Shruti Modi, PR manager Ankita Tehlani, actor Rhea Chakraborty, filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali, filmmaker and chairman of Yash Raj films Aditya Chopra, two former employees of YRF, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-rumi-jaffrey-records-statement-with-police/story-bnKEXkW5KB53vR2OhWFWYK.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray, Ajit Pawar meet as Shiv Sena, NCP work on an alliance plan for future elections||The Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), partners in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in state, have begun working on a pre-election tie-up for future polls. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is also the Sena chief, and senior NCP leader and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar held a closed-door meeting on Thursday to discuss a future alliance plan, multiple leaders from both parties told HT on the condition of anonymity, as no decision has been formally made. The parties, according to the leaders, are looking at forging an electoral alliance to contest future polls together, and as a first step, they may contest local elections in Raigad district as allies. After their meeting, Thackeray and Pawar met legislators of both parties from the district at the Bal Thackeray memorial. NCP MP Sunil Tatkare and Sena secretary Milind Narvekar were also present at the meeting with the legislators. The parties are keen to contest district council (zilla parishad) and civic polls, which will be held in the next couple of years. This would include the Mumbai civic polls, which are significant for Sena. The three MVA partners, Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, had earlier discussed an electoral alliance plan. While Sena and NCP have started work on it, the Congress is undecided about it as certain factions within the party are not in favour of contesting elections in alliance with Sena. “Both Thackeray and Pawar are of the opinion that they should finalise the alliance plans instead of waiting for Congress to decide. If this plan clicks, then the two parties can go ahead with pre-election alliance for next Assembly and Lok Sabha elections too,” said a key NCP functionary. Political analyst Hemant Desai called it a “tactical move” by the two parties and said it could be significant for them. “Their strongholds are largely different and their alliance can help them. But will their cadre accept it and respond accordingly is what remains to be seen. This also raises the question over where Congress stands. Will they join or stay away? The move may lead to mistrust between Congress and its two ruling partners,” said Desai.Significantly, Thursday’s meeting also indicates that Thackeray and Ajit Pawar are “working together”. Pawar had tried to scuttle Thackeray’s chances of becoming chief minister when he had taken oath as deputy chief minister along with Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Devendra Fadnavis in the middle of e discussions to form a three-party alliance after the 2019 Assembly elections. While it was a short-lived move, with most NCP MLAs sticking with party chief Sharad Pawar, Ajit soon had returned to the party and made deputy chief minister. “That Uddhavji chose to discuss such a crucial issue with Ajitdada indicates the two are probably working together now,” said a senior Sena leader. Shiv Sena contested the 2019 Assembly elections in alliance with BJP, but parted ways with the latter after the elections over the issue of chief ministership. It then forged an alliance with NCP and Congress to form the MVA government in the state in November 2019, with Thackeray as the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-ajit-pawar-meet-as-shiv-sena-ncp-work-on-an-alliance-plan-for-future-elections/story-paf1L1tQow9KVK0zF53rCN.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||State allows existing housing societies to continue until new body is elected||The Maharashtra government on Thursday decided to allow existing cooperative housing societies to continue until a new body is elected. The decision is only applicable to housing societies with up to 250 members. The decision was taken by the state cabinet, considering the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. The government has postponed elections of housing societies three times this year, in the backdrop of the health crisis. This move allows societies to conduct elections whenever it is comfortable for them, and until then, the existing body will continue to manage the affairs, officials said.The cabinet has also decided to offer housing societies an extension of five months, till December 31, to complete the audit of society books. The decision applies to all cooperative societies such as banks, sugar, dairy, etc. According to the existing rules, societies are required to complete their financial audit by July, four months after completion of the financial year.The state government has also allowed all cooperative societies, including housing societies, to conduct their annual general body meeting by March 31, 2021. This was done considering the possibility of active members losing their membership if they are unable to attend the meeting due to the Covid-19 situation. According to section 27 of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, 1960, an active member can cast his vote to elect a cooperative body. However, he or she has to attend the annual general body meeting at least once in a five-year term to be eligible to vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-allows-existing-housing-societies-to-continue-until-new-body-is-elected/story-HopDbmgpPJRMZjQtMrMvdJ.html
24-07-2020||Mumbai||SEC social media contract given to BJP member: Congress||The Congress has alleged that the company of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) youth wing office-bearer was instrumental in handling the social media of the chief electoral officer (CEO), Maharashtra, in the run-up to the 2019 state Assembly elections. The Congress is demanding an inquiry into the matter. While the leader was not available for a comment despite several attempts by HT, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has sought a report from CEO, Maharashtra.On Thursday, social activist Saket Gokhale posted a series of tweets claiming that the State Election Commission (SEC) hired a digital agency owned by Devang Dave, the national convener of the information technology (IT) and social media cell of the BJP youth wing. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “How can someone who is involved with a political party be given a contract of a non-partisan agency which conducts polls? This is a serious case of conflict of interest, and there should be an independent probe.” Sheyphali Sharan, spokesperson, ECI, tweeted: “Regarding tweet of Mr Gokhale @SaketGokhale, Commission has sought detailed factual report in this matter from CEO Maharashtra with respect to alleged locale of the incidence immediately.”The state BJP confirmed that Dave is a party member, but opined that there was nothing wrong with him taking other contracts. “Dave has his own digital marketing company and services various clients. Just because he is associated with the BJP, that does not mean he cannot take up other assignments. He must have taken the SEC contract through the proper procedure,” said BJP spokesperson Bhalchandra Shirsat.Through his Twitter posts, Gokhale claimed that when he browsed through the old social media advertisements of CEO Maharashtra, the address given was of 202 Pressman House, Vile Parle. The said address was of the advertising agency Signpost India as well as the digital agency Social Central, which is owned by Dave. Dave is also instrumental in forming websites and pages like ‘I support Narendra Modi’ and ‘The fearless Indian’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sec-social-media-contract-given-to-bjp-member-congress/story-vopIJTL3Za5ydOHCGYuUfO.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||PU senate polls: Goyals stay together, file nominations from faculties||The alliance between Navdeep Goyal and Ashok Goyal groups will continue in the upcoming senate elections of Panjab University (PU).Both filed their nominations for senate elections from the faculties on Thursday besides four other candidates from their group. During the last election of PU senate, Ashok and Navdeep were in opposite camps.While Navdeep has submitted his nomination from the faculty of sciences, Ashok has filed it from the medical faculty. Along with them, Prof Ronki Ram has filed his nomination from the arts faculty. Prof Keshav Malhotra is contesting from a combined faculty and Prof Rajesh Gill has given her nomination from faculty of languages. Anu Chathrat will be contesting from the faculty of law.The alliance between power groups of Goyals was forged during the syndicate elections of 2018. Navdeep said, “We have been together for almost two years, so why break our understanding now.”The election for 91-member PU senate, which is the apex governing body of the university, is scheduled in August and September this year. However, concerns have come from many corners over the conduction of the polls amid the Covid-19 pandemic, especially for registered graduate constituency. As many as 15 members are elected from a registered graduate constituency.Meanwhile on Thursday, two members were nominated for the senate by Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chancellor of PU. The two nominees are Suresh Tandon, former vice-chairman of Punjab School Education Board, and Prof Sanjay Kaushik, dean of PU College Development Council. They have been nominated against the seats vacated due to the resignation of PU fellows Prof Shelly Walia and Prof Amita Rishi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-senate-polls-goyals-stay-together-file-nominations-from-faculties/story-BseXrYOIQ7yauJcCMxRLRJ.html
24-07-2020||City||Philanthropist Oberoi aims to bring back all Punjabis stuck in Dubai within 2 months||Stories of people walking to their native places or dying due to hunger can paint a bleak picture of the coronavirus outbreak. But there are also acts of kindness that have inspired many.Dubai-based philanthropist S P Singh Oberoi, who also runs Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, decided to dedicate himself to the noble cause of providing food and ration to the needy. Oberoi has distributed more than 1 lakh ration kits in all districts of Punjab for the past three months and more than 1 lakh medical kits and equipment in 23 civil hospitals in the state.Not only this, but he has also arranged flight tickets for Indians stuck in Dubai. He aims to bring back all those stranded there in the next two months. He paid for air tickets for 50 Punjabis stuck in UAE, who reached Chandigarh on Wednesday.The 65-year-old businessman, a native of Punjab and based in Dubai, is also known for depositing his blood money to save Indians who faced a death sentence for any crime in the UAE.Speaking to HT, Oberoi said, “We have a team of around 80 people, who are working to distribute dry ration every month in all districts of Punjab and even Jammu and Kashmir. In the past three months, our trust has distributed nearly 1 lakh dry ration kits to needy families and will continue till September and if required, till the virus disappears.”He said, “We have distributed 20,000 PPE kits, 30,000 N95 masks and one lakh surgical masks in 23 civil hospitals.”Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said, “The trust has helped the needy in our district and whenever we need anything we approach them.”Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “The trust has provided medical kits to our hospital staff and all the government departments of the districts. His contribution to society is immense.”Oberoi said, “In the last two weeks, our trust has paid for tickets for around 90 youth stuck in Dubai. Now our aim is to bring back all Punjabis, most of them unemployed, stuck in the UAE in the next two months. I have already spoken to Punjab chief minister to provide jobs to the unemployed youth.”For SPS Oberoi, philanthropy is a way of life. So much so that Oxford University had bestowed an honorary doctorate on him for his work. Oberoi had moved to Dubai in 1992 and later came back to settle with his family in Patiala.His philanthropy work is expanding from Punjab — where he runs offices to provide pension to around 11,000 widows — to Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, where he plans to open dialysis units and crèches, and donating computers for jail inmates.He said he got into philanthropy after seeing the conditions of a village in Punjab. “Many people have no money to buy food, medicines. I am doing very little,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/philanthropist-oberoi-aims-to-bring-back-all-punjabis-stuck-in-dubai-within-2-months/story-PDhVqAFeKmP0YmuICg2EsN.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man dies in road mishap after losing control of vehicle due to epilepsy attack||A 22-year-old man died after he suffered an epilepsy attack while riding a scooter, lost control of the vehicle and crashed into a pole in Nanak Nagar after hitting a woman. The victim has been identified as Karan of Vijay Nagar.According to eyewitnesses, the man was riding very fast and suddenly lost control of the vehicle and crashed into a pole after hitting a woman, Rekha, who was crossing the road. The man died on the way to the hospital. The woman suffers minor injuries.Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, station house officer at Daresi police station, said that according to onlookers the man suffered a fit while driving. The police have informed the kin of the victim about the incident and sent the body to civil hospital for postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-man-dies-in-road-mishap-after-losing-control-of-vehicle-due-to-epilepsy-attack/story-L3cffaC3K99zmfKxonptzN.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Five held for collecting ‘donations’ fraudulently in Ludhiana spent money on expensive mobiles, branded garments||A day after five men were arrested for allegedly collecting donations fraudulently on the pretext of using it to treat hospitalised patients, police on Thursday said the accused were duping people for the past one year and spent the money on buying expensive mobile phones, branded garments and shoes.The accused have been identified Harpreet alias honey, Karan Singh, his brother Gulshan, Bablu Kumar of Ram Nagar and Kanwarpreet Singh of Chandigarh road. Their accomplices, John Bains, Aman Sharma and Kishan are yet to be arrested. Police said they suspect the involvement of more people.Police said the accused were arrested when they were collecting donations to fund the treatment of Bhawangurpreet Singh, who is admitted to DMCH, after meeting with a road mishap. When asked, the accused told police that the victim’s family had approached them to collect donations for his treatment. When police approached the patient’s family, they said they had not asked for the accused’s assistance. Moreover, other details except the patient name were wrong. Police said accused used pictures of hospitalised patients from social networking sites and misused them to collect donations. Police recovered Rs 13,700, posters and pamphlets from their possession.Staffers of some private hospitals are also involved with the accused in providing pictures and details of patients, police said.Harpreet Kumar alias Honey of Ambedkar Nagar, who is kingpin of the gang, told cops he is a correspondent with a web news channel. Police have recovered an identity card from his possession issued by the public relations department of Punjab Government. Police are verifying if the id-card is fake.Assistant sub-inspector Sukhdeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused made three Facebook pages by the name of Sai Foundation, Hand to Hand NGO and Poor Patient Helping Society to pretend they were helping the needy with money and ration. The facebook pages were being operated by Honey and his accomplices John Bains and Aman Sharma, police said.“The accused usually operated at Rajpura road, Fountain Chowk, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Dugri road and Old Session Chowk with pictures of patients and donation boxes in their hands. They used to collect Rs 12,000 to Rs 15,000 in cash as donation in one day,” the ASI said.A case of cheating has been registered under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code against the accused at division number 8 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-held-for-collecting-donations-fraudulently-in-ludhiana-spent-money-on-expensive-mobiles-branded-garments/story-Ht6u0dKaC8qbDvZ99nZ80K.html
24-07-2020||City||Oil firm staff booked for abetting suicide of Mohali-based fuel pump owner||The Panchkula Police on Thursday registered an FIR against some officers of a private oil company after a Mohali-based petrol pump owner ended his life and named them in his suicide note.The 76-year-old took his life on Wednesday night at a hotel in Sector 1 of Panchkula.“In an 8-9 page suicide note, the elderly man has accused some officers of an oil company of harassment and stated that because of the difference in fuel rates of Chandigarh and Mohali, his business was badly impacted,” said the investigating officer Lalit Kumar.He said a case has been filed under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) against the oil firm officials and the investigation is on.As per information, the petrol pump owner had been highlighting the rate difference issue for a long time and had in September 2019 even sought permission from the Punjab government and UT administrator to commit suicide. He had said that due to difference in fuel rates, 80% of the business had been lost and worst sufferers were the pumps located on the Chandigarh-Punjab border.Reacting to the incident, Punjab Petrol Pump Dealers Association president Paramjit Singh Doaba said, “A senior member of the petroleum fraternity has ended his life and the onus lies with the Punjab government and oil marketing companies and Union PNG ministry, who failed to work towards price correction or take steps to cover up the losses faced by dealers due to Covid-19.”“If corrective measures are not taken by the government, dealers will be left with no other option than taking their own lives,” Doaba added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/oil-firm-staff-booked-for-abetting-suicide-of-mohali-based-fuel-pump-owner/story-pqrlwEl0roQK7em1vhLRCM.html
24-07-2020||Noida||Man robbed at gunpoint, robbers return to ask ATM pin||Two men in their mid 20s, said police, were arrested in an alleged encounter with the Phase 3 police on Thursday. They had allegedly fled after robbing a person, only to return to demand the victim’s ATM details and then fleeing once again but was confronted by the police team.The incident was reported from the Phase 3 area just after midnight. Two suspects, identified by their first names as Behlolpur resident Gaurav and Chhajarsi resident Sadanand, robbed a man at gunpoint. “The victim was on his way home when he was waylaid by the two men on a motorcycle who robbed him and fled,” said deputy commissioner of police Harish Chander. “The duo, however, returned to know his ATM pin number and then fled again.”The police, when alerted, immediately set up check points, he said. “They were intercepted near Garhi Chaukhandi. Despite warnings, they fired at the police team that returned fired in self defence, injuring the suspects. The victim’s phone, money (₹3,200) and ATM cards were recovered,” said DCP Chander, adding that they had a criminal background. Two countrymade pistols were recovered from suspects.The two were among five people injured in three separate “encounters” in the last 24 hours.On Tuesday evening, a wanted man with a bounty of ₹25,000 was injured in an alleged encounter with the Dadri police. The suspect, Dadri resident Devendra, who is in 30s, has several cases of robbery against him and was also wanted under the gangster act.The other alleged encounter was reported from the Badalpur area in which two brothers - Deepak and Rohit, residents of Badalpur who, police said, appeared to be in late 20s - were injured. According to police, they were wanted for the murder of their brother-in-law on July 17 whom they had allegedly strangled and later burnt his body to prevent identification.The police department has been focused on nabbing known criminals belonging to organised crime or those with extensive criminal histories. Nearly 20 criminals have been arrested in the past week of whom 14 were injured. Seven others managed to flee in the encounters.“Increased number of encounters show the preparedness of police personnel during checking across the district. And when criminals confront police, it is bound to lead to such incidents,” said Akhilesh Kumar, joint commissioner of police, law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-robbed-at-gunpoint-robbers-return-to-ask-atm-pin/story-7j294f5KIeDDT7tdDxA15O.html
24-07-2020||Noida||Lockdown, lesser human interference leads to more nestings in Surajpur wetland||Negligible human disturbance due to the Covid-19 lockdown and favourable climatic conditions has led to an improvement in habitat at Greater Noida’s Surajpur wetland, where more nestings and birds are being observed.According to an ecologist of Wetlands International, a global not-for-profit organisation dedicated to the conservation and restoration of wetlands, more nestings have been spotted this breeding season at Surajpur when compared to last year.“We have observed mixed nesting colonies which were spread out on a larger part of the wetland. Also, there are definitely more nests than last year. We cannot hold a census right now as the breeding season has just started. But we saw more resident water birds like egrets, black-headed ibis, Indian spot-billed ducks, purple herons, purple swamphen, common moorhens and white-breasted waterhen in comparison to previous years. They also occupied larger area for roosting, feeding across the wetland. Earlier, they would be confined to a certain pocket only,” said TK Roy, ecologist and Delhi state coordinator, Wetlands International.He added that favourable climatic conditions has helped and lack of disturbance is essential for the breeding season of terrestrial and water birds.“Last year during this same period in summer — from May to June — the ground habitat was quite dry due to lack of rainfall and moisture. Human activities in the wetland made the situation worse,” Roy added.According to the forest department, unlike Okhla Bird Sanctuary —where there is a ticketing system — Surajpur wetland was never officially opened to the public. A large number of local visitors and birders, however, were daily being allowed inside the wetland prior to the lockdown.“The climatic conditions were less harsh this year. The number of visitors dwindled after the lockdown. We have observed that the number of nesting colonies have increased and expect better results during the annual census due in winters,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.He also pointed out a large number of nests of black-headed Ibis – a near-threatened species– were observed on the palm grooves. The ibis annually nest during summer-monsoon in Surajpur Reserve Forest (Surajpur wetland), Sultanpur National Park (Haryana) and Delhi Zoo in NCR-Delhi“They usually nest on thorny trees but rarely on the palm groves. Looks like they (the ibis) are adapting to the date palms groves, which are in abundance in Surajpur,” Roy addedSpread over 308 hectares, of which 38 hectares is a lake, the Surajpur forest reserve area is home to a total of 186 species of resident, winter migratory, summer migratory and passage migratory birds. A census held in January 2020 had noted that the bird population in the area had dropped to 2,092 birds from a total 39 species against 3,034 birds from 42 species in January 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/lockdown-lesser-human-interference-leads-to-more-nestings-in-surajpur-wetland/story-fYLrNdZNCD7oyWGEe57WnO.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||14-year-old patient raped in India’s largest Covid-19 facility||A 14-year-old girl admitted to a 10,000-bed Covid Care Centre in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur — the largest in the country — was raped last week inside the facility by a 19-year-old man who was housed there, the police said on Thursday.The man and his friend, who stood guard and allegedly recorded the crime at the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre, have been arrested in the first such known case in the national capital, officials said. Both of them are coronavirus disease patients.“The girl was immediately shifted to a government hospital, where she continues to receive treatment for Covid-19. The suspects, too, are yet to recover and have been moved to another hospital while they remain in judicial custody,” said Parvinder Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (south).A case has been registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act at the Maidan Garhi police station.The alleged crime took place at the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP)-run facility on July 15 night — within a week of the girl and the two men getting admitted to the centre.The facility, billed as the biggest in the world, is operating out of the Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Chhatarpur and has about 10,200 beds. But just 250 of them are currently occupied.That leaves much of the space unmanned.When the facility was opened on July 5, the ITBP said it will deploy 1,000 personnel for security arrangements. But with only a small section of the facility currently occupied, about 100 ITBP personnel work in shifts here to provide security.“The survivor and the rape accused became familiar with each other during their stay there. On July 15, the suspect called the survivor to a common but isolated spot in the facility on the pretext of speaking to her,” a police investigator said on condition of anonymity.The suspect asked his 20-year-old friend to stand guard and alert him if someone approached them. Then he allegedly raped the girl in the facility’s washroom area, the investigator said.The police said the girl also alleged “the suspect’s friend went on to record the crime on his mobile phone and officials were trying to verify the charge”.The girl reported the crime to an attendant at the facility the next morning. Authorities at the facility then informed the police.The girl was shifted to a hospital and sent for a medical examination, which allegedly confirmed the sexual assault, according to the police investigator.The girl came to the centre a week before the alleged crime as her home had no extra room where she could be put under home isolation, said another police officer who didn’t want to be identified. “There was just another patient who knew her family,” said the officer. Both suspects have relatives who are admitted in the centre.Covid care centres are used to house pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic patients and those with mild infections who do not have appropriate isolation facilities at home.An ITBP officer, who didn’t want to be identified, said: “ITBP’s security personnel are usually not deployed in the bathroom area...This is a disease in which we are supposed to maintain a safe distance from the patients. While we are investigating how the crime happened, we have enhanced the security arrangements here,” he said.The ITBP officer said the agency’s personnel deployed at the centre reacted “proactively”. “Our doctors immediately spoke to the survivor and made sure the crime was actively pursued by the police,” he said.At the facility, a small section is occupied by the ITBP service providers while the patients’ sections are on the other side.About 30% of all patients admitted here are female, a government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/minor-raped-in-covid-care-centre/story-zMgjZBLGrEqdkgAGmDRLdM.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||First-time offenders get a chance at life and livelihood, courtesy police’ Yuva scheme||In May this year, Arjun Kumar Das, 18, was arrested on charges of pickpocketing passengers on a train at Sarai Rohila railway station. That was the first time he had committed a crime, according to Delhi Police records, and was to become a turning point in his life. Two months later, Das is out on bail and has enrolled in the Delhi Police’s self-sufficiency programme, ‘Yuva’, and will soon be assisting the Covid-19 front-line workers to fight against the pandemic. By August, when he completes his classroom as well as practical training, Das will be given a chance to work at nursing homes and private hospitals in the capital as a clerical assistant to the medical staff.Recalling what he calls his “biggest mistake”, Das, who had come to Delhi in January, says all he wanted to do was earn enough to take care of his family of three in Kishanganj, Bihar.“I used to work as an electrician, but in April, the owner of the electronics shop where I was employed asked me to leave as the shop was shut due to the lockdown. Left penniless, one day, I boarded a train at Sarai Rohila railway station along with a group of six other men I knew. After some time, a few of them were caught by the public for trying to pickpocket passengers and all of us were handed over to the police. After spending a week in the lock-up we managed to get bail. My crime was that I was in the wrong company. I am not a criminal and I will regret that incident for the rest of my life,” Das said.Das now lives in central Delhi’s Anand Parbat and he got himself enrolled in the Yuva programme in June, with the help of the beat constable in his area. “We are being trained in managing files and clerical work and are being made familiar with the work at a nursing home or a small hospital. We’ve been told that after a month of classroom training, because of the coronavirus outbreak, we will attend a few days of practical training. After that, we will be employed in nursing homes or private hospitals with the help of the police,” said Das, a class 8 drop-out.Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava said, “We believe that first-time offenders must be given a chance to reform. As a crime control strategy, we are segregating them from repeat offenders and arranging for their vocational training to make them self-reliant.”Another candidate, Deepak Goswami, 18, lives in Baljeet Nagar and is currently out on bail in a case of cell phone theft. Goswami said he used to work in Shakurpur at a garments factory when the lockdown started.“I and many others who were employed for sewing sherwanis were suddenly laid off. I was desperate to earn money. I started working as a carpenter at a furniture shop but early May, the owner made me quit. A week later, I was caught trying to steal a mobile phone and was jailed for theft. When I came out on bail, I got in touch with our beat policemen who helped me enrol for Yuva programme,” Goswami said.He said the training not only teaches them how to work efficiently but also educates them about how to keep away from anti-social elements and lead a healthy and safe life.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said, “We have roped in a few nursing homes and private hospitals that are willing to hire such persons once they complete the training.” “Currently, we have around 10 first-time offenders enrolled in the Yuva programme. They all lost their livelihood due to the pandemic. These men are undergoing training in a batch of 50 along with others who come from different backgrounds,” he said.Amit Kumar, 22, who has a gambling case registered against him, said this training will not only give his life a direction but also help him earn a good living. Kumar is out on bail and supports a family of five, including his parents and two siblings. DCP Bhatia said the idea of enrolling first-time offenders in such a programme came when it was noticed that many labourers, contractual employees and those involved in similar jobs have lost their livelihood due to lockdown. “At the same time, there was also a spurt in the number of first-time offenders. Analysing the situation, we directed our beat staff to keep a record of such offenders in the central district and get in touch with their families. We made sure that as soon as they were released on bail, they were made aware about Yuva scheme and persuaded them to enrol,” he said.Amita Baviskar, sociologist, Ashoka University, said in order to find a permanent solution to unemployed people resorting to crime, a basic income programme is much needed.“Training is not the issue. Since even skilled workers are out of work, we need more jobs and income support. This calls for a much bigger initiative which won’t be possible with the efforts of the police alone,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/first-time-offenders-get-a-chance-at-life-and-livelihood-courtesy-police-yuva-scheme/story-B5fx1ZfYDQqleHvwaQS7dJ.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||‘Rainwater can’t flow out as drains choked’: Gosain||Delhi is losing its capacity to handle monsoons, even when it is rain-deficient. This is mainly because Delhi has a drainage master plan from 1976 that does not factor in the construction boom in recent years.  AK Gosain, professor of civil engineering at IIT Delhi,who submitted a drainage master plan to Delhi government in 2017, tells Jayashree Nandi that Delhi can see a calamity anytime. Edited excerpts: First, paved area in Delhi is on the increase. The run-off from paved area is far higher than natural areas. For example, for one unit of rain, a paved area will generate 95% of run-off compared to 50% for a natural area. With a rise in paved area, we are seeing a rise in the volume of water that needs to drain. Second, in Delhi we get rain for four months; the drains are supposed to be dry for the rest of the year. But no drain is ever dry. They carry sewage instead. Third, stormwater drains need to be cleaned at least biannually or rainwater cannot flow freely.The drain was choked. It should have been de-silted. Water level kept going up, eventually washing away houses. We need to check if they were authorised. And why were they constructed on a drain?Yes there are many locations like that, which are in a depression. These cannot drain naturally. The water has to be pumped out immediately.  We have completed our job and its up to the government. The plan captures all the issues with flooding and drainage I have mentioned.If the floodplains are constricted, then the level at which water will pass through will be higher. So when there is a big flood, embankments will breach and there will be calamity. Also, if the water level in the river is high, all the drains flowing into it will be surcharged and there will be backflow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rainwater-can-t-flow-out-as-drains-choked-ak-gosain-prof-of-civil-engineering-iit-delhi/story-w9pSSsXhSr3jnFzXhJISZK.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||3 days, 7 cave-ins: Delhi’s roads fail to withstand heavy rain spells||Just three days of heavy rain in the national capital have caused cave-ins on sections of at least seven major roads in the city, further slowing traffic that was already moving at snail’s pace due to the showers and floods.Just a day after parts of roads slumped in two vital stretches in central and south Delhi —Ashoka Road and Mahipalpur bypass—another section of NH-48 leading to Mahipalpur and a portion of the service lane near the Rajouri Garden main market caved in on Thursday morning.Delhi traffic police officials said that with two portions on the Mahipalpur route affected, traffic on Thursday was severely hit. Traffic from NH-48 towards Mahipalpur bypass, which is under the jurisdiction of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), and that coming from Vasant Kunj towards the airport, on both sides of the carriageway, was diverted on the day, as a result.PWD minister Satyendar Jain did not respond to requests for comment.On Tuesday, traffic on and around Bhairon Marg came to a standstill after a section of the primary connection between central and east Delhi caved in, forcing traffic police to divert traffic. Since Tuesday, such incidents have also been reported from ITO in Central Delhi and Nawada in West Delhi. In the three days since then, Delhi has seen 122mm of rain. But why do such cave-ins take place?Senior officials of the city’s road-owning agencies — the Public Works Department (PWD), Delhi Development Authority (DDA), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), and the four municipalities (east, north and south Delhi municipal corporations and the New Delhi Municipal Council) said these are recurrent incidents every monsoon, and attributed cave-ins to damaged water or sewer pipelines beneath roads. Experts added that shoddy quality control during construction compounded the problem.A PWD official said a small portion of Rajouri Garden market road caved in due to sewerage leakage. “The leakage was attended to promptly and fixed. The portion is cordoned off and will be repaired soon,” the official said.Officials said there was a similar problem at Ashoka Road on Wednesday afternoon. Officials of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), under whose jurisdiction Ashoka Road is, said there was a leakage in a sewer line passing beneath the road, which led to the incident. “A small portion caved in because of a leak in the underground sewer line. Our engineering team is working to repair the sewer line and the road on priority,” NDMC spokesperson RN Singh had said Thursday.NHAI and CPWD did not respond on the details of the cave-in on Mahipalpur bypass and NH-48.Estimates from the traffic police show that over the last five years, the most complaints of roads caving in have come from central Delhi, which experts said was because most underground systems in the area were laid during British rule, and have not been replaced since. A large portion of Bhairon Marg, just a few metres away from the present cave-in, had slumped in 2016. Sections of Ashoka Road have caved in at least thrice in the last two years, official records confirmed.Sarvagya Srivastava, former engineer-in-chief of PWD, said many old utilities in Delhi such as water and sewer lines are laid beneath roads, and that whenever there is damage to these utilities, water seeps in, and the lower soil layer becomes soft.“Before constructing a road, the water or sewerage pipelines should be shifted to a multi-utility duct or underneath a footpath or to the side. But at many places in Delhi, roads are built on these utilities due to a shortage of space. So, when these utilities leak, the water makes the soil soft and after some time, with continuous load portions of the road collapse,” Srivastava said.Sewa Ram, a professor at School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), said that apart from leakage in utilities, another cause for such incidents is “bad engineering” while laying roads. “If the lower layers are not compacted properly, the chances of a road cave-in increase,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-days-7-cave-ins-capital-s-roads-fail-to-withstand-heavy-rain-spells/story-FpibdCkxpmzh13wxJR1YJO.html
24-07-2020||Noida||UP journalist killed by goons complained to cops, was shot dead 2 hours later: Kin||The family of slain 35-year-old journalist, Vikram Joshi, on Thursday alleged that the suspects who shot him were roaming around Joshi’s sister’s house in Mata Colony — it was outside her house that he was shot -- about two hours before the shooting took place on the night of July 20. The family alleged that despite Joshi making several calls to the police on spotting them, the local police post in-charge put the matter off, saying he would look into it the next morning.Joshi had gone to his sister’s house to attend his niece’s birthday party. Around 10.30pm, when he and his daughters were returning home, a group of assailants, with whom he had a previous run-in, cornered him and shot him in the head. He succumbed to the gunshot wound on July 22.Also Read: Shot in front of daughters, Ghaziabad journalist dies“On the night of the shooting, the suspects, including Ravi and Chotu, were seen near our house in Mata Colony. When my uncle (Joshi) saw them, he called the local police post in-charge around 8.30pm and told him about it. But the post in-charge told him that he will look into the matter the next morning,” said Vimal Joshi, Joshi’s nephew.“Two hours later, when my uncle left the house on his two-wheeler with his daughters, the men shot him. Had the police post in-charge acted on time, my uncle would be alive today,” he added.Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, did not respond to repeated attempts to reach him for comment.Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city), said the police post in-charge was suspended soon after the incident. “All complaints raised by Joshi’s family are being looked into and an inquiry against the police post in-charge has been initiated. It is being taken up by circle officer (city 1). Anyone found guilty will not be spared,” he said.Also Read: Ghaziabad journalist shot at in front of his daughters; 9 held in the caseOn July 16, Joshi’s family and the suspects had got into a fight and later both parties approached the local police post with complaints. The family has alleged that the police did not lodge Joshi’s complaint in which he had accused the suspects of harassing his niece. An FIR on this complaint was registered only the day after Joshi was shot. The FIR names prime suspect Ravi Kumar, Shahnoor alias Chotu (who allegedly shot Joshi with a countrymade weapon) and two other unidentified men. The Ghaziabad police has so far arrested nine suspects, including Ravi Kumar and Shahnoor alias Chotu. On Thursday, Ghaziabad MP general (retired) VK Singh visited Joshi’s family at his house in Krishna Nagar Colony and handed over a cheque of Rs 10 lakh which was promised by the state government as ex-gratia. Joshi’s wife has also been promised a job by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/journalist-s-family-says-suspects-were-seen-near-house-two-hours-before-joshi-was-shot-cops-ignored-calls/story-J0dMFSNdPsYcdLdG5kQz0I.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Revamped Chandni Chowk to be open by November: Kejriwal||The long-delayed Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, which visualises a decongested and pedestrianised heritage market along the 1.5-km road between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid, will be thrown open to the public in the first week of November, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said after inspecting the site on Thursday.The project’s aim is to have a pedestrian-friendly stretch that is devoid of the clutter caused by electrical and telephone wires in the skyline and noisy vehicles on the road. “The heart of Chandni Chowk or its main area is getting a complete makeover. It is a historical place. We will bring back the historical glory of this area by beautifying it in every way possible. This 1.5-km stretch will be a non-motorised vehicle (NMV) area from 9am to 9pm,” Kejriwal told reporters.Kejriwal hoped the area will attract tourists from across the world. “We hope the place will be opened by the first week of November. It was supposed to start in May but the process was delayed due to the coronavirus,” he said.Stating that the project has seen a cost escalation of around ₹25-30 crore, he said, “The delay owing to the pandemic has now increased the estimated total project cost to ₹90 crore.” Work on the project started in December 2018 and was scheduled to be done by March 2020. The deadline was pushed to May 31 due to an embargo imposed by the National Green Tribunal on construction to curb pollution. Covid-19, and the shortage of labour that stemmed out of the nationwide lockdown forced the authorities to further postpone it to the end of October .Garima Gupta, managing director of the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), said major works such as laying underground electricity and water lines and constructing a stormwater drain were 95% complete and trials on energising these would begin. “Now mostly superficial works are left such as covering the roads and beautifying them. A major time-consuming work that will soon begin is laying granite slabs. Granite is very delicate and often breaks if not handled carefully. Footpaths and benches have to be built and poles need to be installed with signage,” she said. Asked if the CM issued any directions, Gupta said, “Not really. The CM just wanted to take stock of the project.”Gupta said the 1.5km stretch has been divided into four parts -- 1) Red Fort to Fountain Chowk or Gurudwara Sisganj; 2) Fountain Chowk or Gurudwara Sisganj to Town Hall; 3) Town Hall to Ballimaran; 4) Ballimaran to Fatehpuri Masjid. The entire stretch will be ready by October-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/revamped-chandni-chowk-to-be-thrown-open-by-nov-kejriwal/story-XmsZit6LCiVrWDG8Ndj6RJ.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi Asha workers’ strike enters Day 4; Covid-19 services likely to be hit||Around 4,000 Asha workers, deployed at the front lines in the fight against Covid-19 in the national capital, have been on strike since Tuesday, demanding incentives and better wages. Despite the Delhi government on Thursday promising them more incentives, Asha workers said they will continue their strike till they are not paid Rs 10,000 per month as fixed salary, up from the Rs 4,000 monthly remuneration they have been paid since April. A Majority of the Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) in Delhi are currently engaged in pandemic management work, such as conducting door-to-door surveys, especially in the containment zones, putting up posters outside Covid-19 patients' homes, keeping tabs on people in home isolation and supplying medicines at their doorsteps. Usha Thakur, general secretary of Delhi Asha Workers’ Association (DAWA), said, “Most Asha workers are on covid-19 duty and are not able to do other work. Normally, every month, we managed to earn between Rs 7,000 and Rs 9,000 through incentives. Now we are being paid Rs 3,000 as core incentive and Rs 1,000 for Covid-19 duty per month. Many Ashas are sole bread-earners for their families. They are struggling to make ends meet even after working for hours,” she said. Asha workers are community health workers who work with state health missions constituted under a Union health ministry programme. Apart from the fixed Rs 3,000 as core incentive, these workers are given incentives for every health activity such as immunisation, hospital delivery, routine checks. They are mostly assigned to local government-run dispensaries. The association members on Thursday evening were invited by state health minister Satyendar Jain’s office for a dialogue. Sonu, president of DAWA, said, “We have been promised some incentives, but they have not accepted the demand of Rs 10,000 per month as fixed salary. We have decided to continue our strike until our demands are met. We will not report to work on Friday as well.”The Delhi government refused to comment on the matter. The protesting Asha workers on Thursday also wrote to MLAs and councillors of their localities, requesting them to intervene and also held protests in different areas across the city including Sagarpur, Sudarshan Park and Qutub Vihar.Kavita Yadav, state coordinator for Asha workers, All India United Traders Union Centre (AITUC), said that by Thursday around 4,000 Asha workers had joined the strike. “The government has paid Rs 5,000 as compensation to those who lost their work amid the pandemic. But, they are giving us Rs 4,000 per month even after working for 12-13 hours. Some Asha workers are not even paid the full amount of Rs 4,000,” she said.Officials at several district magistrate offices said the Covid-19 services in their districts will get affected if the strike continues. “There have been complaints from some dispensaries in my district that Asha workers are not reporting to work. Even though we have trained teachers and civil defence volunteers, there will be a staff crisis if Asha workers continue the strike. It will be difficult to continue surveillance work,” said a district magistrate, who wished not to be named.An official at the west district magistrate office said, “Asha workers have not been reported to work at several dispensaries in our district for the last three days due to which we had to deploy teachers at their place. Their incentive issue should be resolved as soon as possible to avoid any crises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-asha-workers-strike-enters-day-4-covid-19-services-likely-to-be-hit/story-dfJwFTmctM9p8rWAhC04BP.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi cabinet to meet on Tuesday, decide on lawyers for riots cases||The Delhi government will hold a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday to decide if it approves the panel of lawyers proposed by the Delhi Police for the northeast Delhi riot cases, senior officials in the home department said on Thursday. The decision to hold a cabinet meeting comes after Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal last week gave the Delhi government a week to decide on the panel of lawyers it wants to appoint to represent the state in the cases related to the riots and the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests. The L-G, in his letter to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on July 16, had said: “Since the difference of opinion still persists, I would request the chief minister to expeditiously refer the matter to the Council of Ministers under Rule 49 of TBR of GNCTD, 1992 with Section 45 (c) of the Government of NCT Act, 1991. In view of urgency and sensitivity of matter, it is requested that the decision of Cabinet be communicated expeditiously, preferably within a week.”However, the Delhi government, despite holding a Cabinet meeting this week, did not take up the matter and approved only its flagship doorstep delivery of ration scheme. “Since the time given by the L-G lapsed on Thursday, the Delhi government decided to hold the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday. While the Delhi government is demanding its own panel of lawyers led by senior counsel Rahul Mehra to be tasked with the job for a free and fair trial, the L-G wants the Delhi government to approve the lawyer panel selected by the Delhi Police,” a senior official said. The L-G’s office did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-will-hold-cabinet-meeting-on-tuesday-to-decide-panel-of-lawyers-for-riots-cases/story-rCfiyK5dlV06E6lxx9HV2H.html
24-07-2020||Delhi||Showers over past 4 days lower Delhi’s rain deficit to 16%||Safdarjung, Palam and Lodhi Road stations in Delhi have already recorded 50%, 37% and 64% rain in excess for July. The monsoon deficiency (since June 1) which was 29% on July 21 reduced to 16% on Thursday, according to data with India Meteorological Department (IMD).An excess of 19% to a deficiency of 19% is considered the normal range by IMD, so Delhi is not categorised as rain-deficient anymore.Most of the rainfall which helped cover a massive monsoon deficiency of 52% (as on July 16) was recorded in the past four days between the evening of July 18 and July 22. “The heavy and moderate spells of rain received within four days helped cover the deficiency. Since July 1 though, Delhi has received rain in 20 or 21 days but it has been extremely light or trace rainfall at most,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.But now rainfall over northwest India, including Delhi, will reduce significantly with the western end of the monsoon trough moving northwards. “The monsoon trough is moving to the Himalayan foothills and the wind direction has changed to northwesterly over north-west India. Even in the hills there is no wind convergence as such. So, there will be very light rain in the hills and northern plains, if at all. Around July 26, the monsoon trough will start shifting, bringing a lot of rain to north-west India,” added Shrivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/showers-over-past-4-days-lower-delhi-s-rain-deficit-to-16/story-FFyW8Xe6LIGCQTkHopvUgK.html
24-07-2020||Gurugram||Shop owners protest demolition drive, district town planner injured||An enforcement team of the department of town and country planning (DTCP), deployed to carry out a demolition drive in Sector 108 on Thursday afternoon, faced strong resistance from property owners.According to officials, while some protesters lay on the road and did not allow the earth moving machines to operate, one tried to hit the district town planner with a tractor, who was injured during the drive.The DTCP team had gone to demolish a commercial structure allegedly built illegally in the centre of a private licensed residential colony in Sector 108. A large team of Gurugram police, led by the station house officer of the Rajendra Park station, accompanied the enforcement officials and ensured that the demolition drive was carried out after the protest, which went on for two hours.RS Bhath, district town planner, who was also the duty magistrate, said they managed to demolish 25 unauthorised shops. “Despite prior notice, the owners refused to budge and continued protesting and trying to stop our work. One of them was riding a tractor and he suddenly charged upon me. Other officials and we saved ourselves with great difficulty. But we carried out the demolition,” he said, adding that he got injured in the melee. Bhath added that the two-storey structure had 25 shops in the building and a notice was issued to the owners three months ago. “We did not receive any satisfactory reply from the owners and the action was initiated with the help of the police,” he said.Hari Om Tyagi, sarpanch of Dharmpur village, where the drive was carried out, however, said there was a minor protest at the site but there was no violence. “It is an unfortunate development and owners will have to bear losses. We will try and seek permission for regularisation. The shops belong to local villagers,” he said. Officials said all owners were allowed to remove their goods from the shops before the structures were razed. One shopkeeper, however, had goods worth Rs 25 lakh stored and he was given some time on the basis of an undertaking. “All unauthorised constructions without permission from the government will be demolished. We did not file an FIR against the protesters after they apologised and admitted that they were at fault, but in the future we will take strict action,” Bhath said.A team of 20 DTCP officials participated during the demolition drive, which began around 12.30pm and continued till 6 pm, said DTCP officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-shop-owners-protest-demolition-drive-district-town-planner-injured/story-7yvcCvj7PxhBeG59kCy40M.html
24-07-2020||City||Senior Cong leader abuses BDO over phone, recording goes viral||An audio clip of former minister and senior Congress leader Joginder Singh Mann, abusing a government officer in Phagwara, is making the rounds of social media. In the recording, the three-time MLA appears to be abusing the official, identified as block development officer (BDO) Sukhdev Singh. According to information, a supporter of Mann had gone to the BDO office for some property-related matter and made a phone call to the Congress leader. The supporter then allegedly handed over the phone to the BDO who enquired as to who was on the line. Mann purportedly replied, “I am Mann,” to which the BDO asked, “Who Mann.”This allegedly infuriated the Congress leader who used some expletives against the official. The BDO is then heard telling the Congress leader, “You may be Mann or a leader at home but I am a Grade-1 officer.” When contacted, Mann, who is currently the chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation, accused the BDO of corruption and said he had received several complaints against the official. He also said some residents had filed a complaint against the official with the Kapurthala DC and SSP.Phagwara ADC said he has not received any complaint about the incident. The BDO could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-cong-leader-abuses-bdo-over-phone-recording-goes-viral/story-XFpVX7xyg7eKxevu10AH9J.html
24-07-2020||City||Rakhi traders’ business affected due to market closure amid spike in Covid-19 cases in Ambala||Known for large-scale packaging and trade of rakhi, wholesale markets in Ambala are struggling to make ends meet due to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic.On an average, rakhi trade in Ambala generates a revenue of Rs 20-30 crore, which is down to nearly Rs 6-8 crore this year, traders claim. Around 10,000 people, including some self-help groups, are directly or indirectly involved in the packaging, boxing and pasting of rakhis. Due to a sudden spike in coronavirus cases in the last few weeks, a temporary closure of markets on alternate days has been imposed. Wholesale General Merchant Dealers Association president Krishan Gambhir, “Now, no customers from other states will visit Ambala. Most of them will buy rakhis from Ludhiana this season.” “Manufacturing of rakhis generally begins in March. Production was already affected due to the lockdown. However, closure of markets in Ambala has further strained matters. We’ve asked the administration to open markets at least for the rakhi season but they say they are bound because of the rising cases in the district,” Gambhir said.CHINESE RAKHIS FIND NO BUYERSOn being asked about the sale or demand for Chinese rakhis, Gambhir said, “Buyers are demanding Indian rakhis and customers, too, are asking for the same. Amid tensions with China, I expected this season to be an opportunity to ensure double-fold sale of Indian products, but everything is ruined.”Kolkata is the biggest hub of Rakhi-related raw material and manufacturing and packaging-related activities are done largely in 50-60 units in Ambala.Another popular wholesaler, Hira Lal of KD Rakhi said almost no Chinese rakhis are to be found in the market. He said sale was down by half due to the pandemic. “There is no fresh Chinese stock but there is some old stock in the market. We are getting our supply from Ahmadabad, Rajkot and Kolkata. But, due to temporary closure of markets we are only able to sell our wares three-four days a week,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rakhi-traders-business-affected-due-to-market-closure-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-ambala/story-PnmE0X9eY3NoID5CI4XeTK.html
24-07-2020||Gurugram||Covid lockdown foils kidnapper’s ransom plan, police nab three||The countrywide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19, came as a boon for a businessman, saving him from being fleeced by his alleged kidnappers and helping police nab three suspects.The businessman was allegedly kidnapped at gun point, blind folded, assaulted and taken to Panipat by three men, who asked for a ransom of Rs 3 crore on March 5. When he expressed inability to pay, the ransom was bargained down to Rs 20 lakh, which was to be paid by the businessman at a designated location on March 20. However, the outbreak of coronavirus foiled the kidnappers’ plan, as they were unable to collect the ransom for three months due to ongoing lockdown. Last month, after the lockdown restrictions were eased, the kidnappers resurfaced and sent a typed letter in English, reminding the businessman to ‘honour the commitment’. The businessman paid a part of the ransom but after repeated threats approached the police, who arrested the trio on Thursday. According to the police, on March 5 at 9.15 pm, a city-based businessman was talking on his phone in his SUV and had reached near Narsingpur when two men forcibly got into his car. They assaulted him, tied his hands and blind folded him, as a third accused followed them in another car. They took away his three mobile phones and wallet. Police said the suspects parked the victim’s SUV in a school and took him to an abandoned factory where they held him hostage till 5.30 am the next day. Four hours later, he was taken to Panipat, where the suspects demanded Rs 3 crore ransom . Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police, crime, said, the businessman negotiated it down to Rs 20 lakh and the kidnappers asked him to arrange the money by March 20. “They dropped him off in Narela in Delhi from where he returned to his house. Meanwhile, his family had filed a missing persons complaint and when the police questioned him, he said that he had gone somewhere on his own. He was quite scared and did not mention the kidnapping,” said the ACP. Police said on March 20, the suspects did not contact the victim. “Shortly after, the lockdown was imposed. The suspects did not contact the businessman during the lockdown, fearing arrest,” said a police official, requesting anonymity.On June 19, over three months later, an unidentified man threw a letter in the businessman’s house. The letter, which was typed in English, mentioned that the businessman ‘must honour his commitment’ and come with the money to the same location at 10 am or he would be killed. Police said the businessman went to the location, where two of the suspects were waiting. He gave them Rs 10 lakh but the suspects put a gun to his waist and demanded the rest of the money. They gave him another ultimatum to come up with the money till July 21.“Over the next one month, the suspects made several threats to the victim. They sent an enclosed envelope to the businessman’s manager. The envelope had another letter addressed to his wife and daughter, in which kidnappers made more threats. On July 17, the businessman’s wife received an abusive phone call from the men and on July 20, the suspects met his manager near Anaj Mandi and threatened to kill him the following day if the money was not paid,” said the police official.Fed up with the repeated threats, the businessman went to the police on Wednesday and on Thursday, the crime branch of sector 17 arrested the three suspects. The suspects, Saurabh Singh, 35, Kulwant, 33, and Vikas, 27, were arrested and remanded to police custody for four days. Police said one of the suspects worked in an automobile company and lost his job four years ago, following which he set up a garage in Basai, which was not successful and he was under debt. So he planned this kidnapping bid with his aides for money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-lockdown-foils-kidnapper-s-ransom-plan-police-nab-three/story-zGnCmbCa2zzebhB084OSvM.html
24-07-2020||Gurugram||Signature Hospital under scanner in Covid-19 negligence case||Police on Wednesday registered a case against a private city hospital after a medical board inquiry deemed its negligence resulted in the death of a 44-year-old Covid-19 patient last month.According to the 44-year-old patient’s husband, his wife had complained of high fever on June 1, following which she was admitted to Signature Hospital in sector 37- D. On June 2, the hospital informed them that she had tested positive for the coronavirus. “Over the next few days, she had trouble breathing and her health deteriorated. So, we decided to shift her to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Jhajjar. On June 9 morning, we told the hospital that we wanted to get her discharged, and by 2.30 pm cleared all dues. The hospital authorities made us wait on the pretext of documentation and delayed the process of shifting her. At 6 pm, my wife called my son and told him over the phone that her oxygen had been removed and no doctor was providing assistance,” he said.He said they pleaded with the hospital to arrange for an ambulance immediately. “First, they said we would have to arrange an ambulance on our own. Later, they said they would provide the ambulance but they delayed it till 8 pm. Her health worsened in the ambulance. One doctor accompanied us in the ambulance but the oxygen cylinder was not full. Shortly after she was admitted to the hospital in Jhajjar, she passed away,” he said. Dr. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “The medical negligence board conducted an inquiry and gave the opinion that there was negligence on part of the doctor of the hospital who had accompanied the patient in the ambulance.”Sanjay Kumar, station house officer (SHO), sector 10 A police station, said, “A case has been registered against the Signature Hospital. We will record their statement and involve them in the investigation.”The case was registered under Indian Penal Code section 304- A (death by negligence). “This is not a case of negligence. The hospital has challenged the medical board inquiry in this case to the appellate authority. We believe that proper investigation had not been conducted and all the facts have not been considered,” said an administrator of Signature Hospital authorised to speak on their behalf.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/signature-hospital-under-scanner-in-covid-negligence-case/story-LGzVV262iNQptGFwbRCByI.html
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu who exited Cabinet last year writes to ex-boss. He has a complaint||Almost a month after targeting his own government over mounting debt and corruption at the Overseas Congress’ “Speak Up India” initiative, former cabinet minister and Amritsar East MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu wrote a letter to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh saying that his constituency was being ignored and all development works have come to a standstill. It is Sidhu’s first communication with the CM after the cricketer-turned politician quit the Punjab cabinet on July 15 last year after he was stripped of key portfolios. Amarinder and Sidhu had been at loggerheads since his (Sidhu’s) controversial visit to Pakistan for the swearing-in ceremony of Imran Khan where he had hugged the Pak army chief leading to a huge controversy back home.The rift was further widened during the general elections when Sidhu and his wife accused Amarinder of having had a hand in the denial of ticket to her to from either Chandigarh or Amritsar.In the letter addressed to the CM on July 16, Sidhu points out at “serious lapses” in development works in his constituency. The copy of the letter has also been marked to chief principal secretary to the CM Suresh Kumar and Amritsar deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon.“The work on five bridges that the CM inaugurated in October 2018, costing Rs 137 crore, (two of these bridges are in Amritsar East), has been going on at snail’s pace. Even after I personally made efforts to take approvals by hand from the railway ministry, which otherwise takes years, tenders done, permissions taken and funds submitted, nothing has fructified so far,” reads the letter.“In December last year, the CM had recommended works worth Rs 5 crore under the Punjab Environmental Improvement Project (Phase-1) for Amritsar East. But nothing has been done so far,” Sidhu said in the letter. The MLA further says that the CM had allotted Rs 24 crore under Punjab Environmental Improvement Project (Phase-2) in June this year and “I had submitted details and specifications for Rs 11 crore worth development works under the aforesaid scheme. But the MC has sent me details for the projects worth Rs 7 crore to be recommended for future development of my constituency”. Sidhu, who is keeping distance from the media for several months, was not available for comments regarding the letter.The letter further reads that the Amritsar Improvement Trust had sanctioned Rs 13 crore for his constituency, but the “works have been stalled”. “It is unfortunate but true that nothing has moved in my constituency since I resigned. Patiently waiting for over a year for these works to start. Repeatedly enquiring from the deputy commissioner and various departments, but these works exist only on papers,” the letter concludes. Officials who don’t want to be named said the DC has forwarded a copy of the letter to the municipal corporation and the improvement trust authorities and has sought a status report of these projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sidhu-shoots-off-letter-to-capt-says-his-segment-being-ignored/story-zsgTr6UNU5nOQUm072E1QO.html
24-07-2020||Pune||No artificial ponds for Ganpati immersion this year, PMC announces||In order to prevent crowding due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided not to build artificial tanks for Ganpati immersions this year.Instead, the civic body has appealed citizens to go for eco-friendly idols and immerse them at home.The decision was taken by PMC during a meeting chaired by mayor Murlidhar Mohol on Wednesday where other PMC officials were also present. Around 2.5 lakh Ganpati idols were immersed last year in artificial tanks built by civic body as part of its eco-friendly drive.Dynaneshwar Molak, department head of solid waste management said, “The artificial ponds will remain closed as we do not want people to violate the norms of social distancing which can lead to the spread of infection. We are focusing more on promoting the use of ammonium bicarbonate powder. PMC will provide a free ammonium bicarbonate powder packet of two kilograms to everyone who will be purchasing the Ganesh idols. We just hope this decision would not make people perform Ganesh Visarjan in the rivers of Pune violating the rules for the sake of devotion.”This year, the 10-day Ganesh festival will be celebrated from August 22 to September 1. In view of the Covid pandemic, the government has already appealed mandals to not celebrate the festival in a big way. During the meeting, PMC officials also decided to not issue fresh passes for mandals this year and instead mandals can use last year’s passes for erecting a mandap.Sachin Punekar, an environmentalist, stated, “I think, this is a great decision for the environment as well as for the safety of the citizens of Pune. The artificial tanks can also be installed at a society level. If PMC successfully promotes this initiative of visarjan at home then I believe that citizens of Pune would not violate the government guidelines as they have followed the previous guidelines effectively.” Varsha Mandke, a resident of Warje said, “We enjoy the Ganesh visarjan at home as it saves the environment and helps blossoms my plants in the balcony. I got the ammonium bicarbonate powder for free along with the Ganesh Idol last year and the experiment was successful. I choose to stay home and stay safe in the Covid-19 crises and I would not perform visarjan in an artificial pond even if there is an option for it.”Saket Ambardekar, a resident of Sahakar Nagar said, “I am not even sure whether this year we are going to bring a Ganesh Idol at home. Instead, we might worship the existing metallic idol which we have in our house. It also becomes easier to perform visarjan at home without using the ammonium bicarbonate powder. I believe it is a safer and smarter option at this crucial time where everyone is struggling to stay safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-artificial-ponds-for-ganpati-immersion-this-year-pmc-announces/story-TuRbX7o8dV5CSUNvDt2CaN.html
24-07-2020||Pune||Man impersonating BJP state unit chief’s PA attempts to extort money from doctor; arrested||A 21-year-old man has been arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for impersonating the personal assistant of Chandrakant Patil, president of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Maharashtra unit, to extort money from a doctor in Pune.The arrested man was identified as Saurabh Santosh Ashtul (21), a resident of Lohiyanagar, Ganj peth, Pune, according to a statement issued by the police. “He is unemployed. We are investigating why he was targeting the doctor and whether he has done this with other people too,” said senior police inspector Ganesh Javadwad of Nigdi police station.Ashtul was arrested from his house in Pune, according to police.A case under sections 387 (putting the person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 501 (printing or engraving matter is known to be defamatory), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Nigdi police station based on a complaint lodged by Dr Shrikrushna Gangadhar Joshi who works at Lokmanya hospital in Nigdi.The doctor, whose name is being withheld, is a resident of Ravet and received a call at 4pm on July 18 by a person who claimed to be the BJP leader’s personal assistant. He demanded Rs 25 lakh from the doctor in the name of the politician.According to the complainant, the caller asked for the Rs 25 lakh to help the poor who have suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The caller also allegedly threatened to kill the doctor if he failed to give the money.The doctor went to the local police.Ashtul was remanded to three days in police custody by a local court on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-impersonating-bjp-state-unit-chief-s-pa-attempts-to-extort-money-from-doctor-arrested/story-t5ia8AX91lDG4HUmV69mAP.html
24-07-2020||Pune||In search of ventilator bed, 34-year-old Covid-positive paani-puri vendor dies in Pune hospital||A 34-year-old Covid-19 positive man was declared dead on Wednesday evening at the Kasturba hospital in Vishrantwadi, with the family alleging that no bed with a ventilator was available, prior to his admission into Kasturba hospital.Mayor Muralidhar Mohol met the family on Thursday. “I met with the family and have ordered for action against those who have been negligent in the case. The PMC will try to assist the family in whatever way they can,” Mohol said.The family members of the man, who was a paani-puri vendor by profession, chose not to speak to the media.Ramchandra Hankare, chief of the Pune municipal corporation’s (PMC) health department was uncontactable by mobile phone.Social worker Nayan Pujari, working with the Azad foundation, who helped the patient get hospitalised, said, “The patient was not tested for Covid19 until Tuesday, but the first hospital where the patient was taken confirmed pneumonia patches in the X-Ray which looked like Covid-19. However, they did not have any oxygen beds and so, from 11am to 8:30pm we tried several hospitals, but no one accepted the patient. Finally, we had to get police intervention to ensure the patient got a bed at Kasturba hospital in Vishrantwadi.”Pujari alleged that the PMC dashboard showed an empty bed at a particular hospital, but the doctors informed that it was reserved for emergency patients.“The family is in a complete state of shock,” Pujari added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-search-of-ventilator-bed-34-year-old-covid-positive-paani-puri-vendor-dies-in-hospital/story-r8O1rMrZsDkoGSNd69WfgM.html
24-07-2020||Pune||8 doctors, 14 nurses test positive at YCMH in Pune||Already struggling with the rise in Covid-19 positive cases, the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) suffered a major setback when eight doctors and 14 nurses at the civic-run Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital were reported as infected on Wednesday.“How the medical staff contract the virus despite being provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and regular Covid tests has to be found out,” said Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.The infected doctors include one associate professor, three resident doctors, two assistant professors, one paediatrician and one doctor from the department of medicine.“Those who are symptomatic are being treated at the hospital and others are home quarantined,” added Salve.“Most of the infected medical staff were on Covid related duty since March and they were provided adequate assistance by the hospital administration,” said a YCMH official on request of anonymity, adding that the hospital is already struggling with shortage of doctors and nurses as two of its intensive care units (ICUs) are not functional.PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar shared a video message on Facebook on Thursday appealing to doctors and medical staff to come forward and help the civic body in the fight against Covid-19. “As the Covid-19 cases are rising in PCMC we have to arrange oxygen beds and ICU beds for patients. To operate them we are in need of doctors and nurses. I appeal to all private practitioner doctors, MBBS, MD, BMS, BHMS to join us in the fight against the pandemic. We will give proper appointment letters to such doctors.”On July 17, PCMC tweeted: “We are hiring. PCMC appeals to all doctors & paramedical staff to come forward & join us in this battle against #COVID19. Send your application to recruitment@pcmcindia.gov.in”“Medical staff getting infected when we are already facing their shortage is a major concern. I hope all of them recover soon. We have started receiving new applications and appointments will be finalised soon,” said an official, adding that separate wards have been set up to treat non-Covid cases..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-doctors-14-nurses-test-positive-at-ycmh/story-tJgPn7TDUNYeVTuXrybWoK.html
