25-07-2020||Mumbai||3 more cases against owners of Goodwin Jewellers||Three fresh cases have been registered against the two promoters of Goodwin Jewellers who were arrested in December 2019 by Thane Police for allegedly duping thousands of investors across Maharashtra to the tune of ₹25 crore.Sunilkumar Mohanan Akkarakaran, 45, and Sudheerkumar Mohanan Akkarakaran, 43, were booked by LT Marg police station based on complaints by three jewellers claiming that the accused bought gold ornaments to the tune of ₹7 crore from them but did not pay. The complainants Suken Rathod, 34; Bharat Mehta, 41; and Nilesh Shobhavat, 48, all jewellers from Zaveri Bazaar, had stated in their complaints that the accused first gained their trust by doing clean business since 2016 and after October 2019 started defaulting on payment. Copies of their complaints are with HT.“The accused bought gold ornaments from the complainants and shut all branches and didn’t pay them back, cheating them of ₹3.34 crore, ₹2.65 crore and ₹98.97 lakh, respectively. On Thursday, three fresh FIRs were lodged based on their complaints and the accused have been booked for cheating and criminal breach of trust,” said an officer from LT Marg police station.The complainant jewellers had in November 2019 sent their men to the Goodwin Jewellers shops and found that the owner had escaped after cheating thousands of its customer-cum-investors.The two accused promotors were arrested by Thane Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) after they had surrendered at a court in Thane in December 2019.According to Thane police, the accused brothers had been hiding in Kerala after they shut down 12 branches of Goodwin Jewellers across Mumbai, Pune and Kerala on October 22 without intimating customers and investors.Aside from buying and selling jewellery, Goodwin Jewellers had introduced saving schemes that offered interest rates between 14% and 18%. Several cases of cheating and fraud have been registered against the accused and the losses are estimated to be worth ₹25 crore.Thane police seized accused’s properties, bank accounts and vehicles during the investigation, which forced the duo to surrender. The two brothers were charged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act. Both are presently in the judicial custody.Store managers and accountants are among the other accused named in the EOW cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-more-cases-against-owners-of-goodwin-jewellers/story-PHNGUK1nFw4ilV352hXFkM.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Possession without OC: Action ordered against 45 homebuyers||The Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRera) recently called for prosecution of 45 homebuyers for taking possession of their apartments without the premises possessing an occupation certificate (OC). Apart from the buyers, MahaRera also asked the municipal commissioner concerned for similar action against the project promoters for handing over possession, which it said was an offence.“The Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act prohibits the occupation of the building without occupancy or completion certificate and it is an offence,” said MahaRera member BD Kapadnis in his order. The order referred to the case filed by builders Niranjan Dashpute and Dattatray Dashpute against the landowner, the Saste brothers, accusing them of causing obstruction in completing their project — Nivrutti Heights — in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Both parties had entered into a development agreement on July 9, 2012, where the project was to be completed within 36 months. However, disputes arose, which forced the Dashputes to approach MahaRera.The Dashputes contended that they were unable to procure the OC for their building since the Saste brothers — Rajkumar, Sanjay and Vijay — were causing obstruction and thus not allowing them to complete the project and install a fire-safety system in the premises.The Saste brothers defended themselves, saying that the builders used substandard construction material and the 45 families staying in the building were not provided amenities promised to them.Kapadnis, in his ruling, directed the Saste brothers not to create obstacles and allow the builders to complete the project. However, he came down heavily on both parties as well as the occupants over the issue of people staying in the building without an OC. He directed the MahaRera secretary to bring to the notice of the Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner to take legal action against the builder, landowners and also the occupants. “Section 3 (2) (i) of Maharashtra Ownership of Flats Act, 1963, prohibits a builder from inducting any person without completion certificate into the flats and also prohibits the buyer from entering into possession of such flat without Occupancy Certificate or the Completion Certificate,” said Kapadnis.Earlier, he said, “I have been told that 45 families have already moved into this building, which is not yet completely constructed and which is not safe to live in the absence of a fire-safety system. The respondent [Saste brothers] cannot be allowed to put the lives of others in danger for their own sake or benefit,”Currently, there are three lakh buildings in Maharashtra, of which 15,000 in Mumbai still don’t have an OC. The reason: The builders violated rules or did not construct a mandatory compound wall or defaulted in payments. The builders deserted the projects leaving the residents high and dry. The result was BMC allowed them to stay on humanitarian grounds, but they are charged double the amount for water bills. Various efforts by the government to regularise them through amnesty schemes failed as the penalty was too high and not affordable for flat owners.According to Ramesh Prabhu, chairman, Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association (MSWA,) it was an excellent decision, which would dissuade both builders and buyers from moving into flats without an OC. “As MahaRera is now monitoring the possession date, buyers need not worry as it is binding on the builders to give possession with OC to buyers before the deadline,” said Prabhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/possession-without-oc-action-ordered-against-45-homebuyers/story-1XrCXnl7CwZR40fQVWNeWI.html
25-07-2020||City||Highest single-day spike of 164 cases in Ludhiana, tally climbs to 2,439||In the highest ever single-day jump in Covid-19 cases, Ludhiana confirmed 164 fresh infections on Saturday, causing the district’s tally to climb to a whopping 2,439, while seven more deaths took the fatality count to 58.Those dead include six men and a woman. The male patients were an 80-year-old from Jamalpur, a 69-year-old from Model Town, a 59-year-old from Kadwai Nagar, a 58-year-old from Basant Avenue, a 47-year-old from Model Town and a 26-year-old from Punjabi Bagh Colony, Dugri. The female patient was a 66-year-old from Subash Nagar. According to health officials, all patients died after brief illness. Of the 2,439 confirmed cases in Ludhiana, 806 remain active, while 1,575 have been discharged from hospitals.CONSISTENT RISEFor the fourth consecutive day, the city saw a spike of over 100 cases within 24 hours. On Friday, 105 cases were confirmed in the district, while the number was 120 on Thursday and 104 on Wednesday. 13 MC STAFFERS INFECTEDAmong the new cases are 13 municipal corporation (MC) employees, including joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh, a sub-divisional officer, several sweepers and beldars. One of the sweepers had died before his test report came out. The employees are deputed in different zones of MC. Earlier two councillors Rakesh Prashar and Manpreet Grewal had also tested positive for Covid-19. The civic body has already restricted public dealing in its offices and thermal scanning of all visitors is being done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/highest-single-day-spike-of-164-cases-in-ludhiana-tally-climbs-to-2-439/story-3vsqeAx7p8tZRstIQKnOwO.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Pawar defends CM, says asked him to monitor from one place||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday defended chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray for not touring other areas of the state during the Covid-19 crisis. Pawar said they all had urged the CM to oversee and monitor functioning of his team from a place as the head of the government. He also praised Thackeray saying that the latter is working day and night against Covid-19 outbreak.Pawar, along with state health minister Rajesh Tope, has started visiting cities and districts and reviewing preparations of local authorities. On Saturday, he was in Aurangabad city where he took a stock of the situation and launched ‘Mission Zero—Aurangabad’ campaign that aims to bring the fatality rate in the city to zero. Aurangabad guardian minister and industries minister Subhash Desai was also present during the event.Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths across the country with a surge in new Covid-19 cases in several cities and districts, taking daily case count of the state to almost 10,000. The NCP supremo said sitting at a place is not in his nature and that it is his duty to reach out to the people in the time of the crisis as many districts have supported him in the past. “It is in my nature to keep visiting people. Also, many districts such as Aurangabad, Beed etc. have helped me in the past and it is my duty to reach out to all those in the time of crisis. Today, I’m here only with that feeling and there is no other reason behind it,” he said.“Being a captain, we all had urged the chief minister to be at a place and oversee and monitor the functioning of his team and take decisions accordingly, which he is doing at present. After going back to Mumbai, I will meet and explain the situation to him. The guardian minister (Subhash Desai) will also be meeting him for the same and I’m sure he will take necessary decisions immediately. Crises of this nature are fought this way,” Pawar said.“CM is working day and night focussing to control the Covid-19 pandemic. He has been taking reviews from officials and people concerned, twice a day — morning and evening. But there was also a view that some people should go on field and took stock of the situation, thus we are here to attend a meeting called by the guardian minister,” the veteran leader added.The 79-year-old leader was in Nashik on Friday and in Solapur district on Monday where he reviewed the measures taken to control the situation.The opposition has criticised that the chief minister for not touring other parts of the state to review the situation while the ruling Shiv Sena claimed Thackeray has been taking virtual review. Taking a dig at the CM, state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Saturday told a Marathi news channel, “Even a school student can say that our Uddhavji is not going anywhere.” Recently, the state government has barred state officials from attending meetings called by Opposition leaders including non-governmental members, MPs and legislators. An order to this effect was issued on July 21.The decision came after the leader of Opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis was touring a few districts to review the Covid-19 situation. Leader of Opposition in the legislative council Pravin Darekar, too, has visited various Covid care centres and hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pawar-defends-cm-says-asked-him-to-monitor-from-one-place/story-9UEy5PpOjCSrKV398zugYI.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||State crosses 200,000 Covid recoveries; tally is 366,368||Maharashtra clocked over 9,000 Covid-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day with 9,251 new infections on Saturday pushing the tally to 366,368, but the state also crossed a positive mark of 2 lakh recoveries. So far, 207,194 patients have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the state, making the recovery rate 56.55%, while the number of active cases touched 145,481. Maharashtra also recorded 257 new fatalities, which took the toll to 13,389.Mumbai, meanwhile, on Saturday crossed a grim mark of 6,000 fatalities after recording 52 deaths, which took the toll to 6,036. Mumbai recorded 1,080 new cases, taking the financial capital’s tally to 108,060. The city has 22,854 active cases. Maharashtra recorded 191,907 Covid-19 cases in July and is expected to amass 2 lakh cases this month within a day or two, looking at the trend of daily new cases. The state had recorded 107,106 cases in June alone.Although the daily caseload is on the upward trend, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that they were not worried about the rising numbers as nearly 97% of the patients recover. He said that their focus is reducing the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday directed officials to work at bringing the CFR down to zero. The CFR of the state stood at 3.65%.“The positives in the current scenario are that over 2 lakh people have recovered so far. Yes, cases are going up in some districts. At some places, the curve is flattening, [the situation in] Mumbai is stabilising. Dharavi and Malegaon are reporting zero cases almost. Now, the situation in every district is improving. The [daily] figures can go up, but we are focused on keeping the CFR in check. For the treatment, we have increased the availability of beds, we have also sought the help of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to provide doctors,” Tope said.The minister said that he spoke to the heads of three pharmaceutical companies — Hetero, Cipla, and Mylan — that manufacture anti-viral drugs remdesivir and tocilizumab, on providing adequate quantities of them to the state government. “We have floated tenders worth Rs20.57 crore for remdesivir and tocilizumab. District collectors have been provided the funds for it. The collectors must place orders as per their requirements and the heads of these companies have assured me that it will be supplied in three to five days,” Tope told reporters in Aurangabad.Thackeray, meanwhile, said that the administration should remain alert in this fight against the rising spread of Covid-19 in parts of the state. Thackeray, on Saturday, inaugurated two Covid care facilities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), where the cases have been increasing over the past month now. With lockdown imposed in most of the municipal corporation areas within the MMR, the situation is now gradually coming under control, state health department officials said.In the last eight days, MMR, excluding Mumbai, has been recording an average of 2,458 cases daily. Between July 18 and July 25, MMR has added 19,666 cases, stretching the health infrastructure in the region. The total number of active cases in the MMR now stands at 46,554.With the cases continue to rise in the MMR, Thackeray said that “carelessness and laxity” will not work. He said that only erecting big centres and facilities will not work, but the focus should be on providing better health facilities, medical services, adequate supply of oxygen cylinders is also a must.Thackeray was speaking to officials, while inaugurating a testing laboratory in Kalyan and a dedicated Covid Care Centre in Dombivli. The CCC in Dombivli has a capacity of 400 beds, including 300 oxygenated beds and 20 ICU beds. The lab, set up on a PPP basis in Kalyan, has a capacity to conduct 3,000 tests a day. Earlier, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) would send swab samples to a laboratory in Mumbai or Thane and the test results would come after two-three days. Now, officials expect reports within 12 hours of testing. Kalyan-Dombvli, the twin cities, have reported a chunk of the cases within MMR and has surpassed Thane city to become the most affected city in MMR, after Mumbai. With 451 new cases on Saturday, Kalyan-Dombivli touched 20,700 cases.“Till an effective medicine comes, we have to remain more alert. We cannot afford to be careless or lax. Check the line of treatment going on [at your location] with the [Covid] Task Force. Defeating the coronavirus is a challenge for us all, but we can do it collectively,” he said.Pune contributed the most number of cases recorded by a city or a district with 1,913 new cases, pushing the tally to 49,370. It also recorded 45 new fatalities, which took its toll to 1,248. Pimpri-Chinchwad, another hotspot in the Pune district, recorded 866 new cases. The satellite city of Pune now has 16,122 total cases.Aurangabad city recorded 238 new cases, which took the tally to 8631. Tope who took a review of the measures in the city said that the situation in Aurangabad city was under control. “The doubling rate, which is an important parameter, is now 26 days. It has come down from 14 days last month. Aurangabad has so far tested 1 lakh samples, which is a crucial step for early detection,” he told reporters in Aurangabad.The health minister added that the state government had amended the rules for recruitment to fill 17,000 vacant posts in the health department. “These posts will be now filled on merit. The recruitment rules have been amended; now there is no need for an interview etc; the chief minister has signed the proposal. The applications have come in the mega recruitment drive. We will fill the posts on merit in the next few days,” Tope said. The state government is going to purchase 500 ambulances, he added.The minister appealed to people that asymptomatic Covid-19 patients should not occupy beds in the hospitals. He added that asymptomatic patients who get admitted to hospitals will not be covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, the state’s medical insurance scheme. He also reiterated that auditors have been appointed to verify the bills at private hospitals and therefore, there will not be any complaints about overcharging.Maharashtra has tested 1,836,920 samples so far and has an overall positivity rate of 19.94%. Currently, 8,94,509 people are in home quarantine and 44,603 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-crosses-200-000-covid-recoveries-tally-is-366-368/story-riFf5JpZU6ydT6oK85SyGN.html
25-07-2020||City||KDMC files plaints against 40 for flouting quarantine||Over the past two days, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has charged 40 people with non-cognisable (NC) offence for violating quarantine. No first information reports (FIRs) have been filed and no arrests have been made in these cases. KDMC epidemic officer Dr Pratibha Panpatil, said, “We get complaints from housing societies that Covid-positive patients continue to step out. These are mostly asymptomatic patients who have been told to isolate at home. Also, if we feel any person is staying in a small space or is prone to spread it to others, we recommend institutional quarantine. Often, they do not comply. In such cases, we have now enrolled the help of the police and filed written complaints against 40 people, including those who did not comply with institutional or home quarantine.” Deputy commissioner of police, Kalyan zone, Vivek Pansare, said, “We have not registered FIR in any such complaints. However, when the civic body requests, we provide our forces to assist them to reach a hospital or quarantine facility.” Citizens allege KDMC has been inconsistent in its handling of Covid cases. “There have been instances where instead of just taking the patient to hospital, the civic body has taken neighbours as well, along with the patient’s family to the quarantine centre. Also, there are instances where families have returned from the hospital, yet the officials have arrived to seal the building,” said Rajat Rajan, social worker, Dombivli. Sanjeev Auti, secretary of Sunshine Court apartments in Kalyan, said, “We have faced instances where the positive patient is asymptomatic yet the civic body asks them to be quarantined at the quarantine centre. These patients and their families request to be allowed to stay at home in isolation, as asymptomatic patients are allowed to isolate at home. However, the officers insist it is protocol.” Auti also alleged the civic body has not sealed some buildings despite residents testing positive for Covid-19. KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said there is an established protocol for the civic body. “We ensure 15 high-risk contacts and five low-risk contacts are traced for every positive patient. They are advised strict quarantine,” he said, adding that civic officers are “keeping a strict vigil” on all those who test positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-files-plaints-against-40-for-flouting-quarantine/story-zdDgUkyucOuuwY65QHQExJ.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||After staff dissent, PGIMER puts new quarantine rules on hold||The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) authorities here have put the new quarantine rules on hold after objection from the health staff on Covid-19 duty.The institute had earlier decided that the health personnel working in PGIMER’s high-risk Covid-19 treatment zones will be allowed to go home after duty instead of the mandatory seven-day quarantine at specially allotted accommodation.To this, some employees and nurses had argued that quarantine at home was not feasible for those who were sharing their rented houses with other people. The nurses association had even shot off a letter to the PGIMER administration in this regard.However, the administration had maintained that the decision was taken after consultations with other institutes following similar rules.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said he had directed that a meeting of officials and representatives from the nurses’ union be held to reach a consensus in the matter.“For now, the decision on new quarantine rules have been put on hold and previous arrangement will continue,” said Dr Ram.Earlier, only seven days of Covid-19 duty was allowed following which one-week quarantine was mandatory in a private accommodation.However, under the new rules, the staff would work for 10 days followed by five days off, which would be deducted from their monthly quota of nine offs. After 15 days (including workdays and five-day leave), the nurses would be posted in non-covid areas for a period of 15 days, including four days of leave.All in all, they would be working for 21 days with nine days off, similar to their previous working schedule.The doctors will be given just two days of leave after one-week Covid-19 duty, which means they have to report back to work on the 10th day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-staff-dissent-pgimer-puts-new-quarantine-rules-on-hold/story-NbH2fkBOhuyS4tF2C9sIcM.html
25-07-2020||City||18 cops test positive in Mira Road||Test reports of 18 police personnel, including a senior inspector, from Naya Nagar police station in Mira Road came positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.Swab samples of all the 18 police personnel were collected on Friday. They are currently undergoing treatment in civic hospitals and Covid care centres in the area.The first Covid-19 case in Mira-Bhayander region was reported from Naya Nagar in March. During lockdown, 13 cops from the police station had contracted the virus. They have all recovered and resumed duty.The number of Covid-19 cases in the twin cities reached 7,437 on Saturday evening, of which 1,557 are active. The death count is 249. A total of 21,777 samples have been tested so far, said a civic official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-cops-test-positive-in-mira-road/story-BAdMnGrQ0LXN6yO12rh3KO.html
25-07-2020||Patna||IAF choppers pressed to carry out relief, as flood situation in Bihar deteriorates||The Indian Air Force (IAF) choppers on Saturday carried out relief operations in three worst affected districts—Darbhanga, Gopalganj and East Champaran — by dropping food packets among marooned people, as the deluge from Gandak and other rivers continued to engulf fresh areas after breaching the safety embankments.As of Friday, 10 people have lost their lives in current spell of floods – seven people lost their lives at West Champaran, two died in Sitamarhi and one in Darbhanga. The overflowing Gandak has washed away the approach road to Dumariaghat bridge on the national highway 28, connecting East Champaran and Gopalganj, snapping the traffic on the road that connects New Delhi with Assam. NHAI officials are carrying out the restoration work on a war footing to resume the traffic on the NH, which is also East West Corridor. The state government said repair work of breached embankments would resume only after two-three days, during which the downpour is expected to become less intense. Also read | Bihar flood: Gandak river breaches embankment in Champaran, several villages inundated; 2000 rescuedThe floodwater from Gandak has engulfed dozens of more villages of Baikunthpur block of Gopalganj after it breached the western embankment near Dewapur on wee hours of Friday. Flood situation remain grim in East Champaran as well, as dozens of village of Kesaria and Sangrampur block came under heavy sheet of water.Kamla and Bagmati rivers, which are flowing above the danger mark at various places across its course, have over topped the safety embankments in Darbhanga and inundated low-lying areas and residential colonies near the embankments. Vehicular traffic on Darbhanga-Jainagar road has been suspended, as floodwaters have overtopped it at many places.Almost a million residing in over 900 panchayats of 74 blocks of 10 districts have been hit due to the floods, partially or wholly. More than 93,000 people have been rescued across the districts by 22 teams of the national disaster response force (NDRF) and state disaster response force (SDRF) in the last one week, according to the disaster management department (DMD).The train services on Sugauli-Narkatiaganj section have been suspended after the floodwater had touched the girder of a bridge in the route resulting in termination of Delhi-Bapudham Motihari Champaran Satyagrah Express special train, starting from Saturday from Delhi at Bettiah instead of Bapudham Motihari. The train will depart from Bettiah till the flood situation improves, said chief public relation officer of ECR Rajesh Kumar.Also read | Help families affected by Assam, Bihar floods: Sachin PilotDeputy chief minister Sushil Modi said that each flood-affected people would be given Rs 6,000 each as relief from the government. “Compensation for loss of standing crops would be announced after the assessment. Farmers would be provided seeds for alternative crops to offset the losses,” Modi said.Besides the three major districts like Gopalganj, East Champaran and Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kisanganj, Muzaffapur, West Champaran and Khagaria are also facing the devastation due to floods of various scales.Flood situation in north Bihar areas is expected to aggravate further as the Patna Meteorological Centre has predicted heavy rains accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning across all 38 districts of Bihar on July 27 and 28. Weathermen attributed the shifting of monsoon trough towards the foothills of the Himalayas reason behind enhanced rain activities in coming days.Meteorologist Ravindra Kumar said, “Bihar is likely to receive heavy rains after July 26. Widespread rain with greater intensity is likely to hit entire Bihar on July 27 and 28. A yellow category warning for heavy to very heavy rain coupled with thunderstorm and lightning has been issued for North Bihar and several parts of south-western districts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/iaf-choppers-pressed-to-carry-out-relief-as-flood-situation-in-bihar-deteriorates/story-70a1m6qXLBMM06RpJ1DWRN.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||IB students find it tough to get eligibility certificate from University of Mumbai||While pre-admission registrations and the process of filling forms for undergraduate degree courses is currently underway, students who cleared their International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (IBDP) are finding the process tricky. According to admission rules, IBDP students need an eligibility certificate from a university in order to be able to apply for undergraduate courses anywhere in the country. However, with the lockdown in place and the University of Mumbai (MU) currently functioning with a handful of employees, many students are facing difficulty in getting eligibility certificates.“My friends and I have tried contacting the university office numerous times, but no one is answering our calls. I’ve also tried to physically visit the office in Kalina earlier this week, but I was not allowed inside the campus,” said Harshil Patel, 18, a student of Mainadevi Bajaj International School, Malad. Officials from MU stated that the Eligibility and Migration department of the varsity is currently functioning and students can pick up the application form from the campus any time. However, with lockdown still affecting routine travel, many students have shared concern about being able to physically approach the university campus in Kalina for this purpose.Results for IBDP course, which is equivalent to Class 12, were announced on July 5 this year.The pre-admission registration process for undergraduate courses started on July 20 and sale of college forms began July 24 onwards. As per the admission schedule shared by MU, applicants can file application till 3.30 pm on August 4, following which the first merit list will be announced at 7pm the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ib-students-find-it-tough-to-get-eligibility-certificate-from-university-of-mumbai/story-haaoHmNqO5XxhX1MGhiX8N.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Paid parking resumes at BRS Nagar, Bhadaur House lots in Ludhiana||Contractors resumed paid parking at the Bhai Randhir Singh (BRS) Nagar and Bhadaur House on Saturday, inviting resentment from traders. Visitors need to pay Rs 10 for two-wheelers and Rs 20 for four-wheelers.Paid parking was suspended after imposition of curfew in the state in March.The municipal corporation had directed the contractors to resume paid parking after the lockdown restrictions were removed in June, but the contractors had delayed the process citing low footfall amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“MC should lift paid parking as shopkeepers had paid for parking sites as well when SCOs were allotted to them. Besides, contractors continue to fleece visitors despite various complaints to the civic body,” said Gursharan Singh, a shopkeeper at Bhadaur HouseNow, paid parking is operational at the multi-storey parking near MC’s Zone A office, BRS Nagar and Bhadaur house. MC secretary Neeraj Jain said the parking lot of tuition market in Model Town Extension has still not been started due to poor footfall.MC officials had forwarded the case for cancelling the contracts of two parking lots – Feroze Gandhi market and Sarabha Nagar Block-I – to the finance and contracts committee as the contractors failed to take possession of the lots.Following a resolution and e-auction, the parking lots at Feroze Gandhi market and Sarabha Nagar Block-I market were reallotted for Rs 1.10 crore and Rs 4.5 lakh, respectively, on June 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/paid-parking-resumes-at-brs-nagar-bhadaur-house-lots-in-ludhiana/story-5mR5rKPfFfDQopQGeBWmcJ.html
25-07-2020||City||Cows stolen from dairy farm; carcass found||Seven cows and four calves were stolen from a dairy farm in Panvel on Friday. The farm owner saw a carcass while he looking for his missing cattle in the morning, following which he filed a complaint. The police suspect the cattle were stolen for slaughter.The incident took place in the intervening night of Thursday and Friday in Wahal area of Panvel. The complainant, Kashinath Bhagat, 52, owned 18 cattle including some calves and kept them in a cowshed near his house.On Friday morning, when Bhagat went to collect milk, he realised some of the cows and calves were missing. He noticed that someone had cut the ropes with which the cattle were tied. Then, he along with his brother looked for the cows in their vicinity.“Around 500 metres away from the shed, they found a group of dogs huddled together eating from a pile of bloodied carcass. The men also found cow feed with the carcass, which confirmed it was from their cattle. Someone had slaughtered the animals and dumped the intestines there,” said an officer from Panvel police station.Following Bhagat’s complaint, the police registered a case of theft and slaughter of cows against unknown persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cows-stolen-from-dairy-farm-carcass-found/story-B4jjU4rloc2IKnDE6a3TsK.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for sexually assaulting minor||A 45-year-old mango seller was arrested by Charkop police for allegedly sexually assaulting a six-year-old girl. Police said both the accused and victim are neighbours. Victim’s mother told police that the accused is a mango seller. “On the day of incident my daughter went to his home to purchase mangoes, where he grabbed her hand and molested her,” said the mother in her complaint. The incident happened on July 21 at around 1pm.An officer from Charkop police station said, “Following the complaint we have registered an FIR under section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of Indian Penal Code and sections 10 (Punishment for aggravated sexual assault) and 12 (Punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor/story-PPYTy2zkf2tmeelKLxXQtN.html
25-07-2020||City||Panchkula records first Covid fatality, Mohali surpasses Chandigarh death toll||With the death of a 75-year-old woman from Shahpur, Panchkula district reported its first fatality related to Covid-19 on Saturday. Meanwhile, a 65-year-old man from Kharar succumbed to the disease at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), becoming Mohali district’s fourteenth Covid fatality. The district has now surpassed Chandigarh’s death toll, which stands at 13. The two deaths were reported on the day Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula recorded 29, 28 and 23 fresh cases respectively, in yet another big single day-spike of 80 cases in the tricity. Those tested positive include two doctors of the PGIMER.The elderly Panchkula woman, who died on Saturday, was on medication for tuberculosis and was admitted to the local civil hospital three days ago with Covid-like symptoms.“Her lungs were damaged, suffering from pneumonia and breathlessness. After three days of treatment at the civil hospital, she was shifted to a private hospital by her family, where she died in the evening,” stated a release. The district had reported a Covid death on July 2 as well, though 20 days later the administration claimed the patient’s death audit report termed it a non-Covid fatality. Among the 23 fresh cases in the district, a PGIMER doctor staying in Panchkula and a security guard posted at the MRI and CT scan centre of the civil hospital in Sector 6 have tested positive. The other patients include three senior citizens. The cases are spread across Sectors 8, 10, 12, 21 and 25 in the city besides Surajpur, Rai Purani, Nanakpur, Kalka and Pinjore. With this, the total number of cases in Panchkula district has climbed to 413, with 232 still active. As many as 180 people have been cured so far.Meanwhile, the number of positive cases has reached 690 in the neighbouring Mohali district, with 241 still active. As many as 435 have recovered, 14 of whom were discharged on Saturday and included a 76-year-old man from Zirakpur.The 65-year-old man who became the fourteenth fatality had comorbidities, said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, adding that he was tested positive for Covid-19 after being admitted to the PGIMER on July 22. Of the 28 fresh cases reported on Saturday, nine are from Mohali city, six from Kharar town and the remaining scattered across the district. Among the Kharar residents, a man and woman, both aged 62 and unrelated, have tested positive. The cases are spread across Phases 2, 5, 7,10 in Mohali city and include three senior citizens.29 FRESH CASES IN UTThe wife of Bharatiya Janata Party’s local president, a 29-year-old resident doctor of PGIMER, husband of a UT estate office employee and a person who mans a kiosk at Elante Mall are among 29 fresh cases reported in Chandigarh, which took the city’s tally to 852 on Saturday. While 284 cases are still active, as many as 555 people have been cured so far.The new cases have been reported from Sectors 3, 7, 18, 24, 28, 30, 32, 37, 43, 44 and 45 besides Dhanas, Manimajra, Ram Darbar, Mauli Jagran and Bapu Dham Colony.Contact tracing of the UT estate office staffer’s husband has led to self-isolation of five other employees besides sanitisation of the premises, said officials. After an infection surfaced at Elante Mall, its management said in a release: “A third-party employee manning a kiosk at Elante Mall tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. He last visited the mall on July 19, when his Aarogya Setu app was checked and his body temperature was normal.We have asked all the staff manning the kiosk to be self-quarantined immediately and get themselves tested at the hospital. They will have to provide a medical certificate before resuming duty.”Meanwhile, after his wife testes positive, Chandigarh BJP chief Arun Sood said: “I,too, had a few symptoms, but was tested negative. Other family members have also tested negative. We are under quarantine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-records-first-covid-fatality-mohali-surpasses-chandigarh-death-toll/story-fqc7HXdauIvrb87qPBZXPM.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||45-year-old arrested for raping woman in Andheri||The Amboli police on Friday arrested a 45-year-old jeweller from Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly raping a 28-year-old model in Andheri (West). According to police, the accused Rahul Agarwal works at a jewellery store in Bhopal, and had come to Mumbai to meet the victim to finalise on the jewellery pieces. He visited her at her Andheri apartment where he sexually assaulted her.On July 12, the victim had visited Bhopal. During her visit she came across a jewellery store from where she purchased a set of earrings. She met Agrawal at the store and later kept in touch with through phone calls, said the woman in her complaintThe woman claimed that she was from Delhi and was staying at her friend’s flat in Andheri, as she was looking for an opportunity in the film industry. She told police that her friends had liked the earrings she had bought from Bhopal, and they wanted to purchase too. Hence, she contacted Agarwal and invited him to come with samples. On July 23, he visited victim’s residence and sexually assaulted her. He even threatened her against filing a complaint. Someshwar Kamthe, senior inspector from Amboli police station said, “Following the victim’s complaint we registered the case under sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him on Friday.” He is remanded in police custody till July 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/45-year-old-arrested-for-raping-woman-in-andheri/story-L5Uc9G5mj6YsnU5WEDxqQK.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||BAMS student accused of abetting suicide granted bail||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday granted bail to a BAMS (Bachelor in Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery) student from Nallasopara who was arrested for allegedly driving a woman to die by suicide by refusing to marry her.Justice Sadhana Jadhav said while it was an unfortunate incident where a young girl had died by suicide, prima facie it cannot be said that by breaching the promise to marry the deceased, the accused had either instigated or abetted the commission of suicide.Justice Jadhav has ordered that the student be released on furnishing bail bond of ₹1 lakh.The accused, who conducted tuitions for candidates aspiring to clear national entrance-cum-eligibility test (NEET) for medical courses, was having an affair with one of his students who was trying to crack the competitive examination for the past five years.On June 20, 2020, she hanged herself at her residence and left behind a note disclosing that she was in love with her teacher (the accused) and was having a physical relationship with him since he had promised to marry her. The note further said that the accused, however, married some other girl, adding that she decided to kill herself because she could not live with the stigma of having maintained a physical relationship with a man.The accused was booked and arrested by local police on the basis of the suicide note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bams-student-accused-of-abetting-suicide-granted-bail/story-3RingharCdbgo0KWv4HmGJ.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||15 years after 2005 deluge, city’s condition still same: Activists||Fifteen years since unprecedented rainfall led to the floods of July 26, 2005 that claimed 1,094 lives, major recommendations made in 2006 by a fact-finding committee have still not been met, alleged environmentalists. While admitting more work needed to be done, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said 80% of all recommendations pertaining specifically to Mithi river under the storm water drains (SWD) department have been met. On Saturday, in a letter to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, city environmentalists said previous governments had not taken the recommendations of the Chitale committee seriously. The letter highlights 10 major recommendations that have not been acted upon, including separation of sewage from storm water; conservation of natural ecosystems including mangrove and wetland protection; reckless dumping of construction debris; integrating urban planning with extreme weather events; developing climate resilient infrastructure, banning development on river flood plains, creeks, conserving holding ponds; and increasing urban green zones. The letter has been signed by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) NatConnect Foundation, Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, Paramparik Machhimar Bachao Kruti Samiti, and RiverMarch. “By highlighting the gaps in the Chitale Committee report, we have called for a comprehensive environment and urban development policy for Mumbai metropolitan region with a special focus on conserving natural ecosystems and developing a comprehensive rainwater harvesting plan,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation. Additional municipal commissioner P Velarasu said, “Perennially flood prone areas are being tackled keeping extreme events in focus. Extra capacity margins have been decided for future projects so that we are able to handle a once in a 10-15 year weather event. This is being looked at by the SWD department as of now. It needs to be percolated into other departments also.” Between July 26-27, 2005, Mumbai recorded 944.2 mm rainfall in 24 hours. Coming under strong criticism of flood-protection promises, the state had set up a fact-finding committee headed by Madhav Chitale to examine causes of the extreme weather event and suggest solutions. The then CM Sushil Kumar Shinde had said it was a “once-in-a-100-year” event and that no city could cope with this amount of rainfall. “Owing to climate change, the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events are increasing. At a parallel level, faulty and inaccurate execution of existing recommendations are worsening the situation,” said environmentalist Debi Goenka. “We are fairly in a better shape today,” said Velarasu adding, “From developing flood warning system, widening retention walls, nullahs, improving sewage network under the Brihanmumbai Storm Water Disposal System (Brimstowad) project, and encroachment removal, are some of the major efforts done for Mithi. The same is being replicated for three other rivers. We need to make progress regarding widening and improving culverts below railway lines and crossings as immediate measures.” Godfrey Pimenta, trustee of Watchdog Foundation, said, “Even after spending Rs 2,000 crore over 15 years, BMC has completed only 70% of the Brimstowad project till 2020. Paving of creek channels has altered the city’s hydrology. Contour mapping (topography) has not been done for decades.” A Supreme Court-appointed committee in 2018 had highlighted that with large-scale urbanisation as well as encroachments and development in the Mithi river basin, a future flood similar to the deluge of July 2005 was inevitable. “Major suggestions of the Chitale committee were never implemented,” the committee had concluded. Stalin D, director of the non-governmental organisation Vanashakti, alleged that the city continues to sees flooding, even if the rainfall isn’t extreme. “Mumbai will witness floods even if it rains over 250 mm in 24 hours,” he said. However, Velarasu said flood-prone areas are being tracked by the SWD department on an evolving basis. “Apart from 35-40 locations, the situation is much better. We have planned for 50-60 mm per hour but intense rain spells witnessed even this year were bound to lead to temporary waterlogging. Planning for extreme events every year has very high expenditure. Ultimately we have to see financial optimisation also,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/15-years-after-2005-deluge-city-s-condition-still-same-activists/story-DnrJGbn63kFrBe7h6ci47K.html
25-07-2020||City||Bail granted does not come to an end due to delay in surety: HC||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that bail granted to a person does not come to an end on account of delay in submitting surety. The high court bench of justice Anil Kshetarpal reversed an order passed by a Mohali court, observing that in such circumstances, mere delay in furnishing personal bail bonds/surety cannot go against the petitioner and the order granting bail under Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 does not cease to exist or comes to an end or stand eclipsed. Section 167 of the Code lays down the procedure for bail on the non-completion of probe. The order came on the plea of one Surinderpal Singh, being probed by Punjab vigilance bureau in different graft cases in three FIRs, all registered in 2017. He secured bail in one FIR, but remained in custody due to two FIRs pending against him. When he secured bail in those two FIRs as well, his surety bonds were not accepted by the court in first FIR on account of delay, earlier this year. The person who had stood had surety in 2017 had withdrawn, but court did not accept fresh surety from him. In the high court, he had contended that the court below erred in refusing to accept fresh surety as the bail granted to the petitioner has never been cancelled. The court found that the bail once granted, may be cancelled, but there is no time limit prescribed for furnishing of bail/surety. The petitioner did “avail of” his right of bail and was granted. Thus, he would be deemed to have been released from custody, the court said, further, observing that the view of the trial court is against the mandate of proviso to Section 167(2) of the Code as expounded by the Supreme Court in various judgments. The court also rapped the trial court, observing that the court below did take note of an apex court judgment cited by the petitioner in his favour. But, instead, refused to follow the same by observing that “these judgments are not applicable to the facts and circumstances of the present case”. “A judgment passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court is binding on all courts in the country under Article 141 of the Constitution. No doubt, the ratio decidendi (the rationale for the decision) laid down in a judgment is binding and not obiter dicta ( remarks made by judges that do not affect the outcome of the case). However, before distinguishing judgment, the court is required to analyse that what is the ratio laid down in the judgment and thereafter, proceed to explain the same,” the bench said adding that the manner in which the trial court has ignored the judgment of the apex court is not ‘appreciable’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bail-granted-does-not-come-to-an-end-due-to-delay-in-surety-hc/story-PRTsul9S2Cbm34Cr1KA54K.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||US visa announcement: Anxiety, uncertainty grip students enrolled for online-only classes||It’s like the worst has happened, says Aanchal G, who enrolled in a Masters programme at the University of Pennsylvania; got a scholarship that covered her tuition; celebrated her imminent departure, and now finds that she may have to stay home.On Friday, the Trump administration announced that foreign students with online-only classes will not be eligible to enter the country. Aanchal’s institute has gone completely online amid the Covid-19 pandemic.When the US government announced, on July 6, that students with entirely-online courses could not stay in the country, that had caused her first wave of panic. When that order was rolled back, Aanchal began to breathe again. “Now, I am totally disappointed,” she says.It’s been heartbreak all around in the student community, for those headed to the US. While this decision too may be amended or reversed, it stands for now, adding a layer of anxiety and uncertainty in an already unprecedented time.Following Friday’s announcement, some Mumbai students said they are considering deferring study; others are opting to go through with it because of loans already taken and / or grants received.Aanchal plans to stay the course. “Maybe things will change, or I will get to meet everyone there once the Fall semester ends,” she says.A lose-lose situationFor those enrolling in colleges with a hybrid module that allows students to choose an on-campus or online experience, students from India will be forced to choose the former just to get their visas — even if it means exposing themselves to the virus in the country with the world’s highest number of cases.“I gave up a job with such a good profile to pursue this course. I can’t afford to skip a year,” says Shruti Babbar, 23, enrolled in a Masters course in science project management and business analytics at Northeastern University, Boston. “Plus, I’ve taken an education loan.”Shruti’s father Arun, a real-estate and travel agent, says he wanted to plan everything perfectly for his only child. “When the pandemic complicated everything, that was the first time my wife and I got upset. But we didn’t let on. We put on bright smiles. As things fell into place, we booked flight tickets and made a deposit on accommodation in Boston for Shruti. The tickets have already been cancelled twice. Only part of the accommodation charges will be refunded.”Kimberly Wright Dixit, founder of study-abroad consultancy The Red Pen, says the drawbacks for architecture, engineering and medical students are most significant. Aseem Visal, 28, would agree. He was scheduled to do a Masters in materials science and engineering at the University of Colorado, Boulder. He has deferred his programme. “It just isn’t practical to try and do it online from here,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/us-visa-announcement-anxiety-uncertainty-grip-students-enrolled-for-online-only-classes/story-rNM1YmAszMRzZUFfd7XxoI.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana DC asks industrialists for assistance in handling Covid pandemic||Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma interacted with city industrialists and office bearers of industrial organisations through video conferencing on Saturday and urged them to assist the district administration in tackling Covid-19 effectively. He assured them all possible support from the district administration and Punjab government in every regard.The video conference was attended by industrialists Rahul Ahuja, Upkar Singh Ahuja, DS Chawla, Mridula Jain and Chiranjeev Singh, additional deputy commissioner (D) Sandeep Kumar, GMDIC Mahesh Khanna and Dr Bishav Mohan from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.Sharma said that for welfare of residents and to ensure better coordination among district administration and private hospitals, a dedicated portal has been developed through which real-time status of vacant beds in each hospital is being monitored so that in case a hospital does not have a vacant bed, the patient can be shifted to another nearby hospital. He assured residents that now, no hospital will be able to hide information regarding the actual status of vacant beds. He said the direct access of this portal is with deputy commissioner, commissioner of police and ADC (development), besides being shared with private hospitals as well. The industrialists assured the deputy commissioner that they will always support the district administration in the fight against Covid-19. They said the MSME sector of Ludhiana has already donated more than Rs 1.5 crore to the district administration to help in the battle against Covid-19.The deputy commissioner urged industrialists to ensure that wearing of masks is made mandatory for labourers and should be part of their uniform. He also urged them to repeatedly sensitise the labour regarding safety precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-dc-asks-industrialists-for-assistance-in-handling-covid-pandemic/story-DTw1tm5DE4Nj2PhJuPfNBN.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Graft-tainted woman cop surrenders in Chandigarh court||Finally, after being on the run for 25 days, suspended Chandigarh Police inspector Jaswinder Kaur, who is an accused in a ₹5 lakh graft case, surrendered before court on Saturday and was handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for four-day custodial interrogation. With this development, Jaswinder has become the first woman personnel of Chandigarh Police arrested by the CBI for graft. “In order to unearth the larger conspiracy entered into between accused Jaswinder Kaur, Bhagwan Singh (conduit) and other accused, her police remand is required,” said Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI court, Chandigarh.Earlier, pressing for her remand, CBI public prosecutor KP Singh said: “Subsequent conduct of Jaswinder is highly deplorable and against the spirit of the rule of law as she is a member of police force to the rank of inspector.” Meanwhile, court allowed the application moved by her defence counsel Terminder Singh to meet her daily during her remand. Jaswinder had raised apprehension that CBI officials may “misbehave” with her. Court allowed one of her counsels to meet her daily for an hour from 5pm to 6pm as her family members did not want to meet her in custody. The court also ordered that her Covid-19 test be conducted.SHE HAS A LOT TO ANSWERJaswinder Kaur, who was then the station house officer in Manimajra, was booked by the CBI on May 30 following the arrest of conduit Bhagwan Singh. The CBI had on July 29 arrested Bhagwan while accepting ₹1 lakh as illegal gratification, allegedly on Jaswinder’s behalf from complainant Gurdeep Singh, a resident of Manimajra. Jaswinder was accused of demanding ₹5 lakh bribe from Gurdeep in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him. Jaswinder is also accused of making fake daily diary register (DDR) entry, and thus creating false evidence, to show she had joined investigations following the CBI raids on July 29. Jaswinder had been maintaining that the money recovered by the CBI was part of a “compromise” reached between Gurdeep and one Randhir Singh on June 21. Randhir had accused Gurdeep of fraud, alleging that he had taken ₹28 lakh from him in lieu of getting his wife recruited as an excise and taxation officer. Jaswinder maintained that as part of the compromise, Gurdeep was to refund ₹30 lakh to Randhir. The document was signed by Gurdeep, Randhir, and Bhagwan besides one Narpinder Singh, following which a DDR entry was also made about the compromise, she claimed. However, CBI investigations have pointed out that on Jaswinder’s instructions, Gurdeep’s signatures were taken on a blank paper. It was later that “samjhauta/compromise” was written on it and the paper was signed by Randhir and others. The investigating officials have already recorded the relevant statement of constable Sarabjeet Singh, who is posted at the Manimajra police station. Now, Jaswinder will be confronted with the police station’s CCTV footage of June 21 that corroborates Sarabjeet’s statement, said an official. HIGH DRAMA IN COURTAs Jaswinder Kaur walked into court to surrender, a section of lawyers raised objection. The lawyers said in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic when not even mushis and lawyers’ clerks are allowed entry into the premises, then how come Jaswinder managed to enter without permission. Meanwhile, claiming innocence, Jaswinder Kaur said: “I have been implicated falsely at behest of a lobby, as I am from backward caste. Despite being an inspector, I am facing atrocities.” THE CASE SO FARJune 26: In a handwritten complaint, Manimajra resident Gurdeep Singh accuses SHO Jaswinder Kaur of demanding bribe on June 10, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him. He claims he already paid ₹2 lakh to conduit Bhagwan Singh on June 19 June 29: CBI raids Manimajra police station and Jaswinder’s house, after arresting Bhagwan with ₹1 lakh of the bribe money June 30: Jaswinder booked for seeking ₹5 lakh bribe and suspended, after which she keeps evading arrestJuly 10: CBI special court denies Jaswinder’s anticipatory bail plea July 21: Punjab and Haryana high court also dismisses her anticipatory bail application July 25: Jaswinder surrenders before court and sent to four-day remand||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/graft-tainted-woman-cop-surrenders-in-chandigarh-court/story-HUtkeJEPcXHI4MexiiK3FP.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Shiv Sena Ludhiana unit protests outside MP’s house over schools charging fee||Members of Shiv Sena Ludhiana unit protested outside the residence of member of Parliament Ravneet Singh Bittu on Saturday, alleging that school authorities were forcing parents to submit all fee including admission fee and other charges. The members also raised slogans against the MP and asked him to get the fee waived off amid the Covid-19 pandemic.During the protest, the members also stated that during elections, Bittu hold rallies in various areas of Ludhiana to woo voters, and after becoming MP, he is not bothered to help residents. Arvind Walia, district president of Shiv Sena, said, “Parents are in financial crisis due to the lockdown and many have lost their jobs due to which they are unable to pay school fee. The state government should take a decision and ask school authorities to waive off admission fee.”“Several private schools have struck students’ names off the roles as they were not able to pay the tuition fee and other charges. Many schools are not allowing students to attend online classes. This is sheer harassment and the government must intervene to resolve this matter,” he said.They submitted a memorandum to the MP who assured the members that the matter would be taken up with the government and resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shiv-sena-ludhiana-unit-protests-outside-mp-s-house-over-schools-charging-fee/story-znsALcipCaAtumng4bq8sI.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Shopkeepers a harried lot as Shahpur road declared micro- containment zone ahead of Raksha Bandhan||At a time when the market is witnessing a slowdown amid surging Covid-19 cases, Shahpur road being declared a micro containment zone on Friday has added to woes of shopkeepers as their establishments have been shut down ahead of Raksha Bandhan.Councillor Rakesh Prashar, a resident of Shahpur road, tested positive for Covid-19 on July 16, following which eight of his relatives also tested positive. The administration and health department then declared the area a micro-containment zone citing rising number of cases.Shop owners rued that every shopkeeper in the market had stocked rakhis and gift items worth around Rs 1 lakh. Shahpur road is one of the main markets of the old city areas with a large number of shops dealing in rakhis and gift items. One of the shopkeepers, Paramjeet Singh, said, “The shopkeepers are in trouble as we were already facing losses due to low footfall in the market. The administration should allow shopkeepers to open up at least the day before Raksha Bandhan (August 2). After the lockdown, we were thinking that business would slowly come back on track during raksha bandhan, but the announcement has dashed our hopes.””The shopkeepers of Shahpur road are contemplating installation of temporary vends at Field Ganj to sell off the Rakhis. The situation has worsened due to internal tussle between shopkeepers. The health department had earlier declared a small portion of the road a micro- containment zone. But, shopkeepers in that area raised objections on other shops being allowed to open. So, the department declared the entire area a micro-containment zone,” another shop owner said.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said,”It is a collective decision taken by the district administration, police and health department. These steps are required to control the spread of the disease. Shopkeepers should cooperate with the department as it is for their own benefit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-shopkeepers-a-harried-lot-as-shahpur-road-declared-micro-containment-zone-ahead-of-raksha-bandhan/story-jDUN25awvotxlf60oS7IiP.html
25-07-2020||City||Delhi riots cases: One gets bail, two released; relief denied to another||New Delhi: A Delhi court has granted bail to an accused in a case related to February’s communal riots in north-east Delhi. The same court denied release to another accused in a separate riots case which took place in Bhajanpura. In a third case, the court allowed the release of two persons — Furqan and Irshad — who were arrested for damaging the Rajdhani school during the riots, after the city police informed court that nothing adverse was found against them in the investigation. All three cases were decided on Friday(July 24). Police had filed a cancellation report, specifying that accused persons did not cause any damage to Rajdhani School and they may be discharged. It had said that there is no material on record to connect the accused persons with the crime. Chief metropolitan magistrate Purshottam Pathak granted bail to Mukesh Rai while stating that police had not recovered anything from him and the chargesheet has already been filed. The judge said that the accused has been in jail since the last three months and no purpose would be served by keeping Rai in judicial custody further. Police had said that Rai was a part of an unlawful assembly and was involved in rioting, vandalisation, chanting of slogans against the other community, looting of shops and arson of public as well as private properties during the riots in February. Rai’s counsel had said that he was being falsely implicated and no recovery has been made from him. The judge while granting bail, noted that Rai was arrested on the basis of the disclosure statement of another accused and nothing has been recovered from him. In a separate case, judge Pathak denied bail to Neeraj alias Kashi while noting that he was a part of an unlawful assembly and had further involved in rioting and burning of shops. The court also said that the accused was a “habitual offender”. The judge said that the investigating officer had filed the records of previous criminal antecendents and has also been identified by a Delhi police head constable for being present on the spot at the time of the incident of rioting. Neeraj, through his cousnel, had contended that he is the sole bread earner of his family and his wife being seven-month pregnant, he should be granted bail. He said that the charge sheet in the present case has already been filed and hence he should be released on bail. However, the police had contended that he had actively participated in the riots and ransacked houses and shops. Communal riots had broken out in the city on February 23, claiming 53 lives and leaving several injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-cases-one-gets-bail-two-released-relief-denied-to-another/story-LX2m4qiZ6E2MURgC5zB3yK.html
25-07-2020||City||New consumer law to protect online customers||New Delhi: It’s been a long wait , but finally, the Consumer Protection Act of 2019 has replaced the 1986 law and it’s certainly a cause for celebration. The new law retains all the components of the landmark 1986 law that gave Indian consumers, their six basic rights and a consumer justice system. However, it further expands the scope of the consumer courts to deal with complaints pertaining to e-commerce, direct selling entities and unfair contracts. It also provides for product liability action against manufacturers, sellers and service providers for any defects or deficiencies or even failure to provide adequate warning about the use of the product or service. The new law is in tune with the modern day concepts of consumer protection, the new market dynamics and the rapid advances in digital technology that has so transformed our world. In fact the comprehensive E-commerce Rules notified under the new law to protect consumers from unfair trade practices in the digital world, encompasses all models of e-commerce and all kinds of unfair trade practices.But what makes this law so different and comprehensive is the fact that under the new law , the government takes full responsibility for the protection, promotion and enforcement of consumer rights, through the creation of the regulatory body- the Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA). Even though the 1986 law encapsulated the rights of consumers, it failed to provide a regulator to enforce all the rights, particularly the right to be protected from unsafe goods and services and unfair trade practices, believing that the consumer court or the adjudicatory body, would somehow play the role of the regulator too. This was a major lacuna in the law.This has finally changed. The CCPA has the power to investigate into unsafe goods, order their recall and direct refund of the cost of such goods to the consumers; it can put stop to all unfair trade practices, including unfair terms in consumer contracts and false and misleading advertisements. It can also hold celebrity endorsers liable for false and misleading promotions. It can also take to task, those selling and manufacturing adulterated and spurious goods. And the punishment prescribed under the law for some of these offences is stringent. However, it may take some time for the Authority to become fully functional.But the consumer courts have already moved over to the new law. While the old cases will continue to be adjudicated under the old law, the new ones will have to be filed under the CP Act of 2019, which means that consumers have to keep in mind the changed pecuniary jurisdiction of these Commissions. The consumer court at the district level or the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, has the jurisdiction to entertain complaints up to the value of Rs 1 crore. Those above Rs 1 crore and upto Rs 10 crore will be handled by the State Commission and complaints above Rs 10 crore will go the National CommissionHowever, the biggest advantage to the consumer under the new law is that (a) you can file the complaint online, sitting in the comfort of your home and b) the choice of the court no more depends on where the opposite party resides or has an office. You can choose a consumer court close to your home or place of work. However, there is no substantial change in the procedure before these courts –so the lawyers will be there and so also the adjournments, unless the government finds ways and means of strictly enforcing the 90-day limit for completing the adjudication, as prescribed under the old and now the new law. However, if you do not want a long fight, you can opt for mediation for quick settlement of your dispute. Thus while the 1986 law laid the foundation for consumer protection in the country, the 2019 Act builds on it, brick by brick. On its strict enforcement rests consumer empowerment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-consumer-law-to-protect-online-customers/story-zN1PBoZ9p3hHlmnCmMMxNK.html
25-07-2020||City||22-year-old man kills mother after altercation, arrested||Ghaziabad A 22-year-old man allegedly killed his 50-year-old mother by hitting her repeatedly with a spade after they both had heated arguments over some household issues on Saturday evening. The suspect was arrested soon after the incident, the police said. According to the police, the incident took place around 4.30pm in Dasna when Mohammad Inam and his mother, Raheesa, who used single name, were working in fields near their house and an altercation started between them. Dasna comes under the jurisdiction of Masuri police station. “There had been frequent altercations between the two. During initial questioning, the suspect has told us that he was habitual of drinking and also wanted to get married. But his mother objected to his habit and there were differences between the two on the issue. When the altercation broke out between the two on Saturday evening, the suspect landed several blows to his mother’s head with a spade and she collapsed on the spot,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). “In the meantime, suspect’s elder brother arrived and called locals for help and they also called up the police. The suspect had also tried to throw his injured mother into a nearby drain, but soon people arrived and nabbed him. The police later arrested him,” Jadaun added. Police officials said that on the basis of complaint given by the family, an FIR under Section 302 (murder) of Indian penal Code was lodged against the suspect at Masuri police station. The spade, which was used in the crime, was also recovered, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-year-old-man-kills-mother-after-altercation-arrested/story-b9liCiHxz985sLNqmvDMpM.html
25-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Health dept to widen net, trace more contacts of positive patients||The health department will widen the scope of contact tracing of Covid-19 positive patients in order to identify suspected cases. The officials said at present, they have an average of about 4.5 contacts per patient and will scale this up further. Health officials said they have received directions from the state government to increase the contact up to six or eight per Covid-19 patient. The district, till July 24, has a total of 4,441 Covid-19 cases and about 94% of the contact data of these patients has been uploaded to the state portal. “We have received directions from the state government to trace at least 8 to 10 primary and secondary contacts of each Covid-19 patient. This will help us as more people will be tested subsequently. At present, our contact tracing is averaging 4.5 contacts per positive patient. So, we will now scale this up,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said. “Since rapid antigen kits are now available, contact tracing will be followed up by early testing. Increasing the contact tracing will finally help us to know how many more people are prone to the infection. More contact tracing and testing will help prevent the spread of Covid-19,” he said. The contact tracing of a patient is taken up to ascertain the number of people (s)he had come in contact with about four or five days before (s)he tested positive for Covid-19. Such contacts are then told to remain in home quarantine and those showing symptoms of Covid-19 are also tested and sent to appropriate Covid facilities (if tested positive) for further treatment. In Ghaziabad, contact tracing of Covid-19 patients is done with the help of six teams who speak to each patient over phone. The teams are stationed at a dedicated control room at the district headquarters. Another three-member team, comprising a police personnel and health workers, also visits the patient’s house for the purpose. According to the statistics available with the health department, the district currently has about 3,200 patients with up to five contacts, 815 patients having six to eight contacts, 232 patients with 11 to 20 contacts and about 30 patients having more than 20 contacts. “We have been able to upload about 94% of our manual contact tracing data on to the state portal. The rest will be updated within a day or two,” Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad, said. According to the uploaded data, the age group of 41-60 years has the highest number of contacts at 8,824. The age group of 0-20 years has 2,236 contacts while the age group of over 60 years has 1,964 contacts. “The age group of 41-60 years has the highest number of contacts as this group is the most mobile -- they go to office daily and visit markets for household goods and chores. Senior citizens, for more obvious reasons, prefer to stay indoors and have the least number of contacts,” Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad, said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-health-dept-to-widen-net-trace-more-contacts-of-positive-patients/story-XrrbHcTd4bOf7A37iRwElK.html
25-07-2020||City||Kejriwal gives Rs 1 crore aid to family of volunteer who died of Covid||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday met the family of Arun Kumar, a civil defence volunteer who died of Covid-19, and offered them a cheque of ₹1 crore as financial assistance. Kejriwal said the Delhi government would do whatever it can to support the education of Kumar’s children. He died at Dwarka’s Venkateshwar Hospital on July 13, at the age of 48.Kumar contacted the disease in the course of his duty, while providing food to people during the lockdown.“Arun Kumar ji did an excellent job during the whole Corona lockdown period. He worked in almost all the departments, whether in hospitals, distributing food, or anything else. Our civil defence volunteers have worked hard day and night. Arun ji was one such volunteer who, in the course of his duty, contacted corona and unfortunately lost his life because of it. The people of Delhi salute the martyrdom and sacrifice of Arun Kumar ji,” Kejriwal told reporters after meeting with Kumar’s family in Uttam Nagar.Kejriwal met Kumar’s father, wife, and children. “His daughter is in class 12 and his son is in class 9. Their education should not stop at any cost. The Delhi government will do whatever it can to support their education. The Delhi government has provided financial assistance of ₹1 crore to his family, which will provide relief to his family,” he said.Kumar was a resident of Rajpuri in Uttam Nagar area of Delhi, and was on duty in Dwarka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-gives-rs-1-crore-aid-to-family-of-volunteer-who-died-of-covid/story-9SBn6y9rxVWn0GsiistehP.html
25-07-2020||City||UP government reduces area of containment zones by more than half||The Uttar Pradesh government has redefined the area of containment zones by reducing the limits of such zones by more than half. The move will help a number of households and localities get away from the containment exercise in the coming days, officials said. As per the Friday order issued by RK Tiwari, UP chief secretary, areas within the 100 metre radius of a category-1 containment zone (one Covid-19 case) in city areas will be sealed now as compared to areas within a 250-meter radius. The boundary of category-2 containment zones (with multiple cases) have also been redefined and the earlier 500 metre range has been reduced to 200 metres. However, the limits of the buffer area for category-2 zones, which would stretch to 250 metres earlier, have not been redefined and the respective district officials can take a call on it based on their assessment, the order said. “In case of a single case in city areas, the category-1 containment zone will be within a 100 metre range or an entire mohalla, or whichever is less. In case of a cluster where more than one cases emerge, the category-2 containment zone will be up to a 200-metre range and the buffer area will be defined on local assessment,” the directions issued by the chief secretary said. The order would be applicable to new containment zones. “ We will comply with the new directions regarding the containment zones. We have strengthened the containment exercises and are ensuring that sealing and de-sealing as part of the exercise is done in a timely manner,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.In containment zones, movement of residents is restricted, and the local administration implements strict perimeter control, besides taking up extensive sanitisation drives and door-to-door surveys to detect suspected Covid-19 cases. Officials in Ghaziabad said that with the limits of the containment zones reduced, the number of households to be contained in the coming days will be reduced by half. “With the revised guidelines, now about only 50% of households that could be put under a containment zone earlier will be put off bounds now,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.According to a list issued by the district administration on July 19, the district has 162 category-1 zones and 168 category-2 zones. “As per our estimates, there are about 200,989 houses with a population of about 78,1344 people which are under containment zones in Ghaziabad right now,” the CMO said.The neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar district has 320 category-1 zones and 41 category-2 zones ( as on July 24).Residents in Ghaziabad have welcomed the state government’s new order. “The government has done the right thing. Large area under sealing created fear among residents and also hampered their movement. It also brought resentment against the Covid-19 patients. The reduction in the sealed area limits will also reduce fear among people and will not hamper their daily lives,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ federation.There is no revision in directions issued for high-rises. “The previous guidelines for sealing of floor in high-rises with Covid-19 cases will continue as it is,” the CMO said. Earlier on June 14, the UP government had issued revised guidelines according to which high-rise buildings/towers will be sealed only for 14 days as against 21 days earlier. The directions were issued after residents had approached the officials about the inconvenience they faced. In last week of June, the state officials had also directed the district officials for sealing the floor in a high-rises in case a someone on the floor tested positive for the infection. Prior to this, the entire tower was sealed. “ I have also directed officials to ensure that the list of the containment zones gets timely updated so that people do not face issues,” the DM said. “We are also taking up strict containment exercise in 21 different areas which have 10 or more cases,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-government-reduces-area-of-containment-zones-by-more-than-half/story-ZwypO0KFIKiOOwuNy952fP.html
25-07-2020||City||State’s first plasma bank inaugurated at Noida||Noida: Uttar Pradesh on Saturday got its first plasma bank at the Rotary Noida Blood Bank in Sector 31 for treatment of Covid-19 patients in the city.The plasma bank that has a storage capacity of 10,000 units of 200 ml each also received its first three units of plasma donated by the Rotary club members who had successfully recovered from Covid-19 and qualified to donate the convalescent plasma.“The bank will be a part of Rotary Noida Blood Bank. We will now start reaching out to the recovered patients and will motivate them to donate the plasma. The contacts of such patients will be procured from the different hospitals of Noida. Once we have a proper stock of convalescent plasma, this bank will cater to demands of the city and neighbouring areas. In Gautam Budh Nagar, four private and two government hospitals have the infrastructure to treat Covid-19 patients through plasma therapy,” said Trilok Sharma, founder trustee, Rotary Noida Blood Bank.The bank was inaugurated by UP’s minister of state (health) Atul Garg, along with GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY. Other senior officials were also present on the occasion. One of the most affected districts of the state, GB Nagar had 897 active Covid-19 cases as of Saturday, while 3,700 had been discharged post-treatment and 40 patients succumbed to the infection. Appreciating the initiative, officials said that experts from government hospitals or institutes with good experience of plasma therapy will also be sent to extend their expertise and supervise the new plasma bank.“It is the first dedicated bank in the entire state. The plasma therapy is already going on at GIMS Greater Noida and Child PGI. At GIMS, doctors have done many procedures successfully, but it doesn’t have a plasma bank. We will also be sending GIMS officials to supervise the plasma bank and extend their expertise,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.Suhas further said that this is the first plasma bank in a non-Covid hospital, where a person can walk in with a proper prescription by a Covid-19 hospital and acquire plasma for treatment of their family members. Authorities at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), which has already performed 78 plasma therapies, said that they are self-reliant.“We are already maintaining our own stockpile of convalescent plasma and also helping other hospitals in Noida, Faridabad and Gurugram, among others. We are self-dependent and don’t think would require help from a plasma bank or any external source to obtain convalescent plasma,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS.Plasma is a major component of a person’s blood, making up almost 55% of it. In convalescent plasma therapy, antibody-rich plasma from recovered patients is injected into recovering individuals to help them stave off infection. Although promising, the effectiveness of the treatment is still in the experimental stage and is allowed to be administered only in severely ill patients.Notably, the plasma therapy has been previously used during the Sars and Mers outbreaks (which were also caused by viruses in the same family as the Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-s-first-plasma-bank-inaugurated-at-noida/story-Peu7mtFRTB4tRs1A3uoksO.html
25-07-2020||City||Sisodia reviews online classes, seek suggestions for improvement||New Delhi: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday visited two government schools and interacted with teachers and parents to review the “semi-online” teaching-learning model initiated by the government. On July 2, the government had asked its teachers to focus on student-teacher interaction while carrying out learning activities during Covid-19 pandemic. The education department had also issued a series of instructions for teachers and principals asking them to stay connected to students through WhatsApp. Children up to classes 10 are given worksheets every week through WhatsApp. Those children who do not have smartphones at home can ask their parents to collect printout of the weekly worksheets from their respective schools. Class 12 students are attending live online classes conducted by teachers in 12 subjects. On Saturday, Sisodia interacted with teachers and parents and sought suggestions to improve online education at two government schools in Prashant Vihar and Pitampura. “The whole world is in crisis. But our students are facing the biggest crisis. We cannot sit and wait for everything to settle on its own. We had to find some measures to keep the learning process going and we found it,” Sisodia said. While interacting with parents, Sisodia said that parent-teacher meetings too should be organized at regular intervals using online method. “This is the first time in the country that online education has been done in government schools at such a scale,” Sisodia said. He also congratulated parents for supporting their children’s education by turning their homes into schools. “Soon there will be a vaccine to cure Corona, but there is no vaccine for the loss of education. Therefore, we have to reduce our other expenses so that we continue with our children’s education. If there is a loss in education, it will not only be the loss of that child or family, but it will be a loss for the entire country,” Sisodia said. The education minister said that teachers were trying to provide education through social media platforms like Facebook to engage students in educational content instead of other things. “We did not think that we too would provide education through social media. But today, under compulsion, we launched this experiment which has reduced the educational loss significantly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-reviews-online-classes-seek-suggestions-for-improvement/story-RYFM9BXp8u0DfC9AtWmD0O.html
25-07-2020||City||Noida cops accused of harassing Delhi Police head constable||Two police personnel from the Dankaur station have been accused of harassing and manhandling a Delhi Police head constable.The Noida police has denied the allegations.The complainant, Firoz Ahmed, a resident of Ghaziabad, said the incident took place around midnight on July 23 when he was on his way home from Jewar.“I had two goats with me for Bakrid and I was going home via the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. All of a sudden, a grey Maruti Brezza intercepted my vehicle and I was asked to stop. Two people in police uniform, a sub-inspector and a constable, got out and started checking my vehicle. They asked me about the animals and I explained that it was for Eid and that I was taking them to Muradnagar,” said Ahmed in his complaint to the Noida commissioner of police.He said that the Noida personnel became agitated and started abusing him. “They said I was in the illegal animal smuggling business. I told them that I was a head constable with the Delhi Police. I started to show them my identity card but they took my wallet from me and punched me. When I objected, they started manhandling me. I then called my brother, who is a lawyer. I have the necessary recording in my phone to prove the assault and harassment,” the complainant said.Ahmed said the personnel told him that they were from Kasna police station and took his wallet containing his police ID, other documents, ATM cards, and ₹15,000 cash with them and asked him to collect it from the police station. “My brother and I went to Kasna police station and we found out that the personnel in question were not attached to that station and the incident with me had taken place under the jurisdiction of Dankaur police station. But we were not provided any help by that station personnel either,” Ahmed said.He filed a complaint with the Noida police commissioner on Friday. However, police have denied the allegations.“He was stopped during routine checking and was found not wearing a seat belt, for which he was fined. During a probe by the inspector, there was an argument and but there was no manhandling,” additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey said.He said they are yet to verify Ahmed’s claim that he was from the Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-cops-accused-of-harassing-delhi-police-head-constable/story-noTi4nYOe6fsrMA761q0gM.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||CRPF sub-inspector shoots dead senior before killing self at MHA office||A sub-inspector of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) allegedly shot dead his senior on Friday night, before turning the gun on himself at an office of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) in Lodhi Estate. Police said the two men, who belonged to CRPF’s 122 Battalion and were posted at the bungalow, had an argument after which the sub-inspector used his AK-47 rifle to shoot the inspector dead and then kill himself. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the two shared the same office room inside the bungalow. Police said the incident took place around 10pm. Other staffers heard a gunshot and rushed to the room, to find the inspector shot in the head.“Witnesses said the inspector was having his dinner when he was shot. Less than a minute later, another gunshot was heard, this time from the guard room near the main entrance to the premises. The staffers rushed there to find the sub-inspector lying dead with a gunshot wound to his head. The matter was immediately reported to senior CRPF officers,” said a senior police officer, who wished not to be named.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said the AK-47 rifle used in the shooting was issued to the sub-inspector.“Preliminary probe suggests that two bullets were fired from that rifle. The SI and the inspector shared the same room and were involved in a fight over something; we are yet to ascertain what. We have registered a case of murder and are probing the matter,” Singhal said.Following the incident, a team of forensic experts visited the spot and lifted evidence for examination. M Dhinakaran, spokesperson, CRPF, said the duo was posted with the 122 Battalion. ”The fratricidal event is an aberration which seems to have been committed on the spur of the moment. An inquiry has been ordered to establish the facts of the matter and will be taken to its logical end,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/crpf-sub-inspector-shoots-dead-senior-before-killing-self-at-mha-office/story-fdSNsKKJOYZzwGamioIakJ.html
25-07-2020||City||Panjab University youth fest cancelled this year amid surging Covid cases||The highly anticipated Panjab University Youth and Heritage festival will not be conducted this year amid surging Covid-19 cases. The four-day event features various cultural and academic competitions which are held in 12 zones of PU, following which winners participate in the inter-zonal youth festival. PU youth welfare director Nirmal Jaura, said, “Due to the rising number of coronavirus cases, it is not possible to organise the youth festival this time. Maintaining social distance is important right now and there is a gathering of more than 3,000 people at the festival.”“I am receiving a lot of calls from teachers, principals and students to know the dates for the festival. I have told them it is not possible to organise the event in colleges this year. If the situation improves in the next few months, we can organise small events with 50 students,” Jaura said.“To keep students engaged during these tough times, we have conducted many online competitions including essay, story writing, debate competitions, poster making, cartooning and solo song and dance,” he added.To conduct the youth festival, a meeting is conducted with college principals in July every year so that dates and host college to hold the event can be selected. Students and teachers also start preparing for competitions and more time was devoted to practice sessions. The teachers who are involved in preparing students for various items for the youth festival stated that it is very disappointing for the talented students that the event will not be organised. Inderjeet Kaur, principal of Ramgarhia Girls College, Miller Ganj, said, “Online competitions conducted by the youth welfare department has been a hit among students and participation in each competition was more than expected. Amid the pandemic, colleges are closed and students are stressed, but online competitions keep them occupied. Usually, by this time of the year, a meeting is held with all principals to decide the venue and dates for the youth festival. But this year, nothing has been discussed regarding the festival, and keeping in mind the situation, I think authorities will continue with online competitions.” COMPETITIONS HELD DURING FESTCompetitions in different categories include group shabad, bhajans, classical music (vocal), classical dance, group dance, debate, hand writing, poem writing, short story writing, essay writing and rangoli .Also, competitions are held in phulkari, bagh, dasuti or cross stitch, knitting, crochet work, pakhi designing, mehndi designing, bhangra, quiz , Gidha, skit, mimicry, miming, poem recitation and one-act play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panjab-university-youth-fest-cancelled-this-year-amid-surging-covid-cases/story-1yBAhX0YQz7bU31YGRzCjL.html
25-07-2020||City||Punjab dealers call for petrol pump bandh on July 29||Mohali Three days after a 76-year-old petrol pump owner in Mohali committed suicide, blaming oil corporation officials among others in his suicide note, Petrol Pump Dealers Association Punjab (PPDAP) has called for a petrol pump bandh in the state on July 29 (Wednesday). “We have planned to close down pumps in Punjab on Wednesday, July 29, in protest against the Punjab government and as a tribute to the petrol pump owner, who succumbed to the undue Pressure of Oil Company and wrong policies of the state government,” said Paramjit Singh Doaba, president, PPDAP.He claimed that oil marketing companies and the Union ministry of petroleum and natural gas failed to address dealers’ justified demand for price correction and increase in margins. “This is just the beginning of a dark chapter of suicides by petrol dealers. More will follow, if oil companies and the state government do not listen to us,” said Manjit Singh, general secretary, PPDAP He added that of 3,451 outlets in Punjab, 800 border district outlets were on the verge of closure due to higher VAT rates in the state, which resulted in shift of trade and smuggling. “Due to the lockdown, losses in March, April, May have eaten into our capital. Nearly every dealer is on the verge of bankruptcy,” added Ranjit Singh Gandhi, treasurer, PPDAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-dealers-call-for-petrol-pump-bandh-on-july-29/story-fvE1hBHK7GxL5dRtENhX9I.html
25-07-2020||Gurugram||Teachers work hard to deliver online classes in tough conditions||For the last four months, Manju Bala Bhardwaj, an English teacher at a government school, has been teaching her classes online. From 8 am till 5 pm, Bhardwaj stays glued to her phone as she juggles students’ queries on WhatsApp and calls while giving out notes and assignments. Once she is done with classes for the day, the 44-year-old starts preparing and recording video lessons for the next day. With a black marker in her hands, she stands before a whiteboard and delivers the lesson to an imaginary audience while her son, a college-going student, films her on a mobile phone. “There is hardly any time left after classes to focus on other things. The cycle of planning, preparing, recording, along with daily classes and feedback calls to parents is taxing,” said Bhardwaj. While video lessons are not a compulsion for government schools, Bhardwaj decided to test the waters after reading about private schools that were quick to adopt online lessons in the wake of the nationwide lockdown that was imposed in March to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. “Many students in government schools like ours are not familiar with spoken English. I felt that recording lessons would help in comprehension,” said Bhardwaj, who had to get her phone repaired after it crashed under the load of the videos within the first week. Over the past few months, Bhardwaj has also learned the tricks of the trade from her sons. “I don’t have a tripod or stand. With their classes too going on, even my sons are not available at all times. I made notes of how to do it myself so that I am prepared for such days. Despite all this, it is still daunting,” she said. Adding to the technological challenges are the online abuses and uncharitable remarks from students and parents, and distractions. Deepika Chauhan, a private school teacher, said, “A greater part of the class goes in asking children to mute or unmute the mic or not use the chatbox. There is a lot of disruption. They keep sending emoticons in the chatbox and texts unrelated to the class. Sometimes when we ask children to shut the mic, some overprotective parents get hurt and write emails complaining about us.” She recalled an instance where a class 4 student used an expletive against a teacher using the chatbox. “The teacher was shell shocked. When she took up the issue with the parents, they were apologetic but insisted that the child’s account had been hacked,” said Chauhan. With many parents refusing or unable to pay fees, salary cuts have demoralised teachers too. “In addition, the school has asked us to report for work if we want to receive full salary,” said Chauhan. Deepali, a music teacher, said that while teachers were putting double the amount of work to make online classes work, parents and school educators felt that these classes “were not good enough”. “I had never imagined that I’d be teaching Indian classical music through a laptop screen,” she said. “Pulling off these classes has been a Herculean task. Schools and parents, however, don’t recognise our effort. We are all exhausted but holding on to our jobs is the priority right now. Moreover, I have also learned many new things courtesy the shift in teaching methods.” School principals said that coronavirus had caused a big change in transmission of lessons and coping with the effects of the shift was hard to digest for all stakeholders, including teachers. Anshu Arora, principal, Amity International School, Sector 43, said that it was important to recognise that teachers belonged to a wide spectrum, and carrying on with the show individually was challenging. “While younger teachers are adept in using the interfaces, not all teachers are familiar with the technology. A lot of hand-holding was needed. Teachers need to be supported by schools,” said Arora. She said the school was providing support by having additional co-teachers in every class. Manoj Kaushik, coordinator, program education technology, SCERT Haryana, said that the department was aware of the technological constraints and had responded. “We brought teachers together on a WhatsApp group and shared explainer videos about basics of recording lectures and delivering live lectures as and when the need arose,” said Kaushik. “Not everything can be taught through training. Sometimes, there are many things that one learns through experiences.”Aditi Misra, principal, Delhi Public School, Sector 45, said that the school had been engaging with the CBSE and NCERT regarding possible ways of addressing the digital divide that government school students and teachers were facing. “Digital divide is worrying and needs to be addressed at some level. We have shared necessary teaching resources with two government schools that we have adopted,” said Misra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/teachers-work-hard-to-deliver-online-classes-in-tough-conditions/story-NOoFDYyy9fk9GPp4LyIk8O.html
25-07-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad: Five foreign nationals among seven arrested for duping people online||The Faridabad police on Saturday arrested seven persons, including five foreign nationals, for allegedly duping people after befriending them on a social networking site. The suspects would befriend people on Facebook and then convince them to transfer money on the pretext of sending them high-value gifts and foreign currency, said the police. The police said they believe that with the arrests they have solved more than 100 such fraud cases. According to the police, they received a complaint from a local resident on July 23 alleging that he has been duped of Rs 35,500. The Faridabad police commissioner, OP Singh, said that since he took charge he has taken up pending cases and have involved the cyber crime cell. “The gang members created fake social media profiles and befriended people by posing as women. They would tell the victims that they were sending a precious gift as a token of friendship or would propose them for marriage and stage drama that they are stuck at airport and make calls posing as customs officers and duped people on pretext of releasing gifts. They used to ask victims to pay custom duty and processing fees,” he said. The suspects were identified as Williams Michael of Liberia, Promise Ebere Okoli, Halimat Mohammed, Okeke Nnabugo and Kenechukwi Okanta, all four from Nigeria. Besides, two persons from Ballabhgarh -- Anurag Singh and Nishant -- were also arrested.All the suspects were arrested from a rented house in Faridabad and were taken on four days’ police remand on Saturday after being produced before the court, said the police. The police said during questioning they revealed that they used to make fake profiles and contact people across the country. Singh said Halimat Mohammed, a woman, posing as a London resident expressed her intention to marry the complainant and cheated him with the help of her aides, who posed as a customs official and a finance manager of Reserve Bank of India (RBI). After an investigation by the cyber cell, the police registered an FIR in the matter on July 23 at Faridabad police station. After chatting online and exchanging phone numbers, the woman suspect told him that she wanted to marry him and they decided to meet in July and sent some gifts through customs. The suspect told him that she was coming to India in July. “In July, he received a call from a man who introduced himself as a customs officer at Mumbai airport. He told the complainant that he was required to pay fees as custom clearance for the woman, following which the victim transferred Rs 35,500 in two transactions to two different bank accounts,” Singh said. After two days, the victim allegedly again received a call from someone posing as an RBI official and asked him to deposit more money. The police said the victim did not buy the story and reported the matter to the police. “Our cyber police team immediately set the numbers on surveillance and their locations were traced following which they were arrested from a house,” said Singh. Hailmat’s passport had expired, the police said, adding that the four others were holding passports of two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-five-foreign-nationals-among-seven-arrested-for-duping-people-online/story-bTVAbF81jR8V59ldkevtbL.html
25-07-2020||Gurugram||Bhondsi jail officer sold phones to inmates for ₹50K, finds probe||Two days after the deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of Bhondsi jail was arrested for allegedly smuggling drugs and supplying SIM cards to inmates over the last two years, a preliminary investigation has revealed he used to sell mobile phones to the inmates for ₹50,000.DSP Dharambir Chautala, the arrested officer, was allegedly helped by a former inmate named Ravi Kumar who was also arrested in the case.Police said Kumar was earlier lodged in Bhondsi jail in January 2010 for kidnapping and murder, till his acquittal in May 2018.Sandeep Malik, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sohna, said that Chautala was in-charge of the factory wing of the Bhondsi jail and used to look after painting, stitching, and flour milling. Ravi used to take a painting class, which is when he came in contact with Chautala in 2018.“Ravi initially started helping Chautala to crack deals with inmates who wanted to buy mobile phones and drugs. He became the middleman and started taking orders from inmates and later delivered mobile phones and drugs to them with the consent of Chautala. ,” he said.Another police officer privy to the investigation said that phones were being made available to the inmates for as much as ₹50,000.Harinder Singh, jail superintendent of Bhondsi jail, said they have started conducting regular checks in the barracks, and on Saturday recovered four mobile phones from inmates. “Strict warnings were given to all the officials to ensure no illegal activity inside the premises,” he said.Malik said they have identified the dealers who used to supply the contraband. “We have formed teams and identified their hideouts in Gurugram. We are close to them and would arrest them at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bhondsi-jail-officer-sold-phones-to-inmates-for-50k-finds-probe/story-NOCc8moER5ie4pRkDKpjrL.html
25-07-2020||Gurugram||HSPCB to retest Bandhwari leachate samples after concerns arise over new test results||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) will conduct a second laboratory test to gauge the “safety” of leachate at the Bandhwari landfill, about 20kms from Gurugram, after several experts and activists found holes in the first test report. Following complaints from city resident Vaishali Rana Chandra, an activist who has been tracking developments at the landfill, the HSPCB on July 13 inspected the landfill and collected three samples from a leachate pond for chemical analysis. The report, which Hindustan Times reviewed, found no presence of heavy metals in the water. It also stated that the samples’ pH levels (that measures acidity) , and biological oxygen demand (measure of oxygen consumed by microorganisms as they decompose organic waste), were within the limits prescribed by the central pollution control board’s solid waste management rules.Dr Rekha Singh, an approved environment expert from the Quality Council of India under the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, said, “The results seem highly unlikely for a leachate sample taken from a landfill. Going by the report, which shows desirable acidity and oxygen demand, the water may even be fit for drinking. This definitely raises some questions as to the integrity of the report, as most samples taken from the field -- even in natural water bodies -- show higher pH levels and presence of contaminants.” In 2015, as part of an independent assessment by local environmentalists, Singh had analysed leachate samples from the landfill. Her report stated that contamination from the leachate has rendered high amounts of fluoride, phenolic compounds, cadmium and mercury in the groundwater.On July 9, HT had reported that residents of Bandhwari and Mangar villages near the landfill had complained of large amounts of leachate run-off after rain over the previous two days. The “leachate problem” at Bandhwari is alleged to have caused severe degradation of the water table in the region and posed a risk to the health of local residents. The issue of landfill run-off in the area has persisted for close to a decade, and routinely worsens during the monsoon, experts and local activists said.Dr Vinod Kumar Mogha, an independent expert with over a decade long experience in material sciences and laboratory testing, said the report does not, as per national accreditation board for testing and calibration laboratories (NABL) guidelines, provide any confirmatory statements about the quality of the water. “Why was the test carried out? What was the HSPCB trying to establish? Any lab test is done with a certain aim, and reports must mandatorily summarise their findings. This report does not explain the import of the test results, as it should have,” he said.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, said, “We have taken note of the concerns raised. We will carry out another test by taking samples in the presence of locals, and will send them to two or three different labs for analysis before comparing reports. We will take further action based on the results.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hspcb-to-retest-bandhwari-leachate-samples-after-concerns-arise-over-new-test-results/story-ThENYnZK6c5ylcLU1IfTWI.html
25-07-2020||City||Ghumar Mandi, National road in Ludhiana to be developed as smart roads: Punjab cabinet minister||Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, said on Saturday that Ghumar Mandi market road and National road would be developed as smart roads under the Smart City Project at a cost of Rs 18.93 crore.Ashu said model markets would be developed on the roads under a separate project which will include providing dedicated space for all utilities, pedestrians and incorporation of landscape, cycle track and underground electricity services. He said these roads are being developed as smart roads as they are frequently visited by a large number of people from other districts/states and will present a good picture of the city.In the next phase, Mall road, Rani Jhansi road, Deepak Hospital road, Kochar Market road, College road, Ishmeet Singh road, Club road and Mandir-Gurudwara road in Sarabha Nagar will also be developed as smart roads, Ashu said. Work on Malhar Road is going on in full swing and will be completed soon, he added. Ashu said he will personally monitor the progress of all the projects under Ludhiana Smart City project on a weekly basis and warned that strict action would be taken against officials if there is any lapse on their behalf.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghumar-mandi-national-road-in-ludhiana-to-be-developed-as-smart-roads-punjab-cabinet-minister/story-xIVug4iAkmHkic5lVkfgZP.html
25-07-2020||City||Ensure hassle-free delivery of utility services to teachers: Education secretary tells DEOs||Under the district-level ‘grievances redressal webinars’ started by the education department, school education secretary Krishan Kumar on Saturday heard the grievances of teaching and non-teaching staff of Ludhiana district. Earlier, such webinars have been held for Pathankot and Hoshiarpur districts. A large number of teaching and non-teaching employees of the district shared their grievances directly with the education secretary.“The idea behind the webinars is to ensure positive reciprocation to the hopes and aspirations of the teachers, who have been doing really commendable job in taking online classes, enhancing enrollment, distributing textbooks, mid-day meal, taking bimonthly house examination, as well as performing various duties during the unprecedented pandemic,” said Kumar while directing the DEOs and BPEOs to ensure transparent and hassle-free delivery of the utility services to the teachers.More than 80 grievances were raised by the teaching and non-teaching staff during the webinar. The issues as well as grievances would also be taken up in the meeting of the concerned officials on Monday, said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ensure-hassle-free-delivery-of-utility-services-to-teachers-education-secretary-tells-deos/story-fGYA8EUHfZwEpJzVGfbbFJ.html
25-07-2020||Gurugram||City to have muted Independence Day celebration due to Covid 19||Following instructions from the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on celebrating Independence Day, Gurugram will see muted celebrations with social distancing norms and honouring those in the front line of the fight against Covid-19. In a detailed advisory issued to all the states and union territories, the MHA had asked all states to use technology in the best possible manner for the celebrations and avoid large gatherings. The Gurugram district administration on Friday said that they will follow the directions, which included fewer guests, social distancing and wearing of masks. Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, while addressing a press conference on Friday, said, “We have received directions from the home ministry in this regard and these will be followed strictly. All events will be planned in manner that social distancing norms are observed.”Officials, however, said the Independence Day event would include the ceremonial parade and speech by the chief guest and unfurling of the national flag followed by playing of the national anthem. It would also include presentation of the Guard of honour. But unlike previous years, social and cultural events such as dances by school children and march pasts would be missing, said officials.Elaborating on the details, a district administration spokesperson said that events by school children which were held in large numbers on this day earlier would be avoided this year due to spread of Covid 19. The focus, he said, would be on holding events such as tree plantation, debates at school level on digital platforms, online quiz contests/patriotic essay writing and poetry competitions and other such measures, which can be held practising social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-to-have-muted-independence-day-celebration-due-to-covid-19/story-D5qyrGDmya37t7E1dESQlL.html
25-07-2020||City||Covid crisis: Malls, parks under MCG scanner for safety violations||Gurugram After receiving complaints of coronavirus related safety violations in city malls and parks, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has directed its sanitation and enforcement wing to conduct surprise inspections at such locations.The development comes a week after MCG received a complaint from shopkeepers that the management of a shopping mall in Palam Vihar was not following any safety guidelines. Some residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) have been regularly complaining to the civic body to take action or empower them to do so against residents who are constantly violating safety norms in parks.After a gap of almost three months amid the coronavirus pandemic, malls and parks were allowed to reopen in the city on July 1.“We have initiated full-scale action against any violation in malls and parks. On Friday, for example, nine people at the bio-diversity park were fined for not wearing masks. Teams have been formed for this task. These are locations where people congregate, so any safety violations can lead to the Covid-19 spread,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG.Attri further said that he, along with his team, visited several malls, including one on Saturday, to check for violations.“The footfall in most of malls is virtually non-existent, hence there is little scope to fine people for violations. At some of the malls, we observed that the security guards weren’t wearing the masks properly or did not have the right type of masks. We sensitised them about the issue and gave them proper masks to wear,” said Attri.There are around 45 shopping malls in the city.Aman Bajaj, member of MGF metropolitan mall association, said, “During the first week of reopening, MCG had fined six people, including two shopkeepers, for violations. Since then, all shopkeepers have been strictly adhering to the rules. We believe that stricter enforcement by MCG will help curb safety violations, if any, across all malls in the city.”RWAs said that they have been apprising MCG about residents not wearing masks, especially while walking or jogging in parks, and asked the civic body if they could take action on their end in this regard.“Although there were several instances of violations by residents in parks, without any authorised powers we couldn’t take any action against the violators except sensitizing them about the adverse effects. With MCG taking full-scale action, we are quite assured that it will deter people from stepping out without masks and limit the possible spread of coronavirus,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Qutub Enclave RWA.There are 793 parks in the city. MCG maintains 310 parks, while RWAs have the responsibility of overseeing 483 parks.The Haryana government has released a set of standard operating procedure (SOP) for visitors in malls and parks. The guidelines include: visitors and all mall workers need to strictly follow social distancing norms and wear masks at all times; visitors also need to install the Aarogya Setu app; mall authorities will have to ensure that every visitor is scanned for temperature via thermal scanners as well as to ensure that hand sanitizers are placed at all entry points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-crisis-malls-parks-under-mcg-scanner-for-safety-violations/story-VgNQpEM8fPgiLhJqsJnuQK.html
25-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Neuro issues in Covid patients worry doctors||Almost a month ago, a 28-year-old man, a resident of South City 1 was admitted in a multispecialty hospital of the city after he suffered seizures and fell unconscious. Although asymptomatic, he tested positive for Covid-19. “Out of the 200 Covid-19 patients treated so far, over 10 people developed neurological symptoms out of which four did not show the (most common) onset of Covid-19 like symptoms like breathlessness,” said Dr. Praveen Gupta, director, neurology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute (FMRI), Gurugram. “They report of unconsciousness and weakness due to brain inflammation or encephalitis. A couple of them even presented stroke and seizures too.”Despite the cases of neurological symptoms, respiratory distress remains the defining symptoms of Covid-19, along with loss of sense of taste and smell. When the 28-year-old reached the emergency of Fortis in a comatose state, he tested positive for Covid-19 twice. “The patient underwent MRI scan of his brain which came normal. His seizures stopped and after a day he regained consciousness. He was on ventilator for three days,” said Dr Gupta. “The patient developed a fever, had decreased oxygenation levels and a cough which persisted for a week. His sputum had blood.” The patient was treated for his symptoms and discharged after he recovered and his Covid-19 confirmatory test returned negative. A review of over 50 studies published in the journal Annals of Neurology last month revealed that the virus affects almost every level of the nervous system and may lead to strokes, seizures and muscular pains. However, the number of cases in India that presented neurological symptoms first were still far too few.According to Dr. Gupta, the coronavirus can reach the brain through nasal passage and creates neurochemical imbalance. “The virus can bind with receptors in brain and blood vessels, and reach the central nervous system, causing inflammation and neurochemical imbalance, and ultimately leading to seizures,” he said.Doctors explain that one of the pathological explanation for this is the formation of clots in blood vessels. Dr. Yatin Mehta, chairman, critical care, Medanta Hospital, said, “The virus creates clots in different parts of the body, which, when it reaches the brain, can cause strokes and seizures.”Mehta has treated Covid-19 patients who had symptoms like altered consciousness or mild paralysis. “We have seen neurological disorders in nearly 5% of the patients admitted in our hospital. They are mostly elderly and have to be kept on ventilator support. Fatality is also being reported due to stroke,” said Mehta. Dr Gupta said that at least two Covid-19 patients in their hospital died of brain stroke. “There can be post viral immune mediated phenomena like ADEM (Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis – it is a rare inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system,” said Gupta. According to them, loss of taste and smell are initial symptoms.Doctors said that patients with neurological symptoms sometimes recover in 15 days, while it is only rare cases treatment stretches up to a month and even death. Therefore, they suggest being cautious if there are signs of weakness and mild sensations in hands. On June 14, while reviewing the study in the Annals of Neurology, Dr. Rajinder K Dhamija, head of the neurology department at the Lady Hardinge Medical College & Hospital in Delhi, had said, “There is literature to show that Covid-19 is beyond cough and fever. We should proactively probe the history of the patient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-neuro-issues-in-covid-patients-worry-doctors/story-rRG9asQ6qnMxZkMejFiPOJ.html
25-07-2020||City||Source of infection still a mystery in Ludhiana’s 210 Covid-19 cases||Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, a major threat looms over the district as Ludhiana health department has been unable to trace the source of 210 infections.The total number of cases reported in the district till Friday stands at 2,275 and contact tracing for the remaining patients was still being done. The officials of the health department said that in many cases, the patients do not disclose their contacts citing social stigma among other reasons.On the condition of anonymity, a health official said, “There have been instances where the infected patients do not disclose their travel history. Few political workers have also tested positive for coronavirus who claimed that they might have got infected during public dealing. The department was also not able to trace the source of infection of ACP Anil Kohli, who succumbed to the virus, and whose contacts had also tested positive afterwards.”“We have been spreading awareness among people to disclose necessary information regarding their travel history and contacts, as failing to do so will put lives in danger. However, some patients were adamant in disclosing information citing social stigma and to avoid hospitalisation of their relatives,” said the official.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Many people are not cooperating with the health department as they are not disclosing their contact history even after testing positive for Covid-19. The teams of the health department are regularly visiting the affected areas especially the micro-containment zones to motivate residents to disclose necessary information to thwart the spread of the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-health-officials-struggle-to-trace-source-of-infection-in-210-covid-19-patients/story-7sYCKbnZwaGdmI4R8D0gEN.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Let’s give a shout out to creative expression||Years ago, an anthropomorphic yellow Volkswagen Beetle named Herbie captured popular imagination in a Walt Disney film, The Love Bug. It drove itself and had a number of adventures, managing at times with a deft turn of a steering wheel, to win automobile races too.Why we are referring to Herbie in this column is because a brightly coloured vehicle has been in the news in the city for the last few weeks. It features, very prominently, art work by a Mexican artist, Senkoe, or so its owner, Chandigarh resident and high court lawyer Ranjit Malhotra, claims.Malhotra bought the Ambassador Grand Harit-C-1800 from a European Union diplomat in Delhi in July last year. However, much to his chagrin, the registering authority in Chandigarh refused to register the vehicle stating that the colour of the original vehicle had been changed from white to multi-colour, in violation of norms.Following this, Malhotra moved the Punjab and Haryana high court, pleading that the reason for buying the vehicle was the artwork by Senkoe.Famed for his freestyle art, Senkoe is much loved by Dilliwallahs for the number of vibrant murals he has created in the Capital during visits to India, especially at Lodhi Colony and Jamia Millia Islamia.On July 15, the high court’s single-judge bench of justice Jaishree Thakur directed UT administration to register the car within two weeks. Now, the UT says allowing registration would lead to a potential law enforcement problem as in common practice a motor vehicle is identified by its registration number and colour by the authorities. The colour takes precedence as it is the most recognisable/distinguishable feature of a vehicle for its prima facie identification by authorities, UT states in its plea. The administration’s argument is that the single-judge bench misinterpreted Section 52 of the Motor Vehicles Act. According to Section 52, no owner of a motor vehicle can alter it beyond the particulars mentioned in the certificate of registration, which are provided by the manufacturer. This seems to be leading to an interesting tug of war between the administrative authorities and a lawyer with an artistic eye. Agreed, a car is recognised by its colour, but if this piece of art is registered, not just traffic authorities, even locals will be more than happy to spot it on the roads. The administration should also doff its hat to creativity, especially in a city like Chandigarh, which has been a drawing board of sorts for Le Corbusier.Art cars are not new and have an enthusiastic fan following, especially in the US, where the likes of artist and film director Andy Warhol, known for his pop art, have designed famous BMW vehicles with art.Rules need to be relaxed in special cases when in a changing world order, with a pandemic spreading gloom and anxiety, people are looking for release – which a piece of art can definitely provide.Let there be a splash of colour on our roads, a play on Corbusier’s legacy, where normalcy is not the norm and art always has a place in the people’s hearts.ART MATTERSWhy shouldn’t cars with artwork be registered? Why should vehicles with artwork not be registered in UT? What else should the administration do to promote art in Chandigarh? Send your responses with a photograph to Chandigarh@hindustantimes by July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-let-s-give-a-shout-out-to-creative-expression/story-pn6EV65kpGB7unUZOZIK4J.html
25-07-2020||City||SAD’s Malwa Muslim wing chief booked for domestic violence||Patiala Police have booked Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Malwa zone Muslim wing president, Musa Khan, on the charges of domestic violence. Khan has been married for 25 years with Amanpreet Kaur, alias Ayesha Khan, and the marital discord started two-and-a-half years ago, sources said. On Ayesha’s allegations, police have also booked Khan’s sister on the charges of keeping her in illegal confinement and subjecting her to cruelty. Civil Lines SHO Sukhwinder Singh said the matrimonial dispute between the couple had turned into an ugly spat, necessitating their intervention. “A video surfaced on social media platforms, following which we intervened.” A case has been registered under Sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-s-malwa-muslim-wing-chief-booked-for-domestic-violence/story-hmjXRBkrbmiRd2JMzNtLvO.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Even in times of gloom, every cloud has a silver lining||We were at the tenth green playing golf when my partner coughed and the other three in the four ball gave him a look as hostile as the one reserved for a crime convict.The poor man sheepishly remarked, “Sorry guys, I was just clearing my throat.”Such is the transformation in people’s behaviour, thanks to coronavirus.It is indeed heartening to see a steep fall in sneezing, coughing, spitting or cuddling and cooing at public places. Masked people who heretofore would have been viewed with suspicion now invite loving looks.Everyone is making an effort to maintain hygiene, improve immunity, eat healthy and avoid meaningless jaunts. Extravagance at weddings and celebrations is a thing of past. With due concern for dwindling businesses, the realisation that not being ostentatious and focusing on essentials is important will definitely level things out I was commanding my regiment when we got mobilised after a terrorist attack on our Parliament. War with Pakistan seemed imminent. We were equipped with partly indigenously manufactured and assembled Russian made tanks. The originals were a class apart and still form the backbone of our mechanised forces. This indigenous version, however, had major issues. My predecessor handed over a fat bundle of files and three dozen power point presentations to all and sundry during his two years of agonising command. I realised in the first few days that though everyone was seized of the issue, it was a case of misplaced priority mired in red tape. Such was the repetitive content of the presentations that any discussion with the powers that be was considered tedious, in fact irritating. The looming war clouds prompted me to vigorously revive the matter.The feedback I got was that strong wordings and brazen statistics of my war fit machinery had raised hackles at the decision-making level. Someone even remarked, “Why is this commanding officer (CO) belly belching?”With only 31 out 45 tanks fit for action, it seemed as if the matter was only the CO’s headache.My immediate commander called me and expressed concern at my getting down to brass tacks, but said under his breath: “Well done, it’s now or never!”It was on January 14, 2002, a day after General Pervez Musharraf’s address to Pakistan that three truckloads men with a battery of technicians from the tank manufacturing facility reached the forlorn dunes of Longewala near Jaisalmer. Within days the tank fleet of our regiment was a roaring 100%.Our three year old grandson doesn’t fail to surprise us with his innocent wit. His desire to own a puppy wasn’t welcomed enthusiastically by us. “ Grow up a bit, children your age are susceptible to infections from animals at home”.Just the other day, out on a short drive with us, he saw a masked master strolling with his pet and came up with: “Dadu, who spreads infections, the mask-less puppy or his master?”Silvo is the name of his newly acquired beagle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/even-in-times-of-gloom-every-cloud-has-a-silver-lining/story-1hK1iVe8dxwdQhQ7XI3XPO.html
25-07-2020||City||Mohali: 78-year-old paraplegic woman sets self ablaze in, dies||A 78-year-old woman set herself on fire and died at her residence here on Saturday. Her charred body was recovered from her bathroom.Police said the Phase 3B2 resident, who hailed from Karnal in Haryana, had been suffering from depression due to her illness and committed suicide.She had moved to Mohali in January this year with one of her daughters. The woman was unable to walk because of paraplegia (paralysis of the lower limbs), police added.On receiving the information, the Mataur police reached the spot and took the body into custody. Mataur SHO Rajiv Kumar said the elderly woman set herself ablaze while her daughter and son-in-law were sleeping in the other room. He said the woman was in depression and undergoing treatment for the same. She is survived by three daughters.Police have initiated inquest proceedings in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-78-year-old-paraplegic-woman-sets-self-ablaze-in-dies/story-3ovmKZXsuMQ1OVDF96MIUJ.html
25-07-2020||City||Wildbuzz: In the heart’s crevices bloom wild flowers||Deepak, a highlander of the Banjar valley in Kullu, is the proverbial wild flower in a perfect bed of roses. His email identity goes by the name of ‘DeepakRebel’ while his social media identity is ‘Deepak Atheist’. A rare man from the Himachal hills, he does not believe in God or the numerous Devis and Devtas that undergird the state’s cultural life. Nature is Deepak’s guiding light, his moral compass and the source of his spiritual well being. A pair of Himalayan bulbuls and a lone Laughing thrush would come to his hand in the winter snows to relish dry raisins. Such was the trust, the benign aura of the atheist that lured wary avians to a human hand.Deepak, all of 30 years, has an abiding passion: wild flowers of the lofty Himalayan glades. To know the depth of his love, his recent three-day trek to Jalori pass was revealing. He preserved his smartphone battery for only one use, to photograph flowers. Unlike his three trekking mates, who indulged in numerous selfies and group pictures, Deepak’s phone brimmed with flower photographs.“As we climbed to Jalori pass, which is above 10,000 feet, I was a laggard. My companions raced to the peaks but I would stop at a flower and take pictures. Then, I would shut down the phone to conserve battery life and forbid myself from taking more flower pictures. But as I climbed, another pretty flower would waylay me with her smiles. I would then again switch on my phone and take another picture. It went on and on till my battery charge expired,” Deepak told this writer.Deepak inherits his love for flowers from his father, a PWD employee who managed the resthouse at their native village of Bahu. “My father took great pains to cultivate a variety of flowers in the resthouse garden. In our house also, I have grown many flowers,’’ said Deepak.He shares his passion for Himalayan flowers with an innumerable number of Himalayan travellers and tourists through the ages. Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s late father, Maharajah Yadavindra Singh, was devoted to gardening and would travel to the Himalayas every spring to admire alpine blooms. Capt Amarinder is planning a book on his father’s passion for Himalayan flowers illustrated with delicate paintings by the late Rai Bahadur Ganga Singh. To all those like Deepak, Maharajah Yadavindra Singh and travellers of the Himalayas, a pithy verse from an anonymous bard would pay a timeless tribute: “The crevices in my heart, some shallow some deep, Grow wildflowers so beautiful, not weeds, The crevices in my heart are precious orifices to keep!” LIFE IS THE PITSOur diligent gardener of many years, Vinod K Yadav, has been efficient at digging serial compost pits and then filling them up in the backyard of our Sector 19 garden in Chandigarh. Our kitchen wet wastes, garden leftovers/wastes etc go into the pit while household dry wastes are put in the bin and picked up by waste collectors every morning. That simplifies the hard-working waste collector’s task, lends it dignity by obviating the need to physically segregate the wet from dry wastes, and renders the burden of his carriage less weighty.The garden benefits from enriched soils of maturing compost pits. Garden birds and insects have gained enormously as the festering, unclosed compost pits have fostered a magical, mini-ecosystem. The number and variety of insects the pits have spawned has been taken advantage of by insectivorous bird species, snapping lizards and butterflies/moths that feed on rotting fruits.Hovering and buzzing insects attract Black drongos, Tailor birds, Common mynas, Jungle babblers and even a migratory Black redstart. A female redstart in passage from the high Himalayas to further down in the sub-continental plains spent a day perched over the compost pit greedily devouring insects in October 2019. She was back for two days while returning to her breeding grounds up north in April 2020. However, the utmost advantage has been usurped by Tailor birds. A pair had set up a nest last summer in our front garden but the breeding failed. The pair then made another nest close to the pit in the backyard and successfully reared three chicks on a diet rich in insects. This summer, too, I was happy to see the pair rear another two chicks and the babblers a troupe of little ones.The flip side was that feral cats prowling around the garden noticed the abundance of birds in the pit’s vicinity. The cats would lay an ambush in the lemon and ‘motia’ bushes flanking the pit and pounce on unsuspecting birds till the avian community got wiser and set up an alarm system. Rodents, too, sniffed the decomposing foods in the pit and set up base here, drilling a maze of holes in Vinod’s carefully manicured vegetable beds.All told, the pit has been a blessing. The flowering plants dumped into the pit after the season was over just refused to pass gently into the night! A bunch of uprooted and dumped light-pink poppies woke up from the dead and started to bloom out of season at the edge of the pit while another bush of dumped sun flowers took root again on the pit’s other side. Certainly, more smiles than snarls has our pit attracted from all and sundry. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wildbuzz-in-the-heart-s-crevices-bloom-wild-flowers/story-rUImGjfWz7LGv8z8I3j37K.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||No fee to be charged this session at govt schools: Punjab CM||Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh, announced that government schools in state will not charge any admission, re-admission or tuition fee from students for the 2020-21 academic session on account of the Covid-19 crisis.As far as private schools are concerned, the state government had already moved court, said the CM.Captain, while addressing #AskCaptain session, announced provisional admission in Class 11 for the 31,000 Class 10 students in the open school system, who could not be promoted amid the covid crisis based on internal assessment, as no such assessment exists for them. He announced a cash prize of Rs 5,100 each to 335 students who scored above 98% in Class 12.On restriction of two persons in a seven-seater vehicle, when buses are allowed to ply with full capacity, the CM said economic viability has forced government to allow this. But even now, passenger traffic is as low as 25-30% of normal, he said.SWEET SHOPS TO REMAIN OPEN ON AUG 2Sweet shops in Punjab will be allowed to remain open on August 2, in view of Raksha Bandhan. On movement of inter-state buses on the festival, the CM said there are no restrictions on buses as far as Punjab is concerned, but other states might have imposed curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-fee-to-be-charged-this-session-at-govt-schools-punjab-cm/story-J0vBXCcwCL4aphGHDTb7RM.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Beware of SMS claiming to provide free covid relief package: Cyber Crime Cell||The Punjab Police State Cyber Crime Cell, on Saturday, warned the citizens not to click on any URL in messages being circulated via SMS or WhatsApp with claims of providing free covid relief package of Rs 2,000 from government.An official spokesperson of the Punjab Bureau of Investigation said that these phishing attacks are an attempt by cybercriminals to assume control of people’s devices and access their data and financial information, which could lead to draining of bank account.He said that the message being circulated on social media and via SMS reads: “The Government has finally approved and have started giving out free Rs 2,000 Relief Funds to each citizen. Below is how to claim and get yours credit instantly as I have just did now https://covid19-relieffund.com/. You can only claim and get credited once and it’s also limited so get your now instantly.”“Once anyone opens the page by clicking the URL, it shows a congratulatory message: ‘Get free Rs 7,000 instantly to your bank account. Please complete the survey to avail free lockdown relief funds’,” the spokesperson said.Along with the congratulatory message, there is a question asking if you are a bona fide Indian citizen? The link actually contains a questionnaire asking details such as: “How much can sustain you throughout their login? What will you use free Rs 7000 for?”After that people receive a congratulatory message of getting Rs 7,000 and a link for sharing the message to other groups and contacts.Police have urged people to remain cautious and not to click on any suspicious URL links on social media or SMS. “If anyone comes across such messages do not forward it to others and delete it immediately. Clicking on such links poses high risks as it can be a malware which could redirect you to fraudulent sites and may lead to financial losses,” police cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/beware-of-sms-claiming-to-provide-free-covid-relief-package-cyber-crime-cell/story-tguMmpST5bit9ua7Y4i36J.html
25-07-2020||City||Mother-son held with 1kg heroin in Gurdaspur||The Gurdaspur police arrested a woman and her son with 1kg heroin here on Saturday. Police suspect that the duo has links to Indian and Pak drug smugglers active along the international border.Addressing a press conference, Gurdaspur SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said that after getting a tip-off, police installed a naka at Dinanagar. “While checking vehicles, cops saw a bike-borne man and a woman attempting to turn back on seeing the naka. Cops caught them and recovered the contraband from their possession,” he said.The accused were identified as Ravinder Singh, of Simbal Kulian village in Pathankot, and his mother Surjit Kaur. A case was registered against both under the NDPS Act at Dinanagar police station.“During questioning, they revealed that local drug smugglers were to be supplied the heroin from Pak smugglers through Bamial sector and they contacted each other through WhatsApp. Around 15-20 days back, the Pak smugglers supplied the heroin in big quantity. They stored it at the residence of the arrested accused and gave them one packet for the help,” the SSP said.He added that police are trying to nab rest of the smugglers involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mother-son-held-with-1kg-heroin-in-gurdaspur/story-Nu5muGo5IhR949SlHTuoEL.html
25-07-2020||City||Patiala police bust interstate gang of robbers||The district police busted a gang of inter-state gold robbers by arresting three women, who are its members, police said on Saturday.The accused have been identified as Lachmi alias Lachoo, of Langroi in Patiala, Karamjit Kaur of Jolian village in Sangrur, and Roopo, of Muradpura village in Patiala. They were wanted in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said police signalled a Swift Dzire to stop. “Instead of stopping, the driver tried to flee and almost hit an ASI. They were intercepted but two of the gang members, Satya and Manpreet Singh, managed to flee,” he said.He added that 59 cases are registered against Lachmi in different states, while 29 against Roopo and 33 against Satya. The SSP said the gang targeted people at religious and public places and cut their gold ornaments with the help of cutters and acid,” he said.He added that they used to loot senior citizens by dragging them to their car. The fresh case has been registered under Sections 307, 379-B, and 27 of the IPC at Civil Lines police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-police-bust-interstate-gang-of-robbers/story-Lr4OkhKinNmDhiQuIgz1rO.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||Tihar inmates with yoga knowledge train others inside barracks||With yoga trainers from outside the Tihar unable to visit the prison due to the coronavirus pandemic and inmate instructors either out on bail or parole, authorities have turned to prisoners aware of the exercise regime to train others within the barracks.Tihar, which has over 16,000 inmates across its various jails, had started Project Sanjeevan in association with Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY) in January 2019 to train inmates.“With the help of MDNIY, two sessions of yoga training were conducted last year. The first was from March-June when around 1,000 inmates were trained, including 46 who were trained as trainers.“The second batch was started from September 2019 to January 2020 when another 1,000 inmates were trained, including 31 as trainers,” a senior prison official said.The classes were conducted from Monday to Friday every week and around 15 trainers in both the programmes used to come from MDNIY for the yoga sessions.“Due to the ongoing situation, we could not start the programme this year. Once the situation gets normal, we will start it once again. This time, we would like to increase the numbers also,” said Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel.Since outsiders are not allowed and the 77 inmates, who were trained as trainers, have been released on bail or parole, the inmates who know yoga are teaching others inside the barracks, he said.This is not so structured but the jail authorities are trying to keep them in practice which would help them in the regular sessions whenever they are started, the DG said.“It is our endeavour to provide some skill to the inmates so that they can start a new life after being released. We do not want any inmate to come back again after they are released.“Yoga helps in mental and physical health. It can be used as a skill and those who get the certificate can opt it as a career and work as yoga teachers and make a living,” Goel said.Till July 23, 59 inmates tested positive for the novel coronavirus out of which 51 recovered, two died and one released and is currently home quarantined. There are five active cases. On the other hand, 120 prison staff members have been tested positive, out of which 91 recovered, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tihar-inmates-with-yoga-knowledge-train-others-inside-barracks/story-jsmaO4twsC1UH5vXy2XTSO.html
25-07-2020||City||Ahead of Raksha Bandhan, Ludhiana markets witness low footfall||With Raksha Bandhan round the corner, markets across the city witnessed fewer footfall as residents avoided venturing out in public places due to rising Covid-19 cases.Markets in Ghumar Mandi, Chaura Bazar, Model Town, Shahpur road, Sarabha Nagar are all decked up and shopkeepers have set up stalls with colourful and designer rakhis ranging between ₹20 to ₹300.A visit to Jawahar Nagar camp market revealed that more than 30 rakhi stalls were set up which has now been reduced to six, due to lesser people thronging the market and to avoid huge gatherings.Majority of shopkeepers have stated that residents are preferring to buy rakhis online.Rakhi sale has dipped by 40%, said Sunny Mohindra, owner of the Magazine shop in Ghumar Mandi. “This year, very few customers are visiting the markets to buy rakhis. Not even a single rakhi card has been sold and due to the pandemic as residents are preferring to buy them online,” he said.The market is so depressed that retailers expect the prices to dip further in the run up to the festival.Kundan rakhis catch the eye of residentsKundan and sacred thread rakhis are selling like hot cakes in the city. Many customers are also preferring to buy local rakhis than made in China.Cartoon rakhis such as Doraemon, Spiderman, Mickey Mouse, Chota Bheem are also in demand.Akhil Joshi, a retailer from Jawahar Nagar, said, “Earlier we used to sell more than 100 rakhis on a daily basis but this year, very few customers are visiting my shop. I have set up a stall outside the shop so that social distancing can be maintained but since morning only three customers have come in and purchased rakhis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahead-of-raksha-bandhan-ludhiana-markets-witness-low-footfall/story-9DpdOnOZO8aCuPS5W6gTjL.html
25-07-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||On wrong foot, ex-mayor makes cop join Teej celebrationsInspector Paramjeet Kaur was out ensuring social distancing norms the other day when she learnt about Teej celebrations at Ram Darbar. To enforce social distancing norms, the station house officer (SHO) at Sector 31 reached the spot to find former mayor Kamlesh along with five women at the “symbolic celebration”. Kamlesh promptly convinced the inspector to not only join in but also take a few swings, terming Teej to be an auspicious festival for women. Rain eludes tricity despite Met forecast The meteorological department forecast heavy rain last week but all Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali got was drizzle. While other cities in Punjab and Haryana were caught in the downpour, residents of the tricity could be seen carrying their umbrellas along and looking longingly at the sky. Will it rain relief from the humidity this week? We hope so. Caught without a mask? Pay the price at any cost If you don’t have Rs 500 in your pocket and are caught without a mask in public in Mohali, be prepared to beg, borrow or steal but pay the penalty you must. Defaulters learnt this the hard way as the police and district administration held a drive to penalise people without a mask at the Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Inter State Bus Terminus (ISBT) in Phase 6. Among those caught were two passengers who didn’t have Rs 500 on them. They were made to wait till they arranged the cash and paid up. Covid-19 puts brakes on political activity The Chandigarh unit of the BJP is prolific in issuing press notes. Even during the three months of the Covid-19 lockdown, press notes and pictures of BJP leaders distributing food, sanitisers and masks among people were a daily occurrence. After restrictions were relaxed, press conferences became the norm. Not to be left behind, the Congress too issued multiple press notes daily. But last week, both parties went largely quiet, limiting themselves to a few announcements on WhatsApp. “With rising Covid-19 cases, political parties have finally learned to scale down public dealings. The BJP has even shut down Kamalam, its headquarters in Sector 33, Chandigarh,” a party insider said. Parida’s tweet ruffles feathers at PGIDoctors at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, were quick to object to UT adviser Manoj Parida’s call on Twitter the other day to NGOs and companies to put up stalls at Sukhna Lake for distributing face masks among walkers. Dr Aman Sharma, a professor of internal medicine, wrote that there’s a need to educate people to wear masks properly than arranging for free provisions. Almost everyone has a mask but few wear it properly. “Need MasKampaign with catchlines like Naak bachain mask lagain”. Taking a swipe, Dr Mahesh Devnani said the obsession with Sukhna is beyond comprehension. What about parks? If walkers at Sukhna are the only concern, then may consider weekend curfew at the lake only instead of the whole city. It’s Covid and not Kovid! Who hasn’t heard of Covid? The word is all over, be it newspapers, the electronic media, social media or hoardings. Yet, there are few who continue to spell it wrongly. In one of the press notes by the Panchkula public relations department recently, Covid-19 was written as Kovid and that too not once but several times. When hot wheels cooled heels After a Lamborghini Huracan worth over Rs 3 crore was impounded by the Chandigarh Traffic Police for speeding, personnel of the Sector 3 police station impounded a Ducati mobike, worth Rs 20 lakh, as the rider rode it without a number plate and helmet. The rider wasn’t even in possession of the driving licence or registration certificate when it was impounded from a check-point near Kaimbwala! Members not available, PU puts off syndicate meeting A meeting of the Panjab University syndicate was scheduled for July 30 but it was postponed on Friday for administrative reasons. A syndicate member said that the meeting was put off because many members were not available on July 30. Moreover, only seven items were listed on the agenda. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Amanjeet Singh, Rajanbir Singh, and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-ddkQMSwankF8iyMopl9GJJ.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: Locked down at home, we miss you, My Lord!||Vacations seem to have outlived their contract as all courts remain closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. All proceedings have been moved online just when we were raring to bounce back to the environs of the legal world. Understanding the prudence of staying at home, I am inevitably missing the stimulating atmosphere of the courts, always filled with a battery of lawyers, respondents, petitioners, and above all, My Lord at the helm of affairs. There is a moment of reckoning when the honourable judge arrives and the whole court rises in deep reverence. Everyone bows to the supreme powers that rest in My Lord, for the learned judge works tirelessly to uphold the ideals of the constitution. I remember as a young lawyer I found it unnerving to appear before the bench. My voice would quiver, my hands would sweat, and I would be shaking even when I had argued my point well. But gradually one learns and grows, for that is the power of a well conducted court. Our interaction with the learned judges on the floor of the court is usually very dynamic. They are like our friends, teachers and guides , who at times haul us up, and at others are magnanimous. Profound lessons roll out from the realms of the venerable court, which leave our minds enlightened. The sheer brilliance with which important matters are put before the court, and the learned judge exercising his legal acumen to decipher the truth of the matter, is overwhelming. Often, we have to hold our breath, so that we do not miss a word of the arguments of the illustrious lawyers, who are masters in court craft. When the formal system of justice took shape several centuries ago it was decided that judges be made to wear a special uniform to give visual prominence to their stature. Since then they have worn the flowing black gowns and stiff white linen bands around the winged collar. Had we been in the pre-independence era , their dress code would have also included silk stockings and wigs (called peruke). The wig was frizzed at the top, with tight horizontal curls and a short tail at the back. However the wigs and stockings were dropped after independence. Pakistan continued with the headgear till 1980. Sri Lankan judges still wear a long wig and scarlet cloak for special occasions. Today, as things stand, the wait seems long till we can pay our obeisance at the altar of justice… in person. We have to make do with our tardy internet connections, and argue our cases from the confines of our homes. Our royal gowns and jackets have also been discontinued for some time, keeping in view the spread of the novel coronavirus. We long to go back to the coffee shops , where we had animated discussions on points of law. As we deliver our legal responsibilities through the online portals, we miss the magnificent courtroom and the benign presence of My Lord. alkagaurkashyap@gmail.comThe writer is a Chandigarh-based lawyer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-locked-down-at-home-we-miss-you-my-lord/story-3qgEfwuNoqElk3LrjX17iN.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: For private universities to survive, mergers could be a good solution||A nation’s commitment to develop human resource for its holistic development is evident from the number of educational institutes it has. Though an impressive number of higher educational institutions have opened in India since independence, quality and appreciable gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education is a bridge too far.Even after more than seven decades past independence, none of the Indian universities could find a berth among top hundred institutions of higher education at the global level; the ambitious target of 30% GER in the year 2020 has also not been achieved as yet. At present, there are 935 universities (including 127 deemed to be universities) in the country. An exponential increase in the share of private universities was noted since the year 2008 when there were only 14 private universities. Now the country boasts of 349 private universities. Obviously, private education providers became ambitious to start courses of their choice with flexible admission capacity and rules, by attaining a sort of autonomy by opening new universities. Many such institutes were just elevated from the colleges already established, without adding substantial research component or outreach activities, the parameters which distinguish colleges from the universities. Ironically, failure of the public sector to spare adequate funds to raise the level of academics at universities and colleges led to private enterprises cropping up to complement public educational institutions. At present, the tiny state of Punjab has 16 private universities against 11 public institutes; the first to be established being Lovely Professional University in the year 2006. Since then each coming year added one or more universities to the state’s kitty; a maximum of three in the year 2016. Initially, opening of private universities could have paid dividends in the form of appreciable revenues, but the downtrend in engineering courses and exodus of students for foreign education made it difficult for the institutes to run the show . In the recent past, Punjab has seen a silent exodus of 1.5 lakh students; 1.25 lakh only to Canada. Payment of reasonable salaries and hiring adequate number of competent faculty for effective curricula delivery has become a serious issue. Further, there is no provision of any financial aid from the government to run a private university in India and that explains the primary focus of these universities on enrolling the maximum number of students to fill their coffers. Secondly, the students would prefer an institution which is affiliated to a well recognised public university rather than the yet-to-make-a-mark private university. This is also affecting the admission prospects of the private universities. Surprisingly, there are private universities on record, where at one time the number of admitted students was only in two digits, and then there were others where enrolment could not touch four digits. This is in stark contrast to private universities in developed countries where average enrolment is not less than 20,000 students. Probably, to run a private university in India with a student strength of less than 5,000, has become a herculean task. Unfortunately, a majority of private universities in the country may be hard pressed even to get these numbers. The prevailing coronavirus pandemic has made the situation still more dismal for managers of the private universities already struggling to run their institutions due to declining revenues. The situation is likely to worsen in the post-pandemic period. To disburse salaries to the teachers and the supporting staff has become a huge challenge. There seems to be little likelihood of getting any special financial aid from state or Central government in view of the pandemic. What is the way out then? This is the time for managers or owners of private universities to sit together and ponder over the issue. They need to share, sustain and survive. The idea of merging their universities to bail out of this situation would be worth considering. For instance, in Punjab, and may be in other states of the country, there are several private universities located close to each other. Optimising resources by merging these universities would greatly help to improve the financial status ensuring their sustainability. Judicious utilisation of expertise and infrastructural resources will be an added advantage. It needs to emphasised that to pursue the cause of education what counts is not opening more universities, but strengthening the existing colleges by catering to their needs. The Imperial College of London remained a college for more than a century and most of the times it ranked amongst the ten best educational institutions of the world. Khalsa College Amritsar is running very well with thousands of students on its rolls since more than 125 years During my studentship at DAV College Jalandhar from 1971-1975, the enrolment ranged from 4,000 to 5,000 students and very high standards of education were maintained. Alternatively, majority of private universities that were elevated from colleges can revert to their original stature and renew affiliation to recognised public universities; thus shedding the burden of running a university set up. While this will reduce the financial burden of some institutes, at the same time affiliation to a public university may also brighten the admission prospectus. Further, private education providers may explore some new avenues of need-based professional education such as veterinary science, much needed for diversification in agriculture rather than opting for short lived fancy courses lacking job opportunities. One very successful example of such venture was opening of the first private veterinary college by the management of the Khalsa College Amritsar, which is affiliated to the Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) Ludhiana and maintaining quality standards at par with the GADVASU monitored by the Veterinary Council of India. The pandemic has put us in a difficult situation and we have to take difficult decisions and subsequent actions for the sacred cause of education. The author is a former dean of postgraduate studies, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-for-private-universities-to-survive-mergers-could-be-a-good-solution/story-txsZsC3Fx9zbi1Ui0McT1I.html
25-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka overtakes Tamil Nadu in number of active Covid-19 cases||With 55,388 active Covid-19 cases Karnataka has overtaken Tamil Nadu in the number of active coronavirus count. Tamil Nadu currently has 52,273 active cases. On Saturday, Karnataka saw for the third successive day more than 5,000 cases.The state recorded 5,072 new Covid-19 cases taking the total to 90,942 cumulative cases which include 33,750 discharges and 1,796 deaths. Among the 72 dead in the state on Saturday included a 105-year man old from who had been fighting the virus since June 20 but finally succumbed.Meanwhile, revenue minister R Ashoka announced that all Covid-19 related dead bodies in Bangalore would be cremated free of cost. Currently, Rs 900 is charged as cost of the bamboo stretcher in which the dead body is placed, Rs 250 as cremation charges at the 12 electric crematoriums present in the state capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-overtakes-tamil-nadu-in-number-of-active-covid-19-cases/story-P83aJ6D4kOsGafg3ye66BP.html
25-07-2020||City||Sangrur police using app to track cops on night duty on trial basis||Sangrur In a boost to Punjab government’s efforts to enhance use of technology in policing, the Sangrur Police have developed a mobile application (app) to track its policemen on night duty, nakas and patrolling. Developed over a period of eight-nine months in collaboration with a private Information Technology (IT) firm, the app works on the basis of sending an alert to senior officials in case of absenteeism among policemen on these sensitive duties. “The app is on use on a trial basis,” said Sangrur SSP Sandeep Garg, adding that the district police had also developed a range of software to resolve issues that caused daily inconveniences like accessing data of criminals, stock of essentials and pending litigation etc. “The app and the software are the result of at least a 100 meetings and work over nine months. This is way forward for policing, where technology is increasingly adopted,” the SSP added. A source said that using the software, alerts for litigation in high court can be generated ten days before the date. “Over 1,500 cases from Sangrur are pending in Punjab and Haryana HC. The work of preparing replies and compilation of data, which take a lot of time, will be done lot more efficiently with the software. The new software will be installed in all police stations and investigation officers (IOs) will be able to work effectively on court cases,” the SSP added. To reduce expenditure on Mobile CCTV surveillance van, a moveable CCTV set-up has been developed that costs Rs 60,000 instead of a CCTV police van, which costs around Rs 7-8 lakh, the SSP said, adding that corruption could also be checked with the software also generating record of vehicles, their travel history and bills, and many other such items. “The Punjab DGP has checked the functioning of such software and approved its use. Some ideas have been implemented in the state and the rest are under trial,” the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangrur-police-using-app-to-track-cops-on-night-duty-on-trial-basis/story-l89H5hR3Ts39RYSUyTGisI.html
25-07-2020||City||Ban on sale of tobacco extended in Ludhiana to deter spitting in open||In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the commissioner of police has extended the ban on sale of tobacco products to deter spitting in the open.The ban will remain in effect for two months.The commissioner of police, Rakesh Agrawal, has also extended the ban on open sale of acid and asked traders to renew their licences timely to avoid police action. Traders have been directed to collect photocopy of the identity proof of the buyer and not sell acid to customers below 18 years of age.Institutions and organisations, that use acid for different purposes, have been directed to maintain the record of acid use. The ban on begging has also been extended for two months. Apart from this, the police chief has prohibited farming of Mangur fish in village ponds, as it harmed cattle and also eats away other species of fish in the pond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ban-on-sale-of-tobacco-extended-in-ludhiana-to-deter-spitting-in-open/story-9I9l2KAL8Pha1w4n83cGSL.html
25-07-2020||City||Ludhiana man killed in head-on collision between bikes||A motorcyclist was killed and his friend was injured in a head-on collision with another two-wheeler near Sirhind Canal in Machhiwara on Saturday.The deceased was identified as Parshuram, 34, of Garhi Tarkhana village.His friend, Vikas Mukhia, said he was riding pillion behind Parshuram during their commute from Pawat Bridge to Machhiwara. When they reached near Sirhind Canal, a motorcycle coming from the opposite side hit theirs.All three men were injured and rushed to a local hospital, where Parshuram succumbed to his injuries.Inspector Sukhvir Singh, SHO at Macchiwara police station, the other motorcyclist, Parduman Singh of Ballio village, had been booked for rash driving and causing death due to negligence. He is currently under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-killed-in-head-on-collision-between-bikes/story-laYFXcQyo0BLYxDvWdR9lL.html
25-07-2020||Jaipur||Tiger in Kota’s MHTR sanctuary dies after preying on feral cattle||A tiger has died in Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) in Rajasthan’s Kota district because of preying on feral cattle that led to accumulation of fat in its vital organs, which has triggered a fresh move to relocate at least three of the 14 villages located within the reserve on an urgent basis. MT-3, the tiger, had died on Thursday (July 23) in Mashalpura block of MHTR and its autopsy revealed a lump of fat in its heart, lungs and other vital organs. At present, MHTR has three tigers. Anand Mohan, the chief conservator of forests (CCF) Kota, said: “MHTR is a newly developed tiger reserve, where the animal had gone extinct four decades ago. They have been rehabilitated again. Though their prey base number is growing, it’s still short of the desired figure within the 80-square (sq)-kilometre (km) natural habitat for tigers.” Feral cattle are believed to be a problem in all tiger reserves across the country, which are exposed to villages and human habitation. “Similar problem exists in MHTR as well because 14 villages are located within the reserve,” the CCF said. Tigers don’t need to put an extra effort to prey on fat-rich feral cattle, he added. “Ungulates like deer, blue bull or other prey bases of tigers are aware of the prey predator’s hunting tactics in the wild, but the feral cattle are not acquainted with the animal’s hunting technique. They have become tigers’ soft targets, as they are easier to kill, as compared to wild animals,” he said. “Less fat is burnt in a tiger’s body while killing cattle. Consumption of bovine fat also leads to further accumulation of fat in a Big Cat’s body, in turn, affecting its vital organs,” he added. A tiger has to exhibit more endurance in killing wild animals than cattle. Besides, wild animals have less fat in their body. The forest officials are looking at measures to prevent a recurrence of similar mishaps. “Relocation of the villages can minimise the stray cattle problem and also facilitate more grasslands in MHTR that can increase tigers’ prey base,” Mohan said. Though there are 14 villages within MHTR, tigers are found to be moving around in three hamlets that need to be relocated on an urgent basis. The relocation of three villages will also provide an inviolate area, measuring around 300 sq km, within the reserve. The CCF said he would incorporate these facts in his report on MT-3’s death to chief wildlife warden of Rajasthan on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/tiger-in-kota-s-mhtr-sanctuary-dies-after-preying-on-feral-cattle/story-jfnt2H1gQomimdo9Uz9RDN.html
25-07-2020||City||Kashmir University student arrested under Unlawful Activities Act||Jammu and Kashmir police have arrested a Kashmir University (KU) student, Aqib Ahmad Malik, in a 2018 case filed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), police officials said on Saturday.Malik, 26, a resident of south Kashmir’s Shopian district, was summoned to Nigeen police station in Srinagar on Friday and arrested. He is a MSc Biochemistry student at KU, who had been come home after the Covid-19 outbreak.“Yes, we have arrested him in a case registered under UAPA in 2018,” said Nigeen station house officer Gowhar Ahmad. He refused to divulge any further details.Sources said that a case under Section 13 of UAPA was registered against Malik at the Nigeen police station in 2018. Section 13 deals with a person who advocates, abets, advises or incites the commission of any unlawful activity.Hazratbal superintendent of police Sudhanshu Verma said that they arrested Malik after collecting evidence in the case. “Without evidence we could not have arrested him. Besides, due to the Covid-19 pandemic it took some time. That is why he has been arrested now,” said Verma.Malik’s family says they suspect the case is related to a protest he held at the university hostel against poor quality of food. “He had protested against the bad quality of hostel food in 2018. He had raised a voice against corruption and that is why things went bad for him,” said Faizan Mushtaq, Malik’s younger brother. He added, “My brother has been at home for the past three months.”Malik’s family members are now travelling to Srinagar to meet him.Kashmir University officials said that the case was not filed by the varsity. “The university has been closed owing to Covid outbreak and no classes are going on. He is our student and has appeared in a recent exam. It is a 2018 case in Nigeen police station. We have not filed any case against him. Issues in hostels are a part of the university life,” said KU registrar Nisar Ahmad Mir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-university-student-arrested-under-unlawful-activities-act/story-fjTECvqSS1nCkUzCD22zKO.html
25-07-2020||City||Ludhiana man claims robbery of 200gm gold, cops suspect story||A worker at a jewellery store on Friday claimed to have been robbed of 200gm gold by occupants of a vehicle that hit his scooter near Lakkar bridge.However, after preliminary investigation, police suspect his claims and are probing further before registering a case.Rakesh Shoor, owner of VR Gold, Sarafa Bazaar, said Tarsem Lal, 55, worked at his store for the past five years. On Friday evening, Tarsem was returning to the store after collecting gold from two jewellery shops. He claimed on his way back, a vehicle hit his scooter from behind, causing him to fall on the road. Meanwhile, the occupants of the vehicle snatched 200gm gold, worth Rs 10.5 lakh, from his pocket.Shoor said a passerby informed him about the incident, following which he rushed to the spot and found Tarsem sitting on the roadside with an injured foot, and sounded the police.Inspector Harjit Singh, SHO, Division Number 1 police station, said a motorcyclist was moving behind Tarsem’s scooter, as seen in the CCTV footage, and claims that he didn’t see anyone hitting the scooter or snatching gold from Tarsem. “We are investigating further before lodging an FIR,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-claims-robbery-of-200gm-gold-cops-suspect-story/story-10HqKdAaYOWACcmqEo5jSI.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM to launch plasma donation drive in Mumbai’s Dharavi on July 27||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will launch a plasma donation program on July 27, following the ‘Plasma Daan Sankalp Abhiyan’ for primary screening of recovered Covid-19 patients in Dharavi area of Mumbai.After Dharavi set an example of controlling the coronavirus spread, MP Rahul Shewale has organised primary screening for the upcoming plasma donation camp at Kamaraj Memorial School in the area.The program will be launched on the occasion of the state Chief Minister’s birthday on July 27.Shewale said, “About 500 Covid-19 recovered patients have shown interest in plasma donation, of which 50 people were primarily screened.”“Earlier, the people of Dharavi won the fight of Covid-19 and now they are gearing up to win the hearts of the people of Maharashtra,” he added.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the total number of coronavirus cases in the area stands at 2,519, including 128 active cases and 2,141 have been cured/discharged till Friday.The World Health Organisation (WHO) had praised the efforts taken to contain the coronavirus in Mumbai’s Dharavi while saying that only aggressive action combined with national unity and global solidarity can turn this pandemic around.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-to-launch-plasma-donation-drive-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-on-july-27/story-H34QUzOHeQ8ojuOVMgDe3K.html
25-07-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka waives crematorium fees for Covid-19 victims in Bengaluru||The Karnataka government on Saturday announced waiver of crematorium fees for those who succumb to the Covid-19 infection in Bengaluru and said the city civic body would bear the cost. It said that from now on, families of the Covid deceased need not pay any fees fixed by the city civic body- Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP)- across 12 electric crematoriums in the city. “There were reports in the media about difficulties faced in performing the last rites of those who died due to Covid-19 infections. Aimed at resolving those difficulties, certain decisions have been taken,” revenue minister R Ashoka said. He told reporters here that BBMP had fixed Rs 250 as the cremation fee, Rs 100 for the ash collection pot and Rs 900 for the bier (bamboo stretcher on which the body is carried), all of which have been waived for Covid deaths. “So it will be a waiver of Rs 1,250 per cremation. The BBMP will bear this cost,” he added. Ashoka also announced Rs 500 per body incentive for the personnel who conduct the last rites of Covid victims. “This is in recognition of their services at a time when family members of the deceased are not ready to touch the body and not ready to take the body in some cases,” he said. Noting that the government has identified 23 acres of land at five places around Bengaluru for burial or cremation of Covid victims, Ashoka locals in all these areas are protesting against it. Appealing to the people for cooperation during these difficult times, he said the government’s intention was to ensure respectful burial or cremation for the deceased. “Obstructing it is not right, it is not Indian tradition,” he said.Pointing out that it takes almost a day’s time for a Covid victim’s body to be handed over for burial or cremation, he said “scientifically, according to experts and doctors, the virus will not remain alive for more than three hours. ...Also, bodies are either burnt or buried eight feet below. So there will not be any problem for those living in nearby areas and it will not spread infection. Cooperate with humanity,” he said. “These lands identified are for all religions and communities and once the pandemic subsides, can be used for other deaths as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-waives-crematorium-fees-for-covid-19-victims-in-bengaluru/story-pqdW2Jndi4e4MhPhuqyhOJ.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police files chargesheet against Sharjeel Imam in UAPA case||A chargesheet was filed against JNU student Sharjeel Imam by the Delhi Police on Saturday in connection with a case related to his alleged inflammatory speeches during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at several places.The chargesheet, filed in Delhi’s Patiala House court today, said that Imam openly defied the Constitution of India and called it a “fascist” document.According to the police, the chargesheet has been filed under several relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act including sedition, promoting enmity between groups, and spreading rumors, etc.Police said that he is accused of delivering seditious speeches and inciting a particular section of the community to indulge in unlawful activities, detrimental to the sovereignty and the integrity of the nation.“In the garb of protesting against the CAA 2019, he exhorted people of a particular community to block the highways leading to the major cities and resort to ‘Chakka Jam’, thereby disrupting normal life,” the Delhi Police said in the chargesheet.“He also openly defied the Constitution and called it a ‘fascist’ document. In the name of opposing the CAA, he also openly propagated blocking the ‘chicken neck’ connecting the mainland-India with the northeast,” it added.Imam is being probed for his alleged inflammatory speech at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13 and subsequently on January 16 at Aligarh Muslim University, where he allegedly threatened to “cut off” Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. He is currently lodged at Guwahati Central Jail.The police had earlier submitted before the court that after his speech on December 13, widespread arson and violence took place in various parts of Delhi and that several protest sites emerged after his January 16 speech.Earlier, a Delhi court granted an extension of 90 days to the Delhi Police to conclude the investigation and file a chargesheet in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-files-chargesheet-against-sharjeel-imam-in-uapa-case/story-Nfpsg5q7KcHIi1f20iHDrJ.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||‘Covid-19 cases have gone down, but fight not over yet’: Delhi CM Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the two crore people of the city, his government and the Centre have together attained victory in controlling Covid-19 but the fight is not over yet.Speaking virtually at the inauguration of 450-bed Delhi government hospital in Burari, he said Covid-related parameters have improved in Delhi in the last one month.“The two crore Delhi people, Delhi government and the Centre have together attained victory over corona but it would not be correct to say that the fight is over,” he said.The chief minister pointed out that in past one month, cases of Covid-19 have gone down, deaths have reduced, recovery rate has increased and positivity ratio has lowered.“This is a result of the hard work of all the people. I want to congratulate all the doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, officials, and whoever has worked hard to achieve this goal.”  He said the Burari hospital will increase the number of beds for coronavirus patients in the city.“I am very happy to be inaugurating Burari hospital today. I could not be there due to COVID and various other arrangements. The opening of this hospital will add 450 more beds in the health infrastructure in Delhi,” Kejriwal said.Health Minister Satyendar Jain inaugurated the hospital and was joined through video conferencing by the chief minister.The hospital will eventually have a total of 700 beds. Around 125 beds will have oxygen supply and the capacity will be enhanced in the coming days, the Delhi government said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-cases-have-gone-down-but-fight-not-over-yet-delhi-cm-kejriwal/story-tgnIvFoU7qFHTZG9WCQPAO.html
25-07-2020||Noida||3 held in Ghaziabad for duping unemployed youths on pretext of providing jobs||Three members of a gang were arrested for allegedly duping youths on the pretext of providing them jobs in multinational companies, police said on Friday.Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani said they were running a fake job website and charging money from gullible youths in the name of entry fees, registration and no-objection certificates.They also used to get personal data of job seekers from other websites and withdraw money from their bank accounts, the officer said.Those arrested have been identified as Ravi Chauhan, Pramod Sagar and Vikas, all residents of Noida, police said. According to the police, during interrogation, Chauhan confessed to have earned over Rs 1 crore by duping job seekers. Another member of the gang, Ajit Paswan, is on the run and a hunt is on to nab him, they said.The gang had duped job seekers in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Gujarat. Investigation into the racket has unearthed a fake call centre being run by them, police said.Five debit cards, two laptops, six mobile phones, 167 pre-activated and blank SIM cards, were among the items seized from the accused, the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/3-held-in-ghaziabad-for-duping-unemployed-youths-on-pretext-of-providing-jobs/story-PZTgZB5DqozTgJCSOx3cgK.html
25-07-2020||Lucknow||The win that changed UP’s cricket scene||Uttar Pradesh’s loss to domestic giants Mumbai in the Ranji Trophy semi-final by an innings and 233 runs at the Wankhede Stadium in 1994-95 in less than three days was not unexpected.While it may have been business as usual for most of the players in the Rahul Sapru-led Uttar Pradesh team, a few, including Gyanendra Pandey, were distraught. The young brigade in the side then decided to avenge the humiliation in future.With the passage of time, many people forgot that loss, but not the young Pandey and his pacers Ashish Winston Zaidi and Obaid Kamal who avenged the defeat in style in another semi-final at the same venue four years later. That three-wicket win changed the fortunes of Uttar Pradesh cricket. Perhaps, forever.Zaidi wrecked Mumbai in the first innings, bagging 6/29 in 11.3 overs as UP skittled out the Amol Mazumdar-led side for 94 in just 34.3 overs after the home side chose to exploit the flat pitch on winning the toss. The two other seamers Obaid Kamal and Mohd Saif shared two wickets between them. Five of the Mumbai batsmen couldn’t open their account. Only skipper Mazumdar (31) and Jatin Paranjpe (42) offered some resistance.Even after Mumbai had lost five wickets for 84, things could have been different, if the young Obaid had not uprooted the middle stump of a solid-looking Mazumdar with a direct throw from the mid-off region. In fact, that run-out became the turning point of the first innings.Despite posting a small total, Mumbai looked confident of hitting back. But UP skipper Gyanendra Pandey (64) and ‘Mr Dependable’ Rizwan Shashad (43) defied the strong Mumbai bowling line-up consisting of Paras Mhambrey, Abey Kuruvilla, Nilesh Kulkarni, Sairaj Bahutule and RV Pawar to end Day One at 179/4.By the end of Day Two, Uttar Pradesh sensed something special when Pandey and Shamshad smashed 109 and 64, respectively, to help the side score 293 in 99.4 overs. Pandey was dismissed by Kulkarni, taking a return catch off his own delivery, before Shamshad got out in a similar manner to Pawar. Mhambrey finished with 3/48.Despite conceding a 199-run first innings lead against Uttar Pradesh, the hosts Mumbai didn’t lose heart and went on to score 328, setting a winning target of 130 for the visitors in the fourth innings. Paranjpe (83), Mazumdar (87) and Bahutule (44*) came up with some fine batting performances. For UP, this time it was Obaid who bagged 5/58 in 31 overs. Saif took 3/86, whereas Zaidi and Shamshad took a wicket each.Uttar Pradesh were 2/26 with Jyoti Yadav (5) and Shamshad (4) batting at the end of Day Three in the second innings. Drama unfolded on the fourth day when UP started losing wickets at regular intervals and the scoreboard read 5/71. But it was not Mumbai’s day as Gyanendra Pandey stood like a rock and struck an unbeaten 45 to take his side home in 60.2 overs. Besides Pandey, Shamshad (25) and Jyoti Yadav (22) had major contributions. Nilesh Kulkarni took 4/46 and Pawar bagged 2/48.“The win that day was like a dream come true for all of us. It set the tone for a bright future for Uttar Pradesh cricket,” Pandey recalled. “We wanted to let the world know the strength of UP cricket. I still feel proud that I led the side then,” he said.Pandey said that winning moment against Mumbai was unforgettable as everyone in this side had memories of their humiliation against the same team in 1994-95.“I was so disappointed when we lost by a huge margin in the semi-final (1994-95). A few of us were determined to teach Mumbai a lesson in future. We did exactly that in 1998,” he added.Gyanendra Pandey later played two ODIs for Team India against Pakistan, and helped UP cricket and cricketers see many more great moments as player, coach and also as junior national selector. Obaid Kamal, another hero of the match, still remembers how he ran Mazumdar out in the first innings. “I bluffed the batsman as I fumbled an easy push. Before he could think of getting back, I made a direct hit. It changed our fortunes in the first innings,” said Kamal, who hanged his boots in 2005-06 soon after UP lifted their maiden Ranji Trophy at KD Singh ‘Babu’ Stadium here, beating Bengal on the basis of the first innings lead.Kamal praised Gyanendra for his aggressive leadership and the ability to handle the pressure in a crunch situation. “Credit goes to Pandey for transforming UP cricket. It was after a gap of 18 years that we had made it to the Ranji Trophy final in 1998 and had our first win ever against Mumbai,” he said.“The wicket was dry in the second innings. Even before the start of the day’s proceedings, I had told one of my journalist friends in Mumbai that it was going to be my day today. In fact, I planned each dismissal and moved the ball both ways. Although Shamshad dropped Mazumdar at slip, I made him dance to my tunes for 10-15 deliveries before he offered a straight-forward catch to Shamshad. This time there was no mistake,” said Kamal.Shamshad, who scored 7,000 plus runs in domestic cricket but couldn’t play for Team India, also felt the team’s win in 1998 brought a drastic change in the the perspective of other top cricket playing states about UP.“I still find that the team which played between 1998 and 2006, including cricketers like Mohd Kaif, Suresh Raina, Piyush Chawla, were the best in UP’s history.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/the-win-which-changed-up-s-cricket-scene/story-7r2Dm8fTILDnIdzMlFDR3J.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana school chosen SAT test centre||Kundan Vidya Mandir School, Civil Lines, has been chosen as an official test centre by the SAT college board. Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT) is a standardised test widely used for college admissions in the United States. KVM principal Navita Puri said that as the world is becoming a global village, the number of students from the region who want to pursue higher education in the United States has gone up exponentially. Puri said students from Ludhiana and its outskirts face problem as they have to travel to Amritsar, Chandigarh or other distant cities to take the exam.She added that this will reduce the stress level of students from the region and help improve their scores so they are eligible for admission in reputed colleges and universities in the USA. She said students registering for SAT to be held from October 3, 2020, can choose KVM as their test centre by using the code 63251.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-school-chosen-sat-test-centre/story-lSfVRRDvzb2cKcwi090tAN.html
25-07-2020||City||Three Ludhiana cops hurt as liquor smugglers speed off from check post||Three cops were injured and a police car was damaged after two liquor smuggling accused sped away from a check post at Sangiowal bridge on Friday evening.Two other accused in another car were nabbed after their vehicle rammed into the police barricades in the attempt to escape.They were identified as Gagandeep Singh, 40, and Jatin Kumar, 22, of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar of Shimlapuri. As many as 40 cartons of illicit liquor were recovered from their car. Their aides who escaped are Mahinder Singh, alias Balli, and his son, Gocha.Sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma, in-charge, anti-smuggling wing, said the two vehicles were signalled to stop at the check post. However, one of them sped away, causing injuries to constable Jatinder Singh and two other cops, besides damaging a police vehicle. The other car got stuck into the barricades and its two occupants were nabbed, he added.The sub-inspector said the accused were smuggling liquor from Ambala. Mahinder is the kingpin of the gang and is facing trial in several cases of liquor smuggling. Gagandeep is a driver and Jatin his assistant. All accused were booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code at the Dehlon police station. A hunt is on for the arrest of Mahinder and his son.12 liquor bottles seizedIn another case, the anti-smuggling wing arrested Yashpal, alias Shanty, of Chhawni Mohalla for illegally possessing 12 bottles of liquor. A case was lodged at the Division Number 4 police station.Police also recovered three cartons of illicit liquor from a Maruti Swift Dzire car, while its occupants managed to escape. A case under the Excise Act was registered against the unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-ludhiana-cops-hurt-as-liquor-smugglers-speed-off-from-check-post/story-NIJx2fy0e4vfBzI1STb7GN.html
25-07-2020||Pune||PMRDA proposes to establish 800-bed hospital in 20 days to tackle rising Covid cases||The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) has floated an expression of interest to create an 800-bed Covid-19 hospital for Pune city. Of it, 600 will be oxygenated beds, while 200 will be intensive care unit (ICU) beds. PMRDA plans to establish the hospital within 20 days and has proposed the Balewadi sports complex as it site of construction, but added, that it can be shifted to any other suitable location. The number of patients in critical care is 589 among the 44,065 progressive positive cases in the city as of July 23. Saurabh Rao, IAS officer on special duty for the administration’s response in fighting Covid-19, said, “As the Covid-19 cases are increasing in the city and maximum critical patients require oxygen support and other ICU facilities, the administration has decided to create the jumbo facility. Once the work order is given, the facility will be ready within fifteen days.” PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase and PMRDA chief engineer Vivek Kharwadkar are in charge of creating the facility. Kharwadkar said, “The facility is not just any other Covid care centre, as it will be like a hospital where all the critical patients can be admitted. The hospital will have 800 beds of which 600 are oxygen supported and 200 are ICU beds. As per the expression of interest, the authority concerned will need to erect this facility within 20 days from the date of work order.” Kharwadkar said, “In the expression of interest, we mentioned the place at Balewadi, but it can be established at any other suitable place. PMRDA would finalise the place. The last date for submission is July 27. The hospital will have to be operational for six months.” “With the help of Pune Municipal Corporation and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) soon we will be developing a 1,000-bed jumbo Covid facility at the Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex in Balewadi or College of Engineering, Pune ground (COEP). There will be 200 ICU beds and 800 oxygen beds,” said Shravan Hardikar, Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner. In the last 10 days, the PCMC civic body has taken many important decisions to control the spread of Covid in the city. “We have added 10 more hospitals in the Covid fold and the Covid care centres have also started in four hotels. 2,000 more beds have been added for Covid patients,” added Hardikar. The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is also in the process of creating a 500 oxygen bed centre at Balnagari, Bhosari in the coming month. “The PCMC has also floated a tender of doctors so we will be getting additional doctors while Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) will be getting 30 ICU beds and 120 oxygen beds. 100 oxygen beds in combine will be provided to Bhosari and Jijamata Hospital.” (With inputs from Jigar Hindocha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmrda-proposes-to-establish-800-bed-hospital-in-20-days-to-tackle-rising-covid-cases/story-TK9ebeLZU2uVbMBjPcGJGL.html
25-07-2020||Pune||Three booked for assaulting anti-encroachment squad inspector in Pimpri||A squad inspector attached to the anti-encroachment department of Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) was brutally assaulted by four persons on Thursday afternoon while he was on an anti-encroachment drive in Nehru nagar, Pimpri.The accused have been identified as Raju Ashruba Waghmare ( 41), Shubham Raju Waghmare (19), Subhash Raju Waghmare (21) and a juvenile in conflict with the law. The victim, Satish Nivrutti Landge (45) has lodged the First Information Report (FIR) against the accused at Pimpri police station. According to the investigation, Landge heads the anti-encroachment squad for the local area and belongs to inspector category in the said department. Senior police inspector Ganesh Javadwad said that the victim was on duty near Annasaheb Magar Stadium in the area when he was accosted by the accused and assaulted with sticks and iron rods. The accused besides physically assaulting the PCMC official resorted to vandalism and broke the windshields of the official anti-encroachment van belonging to the civic body causing physical damage to public property, he said. The police have booked all the accused under IPC sections 353 ( Assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty ), 504 ( Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 ( criminal intimidation ), 427 ( Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees ) , 341 ( wrongful restraint ) and 34 ( Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention ). According to the police, the anti-encroachment squads usually come under attack when they take action against unauthorised establishments and hawkers in any part of the corporation and appealed to the civic body to take adequate precautions before swinging into action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/three-booked-for-assaulting-anti-encroachment-squad-inspector-in-pimpri/story-3Sq7JMb5u5t0K0cZsf316N.html
25-07-2020||Pune||Senior advocate Bhaskarrao Awhad passes away||Senior advocate and former president of Bar Council of Maharashtra Bhaskarrao Awhad passed away in Pune on Friday. He was 77. Awhad was undergoing treatment at Deenanath hospital after his Covid test reports came positive, said family members. During his practice, Awhad offered his guidance to multiple advocates who later became prominent. Dr S B Mujumdar, Symbiosis founder, said, “Prof B E Avhad was visiting and distinguished professor when I started law College of Symbiosis in 1977. He was a very popular teacher among students and even students of other old college used to attend his lectures. On behalf of Symbiosis and myself, I pay my tributes to Prof Avhad.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/senior-advocate-bhaskarrao-awhad-passes-away/story-BlBzvrh9dsN9SdnC0C5M1I.html
25-07-2020||Pune||Patient escapes Vishrantwadi quarantine facility in Pune, brought back||A Covid-19 patient who escaped from a quarantine facility in Vishrantwadi on Thursday night was brought back to the centre by crime branch unit officials on Friday.The patient, who had tested positive for the Sar-Cov-2 virus that causes coronavirus, had escaped from the Sant Dnyaneshwar Hostel, Vishrantwadi, that is converted into a quarantine facility. Police were unable to trace the patient as his mobile was switched off.The city control informed the night patrol of the crime branch wherein constable Imran Shaikh was tasked to track the patient.According to Shaikh, who’s search team included two constables, the patient had returned to his residence.“We informed the Bhavani peth regional ward office and requested for an ambulance to take the patient back to the Covid-19 centre. We followed the safety norms of social distancing, wore face masks and used sanitisers while bringing the patient back to the centre,” said Shaikh.Additional commissioner ( Crime ) Ashok Morale said, “ The crime branch team received information from the health authorities about the patient who escaped from the quarantine centre. Accordingly, the team got into action, traced the persons and convinced him to get readmitted to the quarantine facility.”“The team followed all the guidelines of the health department and state government during the entire work. Citizens who are admitted to quarantine facilities must abide by the instructions of health authorities and refrain from such acts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/patient-escapes-vishrantwadi-quarantine-facility-in-pune-brought-back/story-V1sVwCCd3e75qs08Zm0VPM.html
25-07-2020||Pune||Master plan to restart public transport after lockdown, says PMPML CMD Rajendra Jagtap||Rajendra Jagtap, who has been appointed as the new chairman and managing director (CMD) of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), took charge of the office from his predecessor Nayana Gunde on Friday.The appointment comes at a time when the organisation is going through a severe financial crisis aggravated by the lockdown situation. The public transport utility’s revenue generation is hit as it is currently plying only for people working in essential services.Jagtap held a review meeting with the department heads, depot managers and senior officials after taking charge in the presence of joint CMD Ajay Charthankar.Talking about his plans to revive PMPML’s financial condition, Jagtap said, “Currently, at least 3,000 PMPML staffers have been deployed for various Covid-related work in PMC and PCMC. Our services are limited to the emergency services people and hence, we have to look towards generating revenue as the lockdown has ended in Pune. In the first review meeting with officials, we discussed the current status of the organisation and will chalk a master plan with short, medium and long-term goals within in a month. It will be submitted to the Pune district guardian minister with a request to resume our services for the public.”The new PMPML head said that expenses of PMPML have increased because of the virus prevention measures to be implemented. “Each bus needs to be sanitised after every travel. Masks, gloves and sanitisers have been provided to drivers and conductors. The organisation needs to be takes steps to improve its financial condition,” he added.Jagtap has earlier worked at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) as additional commissioner and CEO of Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/master-plan-to-restart-public-transport-after-lockdown-says-pmpml-cmd-rajendra-jagtap/story-RumVgdCngxRB4AqR7uGMAN.html
25-07-2020||Pune||Pune city’s Covid-19 case fatality rate drops to 2.53%||As per the Maharashtra government’s Medical Education and Drugs Department, as of July 24, the city’s case fatality rate stood at 2.53 per cent while the state’s average stood at 3.70 per cent. In Mumbai, the case fatality rate was recorded at 5.59 per cent, Thane at 3.49 per cent, Solapur at 8.04 per cent.According to officials the case fatality rate graph has been witnessing a dip since the past four weeks.In the ten-day lockdown period between July 14 and July 23, the case fatality rate in the city dropped to 1.6 per cent, according to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data. Between June 25 and July 1, the case fatality rate was reported to be at 2.6 per cent with 117 deaths reported which further dropped to 1.8 per cent in the following week from July 2 to July 8. In this period 103 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate rose to 1.9 per cent between July 9 and July 15 with 119 deaths reported during this period and then further down to 1.4 per cent from July 16 to July 21 July with 146 deaths.Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, PMC, said, “If the positive cases have increased then proportionately the number of deaths reported would have also gone up, but that did not happen.”“Pune is conducting the highest number of tests than any other cities in the country which is helping in early detection. We have added on to the oxygen beds, ventilators and ICU units too,” she said.“By next week we will add another 600 oxygen beds at our Covid care centres. We are focusing on the 20% of the active cases who are symptomatic, once we can treat them then the problem is dealt with,” she said.According to civic officials, health care infrastructure also plays a vital role to bring down the case fatality rate. As per the divisional commissioner’s dashboard as of Saturday evening, out of the 3,045 allocated isolation beds with oxygen, 755 are vacant and of the 528 allocated beds for ICU without ventilators, 141 are vacant and of the 433 ICU beds with ventilator 42 are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-city-s-covid-19-case-fatality-rate-drops-to-2-53/story-P0PUn6JCCOylgGh5gdeTMI.html
25-07-2020||Pune||Pune receives highest single-day rainfall of 31mm in July for this season||The city received 31mm of rainfall in nine hours (8:30am to 5:30pm) on Friday, the highest figure recorded in July in this season.The city had been recording light spells of rains, under 10mm, on most days during the month. “Currently, the city is receiving moderate rain mostly, with isolated heavy rain in some pockets of the city area/district as per forecast given by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune. For ghat areas, isolated heavy rains will continue till July 26,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of IMD, Pune.In most areas of the city, it rained lightly or moderately on Friday. Till July 27, the IMD forecast for the city is light to moderate rain.“This phase of widespread rainfall in the state will boost agricultural scenario and help in recharge of groundwater and dams,” added Kashyapi.The maximum temperature on Friday was 29.3 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature recorded was 22.8 degrees Celsius.So far, the city has received 272.3mm seasonal rainfall which is 7.8mm less than normal rainfall (280.1mm).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-receives-highest-single-day-rainfall-of-31mm-in-july-for-this-season/story-5gBXsmffu9gOVB8gPUr54K.html
25-07-2020||Pune||Civic administration fails to increase health infrastructure in Pune during lockdown||If expanding health infrastructure was one of the aims of the administration during the lockdown, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) along with district authorities failed to utilise the period to achieve its target. An official from the PMC offered the beds related data which suggest the administration was able to increase 159 ICU beds with ventilators, 95 beds without ventilators and 348 beds with oxygen in the city during the 10-day lockdown period. The capacity building was way short than what PMC had aimed – when Shekhar Gaikwad was the civic chief he announced to increase the bed capacity to 70,000 in various educational institutes. Though the beds have increased as per the Pune Divisional Commissioner’s dashboard as of July 24, not a single ICU bed with the ventilator was available for patients in PMC area while only six ICU beds without ventilators are available. The figures suggest although the administration was able to increase the beds slightly during the lockdown, the on-ground situation showed critical patients are not getting beds while running from hospital to hospital. On the instruction of the Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar, the Pune district administration had introduced the lockdown for 10 days from July 14 to July 23. As the beds situation became critical, the administration decided to introduce the lockdown and got a breathing period to increase the medical infrastructure. Bharatiya Janata Party’s city unit president Jagdish Mulik issued a press statement and said that city’s health facility is on a ventilator. Mulik said, “The lockdown has completely failed. Despite the lockdown, citizens are not getting beds in hospitals. Not a single ventilator is available in the city. Private hospitals are charging more, patients are not getting beds and ambulances and no one has control over this situation. The state government needs to concentrate on Pune city.” Though the figures available with the PMC shows the administration has been able to increase the beds capacity, it is not helping to sort out the crises as the surge is bigger and every day more than 1,500 Covid-19 positive cases are emerging in the city. The officer on special duty Saurabh Rao said, “The administration definitely tried to improve the beds’ situation in the city. But the surge is big and as compared to the surge we must accept that the infrastructure is lacking. But we would ensure that each patient would get treatment and we’ve given instructions to the private hospitals to not deny any patient. If they do not have a ventilator or ICU bed vacant, they should first admit the new patient and start treatment on the vacant beds. Later, that hospital would search the vacant bed in other hospitals through their network or dashboard and inform the relatives.”Rao said that we are expecting more critical patients at the end of July and therefore the goal is to upgrade the infrastructure to handle the situation.District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “The private hospitals accepted that they would add more beds in the deluxe and semi-deluxe rooms. It would help to increase more beds in the existing infrastructure.”BOXbed category/ 13 July/ 23 July/ beds increased during lock downWithout Oxygen beds / 11085/11253/168Oxygen beds/1715/2063/348ICU beds/ 350/509/159Ventilators/ 210/305/95||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/civic-administration-fails-to-increase-health-infrastructure-in-pune-during-lockdown/story-H2cnqwB98G2ADRh7JPo4fJ.html
25-07-2020||City||Half-burnt man’s body found in Kapurthala fields||Kapurthala The half-burnt body of an unidentified man, appearing to be in his 30s, was found near Mand river in Dhilwan on Friday evening. A farmer, Sarwan Singh, had spotted the body in his fields. “I found the half-burnt body with some visible injuries and informed the locals and the police,” added Sarwan. “Preliminary investigation suggests that the youth was attacked with sharp-edged weapons before being burnt. His hands were tied and the body thrown into the river,” Dhilwan SHO Harjinder Singh said, adding the body had been kept at civil hospital’s mortuary for identification. He added nearby police stations had been informed to ensure the body was identified at the earliest. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) has been registered against unidentified persons at Dhilwan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/half-burnt-man-s-body-found-in-kapurthala-fields/story-pMM5eo3nRFpJa8Dkr7txfK.html
25-07-2020||Pune||Stick-fighting video helps 85-year-old woman in Pune beat lockdown woes||The lockdown has affected many people, particularly those from the low revenue group. With work at hand during this period, an 85-year-old woman from Pune showing her martial arts skills received substantial help and praise after a video of her went viral on social media.Shantabai Pawar, a resident of Gosaviwasti in Hadapsar, was showing her stick-fighting skills on the streets of the city with a mask on her face during lockdown to earn money for her family, which includes orphaned children she has taken under her care.Coming from Dombari community, a nomadic tribe in Maharashtra, Pawar learnt to wield sticks from her father when she was eight. The Dombaris in Maharashtra known to posses stick-wielding skills and often seen performing it on streets to earn a livelihood. The skill, according to Pawar, was more of an honour to her though the family did this for livelihood.When her video went viral, the octogenarian expressed shock and disbelief as she had never thought that a video of her will fetch her so much praise and help. “I learnt stick-fighting skills in childhood and would travel to different places to display it. However, the ongoing lockdown has been very harsh for me and family as we struggled for day’s meal. To overcome that I decided to display my stick-fighting skill on the roads so that patrons would give money,” she said.Film actor Riteish Deshmukh described her as “warrior aaji” (warrior grandmother) on a micro-blogging site and contacted her after watching her video, which helped her get ration and monetary help from many others.Sonu Sood, another Bollywood personality, also tweeted saying said he would like to open “small training school with her where she can train women of our country some self-defence techniques.”Having lost one of her son’s and daughter-in-law leaving her, Pawar now stays with three of her other daughters and seven grandchildren. The daughters and her son-in-law’s work as daily wage in nearby areas though lockdown has hit the family hard with all income halted.“It has been a very difficult period for us. The lockdown has stopped all the income. I had stopped stick-fighting skills but had to resume it to earn livelihood when someone shot my video and uploaded on social media,” said Pawar whose granddaughter said the video helped the family garner help in form of kind and cash.“Many people visited our homes and offered grain and financial help after the video went viral,” said her granddaughter.Aishwarya Kale, a dancer who shot Pawar’s video and uploaded it on social media, said she was surprised to see such an overwhelming response to the video.“I was passing through Salunkhe Vihar when I saw the old woman performing her skills. I found it interesting that such an old woman having a mask on her face was performing stick-fighting. I then recorded the video and uploaded it on social media,” said Kale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/stick-fighting-video-helps-85-year-old-woman-in-pune-beat-lockdown-woes/story-Bj0H0dkCAJE5kl5AvMcvCP.html
25-07-2020||Pune||Pune city reports 2,011 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, 49 deaths||The city, on Friday, reported 2,011 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, according to the data of the state health department. This takes the progressive positive cases in the city to 47,457.While 49 more deaths were reported taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 1,203.However, Pune Municipal corporation (PMC) reported 1,479 positives which takes the progressive positive to 45,544 and with 29 fresh deaths, the city’s death count as per the PMC, stood at 1,133.Out of the 17,686 patients admitted at various city hospitals, 663 are in a critical condition, out of which 102 are on ventilators and 561 are in ICU or in non-invasive ventilators.The civic body also reduced the number of testing across the city which was usually about 7,000 as of last week to 5,747 as of Friday taking the total count to 2.35 lakh.A total of 817 people were discharged after being declared as cured of the virus taking the total count of discharged people to 26,725.The deaths include eight deaths reported from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH), five deaths from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), two each from Surya Sahyadri Hospital, Ruby Hall Clinic, Noble Hospital, Ratna Hospital.One death each from Naidu hospital, Symbiosis hospital, Sahyadri Hospital (Nagar), Inamdar Hospital, Sanjeevan hospital, Jupiter hospital, AIIMS Hospital and Dalvi hospital.Also, seven deaths of residents from out of PMC limits were reported from city hospitals including two each from SGH, Symbiosis hospital and DMH and one death from AICTS hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-city-reports-2-011-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases-49-deaths/story-HmigtrCUJ8nmGLGWeNy87O.html
25-07-2020||Pune||Scattered response on first day post lockdown in Pune, PCMC||The Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad cities which unlocked after 10 days of lockdown saw a scattered number of customers in their respective markets on Friday. Clothes shops, mobile accessories, grocery shops reported a scattered presence of customers.The odd even guidelines issued by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) saw a decent response on day one as few areas strictly followed the guidelines while others ignored. The odd even guidelines were strictly followed by Pimpri market, Bhosari, Akurdi, Laxmi road, Tilak road, Bajirao road, Navi peth, Sadashiv peth, Hadapsar, Kothrud, JM road, FC road, Camp, Appa Balwant chowk.Shravan Hardikar, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner said, “We are evaluating the even/odd guidelines with the consultation of the PMC and District Information office (DIO) and soon a decision will be finalised on the five days a week suggested by traders association and scrapping up even/odd guidelines. At the moment action will be taken against people who do not follow even/odd rules.”According to the even/odd guidelines, the shops on the right side of the road will remain open on even dates while shops on the left side will remain open on odd dates. All businesses will only operate from 9 am to 5pm, and those found violating the guidelines will be shut down. “We completely oppose the odd-even guidelines but today all the traders have followed it as the civic body is following what state government has told them and the rule will remain till July 31 after that there will be new guidelines,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary of federation of traders association of Pune (FTAP). The Pimpri market which faced many problems in the past for not following odd even guidelines followed it strictly on day one. The guidelines were also followed by MG road camp, Laxmi road, Bajirao road and Navipeth markets. Tulshibaug was not entirely operational, and guidelines were not followed. “We will not be repeating our mistakes this time. The odd even guidelines will be followed till the civic body wants. We don’t expect a rush of people in the cloth market as many people have not got their salaries so how will they come for shopping,” said the owner of Waheguru clothes shop in Pimpri. The guidelines were not implemented in Chinchwad, Dange chowk, Baner, Aundh, Balewadi, Tulsibaugh areas. A partial implementation of the guidelines was seen in Aundhgaon, Thergaon, Mahalunge, Hinjewadi, Dhyari, Satara road, Katraj, Ambegaon.“We don’t have any idea about the even/odd guidelines. We have already faced so many losses, we cannot keep our shop closed,” said Raunak Shah of Raunak hardware on Baner road. “We have requested Pune police commissioner and civic body chief, Vikram Kumar to scrap even/odd guidelines and traders will follow five days (10am-8pm) week routine with shops completely shut on the weekends. The authorities are yet to make any decision on the same. Let’s wait for July 31,” added Pitaliya. Most of the shops followed temperature check up at the entrance of the shops and workers were given protective guards for their safety. The traffic movement on roads has increased as civic bodies have allowed 50 per cent staff to go to office. “On most roads, traffic was noticed in morning hours (office hours) but after that it slowed down later in the day,” said Satish Nandurkar, police inspector at MIDC Bhosari. Satara road was also buzzing with vehicles in the morning hours. Ramesh Phadnis, a Thergaon resident said, “The crowd at Dange Chowk was less in comparison to when unlock happened on the previous occasion. The even/odd guidelines were not followed here during the whole day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/scattered-response-on-first-day-post-lockdown-in-pune-pcmc/story-VRyrn70qczx3kllH1MVs5H.html
25-07-2020||Pune||Pune shopkeepers defy ‘odd-even’ rule in some parts of city||Despite opposition from traders, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration in its order on Thursday decided to retain its ‘even-odd’ formula for commercial shop openings across the city, a move many traders defied on Friday when the 10-day lockdown was lifted.As per the order, on even dates shops on one side of the road will be open while those on the other side while resume business on odd days. However, the Pune Traders Federation has opposed the move and kept shops on both sides of the streets open on the first day on Friday.Several shops in areas like Laxmi road, Kumthekar road, Bajirao road, Satara road, Tilak road and others were seen open. In suburban areas like Aundh, Baner and Bavdhan, along with Hadapsar, many shops were seen open on both sides of the road.“As the lockdown was ending on Thursday, we had already written our demands to PMC commissioner and all other governing bodies. One of our major demands was cancelling the odd-even days’ formula due to which each shop owner is facing huge financial losses,” said Fattechand Ranka, president, Traders Association.“For the last three to four months, shops are closed and according to the formula, one has to keep the shop open only for 15 days in a month. So we demanded to cancel it and still, they continued it. So, we have now left with no option but to oppose the decision and shop owners or traders are ready to face any action but will keep the shops open,” he said.There are more than 30,000 shops across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and around 10 lakh people are dependant financially, according to the traders’ body, which claimed that the rule is creating confusion and quarrel between shop owners and business has gone down.“On one hand all other essential shops, vegetable markets, roadside hawkers, private offices are open throughout the month why this injustice is only with the shop owners. The spread of Covid-19 is not because of us, it is due to the failure of the government agencies and they cannot blame us for their failure,” he said.“All the shop owners are taking safety precautions for their staff and customers. Still, the odd-even formula is imposed on us, we are going to take a meeting of all our association members on Monday and further plan of action to oppose this decision will be decided,” he added.Despite shops open on both sides, PMC did not act against any trader.“The odd-even rules for the shop owners are not decided by us, but is the regulation of the Maharashtra government. The order of restarting Pune has come yesterday only and it cannot be changed in one day about the P1 and P2 issue,” said Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar.“We need to wait for the revised regulations issued by the state government in this regard and we will work accordingly,” he said.Ashok Mohtage, a shop owner on Tilak road said, “During the countrywide lockdown, we have already suffered a huge loss in the business and now when we are restarting such rules are imposed on us.”“Keeping shop open half of the month is not profitable for any of us. There are many expenses to shop owners like maintenance of shops, worker salaries, electricity bill and now additionally for the safety precautions to daily sanitise the shop, masks, gloves and sanitisers for workers and customers. So, our expenses have increased and only 15-day business will badly affect us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-shopkeepers-defy-odd-even-rule-in-some-parts-of-city/story-pFjPQ8JVBrffsu0ZvlvbvJ.html
25-07-2020||Dehradun||Tiger cub found dead in Corbett Tiger Reserve, second tiger death reported from reserve||A carcass of a five-month-old tiger cub was found in Jhirna range of Uttarakhand’s Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) on Friday. This is the second tiger to have died in CTR this year. Rahul, who only uses his first name, director, CTR, said that the tiger was spotted by forest officials in the Laldhang beat of Jhirna range. “A five-month-old tiger cub was found dead by forest staff in the Jhirna range. The post-mortem report has revealed it died due to dehydration and hunger. This is the second tiger to have died in CTR this year,” said Rahul. On May 29, a carcass of a 10-year-old tigress was found in CTR’s Jhirna range. The tigress had injury marks on its neck and was likely to have died due to infighting with another tigress or tiger, officials had said. “Patrolling staff of the park spotted the carcass of the tigress in Jhirna range. The tigress had injury marks, which hinted that it likely to have died due to infighting with another tiger or tigress,” Rahul had said. The death of a Big Cat is not an isolated incident in the Kumaon region, as many carcasses have been found in the past two years. In the second week of April, the carcass of a five-year-old male tiger was found in the Ramnagar forest division near CTR. Last December, the carcass of a tigress was found in CTR’s Bijrani zone. Last September, a tigress was killed in CTR’s Dhela zone. Last May, the carcass of a male tiger was found in Corbett’s Bijrani zone. In the same month, the carcass of another tiger was found in the Corbett landscape under a culvert in Ringoda stream. Corbett and its surroundings have one of the highest tiger densities in the world. At present, CTR is estimated to have a tiger population of 260, according to state forest officials. Ramnagar forest division has over 14 tigers per 100 square kilometres (km), while CTR has 9.4 tigers per 100 sq km, according to experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/tiger-cub-found-dead-in-corbett-tiger-reserve-second-tiger-death-reported-from-reserve/story-NHRo3G9CnWglw34ZaHroaK.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 ‘situation is satisfactory’ in Delhi: Satyendra Jain||Updating about the Covid-19 situation in the national capital, Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain on Saturday said, “the positivity ratio in Delhi is at 5 per cent today.”He further stated that the “situation is satisfactory” and added that there is a need to do preparations.According to the Union Health Ministry, Delhi has so far recorded 128,389 cases of Covid-19. Out of the total, 13,681 are currently active in the state, 110,931 have been cured/migrated/discharged.A total of 3,777 have died so far after contracting the lethal infection in the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-situation-is-satisfactory-in-delhi-satyendra-jain/story-NFsIEaWDPBk3IWG5A0m5fL.html
25-07-2020||Lucknow||VHP plans Diwali-like celebrations for mega Ram temple event in Ayodhya||The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) have planned Diwali-like celebrations in Ayodhya and across the state on August 5, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi will preside over bhumi pujan of Ram Mandir in the temple town. In Ayodhya, believed to be the birthplace of lord Ram, saints have given a call to locals to mark bhumi pujan by observing Diwali on the same day. As part of celebrations, all temples in Ayodhya will be decorated and lit with earthen diyas in the evening. Special puja will also be performed in all temples in Ayodhya on the bhumi pujan day. For the rest of the state, the VHP has asked people to light earthen diyas at the entrance of their houses on the day PM Modi will lay the foundation stone of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. “Apart from Diwali celebrations in Ayodhya, in all prominent temples across the state, the VHP will ensure that special puja (aarti) is performed in the evening on August 5 to mark foundation laying ceremony of Ram Mandir,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson, VHP, who operates from Karsevakpuram, Ayodhya. The VHP celebrates its foundation day on the festive occasion of Rakshabandhan every year, which falls on August 3 this year.To mark its foundation day and bhumi pujan of Ram Mandir, the VHP has planned eight-day celebrations across the state starting from August 9. “In villages across the state small functions will be organised to mark bhumi pujan of Ram Mandir. Special brochures have been prepared for distribution among villagers,” said Sharma.“This carries history of the Ram Mandir agitation and the November 9 (2019) verdict of the Supreme Court in favour of Ram Mandir,” pointed out Sharma.It may be pointed out that the VHP had planned grand celebrations in Ayodhya and rest of the state on the bhumi pujan day.All these activities were planned prior to the Covid-19 pandemic. But after the pandemic, the VHP decided to scale down this plan.Special emphasis will be on villages where the VHP has never organised any activity or where it does not have any local office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/vhp-plans-diwali-like-celebrations-for-mega-ram-temple-event-in-ayodhya/story-rSFzTahR1PaFisMWYzcJ4M.html
25-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress stages demonstrations, protest rallies against ‘autocratic’ BJP||Hundreds of workers of the Congress held demonstrations across Rajasthan on Saturday against what they called was the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) “conspiracy to topple” the state government and to press for an assembly session.Congress workers took out a rally in Kota, staged a sit-in protest in Jodhpur and held protest demonstrations across the state.They accused the BJP of working against democratic values by conspiring to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led government.“We have the mandate. The governor is head of the family and we do not want any differences. If our constitutional rights are violated and if that is from the Raj Bhavan, then we can at least say that people will gherao as it will be an insult of public,” Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, the state transport minister, said.“It is our right to call assembly session and we aren’t getting permission for it from the governor. In an autocratic manner under a conspiracy, an elected government is being toppled. The BJP will face angst and protest of the people when they will go to them,” he said while addressing the protest rally in Jaipur. Govind Singh Dotasra, Congress’ state unit president, had on Friday announced that the party’s workers will hold demonstrations at all district headquarters against the conspiracy by the BJP to murder democracy.Dotasra had also directed that the gatherings should not have more than 50 people and that only five of them should go to the collector to submit a memorandum addressed to Governor Kalraj Mishra.The Congress is pushing for an assembly session so Ashok Gehlot can prove his majority, following a revolt by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs.The Rajasthan High Court on Friday ordered that status quo should be maintained on the disqualification notices sent out by state assembly Speaker CP Joshi to the rebel MLAs.The BJP said the language used by the Congress leaders against Governor Mishra was unfortunate. Mukesh Pareek, the party’s spokesperson, also said the protests were unjustified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-congress-stages-demonstrations-protest-rallies-against-autocratic-bjp/story-RRJMuBIS9AcgT5HCasITSP.html
25-07-2020||Dehradun||Three people killed after car falls into river in Uttarakhand’s Nainital||Three persons were killed after their car fell into a river about 150 metres below the road at Suyalbari in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Friday night, officials said. Two bodies were recovered in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday and another one on Saturday morning by a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and local police personnel, they added. “We received the information about the accident at around 10:30 pm. A team was sent to Suyalbari, where the car had fallen into the river,” said Praveen Alok, media-in-charge, SDRF. “Two bodies were recovered in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday at 1:30 pm and another one on Saturday morning,” he added. The deceased have been identified as Mohan Singh, Dhiraj Singh, and Prabhash Singh. “Preliminary investigation has revealed that the accident victims were going to Kanda in Bageshwar district from Haldwani town in Nainital district after attending a funeral. On the way, the driver lost control of the vehicle and it fell into a river 150 metres below the road,” Alok said. “The bodies have been handed over to the police for post-mortem examination,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/three-people-killed-after-car-falls-into-river-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital/story-7cUwas5tk5FuKjOwaaHiBN.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi takes battle against Covid-19 ahead, comes forward to donate plasma||Mumbai’s Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, has managed to flatten the curve of the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and will now take the battle against the pandemic further through a plasma donation program.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will launch the plasma donation program on Monday, following the Plasma Daan Sankalp Abhiyan for the primary screening of recovered Covid-19 patients in Dharavi.The program will be launched on the occasion of Uddhav Thackeray’s birthday on Monday.Shiv Sena legislator Rahul Shewale has organised the primary screening camp for the upcoming plasma donation camp at Kamaraj Memorial School in the slum, which was once declared a Covid-19 hotspot.“About 500 Covid-19 recovered patients have shown interest in plasma donation, of which 50 people were primarily screened,” Shewale said.“Earlier, the people of Dharavi won the fight of Covid-19 and now they are gearing up to win the hearts of the people of Maharashtra,” he added.Rajesh Tope, Maharashtra’s health minister, had said that the government is planning to start plasma bank in Dharavi and Malegaon. “We are encouraging people to come forward and donate the plasmas to save the lives of other serious Covid-19 patients,” he had said.Convalescent plasma therapy involves transfusion of specific components from the blood of people recovered from Covid-19—at least 14 days after their complete recovery—into those who have contracted the disease virus or are in the high-risk category. Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.Dharavi is a densely populated slum area with around 10,00,000 people squeezed in an area spanning 2.5 square kilometres, making it highly vulnerable to spread of contagions such as Covid-19. Active surveillance and containment measures, including intense screening, testing, sanitation and isolation of Covid-19 patients and suspects, has led to the tapering off in the number of new infections in the area. Maintaining social distance is a challenge in Dharavi, with a population density of 2,27,136 per sq km. According to a senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official, at least 80% of its population depends on 450 community toilets and the administration had to sanitise and disinfect these toilets several times a day.The World Health Organization (WHO) had earlier this month praised the efforts taken to contain the coronavirus pandemic in Dharavi, saying that only aggressive action combined with national unity and global solidarity can turn the disaster around.“And some of these examples are Italy, Spain and South Korea, and even in Dharavi - a densely packed area in the megacity of Mumbai - a strong focus on community engagement and the basics of testing, tracing, isolating and treating all those that are sick is key to breaking the chains of transmission and suppressing the virus,” Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the UN health body chief, had said.The number of coronavirus disease patients in Dharavi rose to 2,519 on Friday with the addition of six cases. It was the third consecutive day that Dharavi registered only single-digit growth, a BMC official said.Five people had tested positive on July 22, while six cases were added on July 23.The official said that Dharavi now has 128 active Covid-19 cases and the number of recovered patients has gone up to 2,142.The civic body has, however, stopped sharing the number of deaths, if any, from the slum.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/from-being-a-covid-19-hotspot-to-driving-plasma-donation-dharavi-sets-an-example/story-PN27fz1Tnp6Y6oDUqrJ3nO.html
25-07-2020||City||Faridkot inspector general Kaustubh Sharma tests positive for Covid-19||Faridkot: Faridkot range inspector general of police Kaustubh Sharma tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. District epidemiologist Dr Anita Chauhan said that Sharma has been home quarantined. “The health department will collect samples of his office staff, while we have initiated contact tracing,” she said. A health department official said that Sharma chaired various meetings in the district so several senior district officials could be contacts. According to sources, Sharma visited Chandigarh recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridkot-inspector-general-kaustubh-sharma-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-H7ac67iWZKCaeFs0zLYn0L.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana private sector job quota: Ball in governor’s court after law secretary, advocate general give divergent opinions||Chandigarh: In view of the divergent opinions of the law secretary and the advocate general, the proposed ordinance that provides for 75% reservation in private sector jobs in Haryana has been sent by the state cabinet to governor Satyadeo Narain Arya for approval. The cabinet’s nod was taken by way of the circulation of the memorandum of the proposed law. The law secretary or legal remembrancer (LR) calls for the assent of the President on the proposed legislation, while the advocate general says the proposed law does not require presidential assent. The proposed law was vetted twice by the law secretary after cabinet deliberations on January 31 and July 6. THREE OPTIONS BEFORE THE GOVERNOR Article 213 of the Constitution empowers the governor to promulgate an ordinance with respect to any matter within the legislative competence of the state legislature, if necessary, after obtaining instructions from the President. The Haryana governor, who has the arduous task of taking a call on the proposed legislation, has primarily three options – to go with the advice of the advocate general and give his assent for promulgation of the ordinance, thus, putting the law into effect; second, to return the proposed law with a message for reconsideration to the cabinet; and third, reserve it for the President’s consideration. The proposed law, if reserved for the consideration of the President, will go through the scrutiny of central ministries before the President takes a call. PRESIDENTIAL ASSENT REQUIRED OR NOT? Officials say the law secretary’s opinion on reserving the proposed law for consideration of the President is primarily based on two counts. “There is a provision in the proposed law that gives it an overriding effect over other laws. Such a broad provision has the potential to be repugnant to an Act of Parliament or an existing law and thereby needs presidential assent. Another provision providing for preference in jobs to local candidates domiciled in Haryana seemingly is also in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before law,: said an official familiar with the developments. Referring to the advice tendered by him, advocate general BR Mahajan, however, said the proposed Haryana law did not violate any central law. “It also does not come in conflict with Article 14 of the Constitution,” Mahajan said. PILOTED BY DUSHYANT, BJP NOT SO KEEN Haryana’s move to introduce reservation for local youngsters in private sector jobs is on the lines of a law enacted by the YS Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh that has been challenged on the grounds of constitutional validity in the Andhra Pradesh high court. The move is piloted by Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janta Party, the coalition partner of the BJP in Haryana, which had made a poll commitment to provide 75% quota in private sector jobs to local candidates. The proposed law has not found much support from the BJP. In fact, chief minister ML Khattar had once sounded non-committal on the prospect of enacting such a law. The BJP government at the Centre has a different view on the issue. At least two former central ministers answered in the negative to questions in Parliament about the possibility of reservation in appointments in private companies. The proposed ordinance, Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020, provides 75% of the new employment to local candidates for jobs having salary of less than ₹50,000 a month in private companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms in the state. Employers will have the option to recruit local candidates from one district to the extent of only 10%. The proposed law will also contain a bail-out clause for the industry if suitable local candidates are not available for a category of industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-private-sector-job-quota-ball-in-governor-s-court-after-law-secretary-advocate-general-give-divergent-opinions/story-puFJmborEBYFn4nTtkLqlO.html
25-07-2020||Lucknow||Five arrested in Gonda kidnapping case after joint operation by STF, local police in UP||A grandson (5) of a wealthy bidi trader, who was kidnapped from eastern Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Gonda district, was rescued after a marathon joint operation of the Special Task Force (STF) and local police personnel in the wee hours of Saturday.Five persons, including a couple, have been arrested following an encounter between the kidnappers and the STF-Gonda Police team. “The kidnapped child has been rescued and all five kidnappers arrested. A reward of Rs 2 lakh has been declared for the STF-Gonda Police team, who successfully conducted the operation,” said Awnish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary (ACS) (home), UP.The child is a grandson of bidi trader, Rajesh Gupta, from Colnelganj in Gonda district, which is located around 90 kilometres east of Lucknow.The kidnappers had demanded a ransom of Rs 4 crore for the release of the child.An STF press release identified the kidnappers as Suraj Pandey and his wife Chhavi, the mastermind, along with Raj Pandey, who is related to the couple, Umesh Yadav and Deepu Kashyap, all residents of Gonda district. Umesh and Deepu have sustained injuries in the encounter between the STF-Gonda Police team and the kidnappers. Police said a man approached the child’s family on Friday afternoon on the pretext of distributing masks and hand sanitisers, which are in great demand following the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak across the country, for free.He asked the child to accompany him to the vehicle, where he had kept the masks and hand sanitiser. The boy obediently followed the man, who forcefully put him in the car, and fled away.A closed-circuit TV (CCTV) footage had captured the kidnapping incident, where a man in a blue shirt and black trousers is seen walking with a boy in a yellow T-shirt. The boy’s family members informed the police after they failed to search him.Later, the boy’s father received a call from a woman, who demanded Rs 4 lakh as ransom in lieu of his release.The boy’s family filed a first information report (FIR) with the police about the abduction following which the rescue operation was launched. All police teams in Gonda and adjoining eastern UP districts were also put on alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/five-arrested-in-gonda-kidnapping-case-after-joint-operation-by-stf-local-police-in-up/story-VJOBqFDHjFE56rjyiSHyIM.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||Jaya Jaitly, 2 others convicted in 2001 corruption charge||A Delhi court convicted Jaya Jaitly, former president of Samata Party, and two others in an alleged 2001 corruption case relating to a defence deal. Central Bureau of Investigation judge Virendra Bhat convicted Jaitly, her then party colleague Gopal Pacherwal and retired Major General SP Murgai. The case was registered on the basis of a sting, ‘Operation West End,’ conducted by news portal tehelka.com in 2000, purportedly exposing alleged corruption in defence deals. The CBI submitted a charge sheet against Jaitly and others in 2006.According to the prosecution, Jaitly entered into a criminal conspiracy with Murgai, Pacherwal and Surendra Kumar Surekha in 2001. The judge convicted the three --- Jaitly, Murgai and Pacherwal, for criminal conspiracy along with relevant sections of Prevention of Corruption Act (PC Act).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jaya-jaitly-2-others-convicted-in-2001-corruption-charge/story-ZE1Sd9UwsQRHDn3ovWnsjO.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Mango man’s bougainvilleas||Despite living without a house in a tough city like Delhi, despite having to brave every day the dangerous times of the coronavirus pandemic, fruit seller Arman makes sure to have beauty in his life.In the form of pink bougainvillaeas.This morning, bunches of the papery scentless flowers are artfully decked up on the mangoes piled up on his cart, here in central Delhi’s Sadar Bazaar.“The decoration was my own idea,” says Arman, flashing a disarming smile that makes him so endearing that one would immediately want to shake his hands (but for coronavirus). Arman is as stylish as his cart—a white scarf, the gamchha, is flung about his tight-fitting shirt. His hair falls over his forehead, making a prominent curl on one side. His moustache is impeccably trimmed. “I shave daily,” he says.In his early 20s, Arman has been a Delhiwalla for a decade. His family, comprising his mother and siblings, live in the village in Bahraich, UP. He sleeps on the patri, pavement, in the company of other hawkers like him—they all are from the same district.It is the monsoon season and one never knows when it might start to rain at night, while asleep, so Arman recently bought a new tirpal, waterproof canvass sheet, for ₹2,000 from Sadar Bazaar. “I put it up at night upon my stretch of the pavement... sometimes the rainwater wets the gadda (mattress)... but that doesn’t disturb my geheri neend (deep sleep).”Arman returns to his pavement only by 10pm. He has a quick dinner in a dhaba nearby, after which he goes to sleep. His night is not very long, to say the least. A mere couple of hours. At midnight he wakes up and boards an auto for Azadpur wholesale vegetable market to get a fresh stock of fruits for the next day’s sales. Last night he got langra mangoes from Benares. He returned to the patri by 4am, cleaned his cart, arranged it with mangoes and was ready to start the day.That’s his daily routine.This morning, after having a breakfast of kebab and parathas, he pulled his cart by a bougainvillea shrub, plucked off a few flowers and arranged them daintily upon the green mangoes. “A beautiful sight makes one feel good,“ he explains.Now Arman holds a few tufts of these bougainvillaeas in his hands, and shyly starts to talk of his girlfriend who lives near Gonda town. “We have known each other for five years... our villages are about an hour away from each other.” The couple chat daily on phone but Arman can’t predict with any confidence the future of their relationship.“It’s not that I use only the bougainvillaeas for my cart,” he points out later. “it could be anything... yesterday I used leaves of Ashoka and Paakad (trees).... day before I had used roses.”At some point later in the day, Arman will inevitably feel sleepy. “Because I rest so little at night.” And so, when there’s not much crowd and no hope of customers, usually in the late afternoon, he will simply park his cart by a pavement, plop his head among the unsold mangoes, and close his eyes for a while—he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mango-man-s-bougainvilleas/story-tgkXmtourdwwCI48PsFo2J.html
25-07-2020||City||Fourth leopard trapped from Nashik in July, another big cat rescued from well||The forest department trapped the fourth leopard in a span of three weeks at Sinnar range in Nashik on Thursday. The department has setup 20 cages along the Darna river to trap two more leopards responsible for five deaths and five injuries.The sub-adult male leopard was transported to Sanjay Gandhi National Park on Friday. So far, 12 leopards have been rescued, of which four have been captured due to a human-animal conflict problem along Darna and sent to SGNP. However, none of the leopards are responsible for the conflict as confirmed by the forest department, which is tracing an adult male leopard. Meanwhile, a female leopard was rescued from a well in the same region on Friday. Forest officers said the leopard does not belong to the area and may have strayed near the well looking for food. However, the rescued leopard is likely to be released in its natural habitat and not sent to captivity, said Vivek Bhadane, range forest officer, Nashik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fourth-leopard-trapped-from-nashik-in-july-another-big-cat-rescued-from-well/story-f5Efib1t66Ojzb9gkvlJaL.html
25-07-2020||City||CNG to cost Rs48.95/kg in Mumbai||Compressed natural gas (CNG) has become costlier by a rupee from Saturday. The cost of one kg of CNG will now be Rs48.95. The Mahanagar Gas Limited(MGL) on Friday, in a statement said, “In order to partially recover fixed costs in the face of lower sales volumes due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and higher gas cost due to depreciation of rupees v/s dollar, MGL is constrained to increase its CNG maximum retail price (MRP) by Rs1 per kg.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cng-to-cost-rs48-95-kg-in-mumbai/story-VcyAgfZ90v2vmpN3vsYprI.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||BJP’s protests wrong, says Maharashtra energy minister||A day after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders protested against the high power bills at BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport) Bhavan, state energy minister Nitin Raut on Friday said it was wrong on the part of the Opposition party leaders to protest. He also reiterated that the bills were high owing to summer and the lockdown period. In a press statement on Friday, BJP Mumbai unit chief Mangal Prabhat Lodha, however, alleged that his party leaders were subjected to rude behaviour by the police and BEST staff. The BJP leaders also burnt power bills as a mark of protest on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-s-protests-wrong-maharashtra-energy-minister/story-Zdjf8GupR4mmnkCZQYduGI.html
25-07-2020||City||Two Navi Mumbai residents lose money in internet frauds||A fraudster duped a 35-year-old Seawoods resident of Rs1.55 lakh after he gained access to her phone on the pretext of updating her father’s KYC details. In another case, a 70-year-old man lost ₹66,000 in a phishing scam when he tried to donate money to a church trust.In the first case, the complainant from Seawoods, Bhagyashree Deshpande, received a call on Thursday afternoon from a man who identified himself as Rahul Agarwal. The fraudster claimed that he was calling from the headquarters of a payment gateway to inform that her father’s KYC details have expired.Deshpande followed the fraudster’s instructions to renew the KYC process. The accused then guided her to download a remote control and support application and asked her to pay Re1 as a token amount for the process. When the transfer was successful, the accused spent Rs49,990 using her father’s credit card to make an online purchase.When Deshpande brought the transaction to the caller’s attention, he said the money will be refunded and asked her to scan a QR code which he had sent. On doing so, she again lost the same amount.“Realising that the caller was a fraudster, Deshpande rushed to the police station but by then, the accused had spent Rs55,000 more in two different transactions. A cheating case has been registered based on her complain,” said an officer from NRI police station.In the second incident, another resident, VV Verghese, was trying to donate Rs5,500 to St Mary’s Church trust in Dadar using a popular payment gateway but the payment failed.On Thursday afternoon, he looked for the payment gateway’s helpline number online and called on it, not knowing that the number was fake. The fraudster posed as an executive of the payment gateway and gave Verghese another number and asked him to transfer Rs4,999 on it.“On doing so, the complainant received a message stating that the transaction had failed. The ‘executive’ then asked the senior citizen to try transferring Rs5,000 to the number but the transaction failed to get through again. The executive made the complainant repeat the process several times,” the officer said.The caller then asked Verghese to check his account balance. It was then that the senior citizen had realised that he had lost Rs65,997. When he tried calling on the number, it was switched off. He then filed a complaint with the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-navi-mumbai-residents-lose-money-in-internet-frauds/story-fjHEvcQ5vLovP4Na0gy5kJ.html
25-07-2020||City||2 arrested for duping Mumbai businessman of ₹6 lakh||The crime branch arrested two people from Mira Road on Thursday for allegedly duping a Mumbai Central businessman of ₹6 lakh by posing as telecom company representatives and promising to provide him with VIP phone numbers. The accused have been identified as Paresh Modawala and Shahrukh Niyaz Ahmed.According to the police, the 32-year-old businessman, Zuber Abdulhasib Ahmed, in his complaint said that the accused sent a promotional message on his mobile number in last year in September which stated that the duo can offer him VIP phone numbers.“The complainant showed interest to get 9191919191 and 7777777777 as his mobile numbers and contacted on the mobile number mentioned in the promotional message. One of the accused identified himself as Jitendra Chotlani, who worked as the chief product and experience officer in a telcom firm at Navi Mumbai,” said police inspector Sanjay Nikumbhe of unit 2, crime branch.The complainant made an online payment of Rs1.10 lakh in the accused’s account for the two numbers. “Couple of days later, the accused contacted the complainant again and said that the company now was charging Rs3 lakh for both the numbers. The accused then transferred the money to accused’s account again. Two days later, the accused called the complainant again and said that he would reduce the amount for the VIP numbers, if he could tell his friends about the scheme,” said Nikumbhe. The accused continued to demand money from the complainant on different pretexts and the latter ended up paying Rs6 lakh in four to five instalments, After this, the accused stopped answering his calls. The complainant then realised that he had been cheated and approached the telecom provider and narrated the entire incident. The company’s nodal officer Yogesh Rajapurkar, 42, then approached Bangur Nagar police station and a case was filed against the accused, following which unit 2 officers conducted an inquiry and arrested both the accused from their homes, said Nikumbhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-arrested-for-duping-mumbai-businessman-of-6-lakh/story-LXIH060AUZmGdKGthan0fP.html
25-07-2020||City||Two hurt in Navi Mumbai accident||A biker and a pillion rider were injured after a van crashed into their two-wheeler at Sarsode junction along the Palm Beach Road in Nerul on Friday afternoon. The injured were rushed to DY Patil Hospital. “The condition of the bikers is stable and the two men are conscious. We are in the process of recording their statements. After the inquiry, a case will be registered against the person responsible for the accident,” said senior inspector Rajendra Chavan from Nerul police station.The driver of the van works in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation but the vehicle was a private one, said the police.While various spots on Palm Beach Road are considered accident-prone, the Sarsode junction stretch has witnessed several high-speed crashes. On June 25, a 20-year-old man was killed, while three others suffered injuries after the car they were driving in rammed lost control and crashed into the side wall of Palm Beach Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-hurt-in-navi-mumbai-accident/story-Hn5FzRxM2SYldEpk0Z7NTP.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||28-year-old undertrial escapes from Mumbai hospital||A 28-year-old undertrial from Adharwadi jail in Kalyan who was undergoing treatment at the state-run Sir JJ Hospital escaped from the medical facility on Wednesday. JJ Marg police have registered an offence against the accused, Sushil Walmiki, and have launched a manhunt to nab him.Walmiki was arrested by Manpada police in a burglary case. He was lodged at Adharwadi jail after a local court sent him to judicial custody. Walmiki was taken to Sir JJ Hospital after he showed symptoms of cancer during his preliminary medical checkup.At the hospital, he was undergoing treatment at ward number 18, where a team of four police personnel from Thane city police were deployed to guard him on rotational basis.“On Wednesday, the accused exited the ward under the pretext of going to the washroom and later managed to escape. After he did not return to the ward for a long period, a guard went to look for him and found that he was not at the bathroom,” said an officer from JJ Marg police station.The guards inspected the hospital compound and went to Sandhurst Road railway station to look for him. After they failed to locate him, the police lodged an offence at JJ Marg police station.Walmiki is now been booked in a fresh case under section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to lawful apprehension) of Indian Penal Code.“Our personnel as well as Manpada police personnel are trying to trace the accused,” said senior inspector Sanjiv Bhole from Sir JJ Marg police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/28-year-old-undertrial-escapes-from-mumbai-hospital/story-91KFCAwnDrvfboUW3m56gO.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Civil contractor booked for sexually assaulting actor in Mumbai||Santacruz police on Thursday booked a civil contractor for allegedly sexually assaulting an actor with false promises of marriage. The case was registered after the police received a written complaint from the actor stating that the contractor had been sexually assaulting her for years.The actor, in her complaint, said that she and the accused knew each other since 2016. They had entered into a romantic relationship, and the contractor had allegedly promised to marry her. Recently, the woman discovered that the accused is already married. Alongside the rape allegations, the woman said that he assaulted her at a five-star hotel in Juhu, and filmed compromising videos of her.Based on the complaint, Santacruz police registered a first information report (FIR) against the accused under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 377 (unnatural offences), and 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act.Shriram Koregaonkar senior inspector, Santacruz police station, said that they are yet to arrest the accused. “We have registered the case and are verifying the facts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/civil-contractor-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-actor-in-mumbai/story-ZYyryzcBTW8G5CWpDaoapO.html
25-07-2020||City||Animal slaughter not allowed in private premises: Bombay HC||In light of an existing order, which restricts slaughtering goats in private premises, the Bombay high court (HC) has directed the civic corporation to ensure that slaughtering takes place only at the certified slaughterhouse in the city at Deonar. The directions were prompted after a petition was filed, stating that owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, shops should be restrained from slaughtering goats in their premises, as it led to overcrowding of buyers and thus defeats the purpose of lockdown and social distancing. It also poses a health threat to the people living in the vicinity of the shop, as disposal of waste is not as per norms, the public interest litigation (PIL) stated.A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Riyaz Chagla was hearing a petition of Santacruz (East) resident Rajeshkumar Kanojia. The bench was informed by advocate Vivek Shukla that his client resided in a Kalina building, which housed a mutton shop on the ground floor. Shukla submitted that the shop owner not only kept livestock, but also undertook slaughtering of goats in the shop premise. This, Shukla submitted, posed a dual threat in the form of overcrowding of the shop, which resulted in violation of social distancing norms. Shukla added that the livestock roamed freely in the building premise and the disposal of waste after the slaughtering was also not done properly. He submitted that even though his client had complained to the local municipal authorities on numerous occasions, no action had been taken and hence he had no option but to approach the court. Shukla said that such a practice was prevalent in many shops across the city, though there was an order of a previous bench restricting slaughtering of animals outside of the certified abattoir in the city which is at Deonar. Thus, orders should be passed to curb such activities outside the Deonar slaughterhouse, argued Shukla.While defending his action, the butcher running the mutton shop in the petitioner’s building claimed that he had a license to operate the shop from the civic body.Responding to the petition, the civic body, through advocate Oorja Dhond, submitted that it had not given any licence to the shop owner to slaughter or store any livestock in the premises. Dhond submitted that the butcher was only issued a license to sell the meat, sourced from the Deonar abattoir, and hence could not use it as a permission to slaughter at his shop.After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the butcher to refrain from slaughtering any animal in the building premises or any other place apart from the Deonar abattoir and disposed the petition. The order gains prominence ahead of Bakri Eid, on August 1, during which members of the Muslim community offer sacrifices by slaughtering goats and sheep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/animal-slaughter-not-allowed-in-private-premises-bombay-hc/story-T3OFLxCMAndBEeivihxYKJ.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||43,000 litres of smuggled diesel worth ₹35 lakh seized from Mumbai, 3 held||City crime branch officers on Thursday arrested three members of a gang, after 43,104 litres of smuggled diesel worth ₹35 lakh was found from a tugboat at Mazgaon. The officers suspect that the accused may have smuggled the diesel from other foreign commercial vessels in the sea. The accused were produced in a local court on Friday and remanded in police custody up to July 27.On July 18, assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, in-charge of the crime intelligence unit (CIU), received intelligence on the movement of some members of a diesel smuggling racket. Acting on the intelligence, Vaze’s team visited a jetty at Bhaucha Dhakka (Ferry Wharf) in Mazgaon.They found a boat, Barsaatu, at the spot. According to the police, the boat is owned by Hind Offshore Private Limited, which has an office at Ballard Estate. Barsaatu has been sailing at Ferry Wharf since May 29, and there were nine crew members on board.On examining the tugboat in the presence of the panchas (witnesses) the police found the allegedly smuggled diesel. When crime branch officers asked the boat’s chief engineer Debashish Vishwas, 48, and sailing master Ismail Mujawar, 59, about the ferrying diesel in such large quantity, they could neither produce any documents, nor were able to provide satisfactory answers on it. The officers then asked the duo to produce the relevant documents by July 21 but they failed to do so.A preliminary probe revealed that the boat was not used for any operations by the company from the past three years.“Investigators suspects that using the boat, the accused either stole diesel or illegally procured it from other foreign vessels in the sea to sell it in the black market,” said a crime branch officer.After the probe, the police arrested the boat’s superintendent Rajesh Kute, Vishwas and Mujawar under the relevant sections of the Essential Commodities Act and the Indian Penal Code.The police are looking to question the directors of the company.Ravi Hirani, the accused’s counsel, said, “My clients have purchased the seized diesel legally and have documents to prove the purchase. The diesel has not been stolen. Had that been the case, then why is there not a single complaint against my clients till date. This is a totally false case against my clients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/43-000-litres-of-smuggled-diesel-worth-35-lakh-seized-from-mumbai-3-held/story-x32h4TRynhjDKvTUgS53HN.html
25-07-2020||City||Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray takes stock of infrastructure works||With the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) executing projects worth Rs 1.4 lakh crore, Mumbai suburban guardian minister and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray took stock of some of the major projects which are being implemented in the city. “Took stock of ongoing works in the MMR region including the Trans Harbour Link, Western Express Highway and Multi Transport Common Pass, at a review meeting with @MMRDAOfficial Commissioner R A Rajeev ji, AMCs & other officials,” Thackeray tweeted on Friday.The trans-harbour link is a 22km sea-bridge connecting Mumbai and Navi Mumbai.MMRDA is also planning to make western express highway signal-free and designing a common mobile application for all modes of transport in the city. “The minister was briefed on all the major projects which are being undertaken in MMR. In fact, it was a long-pending meeting after the new government was formed,” said an official from MMRDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-suburban-guardian-minister-aaditya-thackeray-takes-stock-of-infrastructure-works/story-Vg6xR4fTRC0QzEXHl5KM9I.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC says restriction on aged artists at movie, TV sets is ‘discriminatory’||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday observed that the state’s prohibition on the cast and crew members above 65 years of age from attending studios or outdoor shootings amid the Covid-19 pandemic appears to be a case of discrimination.The bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Riyaz Chagla questioned why only aged film and television artists were prevented from stepping out for work, even as shop keepers who are above 65 years of age are allowed to sit at their shops throughout the day.The court was hearing the government’s response on a petition filed by 70-year-old actor Pramod Pandey, who claimed that though he is physically fit, the state’s rule deprived him of the only source of livelihood.Government lawyer Purnima Kantharia pointed out that restriction was based on the number of orders issued by the central and the state governments from time to time. She added that aged persons have been instructed right from the beginning to not step out, except for essential supplies.Kantharia also pointed out that no individual, other than those engaged in essential services, are allowed to travel on trains or by air. She also said that private offices are also allowed to function only with 10℅ staff.After hearing the state’s response, the court appointed senior advocate Sharan Jagtiani as amicus curiae (friend of the court) to assist HC in arriving at a proper decision on the petition. The final hearing is scheduled for July 29.In the meanwhile, the court directed the government to file an affidavit by Saturday, setting out the basis for imposing the restriction, and to clarify if any data, statistics or report was taken into consideration before issuing such a restriction.On Tuesday, Pandey, who has been earning his livelihood by performing small roles in films and television serials from the past 40 years, challenged a clause in the guidelines issued by the state on May 30, on the shooting of film and television serials. Pandey had also claimed that perusal of the available data makes it clear that a majority of the Covid-19 patients are below the age of 65. He added that the state’s decision has grave hardship and prejudice will be caused to him, if he was prevented from participating in the shootings, as he will not be able to survive with dignity and self-respect.Based on his petition, the court had then asked the government how physically fit senior citizens were expected to live a dignified life if they were not allowed to go out and earn a livelihood. The court also asked the government to explain where else was such a similar restriction on the movement of aged people imposed by the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-says-restriction-on-aged-artists-at-movie-tv-sets-is-discriminatory/story-DyZOWimSDjPEhHJR9AQSqJ.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||IMD revises forecast again, predicts ‘heavy rain’ for Mumbai today||The city has received more than three-fourths of its seasonal rainfall target, with over two more monsoon months to go.Between June 1 and July 24 (till 5.30pm), the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 1,723.1mm (76%) rainfall against the seasonal target of 2,260.4mm. The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, received 71.4% (1,477mm) during the same period, against its seasonal target of 2,066mm. While the suburbs recorded 51% more rainfall this season, south Mumbai received 31% excess rain from June 1 to July 24. The state also recorded 12% excess rain this season until now.The city and suburbs can expect occasional intense rain spells between Friday night and Saturday morning, and heavy rain at isolated areas through the day on Saturday. The weather bureau on Friday, for the third consecutive day, revised its warning by issuing a yellow alert (heavy rain across isolated areas) again for Mumbai and Thane for Saturday as well as for Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg for the entire weekend. On Thursday, the weather bureau downgraded its warning, predicting only light to moderate showers from Friday to Monday. No alert was issued for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for Sunday.“A possibility of enhancement of rain activity is expected over the west coast, including Mumbai, for the weekend, following the development of a weather system off north Kerala and Karnataka coasts. This is enhancing the offshore trough and intensifying lower level westerly to southwesterly winds allowing increased moisture incursions along the coast,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD).On Friday, between 8.30am and 5.30pm, the suburbs recorded 10.3mm rain, while south Mumbai recorded 23.8mm rain. From 8.30am on Thursday to 8.30am on Friday, the suburbs and south Mumbai recorded 17.8mm and 39.8mm rain, respectively. All rain figures fell under the ‘moderate’ category. Meanwhile, the cloud cover on Friday helped the day temperatures to drop below the normal mark. South Mumbai recorded 28.2 degrees Celsius – 2 degree Celsius below normal – while the suburbs recorded 29.5 degrees Celsius, which is a degree Celsius below the normal temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-revises-forecast-again-predicts-heavy-rain-for-mumbai-today/story-LefTUghkX2nm0QEfo59JQJ.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai to give ₹56 lakh aid to 15 colleges hit by Cyclone Nisarga||Almost two months after Cyclone Nisarga hit parts of Maharashtra, the University of Mumbai (MU) has decided to extend a helping hand to 15 of its affiliated colleges in Raigad and Ratnagiri districts which have sustained damages owing to the calamity. MU on Friday passed a resolution to aid the colleges during the management council meeting.“Based on a visit to the said colleges by the Konkan divisional joint director along with programme officers, a special committee has estimated a financial loss of ₹56 lakh to the 15 colleges in Ratnagiri and Raigad districts,” said a statement released by the university. The circular further said that the amount will be disbursed from the varsity’s disaster management fund and the affected colleges will use the money to purchase administrative and educational essentials, electrical materials and other items lost during the cyclone.Some of these institutes include Loknete Gopinathji Munde Arts Commerce and Science College at Mandangad, Ratnagiri; Tikambhai Metha College and MPS College of Arts and Science at Mangaon, Raigad; NK Varadkar Arts and RV Belose Commerce College at Dapoli, Ratnagiri and Gokhale Education Institute of Arts, Commerce and Science at Shrivardhan, Raigad.MU has clarified that the colleges will not get the collective amount, but they will be given money as per the expenses they incur. “The varsity will reimburse the amount once the said colleges submit the bills of the expenses they incurred to repair damages caused by the cyclone,” said Ravindra Kulkarni, pro vice-chancellor, MU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-to-give-56-lakh-aid-to-15-colleges-hit-by-cyclone-nisarga/story-jiNwwZFfsCjJmkUZV25GSN.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Social distancing norms flouted at MD/MS offline counselling at PGIMER||Social distancing norms went for a toss during the third round of counselling of MD/MS (doctor of medicine/masters of science) courses at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Friday.Around 300 candidates were to attend the first offline counselling session for 40 vacant seats. A candidate from Gurugram said they had submitted several representations with the institute for conducting online counselling, but the management had paid no heed to their demand.“It was surprising that the institute of such stature could not mobilise enough resources for maintaining social distancing. No one was asking the candidates and their accompaniments to maintain distance. Strict measures should have been in place,” Dr Rachit Singhania, an aspirant attending the counselling said, who also tweeted a photo of the jam-packed counselling hall.Registrar Manoj Kumar had ordered that “the personal appearance of the applicant (counselling) was mandatory. Candidates coming from states other than Chandigarh should either return within 72 hours to avoid 14-day quarantine or should come prepared to join the course (if allotted a seat) and stay on in Chandigarh. The candidates appearing for counselling should wear face masks and maintain social distancing. The candidates are advised not to accompany more than one person in the counselling hall to maintain social distancing.” Institute’s spokesperson, professor Ashok Kumar, said: “All arrangements for offline counselling were in place. The names of the candidates were announced by the officials from a stage in a staggered manner to avoid crowding. Candidates were repeatedly requested to maintain distance. Moreover, the venue, Bhargava Auditorium, is the biggest auditorium in Chandigarh. Surprisingly, the parents were more interested in sitting with their wards. The onus to follow the norms also lies on the candidates and their families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/social-distancing-norms-flouted-at-md-ms-offline-counselling-at-pgimer/story-l7r5mCXFpACCFG5033qYrJ.html
25-07-2020||City||Chandigarh College of Engineering hosts engineering e-conference||The mechanical and the electronics and communication department of the Chandigarh Engineering College of the Chandigarh Group of Colleges (CGC), Landran, jointly organised a two-day e-conference on ‘Contemporary advances in mechanical engineering and innovations in communication computing and sciences’.More than 500 participants including researchers, students, research scholars, academic scientists and faculty members from around 12 countries attended the virtual seminar. Elangovan Rajagopalan, KCT College, Chennai and former scientist, ISRO, was the guest of honour. The keynote speakers included Joan Lu of University of Huddersfield, United Kingdom, Minvydas Ragulskis of Kaunas University of Technology, Lithuania, Dr Ashwani Kumar of Monmouth College, Illinois, USA, and Dr Haris Rudianto, head of Advanced Materials Laboratory, Gunadarma University, Indonesia.A total of 269 research papers (167 from electronics and communication engineering and 102 from mechanical engineering) were received from researchers and scholars from across the country out of which 141 will be published in journals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-college-of-engineering-hosts-engineering-e-conference/story-lbtK4LaQPKLm17QgmfrjRK.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government plans to acquire 87 hectares around Lonar lake||The Maharashtra forest department has submitted a proposal to the district collector of Buldhana to acquire land admeasuring 87 hectares (ha) around the Lonar Crater Lake in Buldhana to ensure its protection. This area forms an ejecta blanket around the 77.69-ha lake, which is a meteorite-impact crater that occurred almost 50,000 years ago and is a rare cosmic phenomenon. The ejecta blanket is the material debris surrounding it. The proposal was submitted last week to the district collector’s office based on the submissions of a December 2019 technical committee, appointed by the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) in October 2019. The report had directed that the ejecta blanket be protected to ensure conservation and prevent further degradation of the site. Though HC had banned any construction within 500 metres (m) around the crater rim in 2015, peripheral areas include government offices, schools, and a section of Lonar town. Nearly 20% of the ejecta blanket comprises settlements while the remaining 80% is free human disturbances, the report stated. According to the latest proposal, nine plots of private land spread across 86.94 ha will be acquired from farmers. “Bringing it under the state’s jurisdiction will allow enhanced and safe scientific research, and nullify any threats to the blanket,” said Manoj Khairnar, deputy conservator of forest, Akola. Located 500 km from Mumbai and over 90 km from Buldhana city, the oval shaped Lonar Lake is a part of the 365.25-ha Lonar Wildlife Sanctuary. The crater rim crest has a continuous ejecta blanket extending across an average of 1,410 metres. Currently, only 1.22 hectare area is protected as part of the sanctuary through fencing (see images). “An additional 1,750 m of the blanket is yet to be fenced at a cost of Rs. 30 lakh. Funds are awaited under the regional tourism development plan for various departments,” said Khairnar. The technical committee, comprising geologists from the Central University of Karnataka and an independent geologist from Navi Mumbai, had carried out field visits in September and November last year. “Conservation and promotion of Lonar should be done as a hub of international scientific research and promotion of educational activities. Thus, maintenance should be handed over to the forest department,” the report read. Meanwhile, one of the HC petitioners suggested the area will be better protected if made part of the sanctuary. “Recurring development pressures persist for decades. The Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, had first suggested the protection of the black diamond in 2006. However, 15 years later, nothing has happened. Real-estate development concerns combined with profitable intent of private farmers who acquired land at low rates several decades ago but now intend on selling them, five times higher will make acquiring this unprotected crater debris a difficult process,” said Sudhakar Bugdane, petitioner and member of a 2002 committee to conserve the crater site. Further highlighting the threat to the ejecta blanket, the HC in an order delivered on July 22 directed state agencies to develop detailed project reports for the Lonar-Manth bypass road and the Lonar-Kinhi-Saraswati road to ensure the eco-sensitive area around Lonar Wildlife Sanctuary, including parts of the black diamond, are not affected. Suman Chandra, district collector and magistrate, Buldhana, could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts. NATURAL FACTORS LED TO CHANGE IN LONAR LAKE COLOUR, NOT POLLUTION: BOMBAY HC The Nagpur bench of HC on Wednesday took cognisance of reports submitted by research bodies such as the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, Agharkar Research Institute, Pune, and the Geological Survey of India regarding the change in the colour of the water in Lonar Lake, which turned pink in June. “The conclusions and findings of these reports are almost similar. The common conclusion is that change of colour of the water of the lake has occurred on account of natural reasons and the factors responsible for the same are dunaliella algae and halobacteria (salt-loving bacteria). These organisms, as per reports, release a substance called carotenoid under stress conditions. This substance is pink in colour, which turns the water pink. They also indicate that pollution was not the cause for this phenomenon,” said HC in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-plans-to-acquire-87-hectares-around-lonar-lake/story-ZZhXqFb0Hq1rLep7pjmHcI.html
25-07-2020||City||Deceased Mohali petrol pump owner had been fighting disparity in fuel rates||The 76-year-old Mohali-based petrol pump owner, who died by suicide on July 22, had also written a letter to the Punjab governor in September 2019, seeking permission to end his life. He had cited huge losses to Mohali filling stations due to the substantial difference in fuel rates in Chandigarh as the reason.In his letter, Chawla, who owned two petrol pumps in Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib, had stated that due to non-revision of VAT by Chandigarh administration, he was robbed of 80% business, as his pumps were situated quite close to Chandigarh.Ashwinder Singh Mongia, president, Mohali District Petroleum Dealers Association, said the deceased suffered huge losses due to VAT rates. He had been fighting for uniformity of fuel rates, but finally gave up. “Dealers in Punjab, whose pumps are located on the Chandigarh border, are the worst affected. When they can bring parity in liquor prices why not in fuel rates?” Mongia questioned.ALSO READ: Suicide note names at least 13, FIR against six NUB OF THE MATTERAccording to petrol pump dealers in Mohali and Panchkula, over the past three years, the Chandigarh administration dropped VAT rates twice in October 2017 and October 2018, resulting in a “total shift” of trade to Chandigarh (see box for VAT).The dealers are also resentful about Chandigarh petrol pumps putting up boards advertising cheaper rates in Chandigarh against those in Mohali and Panchkula.A comparison of sales figures of fuel stations in the tricity over the past three years, exhibits a sharp slide in sales at Mohali and Panchkula. Mohali’s sales dropped by 42% as of June this year. In the corresponding period, Chandigarh doubled its diesel sales, while Panchkula’s sales have dipped by 40%.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “We understand the concerns of petrol pump owners in Mohali. But instead of asking us to increase VAT, they should ask the Punjab and Haryana governments to slash the rates. We follow central government’s instructions for consumers’ benefit. Besides, we recently increased VAT to 22.45%.”ALSO READ: Family demands all accused be brought to task||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deceased-mohali-petrol-pump-owner-had-been-fighting-disparity-in-fuel-rates/story-XVF1iNMbP85xtVxJuLu4LP.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Suicide by Mohali petrol pump owner: Family demands all accused be brought to task||Grieving the loss of their patriarch – the Mohali-based 76-year-old petrol pump owner – his family has sought action against all those named in his suicide note. “My brother lost his life due to Chandigarh administration’s connivance with the petrol mafia by reducing VAT. The Punjab excise department also failed to rein in cross-border diesel smuggling,” said the deceased’s brother, also a businessman. “Within a few years, my brother was pushed to bankruptcy from being the biggest fuel dealer. All those responsible for his death must be brought to task,” he said.ALSO READ: Suicide note names at least 13, FIR against sixAs per one of his relatives, the 76-year-old had sold his properties and shifted to a rented accommodation in Mohali. “My father was suffering losses in business owing to disparity in fuel rates in Chandigarh and Mohali,” said his son, on whose statement an FIR for abetment to suicide was registered in Chandigarh.ALSO READ: Deceased Mohali petrol pump owner had been fighting disparity in fuel ratesThe deceased, who had studied at BITS Pilani, had opened his first petrol pump in 1969, before he became the owner of three petrol pumps – two in Phase 7 and Daun village, Mohali, and the third in Fatehgarh Sahib.He allegedly lost the Daun petrol pump to cheating and conspiracy and feared his Phase 7 petrol pump may also be snatched from him, said his brother.The elderly man is survived by his wife, a son, who is into the real estate business, and two daughters.“He left home with his driver on July 22 without informing anyone. He never used to go out. We later got to know that he was no more,” said his brother, who added that the family had left for Kiratpur for immersion of his ashes, while the memorial service will be held on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/family-demands-all-accused-be-brought-to-task/story-pGxzRGeYwL13T1fLyXn5aJ.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three held for gambling in Chandigarh’s Manimajra; ₹3,920 recovered||Three persons were arrested for gambling in different parts of Manimajra and ₹3,920 in cash was recovered, the police said on Friday.Accused Sandeep Singh of Manimajra was caught near motor market light point on Thursday and police recovered cash of ₹1,390 from his possession. One Sehjal Ali of Shastri Nagar was arrested near Mariwala town and ₹1,320 were recovered from him.Police also arrested one Sant Ram, a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, behind sports complex, Manimajra. Total cash of ₹1,210 was recovered from his possession. All three cases were registered under the Gambling Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-held-for-gambling-in-chandigarh-s-manimajra-3-920-recovered/story-XCq3JNdwfMUuPthSvKE8pN.html
25-07-2020||City||Suicide note by Mohali petrol pump owner names at least 13, FIR against six||The nine-page suicide note written by a Mohali-based petrol pump owner, who died by suicide on Wednesday night, mentions at least 13 names, including officials of Chandigarh administration, a petroleum corporation, Punjab Police and a close family member, but the FIR has been registered against only six. Police say they may add more names as investigation progresses.The 76-year-old deceased, a resident of Sector 69, Mohali, owned two petrol pumps – one in Phase 7, Mohali, and another in Patrasi, Fatehgarh Sahib. “I hereby confirm and declare truth that I have committed suicide due to harassment by officials of an oil corporation,” he wrote in the suicide note, while naming six officials.Alleging that officials of the UT administration, an oil firm and Punjab Police forced him to sell a property, he wrote: “By way of cheating and conspiracy, they snatched my property in the name of my wife (name concealed) at Daun on Chandigarh-Kharar road with the help of Punjab Police and an official of the oil firm.”He also wrote about complaining to senior officials of the company, but no action was taken.Mentioning how he was incurring monthly loss of Rs 80 lakh due to difference in VAT rates between neighbouring states, he wrote: “I had gone bankrupt due to lowering of VAT rates of petrol and diesel at Chandigarh by UT administration at the behest of (one private business dealer) and other dealers at Sector 49 and 52 by bribing Chandigarh (officers).”ALSO READ: Deceased had been fighting disparity in fuel ratesHe laid the blame of “compelling circumstances” on officials of the oil company and others (names withheld) for being “the root cause of looting my right to earn my bread.”The deceased also wrote that he had signed an agreement to purchase a house in Sector 9 with a woman, who cheated him as she was not legally allowed to sell the house in 2005-06. He said one of close family members had also “joined hands with UT police”.The note further read that he was a simple businessman who could not fight corrupt officials of the oil company and UT administration, a private dealer, the woman with whom he finalised the properly deal and her son-in-law, with an appeal to lodge FIR against all culprits.After finding this note on Thursday night, UT Police have booked the six officials of an oil firm under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of the deceased’s 47-year-old son, who lives in Sector 15, Chandigarh.“In his suicide note, he specifically named six people, while mentioning a series of events and names of several others. If their role is established during the course of investigation, their names can be included in the FIR,” said deputy commissioner of police Mohit Handa.ALSO READ: Family demands all accused be brought to task||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suicide-note-by-mohali-petrol-pump-owner-names-at-least-13-fir-against-six/story-psq0WHDzZXS713xxTNlurK.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh colleges to begin online admissions for undergraduate courses on July 27||The online joint prospectus for the 2020-2021 session of government and privately-managed government-aided colleges of the city for approximately 16,000 seats in undergraduate (UG) courses was launched on Friday by director, higher education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar.From Monday, July 27, till August 3, applicants can fill their admission forms online, and the entire admission process from form submission to counselling in all streams has been made digital considering the current Covid-19 pandemic situation.There will be two online admission schedules—for UT pool and general pool outside UT. De-reservation of seats for leftover ones will be done college-wise from August 28 onwards. A registration fee of ₹70 will be charged for online registration.Scanned copies of documents including Class 12 detailed marks certificate and matriculation certificate with date of birth will be required for online admission. Brar said that if any student faces difficulty in obtaining the certificates, the department will still accommodate them. BA ADMISSIONS TO GO ONLINEIn a first the admission procedure for bachelor of arts (BA) will also be carried out entirely online. The schedule for BA is identical for both government and privately-managed government-aided colleges. However, for BA the process will be non-centralised and for government colleges candidates will have to fill the forms separately for each college after registering on the DHE website. For private aided colleges, students will directly have to register on the college’s website. There will be no physical counselling for BA. Online registration will be open from July 27 to August 3, and the final merit list will be displayed by August 9.STUDENTS TO RECEIVE SMS ALERT FOR PAYMENT OF FEESA new feature added this year is that the applicants will receive an SMS notifying them to deposit their fee after the college seat is assigned to them. This has been done so candidates don’t have to physically come to the college for this.Applicants will have to give their contact numbers with Whatsapp and their working mail ID so that effective communication can take place. Every institution will have a special helpline number and email facility in place to answer applicants’ queries. There are 12 government colleges in the city offering UG courses. Six of them are government institutions—Post Graduate Government College (PGGC, Co-ed), Sector 11; Post Graduate Government College for Girls (PGGCG), Sector 11; Regional Institute of English (RIE, Co-ed), Sector 32; PGGCG, Sector 42; PGGC, Co-ed, Sector 46; and Government College of Commerce and Business Administration (GCCBA, Co-ed), Sector 50.The other six are privately managed—DAV College, Co-ed, Sector 10; Sri Guru Gobind Singh College (SGGS, Co-ed), Sector 26; Guru Gobind Singh College for Women (GGSCW), Sector 26; Goswami Ganesh Dutta SD College (GGDSD, Co-ed), Sector 32; Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women (MCM DAV), Sector 36; and Dev Samaj College for Women, Sector 45.MCM LAUNCHES PROSPECTUSAffiliated with the Panjab University, MCM DAV College for Women, Sector 36, released their college and hostel prospectuses and uploaded them on its website on Friday. Principal Nisha Bhargava and the members of the prospectus committee unveiled both the prospectuses. The aesthetically designed brochures convey the message of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ to reinforce the idea that MCM promotes social integration and harmony. This year, the college is offering six undergraduate and six add-on courses.IMPORTANT DATESThe prospectus is available on www.dhe.chd.gov.in.Online submission of forms begins: July 27Last date for form submission: August 3Display of list of applicants: August 5Online submission of discrepancies in forms: August 7Display of list of eligible applicants: August 8Display of list of allotted colleges: August 13||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-colleges-to-begin-online-admissions-in-ug-courses-from-july-27/story-nWKisBC8ARvjf83AVgH9TL.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s PGIMER to begin antibody testing||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has received kits for conducting antibody testing of recovered patients to diagnose the presence of antibodies in their plasma for potential donation.Professor Ratti Ram Sharma, head of the transfusion medicine department, said that the tests will be required for sorting out eligible donors. “Evidence so far suggests that the antibodies disappear quickly in asymptomatic cases. The only difference now will be that the antibody test will give us confidence about their presence in the recovered patients.”“This kind of testing will not be used for detection of infection,” he added.As per the advisory of the Indian Council of Medical Research, the UT administration is using only the RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) method of Covid testing.PLASMA CENTRE OPENED IN PANCHKULAAssembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Friday inaugurated Haryana’s fifth plasma centre here in Panchkula.The opening of the centre officially heralds the beginning of plasma donation in the district. What’s more, a shopkeeper of Rajiv Colony voluntarily donated plasma on the first day.Gupta said that the number of Covid infected patients had increased in the district in the last few days. “Till now the treatment was done with oxygen and steroid systems, but these are not effective in the treatment of severely-ill patients. Plasma therapy is needed,” he said.According to Dr Saroj Aggarwal, a consultant at civil hospital, an antibody called Copla remains in the body even after a person has been cured, which can then be used for another patient even after 28 days. Plasma will be kept at the centre at a temperature of minus 40 degrees. The sample can be used for one year.An official statement mentioned that this treatment will be given free in government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-pgimer-to-begin-antibody-testing/story-NHBGgvWliMpS63ZaHo0QlJ.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panel rejects Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher’s proposal to build nursing homes on residential plots||A panel of the UT administrator’s advisory council on Friday rejected the proposal by Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher for allowing conversion of residential plots into sites for nursing homes.In a meeting of the standing committee on urban infrastructure and planning in the city held through video-conferencing on Friday, members deliberated on the issue and rejected the proposal. “These are purely commercial activities and offer expensive healthcare facilities. Members were of the opinion that these create lots of inconvenience to the residents like traffic congestion and parking problems,” said Davinder Singh Babla, Congress councillor and committee member.The committee was directed to consider the proposal after Kher had asked the administration to allow the same. Advocating more private health facilities in city’s residential areas, Kher had written, “If new private nursing homes are allowed in residential areas across Chandigarh as prevalent in neighbouring states, it will certainly decrease burden on government hospitals; rather people will get better health facilities at their doorstep. This will generate more employment opportunities for medical and paramedical staff too.”Since 2005, the administration hasn’t allowed construction of new nursing homes in residential areas.The panel suggested that like other commercial establishments, sites for the nursing homes could be allotted in commercial areas. “Industrial areas can be used for building new nursing homes. Many industrial plots are lying unused and may be utilised by allowing health care facilities like nursing homes to come up here. Members suggested that the administration should permit the same,” said a committee member requesting anonymity.The committee members also suggested that better health facilities at affordable rates could be provided by augmenting the infrastructure and facilities in the city’s dispensaries. “We already have adequate infrastructure in sectors that should be strengthened and improved upon,” the member said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panel-rejects-chandigarh-mp-kirron-kher-s-proposal-to-build-nursing-homes-on-residential-plots/story-Bd5RX124ii5Sn15VjYTrxI.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Smart classrooms in Chandigarh’s govt schools to be social distancing compliant||In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the smart classrooms being developed by the Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL) in government schools will adhere to the social distancing norms.There is proposal to set up 90 smart classrooms in four government schools of the city. A primary school in Sector 22, three senior secondary schools in sectors 35 and 43 will be equipped with interactive boards, projectors, smart lighting, fire alarms, etc., and seating in consonance with the social distancing norms.Confirming the development, CSCL chief general manager NP Sharma said, “Following social distancing norms in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic has become a priority. After detailed deliberations, it was decided to make changes in the seating plan. Now, there will be individual benches for every student instead of two students sharing a bench.” The classroom strength will remain the same, he said.The changed plan will add to the cost of the project. Originally, the project was to cost around Rs 5 crore. “The new furniture requirements will add around Rs 1.5 crore to the project cost,” said Sharma.The CSCL is revising the modalities of the tender it floated for the project.The successful bidder will have to set up the smart classrooms, provide the furniture, in addition to supply, installation, testing, commissioning, operation and maintenance for 5 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/smart-classrooms-in-govt-schools-to-be-social-distancing-compliant/story-pQL2winLjFEONWcVhjcvaN.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Faulty tracks put brakes on rising popularity of cycling in Chandigarh||At a time when Chandigarh administration is making ambitious plans to promote cycling, badly designed cycling tracks have put the brakes on the rising popularity of cycling in the city.The city has more than 190 km of cycle tracks, and an additional 20 km are in the works. The administration, through Chandigarh Smart City Ltd, is also preparing to roll out a public bicycle sharing system by December this year. At the same time, due to the restrictions imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, an increasing number of residents are opting for cycling to maintain fitness.But, for regular users of cycle tracks, like Shilpa Das, it is not a smooth ride and sometimes even dangerous to cycle on these tracks. Das, an architect, pointing out basic flaws in design at several junctions and locations, said, “Riding along the tracks, the movement is constrained because their width is not constant. There are awkward and abrupt cuts and joints on the track, and no proper turn angles are provided. There are no kerbs provided at edges to give strength and visual symmetry.”Track surfaces have also been damaged, say cyclists. “There are up to ten places where the cycle tracks have broken areas because sloping hasn’t been done right and water collects, creating potholes. At other places, obstacles like trees or electric pole break cyclists’ movement. Sometimes, these tracks go too close to peoples’ house walls,” said RK Garg, a city-based social activist and cycling enthusiast.MISSING AMENITIESApart from the damaged, badly laid out tracks, additional infrastructure is also missing. “Benches for resting, water points, repair kiosk, street lighting, signage and parking facilities should also be provided, which are missing now,” said Das.In some locations, the UT is yet to complete the cycle tracks. “In areas like Dhanas, Malloya, Sector 25, and other such areas, where large number of people use cycles as a necessity and not recreation, there are no cycle tracks. Even though the administration has approved it, the engineering department is yet to construct these,” said Akhil Bansal, a resident of Dhanas.REPAIRS BEING DONE, MORE AMENITIES COMINGStating that 80% of the repair work has already been completed, Mukesh Anand, UT chief engineer, said, “After conducting a survey of the tracks, we undertook repair work. It is a continuous and recurring work. We have also undertaken tree pruning, repaired leakages, and recarpeted broken tracks. Some of the repairs like on a stretch near Rose garden will be initiated soon.”On the complaints of lack of proper right of way and continuity of movement, Anand, said, “We want to save trees, and so at some places width is less, and tracks meander.”Anand assures that amenities like cycle stands and water points are also being planned, “We will create cycle stands in more areas as we have done near lake,” he said.“In areas like Dhanas, we are in the process of constructing tracks. At some places, we will have new tracks, and in other locations we will have to curve out on the road,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/faulty-tracks-put-brakes-on-rising-popularity-of-cycling-in-chandigarh/story-TUX2jzmPD4AIdIc0UnpBiM.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM rejects Suresh Kumar’s resignation, asks him to resume work||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday turned down the resignation of his chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar, asking him to return to work.The CM’s decision was conveyed to Kumar by chief secretary Vini Mahajan. The chief secretary wrote to Kumar, informing him that the resignation has not been accepted by the chief minister and he is requested to continue as such, according to sources. The chief secretary’s letter was in response to Kumar’s resignation and letter relinquishing charge on July 15.He will meet the chief minister on Monday and is likely to get back to work thereafter, they said. Mahajan declined to speak on the matter. The chief principal secretary, who has been upset over the government not defending his appointment strongly in a high court case, stopped attending to official work last week. He was neither attending any official meetings nor accepting files. On Monday, he even relieved his personal staff and sent back his official vehicles. Though there was speculation after he met with the chief minister on Wednesday that he would return to work, Kumar appeared to dig his heels in on the court case challenging his appointment as the chief minister’s topmost aide.Kumar has been sore with the advocate general’s office for quite some time for not “defending” the appointment order strongly and not pushing the case for an early decision. He has made no secret of his unhappiness over the Damocles’ sword hanging over his head for the past 40 months due to the court case even though similar post-retirement appointments have been made in Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and several states across the country.Kumar, who has tendered his resignation from the post thrice earlier over this issue, left his charge this time as no one from the state’s legal team was present in the high court for the case when it was listed for hearing on July 15. As per the protocol put in place by the high court in the view of the Covid-19 outbreak, an application is to be filed by either of the parties if an urgent hearing is required in pending cases. No application was moved by the state’s legal team or the petitioner for urgent hearing, and the case was not taken up. It is now listed for September 14.When contacted, AG Atul Nanda refused to comment. However, sources in the AG’s office said there was no delay on their part. They said most of the adjournments in the matter have been taken by Ramandeep Singh, and not the state of Punjab), or taken up by arguments by the original petitioner on May 16, November 13, (2018) and February 13 (2019). The case was adjourned by the high court for the paucity of time on July 11, October 16 (2018), January 10, and May 23 (2019).Sources said the only times when the state was required to seek an adjournment was on March 26, 2019, for filing of a reply to an application and then on April 17, 2018, and May 23, 2019, for non-availability of senior advocate P Chidambaram. “During the last effective hearing, the matter was adjourned to February 21, 2020, which was later declared as a public holiday by the high court on account of Mahashivratri and hence had to be adjourned when the matter got auto listed on February 24”. The state went into lockdown thereafter, the high court was closed and only fresh urgent cases filed were being heard by the high court through video-conferencing.A retired 1983-batch IAS officer, Kumar was handpicked by Amarinder for the coveted assignment in March 2017. His induction was challenged on August 4, 2017, in Punjab and Haryana high court, and a single-judge bench, in its order on January 17, 2018, quashed the appointment. The state government filed a Letter Patents Appeal (LPA) and the single-bench’s order was stayed by a division bench on February 14, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-rejects-suresh-kumar-s-resignation-asks-him-to-resume-work/story-zPmjB9hDYkpZTw2ihTRP1K.html
25-07-2020||City||Moga gangster, four aides arrested after shootout in Kharar||As gunshots echoed and terrified residents locked themselves in their apartments, a housing society in Kharar was the scene of a dramatic police encounter on Friday in which Gangster Navdeep Singh Navi alias John Buttar from Moga was injured and four of his accomplices were arrested.Acting on a tipoff, a team of organised crime control unit (OCCU) of Punjab police headed by additional inspector general (AIG) Gurmeet Singh Chauhan in a joint operation with Mohali and Jagraon police reached Aman Homes at 3pm.The gangsters opened fire at the policemen as they attempted to break open the locked door of the apartment in the society where they were hiding, Chauhan said.As the police team returned fire, Buttar received two bullet injuries in his legs.According to Punjab director general of police, Dinkar Gupta, besides two 9 mm pistols, a .30 bore, a 32 bore and two .315 bore pistols and 20 cartridges of different calibre were recovered from the men.Wanted in over 18 criminal cases Gupta said Buttar was wanted in over 18 criminal cases of murder, attempt to murder, dacoity and extortion. He was also accused of firing on the associates of Shinder Singh, ex-sarpanch and had uploaded videos on Facebook claiming responsibility for the same and threatening action against Shinder Singh.Police also said he was the main accused in a firing incident at Buttar Kalan village in the recent past.The others arrested included Kulwinder Singh, Parminder Singh alias Pinda, all residents of Buttar Kalan village in Moga, and Amritpal Singh and Amrik Singh, both residents of Samrala in Ludhiana.Buttar, according to reports, was first taken to the Civil Hospital in Kharar, from where he was referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh.Mohali superintendent of police (investigation) Harmandeep Hans, who was also present with the team, said, “ We learnt that the gangster John was declared a proclaimed offender (PO) in a case registered in 2012. Investigations are continuing.”DSP, OCCU, Bikramjit Singh Brar said the encounter lasted for over five minutes in which around 10 gunshots were fired.Hired apartment 10 days ago from a brokerInvestigations have revealed that the gangsters had rented the Aman Homes apartment 10 days ago through a broker named Mani. They were referred to Mani by another woman named Priyanka.Apartment owner Harcharan Singh, it was learnt, had not got his tenants verified by the police.According to police, Mani had been asking the gangsters for their photographs for verification but the men had avoided doing so even though they had filled out the forms.Mani and Priyanka will also be included in the investigations.The arrested men will be produced in a local court tomorrow and their police remand sought.An FIR was registered at the Sadar police station in Kharar under sections 307, 353, 186, 120B of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of the Arms Act against the five men.Palwinder Singh alias Pinda was also a proclaimed offender in the murder of gangster Kuldeep Singh alias Keepa registered at the Badni Kalan police station, Moga. Amrik Singh had narcotics and liquor smuggling cases registered against him. Similarly, Amritpal Singh has previously been booked in liquor smuggling cases, DGP Gupta added.Tension in Kharar societyMeanwhile, residents of Aman Homes spent two to three hours locked indoors as gunshots rang out in the society. “As we heard the firing and saw a large number of policemen milling around, we locked ourselves indoors and came out after an hour,” said Bhupinder Singh, a local resident. Jaspal Singh, another resident, said: “When I switched on the TV, I was shocked to see the footage of my society in the news channels about the encounter. Policemen had surrounded the society and we were petrified when we heard the gunshots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/moga-gangster-four-aides-arrested-after-shootout-in-kharar/story-B2iFpOdgPMPDJe9eExM03M.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh excise department unearths ₹61-crore tax evasion racket||The UT excise and taxation department unearthed a GST scam worth Rs 61 crore on Friday. Six city-based firms allegedly evaded Rs 61-crore GST payment, according to excise officials. Acting on a specific input, six teams were constituted to conduct searches at several premises of these firms on Friday.“The department conducted searches at offices of M/s SR Agencies, M/s Global Home Solutions, M/s Rajat Enterprises, M/s Polytech, M/s Euro Sales and M/s Amba Agencies in Gobindpura and Manimajra,” said RK Chaudhary, assistant commissioner, UT excise and taxation.These firms deal in pipes, tiles, etc. and evaded Rs 61-crore GST payment. “The investigation conducted so far has revealed that these dealers did not pay GST to the government and facilitated illicit input tax credit (ITC) entitlement. All the firms have not filed their GSTR-3B monthly tax returns from February onward,” said Chaudhary.“The premises of five firms were found closed and it has come to the fore that no such firms exist at the given addresses. Only M/s SR Agencies premises was located from where all other firms operated,” added Chaudhary.Preliminary investigations revealed that firms generated e-way bills using motorcycles, three-wheelers, and even ambulance for showing transportation of goods. Some incriminating documents of the firms have been taken into possession. The investigation is underway as the department suspects the involvement of other firms in the racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-excise-department-unearths-61-crore-tax-evasion-racket/story-ducF3nGGfCanRxcdyVSL3M.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid victims’ body swap: Petitioners demand DNA test of mortal remains||The petitioner sons of Covid-19 victim whose body got swapped at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, have demanded a DNA test of the mortal remains to ascertain the identity.The demand was made by the victim’s two sons during a resumed hearing of a plea filed on Monday by them after they received body of a woman in place of their father. The Hoshiarpur man’s sons got a call on July 18 that their father has breathed his last on July 17. But on July 18, they had received mortal remains of a woman. The government has ordered a magisterial probe into the incident. The state government filed a detailed status report on Friday after it got a rapped during Wednesday’s hearing for poor handling of the case. It has stated that the process of cremation of the petitioners’ father, whose body got unfortunately exchanged with an Amritsar woman Covid-19 victim, was completed by the latter’s family with full religious rites. Later, when it came to light that the bodies got swapped, the family of the woman victim withdrew from remaining rituals and the district administration collected the remains of the petitioners’ father and kept the same in the custody at an Amritsar crematorium, the court was told.On this, the court asked the counsel for petitioners whether the petitioners wanted to receive the last remains/ashes of their deceased father or not. The counsel for petitioners stated that the petitioners cannot verify if the last remains actually belonged to their father and they wished to get the DNA test conducted. The court then directed that the feasibility of such a test giving conclusive findings be examined and the report be submitted on the next date of hearing on July 29.Both the parties have been asked to verify and inform the court on the next date of hearing about the feasibility and conclusively of such a test, if conducted. In the meantime, the court has directed the state authorities to keep the ashes of the deceased in safe custody and to ensure that they are not tampered with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-victims-body-swap-petitioners-demand-dna-test-of-mortal-remains/story-bzbDfZYMTriAkp2gfBJlsK.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Highest single-day spike in Punjab, 487 test positive||In a biggest single-day spike, Punjab on Friday clocked 487 new coronavirus cases, taking the state’s tally to 12,216. Five fresh deaths were reported in the state, taking the count to 282. The number of active cases stands at 3,838 while 8,096 patients have been discharged after recovery, according to the media bulletin released by the state government.One person died while 118 persons, including 43 BSF personnel tested positive of the novel coronavirus in the three districts of Doaba region, including Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. Fifty-two people, including BSF men, contracted the infection in Hoshiarpur, 65 in Jalandhar and nine in SBS Nagar. Besides, a 54-year-old man from Sarhal Ranuaa, of Banga sub-division in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar died due to virus. Ludhiana reported 105 fresh cases, taking the district’s count to 2,275. Besides, a 62-year-old man from Ghumar Mandi died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala.A 59-year-old man of Sangrur died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Ludhiana on Friday. Meanwhile, 19 people tested positive for coronavirus in the district. Of these, nine are from Lehra/Moonak, four from Sangrur, two each from Sunam and Dhuri and one each from Malerkotla and Sherpur blocks.Bathinda reported 55 fresh cases. Of these 53 patients are migrant workers who had come to Bathinda to work at an oil refinery. Meanwhile, Ferozepur reported 19 cases, including seven police personnel from CID wing, today, says the civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore. Twenty-two people contracted the infection in Fazilka. One person died while 49 others tested positive for the virus in Patiala district. Of these 29 are from Patiala city, nine each from Rajpura, one each from Samana and Nabha and nine from other from different villages across the district.Forty-nine more people from Amritsar were tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Of theses, 37 cases are fresh transmitted cases and most of them are symptomatic. Five people in Tarn Taran district also contracted the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/highest-single-day-spike-in-punjab-487-test-positive/story-p692eQtSKUHFxyouJufdvI.html
25-07-2020||City||UP may have to tweak timeline for trillion dollar economy||The Uttar Pradesh government may have to tweak a bit the timeline set to achieve the objective of making the state a trillion dollar economy in five years.A delay is expected in the selection of the consultant to work out a roadmap to take the state’s GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product) to the one trillion dollar level by 2025. Such a delay may occur following the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to amend the request for proposal (RFP) and timelines to accommodate suggestions made at an online pre-bid meeting held on June 29.A 41-page comprehensive request for proposal (RFP), along with an approved timeline, was provided online as the state government invited e-bids ‘for selection of consultant to provide services to boost up the size of GSDP of Uttar Pradesh to one trillion dollars in five years (2020-2025)’.“An important amendment is expected in RFP following suggestions received at the online pre-bid meeting held on June 29, 2020. An amended RFP with new timeline will soon be uploaded on the website of the planning department and the e-tender portal after seeking permission from competent levels,” said Ankit Kumar Agarwal, special secretary, planning department, in a notice dated July 15.Although a definite date for commencement of work by the consultant was not quoted in the present RFP, the timelines given therein mentioned July 27, 2020 for presentation and evaluation of the technical bids. “We are not sure about the revised timeline for completing the bidding process. A meeting of the high powered committee chaired by the chief secretary has considered the amendments on July 3, 2020 and the revised RFP will be sent to the state cabinet’s approval soon,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has time and again said the state government will be working hard to achieve the objective of taking the state’s GSDP to one trillion level in five years. Will the process of amendment to RFP have an impact on the timeline? “There has been no deviation and no change has been made in the timeline for achieving the objective of making the state a trillion dollar economy in five years,” said KB Raju, advisor, finance, to the chief minister.A GSDP of Rs 15.80 lakh crore (US $ 230 billion) has been quoted for 2018-2019 in RFP floated online with economy witnessing 7% growth over the previous year. With the state government’s tax revenue coming down considerably in the fight against the Covid-19 , the state’s growth rate is likely to be adversely affected and such a situation will throw more challenges to policy makers. “It’s good that the state government has taken the initiative of working out a roadmap for making the state a trillion dollar economy. Since the timeline for RFP is being revised, the state government will have to redouble its efforts to meet the objective of a trillion dollar economy. The current year is already a difficult one in view of Covid-19 pandemic and this will add to state government’s challenges,” said Yashvir Tyagi, professor (retired) of economics, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-may-have-to-tweak-timeline-for-trillion-dollar-economy/story-hnA2ZmkSZ4HAZr2yBBIMvL.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Students allege error in admission process at TISS||Prospective students of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, have alleged discrepancies in the marking scheme of the admission process. The students have also written to the institute administration pointing out the errors.The candidates have alleged that their final marks were not adherent to the weightage allotted to their TISS National Entrance Test (NET) and personal interview scores. The institute allots 60% weightage to TISSNET and 40% to a personal interview. “The scores appear skewed in favour of those who appeared for the interview online,” a candidate said on conditions of anonymity. Moreover, candidates pointed out that the marks obtained by candidates who appeared for in-person interviews in March were lower than those obtained by candidates who appeared for online interviews.While a few candidates had completed their online interview in March, ahead of the lockdown, the institute switched to the online mode of interviews in June to complete the admission process. Progressive Students Forum (PSF), a student organisation at TISS, has written to the institute on behalf of the candidates and demanded transparency in the admission process. One of the issues raised by PSF is that some candidates from the general category have been allotted seats in the OBC (NC) category.The group has asked for clarification on the discrepancies from the administration. “The institute should make the complete data of candidates public, which should include data points like the total number of people who have applied, the number of people who have appeared for the admission process and the mode (online /offline PI), their original score, weighted score and the category under which they have been offered admission,” said the letter by PSF.The institute administration admitted that it has received representations from students regarding suspected errors in the calculation of the final score. In a clarification issued to students on its website, the administration said there was an error in the marks of candidates who attended offline interviews. This was, however, restricted to the MA in applied psychology (with specialisation in clinical and counselling practice) programme offered by the School of Human Ecology.A senior official said that the administration is rectifying the error and the final marks will be revised for such candidates. The institute said it had verified the entire marking scheme and software for all other courses and did not find any error.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-allege-error-in-admission-process-at-tiss/story-N0TXsfGmphhT9ymonjOXtK.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar begins tour of Maharashtra districts||As the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise in Maharashtra, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has started to visit the cities and districts to take stock of the situation. Pawar, while visiting Nashik on Friday, said that they were of the view that some people should start field visits and submit their observations to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray to help him make policy decisions. He, however, clarified that the CM too was keen on visiting districts and will take a call on it soon. “Some of us were of the view that some people should go in the field and submit observations to the chief minister to help him make policy decisions, that is why we are here,” Pawar told reporters after attending the review meeting, along with health minister Rajesh Tope.Pawar further said that the situation of the pandemic in the financial capital is under control. “The chief minister is keen on visiting districts and will take the decision on it soon,” he said.The 79-year old veteran leader will be visiting Aurangabad on Saturday to review the Covid-situation.Though CM Uddhav Thackeray is yet to start the tour to review the Covid-19 situation in the state, he has been taking virtual review meetings regularly. According to officials from the chief minister office (CMO), Thackeray is likely to start visiting regional headquarters from next week. However, the schedule is yet to be finalised.Pawar while praising Thackeray said, “CM has put in a lot of hard work and worked day and night in the last few months. His hard work in Mumbai is showing results.”On Tuesday, the state government barred the state officials from attending meetings called by the Opposition leaders including non-governmental members, members of parliament (MP) and members of legislative Assembly (MLC). The decision comes after the leader of Opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis toured the state to review the Covid-19 situation. Leader of Opposition in the legislative council Pravin Darekar too visited various Covid care centres and hospitals.NCP leaders said that the tour was first started by the NCP chief as he was first one to tour Raigad and Ratnagiri districts after Cyclone Nisarga. Before that, he visited field hospitals at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) and NSCI, Worli in Mumbai, developed by the state.“We have not barred the officials from attending the meetings. The decision was taken by the erstwhile BJP government headed by Devendra Fadnavis on March 11, 2016. Our government has decided to continue their decision,” said an NCP functionary on conditions of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-begins-tour-of-maharashtra-districts/story-jhaIB8dBBgbectbVVi4bJK.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Ensure proper disposal of Covid-19 biomedical waste: HC directs MPCB||RThe Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to ensure that Covid-19 biomedical waste is properly disposed of by scrupulously complying with the provisions of the Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016.The bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Madhav Jamdar also directed MPCB to take prompt action against the civic authority concerned, if it finds any violation of the waste disposal rules.The directives were issued in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Dombivli resident Kishor Sohoni regarding the appropriate disposal of biomedical waste. Sohoni alleged that though prevailing rules mandate scientific disposal of biomedical waste, the waste generated at Covid-19 treatment centres at Kalyan was being dumped at Adharwadi dumping ground by garbage collectors.Sohoni’s PIL, filed through advocate Sadhana Kumar, stated that such dumping of contaminated waste is dangerous, considering the spread and intensity of the Covid-19 infection.“During the pandemic, direct disposal of biomedical waste from Covid hospitals is a serious threat to human life, and should be stopped immediately,” stated the PIL. “Rigorous monitoring is required to ensure such waste does not end up infecting others, including garbage collectors,” it added. MPCB, however, maintained that no Covid-19 biomedical waste was found at Adharwadi dumping ground when officers of the board and Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) jointly inspected the site.In its affidavit, MPCB stated that the civic body had set up a dedicated site for disposal of biomedical waste at Umbarde, where the contaminated waste generated at Covid-19 treatment centres was disposed scientifically.Thirty common facilities have been set up for treatment and scientific disposal of Covid-19 biomedical waste generated across Maharashtra. The waste is being collected by common treatment facility operators for scientific disposal at the dedicated sites, the affidavit added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ensure-proper-disposal-of-covid-19-biomedical-waste-hc-directs-mpcb/story-9uGI0buIIv4gI8tKJ2X9zI.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||No-go for Mumbai local trains yet; new rules for taxis, autos soon||Four months after the lockdown was imposed in the city to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, public transport is unlikely to resume on a full scale any time soon. Local train services, which are otherwise used by around 80 lakh passengers daily, continue to remain suspended for commuters, except those working in essential services. Experts have suggested that the Railways should not resume local train services for the general public until September. Since June 15, Western Railway (WR) and Central Railway (CR) have been operating nearly 700 services for essential service providers. Within the city, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) resumed partial operation of its bus services since June 1. It has started operating 3,200 buses daily, with only 30 passengers allowed per bus. Black and yellow taxis and autorickshaws in the city are operating with only two passengers per vehicle and can carry only people working in essential services and in cases of emergency. Emergency travel has only been allowed by mobile application-based cabs. The state government has formed a transport task force to suggest a plan to resume regular services of taxis and autorickshaws in the city. According to a member of the task force, they have already submitted their suggestions to the state government. “An announcement by the state government regarding the operation of taxis and autorickshaws will be made soon. Suggestions have been submitted.” said the task force member. Rail commuters will have to wait longer to use local trains though. “There have been no discussions on the starting of local train services for the public in the city. The cases are decreasing in the city, but the situation in other regions outside Mumbai should also stabilise before resuming train services.” said a senior CR official. Railway and transport experts have suggested that the Railways not resume local train services until September. Experts have also suggested that air-conditioned (AC) local trains should not be operated till the Covid threat is under control.“Fresh air circulation on a non-AC train is much higher and decreases the chances of the virus spreading. Maintaining social distance inside local train compartments will not be possible, so the railways should focus on temperature screenings and mandate masks inside the compartments. Train services should not resume until September,” said Subodh Jain, former railway board member and ex-general manager of Central Railway.Transport experts have also suggested that the Railways could explore the option of allowing one person per week inside the compartments. “Railways can explore the option of allowing railway pass-holders to travel only once a week. This way, people can complete their chores. There should also be services provided between Borivli and Virar,” said transport expert AV Shenoy. Meanwhile, CR and WR are undertaking various measures to maintain social distancing and safety on suburban and outstation train stations. It is now mandatory for essential service employees to produce QR-based e-passes to travel by local trains. Outstation train passengers will also have to undergo thermal screenings.CR has developed a mobile application under corporate social responsibility (CSR) for outstation train passengers, through which tickets can be checked. The railway also plans to introduce flap gates at which the QR codes on passengers’ tickets will be scanned, before allowing them to enter the station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-go-for-mumbai-local-trains-yet-new-rules-for-taxis-autos-soon/story-jbH2SFE0xtCs6OPzIz4BxI.html
25-07-2020||City||Imposters share fake audio clip of Mira-Bhayander MLA; case filed||Bhayander police have registered a case against unidentified people over a fake audio clip mimicking the voice of Geeta Jain, independent MLA of Mira-Bhayander, wherein the imposter was alleging that the government was making corrupt deals in the name of Covid-19 infection. Jain has filed a complaint with the police after the said audio clip was found doing rounds on social media platforms, following which Navghar police in Bhayander (East) registered a first information report (FIR).In the fake clip, the imposter, mimicking Jain’s voice, alleges of corrupt deals by the state government in the name of combatting Covid-19. The imposter also is heard telling people how to fight the infection through home remedies.Jain said, “I was under home quarantine along with my husband who also tested positive. When we found out about the fake audio clip, I complained to the Cyber Cell, Thane Rural and Navghar police.” She alleged, “My opponents have stooped to this level to tarnish my image and created this fake audio clip and circulated on various social media platforms.”“We have registered a case under sections 188 (disobedience), 269 (spread of infection) of the Indian Penal Code and also under Maharashtra Covid-19 Rules, Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Act, 1897,” said a police officer adding that a woman is under the radar for her involvement and police are probing further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/imposters-share-fake-audio-clip-of-mira-bhayander-mla-case-filed/story-pY3W4PJNTavt6kDish866I.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Don’t target beggars when civil society members do not follow lockdown too: HC to petitioner||The Bombay high court (HC) questioned a petitioner as to why he was targeting children begging on the streets during Covid-19 while people from civil society do not follow lockdown and safety norms as well. The court has also directed the state to file a reply in compliance with a 2019 order on the action being taken with regards to rescuing and rehabilitating minor children and women who are found begging on the streets.In view of thousands of minors found begging on the streets soon after lockdown norms were relaxed, the petitioner had sought an urgent hearing of a petition filed last year seeking relief for children and women indulging in begging activities. On Friday, a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Pune resident Dhyaneshwar Darwatkar through advocate Shekhar Jagtap in 2019, was informed that the PIL was based on the outcome of a 2016 survey on beggars in Pune city. The survey conducted by NGO Rainbow India Foundation had revealed that there were more than 10,000 children involved in begging in Pune city, of whom 83% belonged to families that live on streets, 15% were street-working children, while 3% lived alone on the streets.Pointing to the urgency for hearing the PIL, Jagtap submitted that since lockdown was relaxed begging activities had commenced, putting the lives of children involved in begging as well as that of the general public at risk in view of Covid-19 situation. While seeking urgent relief for children and women involved in begging, Jagtap submitted that these children and women are ‘live bombs’ and hence directions should be issued to the authorities to rescue and rehabilitate them in homes as per the provisions of Maharashtra Prevention of Begging Act, 1960 and other policies related to rights of children begging on streets.Jagtap also sought directions against police officers who allowed such activities and submitted that the state had failed to comply with orders passed in previous hearings.After hearing the submission the bench questioned, “Why blame only the beggars? Even other members of civil society do not follow social distancing and other norms.” The court added that the police could not be expected to curb begging while they were involved in containing the spread of the virus; hence the petitioner should be ‘sensitive’ while making their arguments. “The entire nation is facing difficult times and it is not right for the petitioner to target beggars only,” said the bench.The court then observed that as the state government had not filed a response to the plea since last year, it was granting a last opportunity to the state and other authorities to file replies in affidavit by August 7, and a rejoinder by the petitioner thereafter. The court posted the matter for further hearing on August 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-target-beggars-when-civil-society-members-do-not-follow-lockdown-too-hc-to-petitioner/story-VylsS6Rgh8d6kMl4se8mmJ.html
25-07-2020||City||RSS men shouted slogans outside my house, alleges RTI activist||RTI activist Saket Gokhale, who on Thursday tweeted about the alleged handling of the social media campaigns of the chief electoral office of Maharashtra by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and filed a petition in the Allahabad high court against the bhoomipujan for Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, alleged that Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) members shouted ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans outside his house in Kashimira, Mira Road on Friday. At the time of going to press, the Thane police were in the process of filing an FIR against 12 unidentified men.Gokhale had sought HC direction to restrain the bhoomipujan during a pandemic, on the grounds that it was in violation of the protocol prescribed by the Centre. The court, however, dismissed his petition on Friday. Gokhale’s tweets on BJP leader Devang Dave have led to a demand by the Congress for a probe by the chief election commissioner.According to Gokhale, on Friday evening, 10-12 people gathered near his building, shouted slogans and used abusive language against his family. Gokhale tweeted about the alleged harassment and claimed the group also threatened his mother. The Thane rural police provided protection to Gokhale.Meanwhile, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced a probe into the incident. “@SaketGokhale We are taking very serious cognisance of this and have immediately ordered an enquiry into this issue. We will immediately provide you protection. Thane police have been instructed accordingly. #ZeroToleranceForHooliganism,” he tweeted.Sanjay Hajare, senior inspector, Kashimira police station, said, “There was no one when we reached the building. We checked the videos and took statements of the activist and are now filing a case. We are yet to identify them. We don’t have any confirmation if they belong to the RSS. We are also checking the CCTV footage to get more details of their vehicles.” He said the men would be booked for disobedience of lockdown, unlawful assembly, provocation, criminal intimidation.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “This is how BJP uses its organisations and workers to suppress freedom of expression.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rss-men-shouted-slogans-outside-my-house-alleges-rti-activist/story-rPTq1e5WUxGw2Ei3Vt49mL.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Special NIA court rejects Teltumbde’s bail plea||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday rejected the bail application of academic and activist Dr Anand Teltumbde, arrested in connection with Elgar Parishad case.Teltumbde sought bail claiming the agency had failed to file the charge sheet within the stipulated period of 90 days, but the special court on Sunday extended the deadline by 90 more days. Teltumbde said he is likely to challenge the extension given to NIA, and he should be released on bail.The special court rejected his plea, observing that the court is not expected to see ifs and buts. The court held that as on today, the agency has time, so the plea is not maintainable.Teltumbde, an engineer and Indian Institute of Management (IIM) graduate who used to teach at the Indian Institute of Technology (Kharagpur) and at the Goa Institute of Management, was arrested after the Supreme Court refused to grant him protection. On April 14, Teltumbde surrendered before NIA in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-special-nia-court-rejects-teltumbde-s-bail-plea/story-bLm3aEVzGBzG5iibiCnprJ.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Congress wants CEC probe into BJP leader’s role in polls work||Alleging that the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Maharashtra appointed a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office-bearer to handle its Facebook page and social media campaigns during the Assembly polls in Maharashtra late last year, the state unit of the Congress has written to the chief election commissioner (CEC), demanding a probe. An official from CEO’s office said the agency was empanelled by the Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR). CEO Baldev Singh, issued a clarification, stating: “It is misleading and incorrect to say that the office of CEO has issued any advertisement through any agency on political considerations. As per the standard practice, electoral awareness campaigns are launched through DGIPR. They, in turn, follow a laid down procedure for selecting an appropriate agency for public awareness and not by the CEO office.”Former chief minister and senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan alleged in a press conference on Friday that the CEO’s office, which acts on behalf of the Election Commission of India, had appointed Signpost India, which has links with Devang Dave, national coordinator of information technology and social media of the BJP’s youth wing to run its voter awareness campaign on social media. “As per Article 324 of the Constitution, the Election Commission has the power to direct, schedule and control the election and it is duty-bound to conduct the polls in a free and fair manner. The appointment of a BJP office-bearer clearly indicates the CEO office failed in its duty. I have requested the chief election commissioner of India to conduct an inquiry into it,” Chavan said.RTI activist Saket Gokhale on Thursday put out a series of tweets alleging the appointment by the CEO ahead of the Maharashtra Assembly polls. Responding to them, ECI spokesperson Sheyphali Sharan tweeted, “Regarding tweet of Mr Gokhale@SaketGokhale, commission has sought a detailed factual report in this matter from CEO Maharashtra with respect to alleged locale of the incident immediately (sic).” The CEO, Maharashtra’s statement further said: “As far as the specific imputation made in the tweet of Saket Gokhale, an interim reply based on the facts has been sent to the ECI. Meanwhile, some other representations on the matter have been received from some public representatives, which are also being addressed and a detailed response in this regard shall be sent to the commission soon.”Dave, in a text message, said, “The work assigned by the Election Commission to Signpost was after following due process and there was no illegality involved. Can a political activist not work for an honest living? Am I not allowed professional engagements just because I support an ideology? The reputation of people levelling allegations is known to all. These are the people who were against the CAA, and are opposing Ram Mandir.”Chavan said the information related to voters and their demographic details available with the election body is sensitive and can’t be assessed by an outsider. “The confidentiality may have been compromised owing to Dave’s appointment. It needs to be checked if the party benefited out of this link,” he said.Chavan also alleged that Dave’s Facebook profile stated he was a member of the Information Technology board of the state government, even though no such board was constituted officially. “The state government should also probe which board Dave is referring to,” Chavan said.In his letter to CEC, Chavan has raised questions over the process followed while selecting the company and if a background check was done before its appointment. He has also questioned if there was any direct or indirect political pressure on the CEO, Maharashtra to appoint the agency. “Even if he was appointed by DGIPR, it was the duty of the CEO’s office to cross-check the background,” said Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant. BJP’s state vice-president Madhav Bhandari said, “The appointment of the agency led by Dave was not done just because he is a BJP office-bearer. It was done after he complied with all the criteria. Being a political leader or worker does not stop anybody from bagging a government contract if he/she is competent enough for it. Whether to pick the agency from the ones empanelled by DGIPR was the decision to be taken by the CEO office and they will clarify on it. Chavan, as a leader in opposition, should have taken objection at the time of the appointment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-wants-cec-probe-into-bjp-leader-s-role-in-polls-work/story-jFybXh2HptYLauWZQGhL0N.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Bring fatalities to zero, CM instructs task force of doctors||Ahead of the government’s plan to roll out more relaxations from the first week of August, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has directed the task forces of doctors from various districts to work towards bringing the case fatality rate to zero and ensure better management of patients. The CM spoke with the teams of doctors during a video conference on Friday to brainstorm for better patient management.The task forces from across the state have been directed to follow the example of Mumbai, which has managed to contain the virus and reduce the death rate. After the successful intervention of the 11-member state task force of doctors in Mumbai, the government had appointed such forces in all the other districts. Many districts in the state are witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases, with poor doubling rate, and high fatality rate. “The fatality rate is more than 3% in the state, and it should be gradually brought down to zero. The coordination between the task forces will be help bring uniformity in the line of treatment, leading to a drop in the fatalities,” said Thackeray. A state government official who was present at the meeting said that the CM also discussed the role of the state-level task force in the clinical management of patients in Mumbai and other cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. “Most of the interventions, including anti-viral drugs, were introduced on the suggestions by the doctors in the force,” said the official. The CM also expressed concern for the rising number of cases in rural areas of Maharashtra. “The new trend of the spread in rural parts of the state is a cause for worry as the health infrastructure in these areas is comparatively weak. The guidance of these task force doctors, who are globally renowned names in their respective fields, to the district-level doctors is expected to play an important role,” said the official.Since the state government is planning to roll out more relaxations from August 1, the authorities are expected to be extra cautious. “There will be a spike in cases after the relaxations, but it should not turn into a ‘second wave’ as was witnessed in some other countries. The district-level augmentation of health infrastructure and focused efforts by the administration are more important in this backdrop,” the official added. Thackeray directed the teams of doctors to follow the guidelines for use of antiviral drugs like remdesivir and favipiravir.“The district-level doctors were guided about the utility of the antiviral drugs and management of the oxygen beds, which play a crucial role in saving lives. The dialogue between the state task force members and their counterparts in the districts will help in building confidence among them,” said Dr TP Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research, Mumbai. Dr Sanjay Oak, who leads the state-level task force said that the doctors should avoid unnecessary use of antiviral drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bring-fatalities-to-zero-cm-instructs-task-force-of-doctors/story-nhz95IAaOuuJgGMQoM1tvI.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||‘Direct state, prison authorities to give updates on Rao’s health||The family of veteran Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, 81, who is an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, has approached the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), seeking updates on his health.Rao has tested positive for Covid-19 and is suffering from several other ailments. He was moved from state-run GT Hospital to Nanavati Hospital, following an NHRC order, on Sunday morning.In a letter written on Friday, his wife, P Hemalatha, and daughters, P Sahaja, P Anala, P Pavana, have asked NHRC to intervene and direct the state government and prison authorities to give periodic updates on Rao’s health and share details of the treatment given to him. The family has sought updates every six hours and appointment of a contact person, who they can get in touch with for information related to Rao’s health and treatment. “We are denied information on his condition or treatment at Nanavati Hospital. From the time he was shifted out of Taloja jail to St George’s Hospital to Nanavati Hospital, the only official information provided to the family was that he had tested positive for Covid-19,” the letter states. “The family was not informed, by either hospital or prison authorities, about a head injury discovered on him upon arrival at Nanavati Hospital.”The family has referred to the order passed by NHRC on July 13, directing the prison authorities to provide all necessary medical care and assistance to Rao with intimation to his family members. “It is the family’s right to get routine updates about the medical status of a patient, any treatment that he is undergoing and the risks involved regarding the same. Keeping us in the dark about Rao’s medical status is a flagrant violation of the NHRC directive,” the family alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/direct-state-prison-authorities-to-give-updates-on-rao-s-health/story-d6ruMNss5c4baFFJLhf7fN.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||BMC widening scope of tracing to shopkeepers, vegetable vendors||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) began its aggressive Covid-19 testing using rapid antigen kits across the city from Friday, testing frontline workers on priority and widening its scope of tracing to shopkeepers and vegetable vendors in high-risk and containment zones. Senior civic officials said the idea was to find positive cases within a short span and quarantine them.The civic body has started to test frontline workers from various health centres, including major and suburban hospitals, dispensaries, health volunteers, health workers working for prevention of other diseases, sanitation workers working under solid waste management department and sanitation workers working in slums.Vishwas Shankarwar, deputy municipal commissioner of zone 7 (Dahisar, Borivli and Kandivli), said, “We are screening and testing all frontline workers from the zone. We are also testing shopkeepers using rapid antigen kits, as they may have come in contact with those testing positive from high-risk or containment areas. Overall, the plan is to conduct 250 tests using rapid antigen kits.”Rapid antigen kits deliver test results within 15-20 minutes, but are less sensitive compared to RT-PCR tests. According to ICMR guidelines, every positive report from testing will be treated as ‘true positive’, while negative samples will have to be compulsorily re-tested by RT-PCR process.BMC had procured one lakh kits in the first week of July from a South Korean firm, which was the only company approved by ICMR. On July 2, BMC had announced that it will start rapid antigen tests in five wards with most Covid-19 cases then – R-North (Dahisar), R-Central (Borivli West), R-South (Kandivli), P-North (Malad) and P-South (Goregaon). However, the plan has now been extended to all 24 administrative wards in the city, and the officials have been asked to identify areas for the tests. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “We are getting positive cases within a short span, so the testing is successful. For symptomatic people who test negative in antigen testing, second analysis is done using RT-PCR so that false negatives are covered. We will surely continue antigen testing process and will procure more kits, if needed.”Till Thursday afternoon, 9,371 people from eight wards, private hospitals and three civic-run hospitals were tested using the antigen kits. Of them, 1,214 tested positive, giving the city a positivity rate of 13%. Meanwhile, on Friday, Mumbai reported 1,057 Covid-19 cases, followed by 54 deaths. The total number of infected cases in Mumbai has reached 106,980 and the toll is 5,984, according to the state health department data. As per BMC’s data, of the 54 deaths, six deaths were of patients below 40 years, 39 of patients above 60 years, and nine between 40 and 60 years. The data further states that 1,157 patients were discharged on Friday. A total of 78,259 patients have been discharged so far. The number of active patients is 22,443. The recovery rate is 73%. Further, the number of Covid tests done till Friday is 4.62 lakh. Meanwhile, Dharavi reported six new cases on Saturday, taking the total to 2,519. Of the total, 2,141 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-widening-scope-of-tracing-to-shopkeepers-vegetable-vendors/story-3XFlFAyaNvAZ22ZZ3bgKPI.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fruit growers in Valley fear Covid-19 could play spoilsport||With the first batch of apples ready to arrive in the markets, fruit growers in the Kashmir valley fear Covid-19 could play spoilsport for the industry.Next month, different varieties of Pears, which are considered high value fruit and have a less shelf life, will be ready for harvest. The growers claim that Cherry which is considered the season’s first crop did not fetch money as the dealers who used to make bulk purchases for canning purposes did not turn up in the local mandies.Last year, due to the abrogation of Article 370 followed by strict curfew, fruit growers had suffered huge losses. This time, growers and commission agents are a worried lot due to the restrictions in wake of Covid-19 even though horticulture activities are exempted from the lockdown.President of Fruit Growers Association Parimpora, Bashir Ahmad Bhat, said at present 10 to 20 trucks of early fruit varieties like Bulgarian arrive in the markets, which are consumed locally and only a dozen trucks are dispatched outside the mandies everyday. “From August last year, the growers have suffered huge losses—first due to curfew after abrogation of Article 370 and then the lockdown imposed in wake of Covid-19,” he said.Bhat said even growers who had kept the apples in cold storage with a hope that the markets will fetch them a good price, could hardly make any profits. “This year’s Cherry and Plum crop also did not fetch good prices,” he added.Another grower, Irshad Ahmad, who owns a shop in the fruit mandi at Sopore said they are still hopeful that the markets will get stabilised. “Last year was full of miseries, though we hope things will get better. The mandi is open but the hectic business will pick up only next month onwards,” he said.Ahmad said, “The commission agents from outside who used to make bulk purchases will prefer to stay away from the mandi due to Covid-19. Last year was not good for us and this year too if growers suffer losses, then they won’t be able to repay bank loans.”Adil Malik, a fruit grower from Rafiabad, said fruit is the backbone of Jammu and Kashmir’s economy but growers are a dejected lot. “Last year, it was the economic loss and this year it is this deadly disease and shortage of labour among other things which are worrying factors. As a grower, we have already spent money on pesticides and upkeep of the orchards. We don’t know how it will be in the markets,” he said, adding that the government should come to the rescue of the growers and announce some supportive prices. Around 2.5 million people are directly or indirectly associated with the fruit trade in Kashmir, which fetches around Rs 10,000 crore. The Sopore mandi alone deals with more than 2.5 crore fruit boxes and is considered India’s second largest fruit mandi.Sopore fruit mandi manager said the mandi opens in the morning for a few hours and gets closed due to fresh lockdown restrictions. “The fruit in bulk will start arriving next month and it is then that we will be in a position to say something.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fruit-growers-in-valley-fear-covid-19-could-play-spoilsport/story-Ly5DeFyqMT5JVxIrngSmcO.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid toll crosses 13,000; tally now 357,117||Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra breached the 13,000 mark with the addition of 278 fatalities on Friday, taking the toll to 13,132. The rise in deaths is becoming a cause for concern for Maharashtra, which leads the country in Covid-19 casualties, too, along with infections. As many as 5,126 deaths have been reported this month, as against 5,638 in June, 2,286 in May, 449 in April and 10 in March, when the first case was reported. It comes to 213 deaths a day on an average. Friday was the 18th day the state reported over 200 deaths.The state’s case count reached 357,117 after 9,615 infections were recorded on Friday. This has pushed the tally of active cases to 143,714, according to the state health department. Friday was the fourth day the state recorded over 9,000 cases.Meanwhile, Mumbai has maintained stability in the number of fresh cases and deaths with 1,057 and 54 respectively. Its case count stood at 106,989 with 22,443 active infections, while its toll rose to 5,984. While Mumbai saw the most Covid-19 deaths in the city on Friday, Pune city followed at 49, Pimpri-Chinchwad 17, Mira-Bhayander 16 and Kalyan-Dombivli 13. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) was recorded at 3.68%, a drop from 4.72% on June 24. It continued to be second-highest in the country after Gujarat where the CFR was 4.29% with 2,252 deaths (52,477 cases) till Thursday.Dr Om Shrivastava, infectious diseases specialist and member of the 11-member task force appointed by the state government for clinically ill patients, pointed out two reasons behind the deaths — one was delayed treatment and second, some areas may not be fully prepared to fight the pandemic. “Patients having symptoms found to have delayed the treatment, which results in complications, is the first reason behind Covid casualties. We also have to admit that there may be some centres that are not entirely equipped to understand the urgency of the disease,” Dr Shrivastava said.He, however, stressed that the number of deaths was still among the lowest in the world if compared to the total number of cases. This may be because of immune system, previous vaccination or some other reason that needed to be looked in to. He also said that the Dharavi model of Mumbai needed to be replicated in other parts of the state to contain the spread as well as reduce deaths. Dharavi, once declared as one of the hotspots, is now getting fewer patients and is considered as one of the success stories from the state.Dr Lancelot Pinto, Mumbai-based pulmonologist and epidemiologist, also found delayed diagnosis and ultimately delayed treatment as one of factors contributing to the death rate. “In Mumbai, we have experienced general practitioners have been preferring CT scan tests (of chest) instead of swab test for Covid-19 as the first medical test. After this, they start their treatment and in many cases patient’s condition deteriorates in the second week or so due to low oxygen level. At that time, they cannot be admitted immediately to a Covid hospital because they have not done Covid test,” he said.This may be because patients don’t want to get quarantined and want the doctor to treat them accordingly, he said. Another reason, he believed, is the high number of cardiovascular diseases in younger population. “In a paper published in the Journal of Global Health Science (JGHS) sometime back, it was observed that a significant proportion of people in the age group of 50-60 died in India due to Covid-19 as opposed to the rest of the world where it is beyond 60 years,” Dr Pinto said.To reduce the large number of Covid deaths, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray recently directed the formation of a task-force for clinically ill patients in each and every district of the state. The first such task-force was constituted in Mumbai in April. On Friday, Thackeray chaired a meeting with members of the task-force from all districts and directed them to work in tandem so that the number of casualties can be brought to zero. He said there has to be proper coordination among members of the task-forces and they should also be taking guidance from the Mumbai-based task force as and when required.On Thursday, the state government decided to take up an awareness program about the precautions to be taken by people to remain safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-toll-crosses-13-000-tally-now-357-117/story-HwVROR0P8hEwH78ENFvbKK.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||40 cases in 10 days: BMC seals Tardeo housing complex||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday sealed Navjivan Society, a residential complex of 17 buildings in Tardeo after 40 Covid-19 positive cases were detected there in the last 10 days. Since April, a total of 55 cases were recorded in the society. The civic body said it has sealed the complex and quarantined the residents of all 730 flats for the next 10 days. According to BMC officials, initially, 15 positive cases were reported at the housing complex since April – mostly of individuals involved in essential services. However, in the last 10 days, 40 additional cases were reported, following which the buildings were sealed.“Cases were being reported from Navjivan Society daily for the past 10 days, and in the last two days alone, we recorded around 10 cases. At present, there are 40 active cases in the society, and this is alarming. Hence, we decided to seal the entire complex of 17 buildings. We are also setting up a camp in the complex to detect more cases,” said Prashant Gaikwad, assistant commissioner of BMC’s D ward, under which Tardeo falls.“There are commercial establishments too that are part of the complex, but their entry and exit are separate. They will be allowed to function normally, but residents will not be allowed to enter or exit the society. However, those involved in essential services can go out. We want to break the chain and bring the situation under control,” Gaikwad added.BMC has started sealing entire buildings instead of just the floor on which a Covid case is detected. This is being done to curb the spread of infection in high-rises. On July 24, HT had reported that BMC was deciding the implement the same rule for housing societies in Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli, and Malad. In D ward, which covers Tardeo, Malabar Hill, and Grant Road, around 297 residential societies have been sealed. Across the city, 13,203 buildings have been released so far and 6,037 are still sealed.Tardeo corporator Rajendra Narvankar suggested that residents of Navjivan Society are not maintaining social distance. “The residents have complained against the sealing of the building, citing a loss of livelihood, but this is for their own safety. I have asked BMC to check the travel history of the residents, to ascertain the chain of infection. A few residents had gone to their hometowns during the lockdown, and are now returning. We suspect they are spreading the virus among other residents. Also, 40 cases have been reported in the last 10 days, which means the residents are in close physical contact. They need to maintain social distance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/40-cases-in-10-days-bmc-seals-tardeo-housing-complex/story-xEyFfN6Mj2YI4upGz5hD4L.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Jaya Bachchan files complaint against loud biker||Veteran actor Jaya Bachchan called the police control room on Thursday night to complain about a biker riding his bike, possibly without a silencer, leading to noise pollution, in the vicinity of the Bachchan family bungalow Jalsa in Juhu. Following Bachchan’s complaint, Juhu police started a search for the rider. Senior officers said they have identified the rider from the footage.An officer from Juhu police station said, “On Thursday night between 11.30pm and 12am, Bachchan contacted police control room on its helpline 100 and informed about a rider who was flouting noise rules. After this, the control room alerted Juhu police station. However, by the time police reached the spot, the motorcyclist was not to be found.” According to police, night police teams have been alerted and have been asked to keep a keen eye on such bikers and take action against them. Meanwhile, following the complaint made by Bachchan police scanned CCTV camera footages of nearby areas and identified the bike number.Pandharinath Wavhal, senior inspector from Juhu police station, said, “We are looking for the rider.” “Last night, we also received complaints from residents from the same neighbourhood,” said another officer from Juhu police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jaya-bachchan-files-complaint-against-loud-biker/story-1o63344S4YgBAIRtK7NmHL.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||Four get life term for killing two brothers in 2012||The sessions court on Friday sentenced four men to life imprisonment for killing two siblings at Sakinaka in 2012. The accused entered the house of the deceased and killed them in front of their family for approaching police against them. The court on Friday convicted Rakesh and Sunil Sharma, Abhilash and Brijesh Rai for murder of Avinash Singh and his brother Ashish. The court, however, acquitted Sunita Sharma, Sunil’s wife and sister of Abhilash and Brijesh, who was booked for instigating the four men. According to the prosecution, the incident took place on May 29, 2012, when the Singh family —which included Avinash and Ashish, their parents, their sister — was watching television in their house. The accused barged into their house and assaulted the brothers and their father Jitendra Pratap with sharp weapon. Ashish died on the spot. When Avinash tried to escape, the group chased him outside and killed him too. It was alleged that a few days before the attack, the families had a minor scuffle wherein Sharmas had allegedly assaulted one of the members of Singh family for parking an autorickshaw at their place. Singh family had filed a complaint with the police against Sharma, following which both Rakesh and Sunil were arrested. However, after they were released on bail on May 29, they planned to take revenge and attacked Singh family. The prosecution also alleged that Sunita instigated the brothers against Singh family. However, she was acquitted for want of evidence. The defence denied the prosecution case and claimed that the accused are falsely implicated by the Singh family. Public prosecutor Ashwini Raykar examined around 27 witnesses against the accused to prove the case and argued that one of Singh’s neighbours saw the accused chasing Avinash and assaulting him. The neighbour deposed before the court and identified the accused. The court considered the evidence presented by the prosecution and convicted the four men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-get-life-term-for-killing-two-brothers-in-2012/story-nd6YB5bLqQgtkM0oaFxHwM.html
25-07-2020||City||Woman held for illegal sale of remdesivir, tocilizumab||In the second case of illegal sale of remdesivir and tocilizumab injection in Thane commissionerate, a 50-year-old woman from Ulhasnagar was arrested on Thursday night. The woman was caught selling tocilizumab injection, used for Covid-19 treatment, for ₹60,000 by a team of Ulhasnagar Central police station and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and has been booked for cheating under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code.According to police, the arrested accused, Neeta Panjwani, is a housewife and resident of Ulhasnagar. FDA officials received a tip-off and set up a trap. The police sent a dummy customer who struck a deal for tocilizumab injection and nabbed her when she came to deliver it. An FDA official said, “The printed price for the injection was ₹40,545 but the accused was selling it for ₹60,000. She doesn’t have any doctor’s prescription or medical bill. She has not yet revealed how she got it. We are on the lookout for other accused who sold the injection to this woman. We are yet to reach to main dealer. The accused has also sold remdesivir to some people before this.”Earlier this week, Thane anti-extortion cell arrested five accused from Naupada, Thane for illegally selling the drugs for ₹25,000 to ₹50,000.FDA joint commissioner Sunil Bhardwaj said they are carrying out further investigation in both the Thane and Ulhasnagar cases. He said, “We are urging people to not fall for these black marketers. We are requesting everyone to reach to us on 1800222365 to complain if anyone asks for extra money for these injections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-held-for-illegal-sale-of-remdesivir-tocilizumab/story-TNd5mU36RKQqtlt6POc8PO.html
25-07-2020||Mumbai||With rise in demand, state FDA to buy remdesivir from Gujarat firm||The Covid-19 outbreak has led to a sharp rise in the demand for remdesivir and tocilizumab — two drugs that have become essential for the treatment of serious cases of the infection. To meet the demand, Maharashtra’s Food and Drug Administration (FDA) plans to buy remdesivir from a Gujarat-based company. With the state registering more than 7,000 new cases of Covid-19 daily, there’s been growing demand for remdesivir and tocilizumab, which have been effective in many serious cases of the infection. However, this has also led to a shortage of these drugs in the market as well as overcharging by some retailers. FDA has asked citizens to file complaints about overcharging on its helpline 1800222365. State FDA minister Rajendra Shingne said the government plans to publish the price and availability of the drugs online for transparency. “We have held meetings with manufacturers. We are also in talks with a Gujarat-based company to supply remdesivir to the state. The production will increase soon,” he said. While there are no official figures, it is estimated that more than 40,000 Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra require the two drugs for treatment. Many have complained of shortage and overcharging.For example, on July 23, acting on a tip from a patient, FDA along with Ulhasnagar police’s crime branch caught Neeta Panjwani for selling tocilizumab for ₹60,000 while the maximum retail price (MRP) was ₹40,545. The joint raid was carried out by drug inspector Nishiganda Pashte, Nitin Aher and Sandeep Narawane from the Thane branch of FDA. “The woman was selling the drugs at a higher price without the required prescription. Thus, an FIR [first information report] has been filed against her under the Drugs and Cosmetic Acts, 1940 and Essential Commodities Act, at Ulhasnagar police station,” said Sunil Bhardwaj, vigilance commissioner, FDA. So far, 15 people have been arrested in four separate operations for illegally selling drugs used to treat Covid-19. Remdesivir, an antiviral drug manufactured by Cipla and Hetero Healthcare, is used for the treatment of Ebola and costs ₹5,000 per vial. Tocilizumab is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis and is imported by the Indian arm of the multinational pharmaceutical Roche, and marketed by Mumbai-based Cipla. While there are numerous informal reports of shortage and overcharging, few formal complaints have been lodged, which may be due to lack of awareness. “We have launched the toll-free helpline number — 1800222365 — for people to file complaints if they are charged over the MRP. I request people to come forward and file complaints with us. Their anonymity will be maintained,” said AB Unhale, commissioner, FDA, Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-rise-in-demand-state-fda-to-buy-remdesivir-from-gujarat-firm/story-bzYInYY1WaxFptsQzQysrO.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||AAP, BJP spar on health workers’ pay||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations on Friday targeted each other over the payment of salaries to health workers and doctors, funds to the civic bodies and the waterlogging problem .Addressing a press meet, senior AAP leaders on Friday said they would start a protest if the corporations did not clear the salaries of doctors in hospitals under their jurisdiction in three days.“It is unfortunate that in Delhi, the capital of India, the medical staff in two hospitals under the BJP-ruled MCD have not received salaries since March. We all talk about respecting doctors, we salute them, and the central government showered flowers from fighter jets to show respect to our Covid warriors. But the BJP cannot pay their salaries,” said AAP’s national spokesperson and Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha.Kalkaji MLA Atishi said, “The AAP govt has already disbursed the required amount to the MCDs but due to BJP’s corruption, the doctors are not getting the salaries...When the audit of North MCD was done, financial irregularities of more than three thousand crores were found. In the South MCD also, financial irregularities of more than Rs 1,250 crore were found.”Chadha said, “The BJP has no right to disrespect the health workers and Covid warriors of Delhi…if they do not pay the salaries of the doctors, then AAP will take to the streets for the rights of the health workers.”In response, the Delhi unit of the BJP said, “People of Delhi very well understand that the municipal corporations are passing through extreme financial crunch for almost the last decade and the crisis has worsened ever since the AAP government came to power in Delhi. Before making allegations against MCDs, Raghav Chadha should ask CM Arvind Kejriwal why his government is giving grants as per the third Delhi Finance Commission’s recommendations at a time when they ought to have got payments as per fifth DFC report.”In another press meet, the mayors on Friday alleged the Delhi government departments were to be blamed for the waterlogging crisis. They demanded that funds for this quarter, which has been due to the three civic bodies, be released at the earliest.North mayor Jai Prakash, South mayor Anamika Mithilesh and East mayor Nirmal Jain said funds “due” to the MCDs must be released so that they can pay their staff. The south mayor said they are exploring all possible revenue generation sources . East mayor Jain said, “We had met the team of finance minister Satyendra Jain. The file for disbursement of funds has not moved from his table. Of around Rs 1,600 crore funds due under the planned head as well as BTA (basic tax assignment), only Rs 91 crore has been released so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pay-salaries-to-doctors-or-we-will-hit-the-streets-aap-to-mcds/story-LNtWTbMB3fmUrQ4cJsuRzK.html
25-07-2020||Real||Govt looks to ease property registries, to launch portal for officials, applicants||The Delhi government has approved plans to set up a new integrated web portal that will help in properties registrations by acting as a common database and search engine for related documents, which can be accessed not only by officials of the city government but other agencies, a senior government official said on Friday.The move gains significance in light the Centre’s initiative launched last year that allows for 4.5 million residents of 1,700-odd illegal colonies in Delhi to apply for ownership of their properties. The process requires availing a conveyance deed, provided by the Delhi Development Authority, chaired by the Lieutenant Governor, and completion of registry — entrusted under the state government.“The task involves multiple agencies and requires both applicants and officers to dig into numerous documents. They often have to approach different offices under the revenue department, land development department, civic bodies, urban development and departments under the DDA. Often, officials under the various departments end up wasting time looking for documents that some other department may already have in its records. The cumbersome process will be simplified by the integrated web portal,” said a senior official in the Delhi government’s urban development department, which opened tenders for the project last week.The project will bring under one platform all documents related to change of ownership, chain of ownership, loan taken using it as a mortgage, arrear of dues of property tax, water tax, status of litigation in courts among others, as per the tender document, which HT has seen.A senior official in the government’s revenue district said a similar project was initiated in 2012, but was limited in its scope and access, and later affected by technical glitches. A section of the proposed portal will also be accessible to applicants, where they will have options to view and download land records, including certified digitally signed maps in possession of land record agencies of Delhi, and all other property related historical and current information required for registration of property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-looks-to-ease-property-registries-to-launch-portal-for-officials-applicants/story-JqC3GjaX3cMCwag3i9K3oJ.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||Sisodia asks Centre to review transfer of education director||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, Friday wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah, requesting him to reconsider the transfer of incumbent director of education in Delhi and to allow him to continue, at least till the end of the current academic session.Sisodia’s letter comes a day after the Union home ministry transferred 11 officials, including education director Binay Bhushan, on administrative grounds. He has been transferred to the Andaman Islands. In his letter, Sisodia said the sudden removal of the education director would affect the efforts of his government in supporting the education of children amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Highlighting the 98% pass results of Delhi government schools in the Class 12 exams this year, Sisodia said, “This is probably the first time that state government schools have seen such spectacular results. Soon after the results came out last week, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and I were working with a team of officers and academicians to formulate a strategy so that in the years to come, not a single child in a government school remains uneducated.”Seeking the reason behind Bhushan’s transfer Sisodia said, “It has been only a year since Bhushan took over the as education director. Why did you feel a hurry to remove him from this post and send him out of Delhi? Were you not happy that government schools in Delhi yielded good results? Did you not feel that officials and their teams who have made this possible should be commended and have their work put forth in front of the entire country as a model so that government schools all over the country can get back their lost dignity?”A query sent to the Union ministry of home affairs remained unanswered. The education minister requested the Union home minister to reconsider his decision and allow Bhushan to continue as Delhi education director at least till the end of the ongoing academic session -- March 2021. “Chief minister Kejriwal believes that without education, we cannot make our nation strong and developed...Do you not think that with such a chief minister, you should discuss the road map for improving the education system of the entire country, rather than sending Delhi’s director of education out of Delhi without consulting him?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sisodia-writes-to-shah-urges-him-to-reconsider-transfer-of-delhi-education-director/story-jb4nvUJZwSA6pqzhQ8kBTN.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||First of monthly sero surveys in Delhi from August 1 to 5||The Delhi government on Friday notified through a memorandum the schedule for the upcoming sero-survey in the city — from August 1 to 5, said a senior government official adding that standard operating procedure (SOP) for the implementation of the survey will likely be issued next week.A new city-wide blood sampling will be carried out in the first five days of every month beginning in August, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain had said on Wednesday, announcing a regular survey to determine how much further the coronavirus disease may have spread in the Capital.The announcement came a day after the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) released results from the first such surveillance — known as a serological study — showing that 22.86% of 21,387 people who were tested showed signs of being exposed to the virus.“The official memo notifying the schedule of the survey has been issued. District officials will carry out through their health and surveillance teams. They have been asked to be prepared. The SOP is likely to be issued next week,” said a senior official in the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-of-monthly-sero-surveys-in-delhi-from-august-1-to-5/story-77u1noSEruchuLNL4duaqL.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||400 Jamaat members deported in one week||At least 400 members of Tablighi Jamaat, who had attended a congregation at the markaz in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin in mid-March and were detained after their headquarters turned into a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spot, have been deported to their home countries over the past one week. Officials from the Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport said the 400 attendees were sent to Indonesia, Malaysia and to some European countries in around 10 flights. Between February and March, at least 2,000 Tablighi Jamaat members from different countries had attended a gathering at the markaz in Nizamuddin.According to an official from the airport, who wished not to be named, the process of sending Tabhligi Jamaat members back started on July 17. “The first flight of deportees departed Delhi on July 17. As and when the courts keep releasing them through plea bargaining, and when the police return their passports, they will be sent back to their countries,” the official said.The official said these Tabhligi Jamaat members have been blacklisted and they will not be allowed to enter India in future.Ashima Mandla, legal counsel for the Tabhligi Jamaat foreign nationals, said the procedure for their deportation has posed unforeseen hurdles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/400-tablighi-jamaat-members-deported-to-home-countries-over-the-past-one-week/story-Pz5HToXh5vqrEPazRGsRhJ.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||Minor raped in care centre recovers from Covid-19; security stepped up||A 14-year-old Covid-positive girl who was allegedly raped at the 10,000-bed Covid Care Centre in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur by a 19-year-old patient housed at the facility has recovered from the disease, police said on Friday. “The survivor’s Covid test results returned negative on Thursday evening,” said a police investigator who did not want to be identified.Two suspects, who were arrested and are in judicial custody, are at a government hospital for treatment. The second man is the suspect’s friend who filmed the crime on his mobile phone. Both are Covid-postive.“Though they have no symptoms now, their test results are yet to arrive. When they recover, we will approach court to seek their custody for interrogation,” the officer said, adding the suspects are being guarded by personnel of Delhi Police’s Third Battalion, which mans prisoners outside jail premises. The suspect was admitted at facility around the same time the girl was brought -- about a week before the alleged crime happened on the night of July 15.The girl and the 19-year-old had got acquainted with each other during their stay at the centre, police said. He allegedly called her near the washroom on the pretext of speaking to her and allegedly committed the crime, police had said on Thursday. His 20-year-old friend allegedly stood guard and recorded the crime on his mobile phone. During a brief interrogation, the suspect “admitted” to raping the girl child, the investigator cited above said. The suspects were sent to judicial custody and since they were infected, the police did not get a chance to interrogate them any further. “We seized the mobile phone of the other suspect and sent it to a forensic laboratory for recovery of the alleged video as we suspect he deleted it when the crime was revealed,” the investigator said.Commenting on the crime, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said, “It is an unfortunate incident. A police case has been registered and the matter is being investigated. The culprit should receive strictest punishment.” The survivor’s statement was recorded in the physical presence of a magistrate on Friday. “Since she was infected with coronavirus all this while, we didn’t have a chance to record her statement in court. On Friday, her mother was with her while she recorded her statement, which was consistent with her earlier allegation,” the officer said.After legal requirements, she was sent home with her mother who works as a domestic help. The child is yet to be counselled by NGOs, a mandatory requirement to help survivors heal with mental trauma. “Now that she has recovered, we have requested a counsellor to help her,” the officer said. The survivor reported the crime on July 16 morning to an attendant of the care centre. Of the 10,200 beds at the facility -- billed as the largest Covid care centre in India -- only about 250 are currently occupied. Since it is a huge facility with a negligible occupancy, large spaces are unmanned. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police, which is overseeing security as well as treatment of patients there, had initially planned to deploy 1,000 of its personnel for security purposes. But with very few patients at the centre, only about 100 of them are working in shifts in the security department. The ITBP said they have stepped up security and are investigating if there were any lapses on the part of its personnel||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-raped-in-care-centre-recovers-from-covid-19-security-stepped-up/story-HXlbJXG2CpV0797gnxtpxJ.html
25-07-2020||Delhi||August 15 approaching, traders say tricolour sales lower than never before||Abdul Gaffar Ansari’s family has been making national flags since 1954. Every year, the orders – which came from as far as Assam, Orissa, and Bihar-- peaked two months before Independence Day, and he ramped up production, making about 5,000 cotton flags every day. But this year has been unlike any other.It is only three weeks to go for Independence Day, and he is making only 200 flags as most of his customers are not turning up. “Normally we would make about 300,000 national flags for Independence Day, but I am afraid we may not make 20,000 this year. I have not seen an Independence Day like this before,” says Ansari, 70, who runs Bharat Handloom Cloth House in Sadar Bazar, one of the oldest manufacturers of flags in Delhi. Ansari is not the only one. With schools, colleges closed, and most government and private organisations deciding to keep their Independence Day celebrations low-key, the demand for the national flag, manufacturers and traders say, have dropped. “Seventy-five per cent of my orders for the national flag came from schools, colleges and other educational institutes, and this year, there are hardly any orders from them. Business is down by 90%. We have a few orders from government offices,” says Anil Gupta, a major manufacturer and trader of flags in Sadar Bazar in Delhi, which is a major flag manufacturing hub, attracting traders from all over the country. “Last year we made 2,500,000 paper flags for schools, this year we have made only 400,000. Looks like even that is going to be unsold,” says Gupta.Mohammed Chaman, who runs Aaroma Enterprises, has a similar story. Apart from flags of different sizes, the shelves in his shop are stacked with tricolour-themed merchandise: badges, scarves, caps, T-shirts. “Our sales on August 15 were always four times more than that on Republic Day. But this time, we hope we will be able to clear our Independence Day stock on Republic Day, which will be a first for us,” says Chaman.Among the best-selling flags for Independence Day celebrations, the traders say, were small paper flags ( 4x6 and 6x 9 inches), mostly supplied to schools, and medium-size cloth flags (3x5ft). “Small paper flags cost just 25 paise and the bigger ones (40-60 ft) cost about Rs 15,000 a piece wholesale. Big flags were mostly bought by corporates in Gurugram, who celebrated Independence Day in their campuses. This year they have not come. We expected a dip in demand, but never thought it could get so bad,” says Hardik Arora of Muskan Enterprises, a wholesale dealer of flags for the past 22 years in Sadar Bazar.“The demand has only been rising since citizens were allowed to hoist the national flag over their homes in 2002. Such has been the demand that two months before Independence Day, about 150 temporary shops selling the tricolour came up in Sadar Bazar. Now there are hardly 25,” he says.Most big manufacturers outsource manufacturing to contractors in east Delhi areas such as Shiv Vihar, Nand Nagri, Sonia Vihar, Seelampur, where flag-making is a cottage industry, providing seasonal employment to about 40,000, especially women.“Work would start in May and a woman with a single sewing machine at home would earn about Rs 500 day, making about Rs 45,000 during the season. This year I have no work to offer them,” says Tohid Ali, a contract manufacturer of flags for over two decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/august-15-approaching-traders-say-tricolour-sales-lower-than-never-before/story-tWRGrIj3oEaHgDRwzS7E9H.html
25-07-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad journalist murder: SHO of Vijay Nagar station suspended||Two days after journalist Vikram Joshi succumbed to gunshot wounds he sustained in front of his minor daughters on the night of July 20, the Ghaziabad police on Friday suspended the station house officer (SHO) of Vijay Nagar police station under whose jurisdiction the shooting took place and the case investigation has been transferred to Kotwali police station. Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ghaziabad, has also directed officers to brief all police post in-charges to identify cases that involve previous or ongoing enmities and take immediate steps to curb further violence. Joshi was shot on July 20 night at Mata Colony in Vijay Nagar while he was returning home with his two minor daughters. He succumbed to injuries early morning on July 22. “I have suspended the SHO of Vijay Nagar police station for laxity in supervision. The in-charge of the Pratap Vihar police post was suspended immediately after the shooting. Personnel have been asked to work in public interest and circle officers asked to brief police post in-charges to identify cases where there is an enmity angle...,” Naithani said in a video statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/journalist-murder-vijay-nagar-sho-suspended-cases-transferred-to-kotwali-police-station/story-xAdmPXcUcBO3nSWNLjeYWL.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Independence Day celebrations scaled down in Chandigarh amid Covid-19 pandemic||In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Independence Day celebrations in the city will be scaled down this year.“The administration, as per the guidelines issued by the Centre, is planning to invite Covid-19 warriors such as doctors, health workers, sanitation workers, etc in the ceremony as a recognition of their noble service in their fight against Covid-19 pandemic. Some persons cured of the virus may also be invited,” said a senior UT official.Preventive measures like social distancing will also be taken during the celebrations and there will be no large congregation in the ceremony.“The ministry of home affairs and ministry of health and family welfare has issued certain guidelines for the celebrations. As per these guidelines, a ceremony, will start at 9 am, and comprise unfurling of the flag by the chief guest, playing of National Anthem, presentation of a Guard of Honour by police including paramilitary forces, home guards, NCC, scouts, etc; speech by the chief guest,” said the official.Recorded performance of police/military bands are likely to be displayed through large screens/digital media, during public functions, and on even social media.Other functions of the day likely to be part of the celebrations include activities like planting of trees; inter-school/inter-college debates on digital platforms; online quiz contests/patriotic essay writing and poetry competitions; launching of any important scheme, singing patriotic songs and delivering patriotic talks by selected candidates on the social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/independence-day-celebrations-scaled-down-in-ut-amid-covid-19/story-lwD7IFJZ1srmPa9yDYvyLP.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Admission process for PU-affiliated colleges in Ludhiana to begin from next week||The registration process for first year in Panjab University’s affiliated colleges will begin next week in the city. After Central Board of Secondary Education and Punjab School Education Board declared Class 12 results, students have started enquiring regarding admission process in colleges.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, several college authorities have given both online and offline options to students to apply. Help desk have been set up for student’s assistance, but all details including forms, prospectus and enquiry desk will be available online too.As per the academic calendar released by the Panjab University, admissions for ongoing classes will start from July 27 and online classes will start from August 3. However, for first year, the admission process will be on from August 3 to August 28 and online classes will begin on September 1.Colleges including Khalsa College for Women, DD Jain Memorial College for Women, Arya College and Sri Aurbindo College of Commerce and Management have already started the registration process for admission. At Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College, the registration process will start from July 27 and the last date to register online is August 8. Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal, said, “The prospectus containing details regarding admission, eligibility, course intake, fee structure, reservation policy and all other instructions are available on the college website www.scdgovtcollege.ac.in.”He said, “For any help or enquiry, students can call on 0161-2444988 from 9am to 2pm. Students can also email on scdldhhelp@gmail.com and their queries will be answered soon.”The authorities of Government College for Girls will start the online registration process from next week and all information will be updated on the college website. Sukhwinder Kaur, associate professor in commerce, said, “Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, it is important to maintain social distancing and follow protocol. All senior professors have decided that documents will be uploaded by applicants online with the admission form. We will verify the documents later when the situation is under control. If a student is found submitting fake documents, their admission will be considered cancelled.” To handle the queries of students, Khalsa College for Women has set up a helpdesk and receive over 50 to 60 queries daily. Mukti Gill, principal, said, “Forms are available both online and offline mode and students are applying through both modes.”The authorities of Arya College have already started with the online registration process and the last date to apply for B. Com-1, BBA-1, BCA-1 is July 28 and for other classes is July 31. The college has decided to display the merit list of BCom on the college website and fee will also be taken online. At Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, Jhande village, Ludhiana, the last date to apply for B Com and BBA first semester online is July 29 till 3pm. The tentative merit list for Bcom 1 and BBA 1 will be displayed online on August 1 and final merit list on August 2.At DD Jain Memorial College for Women, the registration process for admission will be available both online and offline. Sarita Behl, principal, said, “Students can register online and for any query, they can contact college authorities. Staff is deputed to guide students and all details regarding admission is available on the college website.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admission-process-for-pu-affiliated-colleges-in-lydhiana-to-begin-from-next-week/story-JF3RSUcz8d82U7VKOFsfmO.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn mulls setting up helpline for suspected Covid-19 patients||The UT administration has indicated it will set up a helpline to provide free access to Covid-19 testing for suspected patients as well as expand testing facilities. In the daily war room meeting, UT administrator VPS Badnore directed Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary (health) to explore the possibility of setting up a helpline for residents having flu-like symptoms in order to book self Covid-19 testing in GMSH, Sector 16, GMCH, Sector 32 and PGIMER at government’s cost.The administrator suggested the need for more rigorous testing, particularly among persons, who are coming to OPDs for treatment. He also directed that there should be greater IEC activities to make people aware of the need to follow hygienic practices and to wear masks at all times.Badnore directed municipal corporation (MC) commissioner to explore ways and means to restrict the number of people gathering in public places, such as parks, markets and Sukhna Lake.Badnore stated that there should be second screening of Bapu Dham Colony and Raipur Kalan areas and all new cases should be properly mapped, so that their sources and contacts are properly traced.Director health services Dr G Dewan said they have completed the door-to-door survey of the entire Manimajra area, covering 2,725 houses and 10,038 people. He said that total screening of Sector 45 has been done, in which 14,937 people have been covered.Meanwhile, the Haryana government on Friday formally turned down the plea of the Chandigarh administration to impose a weekend curfew in Panchkula.In a communication to the adviser to the UT administrator, Manoj Parida, additional chief secretary, revenue and disaster management, Vijai Vardhan said that the state government does not think it necessary to impose a weekend in Panchkula as suggested by the Chandigarh administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-mulls-to-set-up-helpline-to-expand-free-covid-19-testing-facilities-for-suspected-patients/story-31zIM0VT2iKfaImLLE68PK.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Cash-strapped Chandigarh MC plans to rent out open-air theatre, Mahila Bhawan||In a bid to generate revenue, the fund-starved municipal corporation is planning to rent out properties owned by it. Such properties include open-air theatre in Sector 48 and Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38.A panel set up by the mayor to suggest ways to augment MC revenues has recommended booking of such properties be opened at the earliest. The committee will visit the open-air theatre and Mahila Bhawan to take stock of infrastructure and facilities available there.In a meeting held here on Friday, the panel retreated its recommendation to put up agenda in the general house meeting regarding levying green tax on commercial vehicles of other states entering into the city.It suggested exploring possibilities to allow the petrol limit instead of providing separate vehicles to officers excluding senior officers in the civic body to avoid the expenditure on maintenance and services, etc.Another recommendation discussed was to review the rates and policy on cable/optical fiber be put up in the general house and charges to be fixed for the cables/wires crossing through trees, road berms, and MC land.It asked the MC officials to prepare a proposal to allow advertisements in all vehicles of the civic body to generate revenue.The panel also suggested that a policy should be formulated to collect charges from the areas, where the shop owners encroached upon government land such as backsides and corners of booths, showrooms and bay shops etc. throughout the city. The panel said a detailed survey should be conducted in this regard and charges be decided per sqft basis till the final policy is prepared and notified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/to-enhance-revenue-mc-plans-to-rent-out-open-air-theatre-mahila-bhawan/story-fTaXTCBKfKxiivgvi7OQAO.html
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Readers’ take: Online classes to stay, but careful monitoring can prevent stress, eye strain||Avoid giving out homework, build skillsWith reduction in syllabus, the initiative of reducing screen time now rests with schools. The following measures can be adopted to make online teaching fruitful, while also cutting short screen time for the young :1. Avoid giving out homework2. Finish all teaching and written work for the day in the online class3. Base your projects on reading stories, newspapers and books to wean children away from the screen. This is a good time to develop their interest in reading and cultivating skills / hobbies. That will also keep them mentally healthy4. Let one period in a week be based on speaking skills so that it can be used as assessment5. Fix hours for students to call you for any queries etc, so that use of mobile screen is reduced6. Take regular feedback from parents to check the impact of online teaching on their children. Make corrections/ adjustments accordingly.Madhu RD Singh, AmbalaEncourage project based learningTo begin with parents need to be proactive and should spend quality time with their childrenEducation is priority therefore it is not possible to avoid screen time, but time spent on video games and social networking sites should be restricted Children should be made to understand the consequences of spending excessive time onlinePhysical activities should be encouragedAs far as blended learning is concerned, project based learning should be encouraged.Complex topics can be handled in the physical classroom,while easier topics should be made available online.Blended learning methodology can be called hybrid learning and is just the right approach not just during the pandemic but otherwise too as it will save time,petroleum and our environment .The need of the hour is adopt best practices for a better world.Arti MalhotraExcess of everything is bad There is no denying the fact that exposure to the digital world has broadened the horizons of young children. Now information on any subject under the sun is just a few clicks away. Overindulgence, however, is injurious to a person’s wellbeing. Let us not get carried away by today’s needs and demands for a smartphone or laptop for “online coaching” during the Covid-19 pandemic. We must resist this promotion of electronic devices to get youngsters addicted. There is no substitute for classroom coaching to cover the prescribed syllabus, which includes laboratory work too.Subhash LuthraKeep an eye on time children spend onlineChildren’s screen time has to be monitored. Many of them have a habit of playing games on their mobiles or laptops, because of which they have been prescribed spectacles. Parents should ensure that apart from online education, the youngsters minimise use of electronic devices. Many schools, in order to perform better than competitors, might not adhere to the time limit of three hours for online classes. Parents should ensure that schools stick to the rules.Apart from limiting screen time, using anti-glare spectacles too will help prevent eye strain in children. Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhChildren need to lead a ‘balanced’ lifeThe onus is on parents to ensure that a balance is maintained in their children’s life when it comes to digital devices. These should only be used for essential activities such as online classes after which the child should be encouraged to try looking beyond the digital world. Active parental involvement in the child’s life is also necessary if the youngster is to live a balanced life. Gone are the days when absentee and disjointed parenthood worked. Other checks could include imposing a strict time limit on use of digital devices, restricting certain online content and creating an open environment for discussion. The abrupt digital change in education due to Covid-19 should not be the way forward. The main component of India’s education policy should be one of blended education, which combines traditional classroom learning with online methods. The Union government’s recently launched Operation Digital Board to integrate digitalisation and technology with classroom education can be successful if it begins with the training and upskilling of all education stakeholders, ie teachers, students, parents, schools and universities. Other steps include creating digital infrastructure in schools and utilising the expertise of India’s education start-ups through public-private partnership model. The digital divide also needs to be bridged by providing cheap digital devices and connectivity across the nation. Parag PuriGuidance must from parents, teachersIt is true that every coin has two sides. Digital devices have their merits and demerits. Children can gather a lot of information through the devices, which also make their lives easy. However, often youngsters download obscene material, or spend excessive hours chatting with friends or playing video games, which can affect their health and mental equilibrium. This is when parents and teachers can step in with the right guidance on studying online and making the best use of time offline. As of now, long breaks should be announced for primary classes and senior students should be divided into three groups in each class and allowed to attend schools two days a week while following social distancing and other safety norms. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliParents root cause of tech addictionThe modern day child has to live with technology so parents have to accept this reality. Parents are the root cause of this tech addiction, allowing the child to make excessive use of the internet, and buying him or her expensive smartphones and computers. It has a lot to do with their social status, something that they like to boast about at social gatherings. Then it becomes a vicious circle as the child grows up to be someone who is constantly searching for expensive things to flaunt. Then there’s the problem of all schools going hi-tech, with e-books, net learning and online homework submission. This leads to stress and psychological problems as parents want them to top the class but cannot provide them the requisite support as they might be working and unable to give the child the time he or she requires. The solution is to ensure that the child is involved in extra-curricular activities, goes to the library, movies or is involved in creative activities such as clay modelling, collecting stamps or playing chess and board and outdoor games. Spending quality time with parents will make them well rounded individuals instead of netizens.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurOrganise creative activitiesIt is imperative is to keep children busy with exciting activities which parents should participate in. Plans should be made together. Organise a quiz at home, with participants the quiz masters by turn. Simple questions on tourist attractions in Chandigarh, historical landmarks in Delhi, spelling and pronunciation contests will allow children to do some creative thinking. Enjoy the fun together.Usha Verma, Chandigarh Keep students engagedThe Central Board of Secondary Education needs to focus on practical learning and communication skills instead of theoretical learning. Audio lectures should be delivered online, often including moral lessons and interesting life experiences. Student engagement with group discussions, debates and, declamations should be encouraged. This way teachers can judge their grasping power and hone their communication skills. Tips on physical exercise and eye care routines should be given too.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliLectures via audio lessonsI believe in the present scenario we have no option. Our children need to be in academic mode via e-learning. But more screen time is leading to health problems, eye strain and mental stress. I believe by converting at least 25% of syllabi in audio lectures we can reduce screen time for children without worrying about them not completing their syllabus. IMS Sandhu, Batala Make online education affordable and safeThe human resource development ministry has done well to recommend a cap on duration of online classes and teachers’ engagement with online activities.Luxuries of yore are becoming necessities today.Analytical thinking will be remain the most in-demand skill in the years to come for which being connected to the digital world is essential. We need not be allergic to this technological marvel but focus on the shift to research and development to minimise its ill effects on health.Government schools need to remodel and reimagine teaching and learning by introducing suitable home and institutional methods.Poverty and gender must not take a toll on brilliant potential of students in free India.It’s time to make online education affordable and safe. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaOnly children can change their habitsBlended education can work wonderfully if online classroom timings are limited. Apart from that, no one can limit children’s exposure to smartphones except for children themselves. They need to understand that this quarantine period is for their development and not for using mobile phones. Parents need their children during this time and we youngsters should try and spend as much time with them as possible and focus on doing what is good for everyone and ourselves. For instance, I like writing, dancing and acting so instead of spending time with electronic devices I should spend time in polishing my skills. No time should be wasted and people should utilise the break to do things they have always wanted to.Ishita NaraSurfing net a waste of timeDoubtlessly, unnecessary chatting on the phone and surfing the net can be a waste of time and very unproductive for students.Therefore, parents should keep a vigilant eye on their children to ensure they make the best of these times and do not misuse their gadgets. Presumably, things will change for the better when things normalise and schools reopen.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliEnsure children get a breakTo minimise exposure to digital devices, parents being nearest to their children can periodically ensure that during the long periods they study online, the youngsters take short breaks to rest. Schools and parents must ensure that the students are monitored closely through apps that can track what they are surfing.Manjeet Singh Ishar, MohaliMore focus on audio based lessonsUsing reading mode and auto brightness features can lessen the impact of the harmful effects of staring at a screen. Schools should endorse and vouch for audio based lectures along with references to study material students have access to. Audio discussions should be held regularly and tests and assessments done in the same way as well. Parents can take charge and spend time managing teaching hours for their kids. Madhav Bansal, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/readers-take-online-classes-to-stay-but-careful-monitoring-can-prevent-stress-eye-strain/story-pymh32WD880OID4b8GOBqO.html
