26-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM dares Opposition to topple his government, takes dig at BJP over Rajasthan||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray dared the Opposition to pull down his government and said that he was at the helm of the three-party Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. In the last of the Shiv Sena chief’s two-part interview, which appeared in the party mouthpiece Saamana on Sunday, Thackeray said the fate of his government was not in the hands of the Opposition. “Some people get pleasure in constructive work, while some are happy with destructive work. They should go ahead and topple the government, I do not care,” he said. Thackeray also called for an e-bhoomipujan of the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya on August 5 to avoid crowding at the actual site. “Instead of putting so many lives in danger [owing to Covid-19], the laying of the foundation stone could be done online,” Thackeray said. Speaking about the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project, which has been a bone of contention between the state and Central government, the chief minister said that he would prefer to have the train running between Mumbai and Nagpur as it would be a “more beneficial route, but the decision would be made on the basis of people’s mandate”. “My individual opinion or that of my party [on bullet train] could be different, but as a state, the government will take its decision at an appropriate time. The government decision will be based on the people’s mandate about the project and after discussing it with all stakeholders. If the people are against it, I will scrap the project,” he said. About the Opposition’s criticism that his government is a “three-wheeled vehicle”, Thackeray said his government represents poor people. “If the choice is between bullet train and a three-wheeler, I will choose the latter, as it is the travelling mode of the poor people. It is a strong government and I am at the steering wheel with two other partners. The ones who have been raising questions about our ‘three-wheeler’ should look at the government at the Centre,” he said. “How many parties are there as coalition partners? When I attended the NDA meeting last time, there were 30-35 leaders representing ruling parties. It should be called a ‘train’ government then,” said Thackeray. He said there were no differences between the three parties although there was a lack of continuous dialogue owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. “Congress had some issues related to matters on public policies. After our meeting, they have been resolved. We have better co-ordination between us. I take guidance regularly from NCP chief Sharad Pawarsaheb and occasionally speak to Soniaji Gandhi,” said the chief minister. Thackeray said it was not correct to say that the decision making is driven by bureaucracy. “Our handling of Covid-19 pandemic, especially in Dharavi, has been applauded at the international level. I was chosen among popular chief ministers. If the bureaucracy was in the driving seat, why was the government praised and was it done by the bureaucracy without any control from the government? The government policies are after all implemented by officers and bureaucracy, and it is the government’s duty to stand firmly by efficient officers. I will support such officers,” he said. Thackeray also took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for their alleged attempt to topple the Rajasthan government. He said Operation Lotus would not reap any success in Maharashtra. “It is strange that the use of money for political gain is not a crime and opponents are targeted using the central agencies. But this would not last for too long. They should also keep in mind that days keep passing by. They tried to topple the Rajasthan government, perhaps because there is no pandemic spread in that state or in Madhya Pradesh. The leader of Opposition [Devendra Fadnavis] criticised the Maharashtra government over the handling of Covid-19 during his Delhi visit, perhaps because the pandemic exists only in our state and not in Rajasthan or Madhya Pradesh,” he said. Thackeray said he has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take a uniform decision over the policy related to China. “Our policies related to China should not be deviating like they differ in case of Pakistan. During troubled times, we boycott these countries and later after a few days extend an olive branch. During one of our interactions, I have requested Modiji to take a firm stand on China. Decide finally on trade with Chinese companies. We have put our memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with them [Chinese companies] on hold,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-dares-opposition-to-topple-his-government-takes-dig-at-bjp-over-rajasthan/story-Jr4kaNkpFYkMF8BcTk9SjO.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||200K Covid cases in July; count for state tops 375,000||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 9,431 new Covid-19 infections and 267 deaths, taking the tally to 375,799 and toll to 13,656. The state reported 201,038 infections (53.50% of the state’s tally) in July itself. The state has 148,601 active cases, with 213,238 patients reported to have recovered till Sunday, translating into a recovery rate of 56.74%. Mumbai maintained stability in terms of daily new cases with 1,101 infections taking the tally to 109,161, of which 22,536 are active ones. The recovery rate was 73%. With 57 more deaths, the city’s toll touched 6,093. Pune saw 1,921 new infections — most in the state — which took its tally to 51,291. Of the 267 new deaths, 57 were in Mumbai, 28 in Pune, 17 in rural Pune and 10 in Pimpri-Chichwad. Thane district reported 23 deaths, while Jalgaon saw 10 more fatalities in the last 24 hours. State’s case fatality rate (CFR) was 3.63%, more than the national rate of 2.35% reported on Saturday. In a welcome sign, the state’s positivity rate dropped, despite a significant rise in number of tests. Over the past week, 65,344 tested positive from 322,167 tests, at a positivity rate of 20.28%. It was 22.75% the previous week (between July 13 and 19), which saw 246,234 tests and 56,028 infections. A total of 46,023 daily tests were conducted on an average this week, up from 35,176 last week. Even as the state government plans to open up activities after the sixth phase of the lockdown ends on July 31, the rise in cases in a few districts and cities in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has become a cause of concern. “There will be extension of the ongoing lockdown at least by a month, although we are planning to open up activities in a phased manner. The first week of August will see a few more activities allowed, with stricter curbs in containment areas. The districts and civic bodies with a high number of cases have already been told to ramp up health infrastructure and continue aggressive tracing and testing,” said a state official. Rajendra Shingne, food and drug administration minister and senior NCP leader, said, “We have been asked to take a decision about the imposition of a stricter lockdown or relaxation from it at the local level on the basis of the current scenario of cases. Collectors and guardian ministers of respective districts will take a call. State-level policy is being finalised at the CM’s level.” Some districts such as Ahmednagar have reported a doubling rate as low as 6.6 days, against the state’s doubling rate of more than 24 days and some cities like Mumbai and Malegaon have improved their doubling rate substantially. Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad and Pimpri-Chichwad have doubled the number of patients in 7.5 and 9.3 days respectively. Mumbai and Malegaon, the cities which were virus hotspots in the initial stages of the outbreak, topped the chart with an improved doubling rate of 43.31 and 67.38 days respectively.The reproduction rate — the rate at which the infection is spread to others — in some districts indicate a very risky level of exponential spread. “In Kolhapur district and Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad, it’s 1.92, while in Ahmednagar it’s 1.87. Mumbai tops the chart with an impressive number of reproduction rate at 1.08. Pune remains a cause of concern owing to high daily number of cases, relatively high reproduction rate and fast doubling period,” read the report prepared by a group headed by Neeraj Hatekar, economist, Mumbai University. The reproduction rate of more than 1 indicates a spreading of the virus at a high rate.Sanjay Kumar, chief secretary, said, “We have asked civic bodies and district collectors to strictly implement the strategy of strengthening health infrastructure and improving the quality of the services. We expect the death rate and number of cases to reduce in the next few days. The discussion on the relaxations to be offered from the first week of August is underway and we are planning to issue the notification by July 31,” he said. Another officer said that the state’s strategy over the unlocking of the activities will be finalised after meetings between Centre and states in the next couple of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/200k-covid-cases-in-july-count-for-state-tops-375-000/story-bK9vTc0YbWnvKlf0aUGgXN.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Factory worker dies in Ludhiana hit-and-run||A migrant labourer crossing the road was crushed to death by a pickup auto near Dhandari flyover on National Highway, the police said on Sunday.The victim was identified as Sukhlal Chaudhan, 40, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagar in Giaspura and native of Bihar. He was a factory worker. The passersby rushed the victim to a hospital, where he succumbed to injuries. They also informed the police and the victim’s family.The police said that on Saturday night, Sukhlal was returning home from the factory when the accident took place. The accused managed to flee.Sukhlal had been living in Ludhiana on his own while his wife and children lived in Bihar. On the complaint of his co-worker Raj Kumar, a case was registered against the unidentified driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/factory-worker-dies-in-ludhiana-hit-and-run/story-7LyhMHyxEHRoWgq3udGv6L.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||After plaints of miscalculation of scores, Tata Institute of Social Sciences to add more seats for 3 masters courses||The Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) has decided to add some seats to three of its masters courses to accommodate candidates whose scores in the evaluation process were miscalculated. The exact number of additional seats is unknown as the verification of marks was still underway, said PK Shajahan, dean of academics. Amid complaints from prospective students over discrepancies in the marking scheme, the administration on Saturday announced on its website that the selection list for the three courses – MA in Applied Psychology (with Specialisation in Clinical and Counselling Practice), Media and Cultural Studies and Library and Information Science – will be revised and additional candidates will be selected based on their fresh scores. “We are informing the UGC [University Grants Commission] about this. We will not be on a position to say the number [of seats] now as several verifications, including their [candidates’] selection in other preferences, is underway,” said Shajahan. He clarified that the step to add seats was taken to accommodate all those who were selected in the earlier list and the ones who made it to the list due after revision of marks. However, the addition is restricted to these three programmes alone. Meanwhile, there are also complaints of discrepancies in marking of TISS National Entrance Test (NET) and Personal Interview (PI) rounds pouring in from across the country. Candidates alleged that their final marks were not adherent to the weightage allotted to their TISS NET and PI scores in the 60:40 ratio. They said the marks obtained by candidates who appeared for in-person interviews in March were lower than those obtained by candidates who appeared for online interviews. While candidates have urged the administration to look further into the marks, Shajahan said there was no issue with markings in any programme other than those mentioned in the fresh notification issued on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-plaints-of-miscalculation-of-scores-tata-institute-of-social-sciences-to-add-more-seats-for-3-masters-courses/story-blkRGb2g8OpJnUbKY7Vq7M.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Wife refuses to give money for liquor, man sets her ablaze in Mumbai||A 28-year-old man was arrested on Saturday by the Ghatkopar police for setting his 30-year-old wife on fire after she allegedly refused to give him money for liquor. The woman is undergoing treatment for her burns at Sion hospital.According to police, in her statement, the victim Rubina Shaikh said that the incident occurred on July 25 around 6am at their home in Nityanand Nagar. Shaikh’s husband Nasir asked her for money to buy liquor. When she refused, he got angry and assaulted her.“The accused first hit her on her head with a hammer and then set her on fire. After hearing the commotion, neighbours rescued her and informed the police,” said Chandrakant Landge, inspector, Ghatkopar police station.Shaikh was admitted to Rajawadi Hospital and later shifted to Sion hospital for further treatment. She suffered 30% to 35% burn injuries.“We have booked Nasir under sections 307 (A) [attempt to murder], and 326 [Voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means] of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and he has been remanded in police custody,” said an officer from Ghatkopar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wife-refuses-to-give-money-for-liquor-man-sets-her-ablaze-in-mumbai/story-TZJKPJhtZOMPviPZYrsVtL.html
26-07-2020||Gurugram||Three open fire outside property dealer’s office, leave note; case registered||Three unidentified men allegedly opened fire at the office of a property dealer and made away after throwing a note inside the man’s office in Taj Nagar in Farrukh Nagar on Sunday morning. Police said the note warned the victim against supporting one Kalu or he would be shot dead. Police have registered a case against unidentified persons.Police said prima facie, gang rivalry seemed to be the reason behind the Sunday shooting. Investigators also are probing if the shooting was in any way in which one Yashpal was murdered in Taj Nagar on May 18. Birender alias Kalu, who has links with gangs, is the prime suspect in the case. According to the police, the incident took place on Sunday around 10am, when Yogesh Singh, a property dealer, and his two associates, Harish and Rakesh, were at the office. Police said three masked men arrived on a motorcycle and fired thrice, of which two bullets hit the outside wall, while one bullet went through the main gate and hit a piece of furniture.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “No one was injured. After the firing, the suspects threw a note at the spot. The note reads that anyone who helps Kalu in Taj Nagar will be shot in the chest. The suspects are yet to be identified.”Police said in his statement, the victim, Singh, said that Birender alias Kalu was an acquaintance and he often used to visit his office. Kalu, who has a criminal history, had allegedly shot dead Yashpal on May 18 in Taj Nagar over a money-related dispute. Yashpal was a close associate of gangster Kaushal, who was arrested in 2019. Police suspect that the shooters could be associated to Kaushal’s gang. Kalu had earlier been arrested in a murder case of a sarpanch in 2011.A case was registered against the unidentified suspects under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and relevant section of The Arms Act at Farrukh Nagar police station on Sunday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-open-fire-outside-property-dealer-s-office-leave-note-case-registered/story-TwYgWUJdSsJDsKt9egWnzH.html
26-07-2020||City||Second girder for Hancock Bridge in Mumbai launched||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday launched a girder across the railway tracks for Hancock Bridge near Sandhurst Road station. The first part of the girder launch was completed last month, while the final launch was done on Sunday. The civic body had earlier planned to open the bridge by August-end. However, following the delay in the completion of the work, the civic body now aims to open the reconstructed bridge for the public by the end of this year. The British-era bridge, located between Sandhurst Road and Byculla stations, was demolished in January 2016 to pave way for a new bridge. However, several administrative issues and encroachments on the site led to the delay in the construction of the new bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-girder-for-hancock-bridge-in-mumbai-launched/story-dm71l1Z6Y23B3w248Z0gpK.html
26-07-2020||Gurugram||SCERT rolls out training sessions to help teachers cope with digital education||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), Haryana, has started online training sessions to help government school teachers adapt to the challenges of tutoring students virtually.Aimed at capacity building, the sessions, which were rolled out last week, focus on digital transmission of lessons and ensure that the educators are familiarised with newer ways of teaching and assessment as classes take place remotely, said SCERT officials.Manoj Kaushik, nodal coordinator, Diksha (SCERT Haryana) said that a team of subject experts had selected 13 teaching modules from the national Diksha portal and prepared subject-wise training sessions for state teachers. Diksha is a national initiative that offers a framework for equipping teachers with advanced digital technology.Each module will be available for a week and teachers will be required to spare around three hours per week to complete each module. The second session will start from today (Monday). “Teachers only need to spare around 20 minutes a day to complete the training within a week. The sessions will focus on questioning skills and critical pedagogy. Various topics pertaining to teaching online or remotely will also be covered,” said Kaushik.He said that unlike physical training sessions—where only some teachers could participate—the online training sessions will be attended by all teachers. The shift to online learning necessitated by the coronavirus disease pandemic required that all teachers are covered and were trained to cope up with the new challenges. “In view of the pandemic, teacher training, mentoring, and monitoring will all take place virtually. We are targeting all teachers, across all grades, in various subjects, through these training sessions now. Online capacity building of teachers is important since classes might continue to take place online in the coming days as well,” said Kaushik. Besides teachers, district-level officers will also have to undergo the training.Government schools in the state have been holding online classes since the first week of April due to the pandemic.SCERT director Kiranmayee said that besides training, the state would soon be extending support to teachers through mentors. “Keeping in view the circumstances created by Covid-19, we want to build the capacity of teachers for online classes. Through mentors, we will provide support to teachers and find out if they are facing any challenges in technological know-how or equipment availability. We are preparing mentors to address concerns of teachers that they might face throughout the year,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/scert-rolls-out-training-sessions-to-help-teachers-cope-with-digital-education/story-3iYgi0DfX0OhzbtsmseWZK.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC slashes rent of booths in Terraced Garden by half||After repeated failures to attract tenants, the municipal corporation has slashed the monthly rent of the commercial booths in Terraced Garden, Sector 33, by nearly half.The MC had earlier offered booths for a minimum reserve rent of ₹10,000 per month, but no takers were found. Even after reducing the reserve rent to ₹5,000-₹6,000 per month, it failed to receive any positive response. The MC made another attempt at renting out these shops at a further reduced rent of ₹3,500 per month.The financially struggling MC has been spending money on the maintenance of these shops without any earnings in return.The auction will be held on August 3 at the conference room of the MC building in Sector 17. Prospective bidders have been asked to submit an earnest amount of ₹10,500 in the shape of demand draft in favour of MC commissioner before the start of the auction. Unsuccessful bidders will get their money back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-slashes-rent-of-booths-in-terraced-garden-by-half/story-3LPh3sQnJur3K1Slwo7KSO.html
26-07-2020||City||Four held for killing 50-year-old, his mother||Khadakpada police on Saturday arrested three persons add detained a minor in Kalyan for the murder of a 50-year-old man and his 76-year-old mother on Friday. According to the police, a self-proclaimed godman allegedly told the 50-year-old’s minor son, niece, and nephew that the victims were possessed by an evil spirit. The four assaulted then the victims to ward off the spirit. The victims have been identified as Pandharinath Tare and his mother Chandubai Tare.The accused have been identified as the deceased man’s 17-year-old son, niece Kavita Tare, 27, nephew Vinayak Tare, 22, and the godman Surendra Patil, 32. All are residents of Atali village in Kalyan. According to police, Tare knew Patil through a friend. After his 27-year-old niece started action erratically over the last few months, Tare decided to visit the godman to find some solution for her problem.Ashok Pawar, senior inspector of Khadakpada police station, said, “The victim and his wife used to take their niece Kavita to Patil’s house once a week. He used to chant mantras to treat her, but they did not work. On Friday evening, Patil visited the deceased’s house to find out the reason behind Kavita’s behaviour. He told the family that Tare and his mother were possessed by an evil spirit. Patil claimed that Kavita would recover only if he killed the spirit. He instructed the three other accused to beat the victims while he chanted mantras.”Kavita, Vinayak, and the 17-year-old started assaulting the two with sticks and throwing turmeric on them while Patil chanted. “They assaulted the victims for over four hours until both were left unconscious. They thought that ‘treatment’ had worked but after two hours, when the victims did not wake up, Tare’s wife called another nephew Devendra Bhoir, 34, for help. They then took the 50-year-old and 76-year-old to a nearby hospital where they were declared dead on arrival,” said an officer from Khadakpada police station.Bhoir also informed the police of the incident, following which the accused were charged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013. The 17-year-old will be sent to a remand home while the three other accused are in police custody. Police are awaiting the victims’ postmortem report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-held-for-killing-50-year-old-his-mother/story-rlBaveaBLsMyNOVga72W7I.html
26-07-2020||Gurugram||17-year-old boy kills self in Sector 51||A 17-year-old boy, a student of Class 12, allegedly died by suicide in Sector 51 on Friday late night. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). No suicide note was recovered from the spot, said the police.According to the police, the incident was reported to the police a little after midnight on Friday. At the time of the incident, the victim’s parents and his sibling were present in a separate room of the house.A police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Although the reason for the alleged suicide is yet to be known, the family said that he had been restless for some time and spent several hours playing online games on his phone. As per the family members, he stayed at home and spent a bulk of his time playing multiplayer games. No note has been recovered.”The police said the minor’s body was handed over to the family after a post-mortem examination on Saturday.Gurugram does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/17-year-old-boy-kills-self-in-sector-51/story-FLd2kAW5gLse1n4oghv0zN.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Court allows CBI to take voice sample of suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur||Stating that suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur, an accused in Rs 5 lakh graft case, was ‘not co-operating in the investigation’, the Central Bureau Investigation (CBI) moved an application seeking permission to take her voice sample, which was allowed by the special CBI court on Sunday.On June 29, the CBI had registered an FIR against Kaur, former SHO of Manimajra police post, and middleman Bhagwan Singh on the complaint of Manimajra resident Gurdeep Singh. It was alleged that Bhagwan Singh had asked for Rs 5 lakh bribe from Gurdeep, on behalf of Kaur, for not lodging an FIR.Kaur had surrendered herself in the CBI court on July 25, which sent her to four-day police custody at CBI.Inspector SS Rathore mentioned in the application that Bhagwan Singh had called accused Jaswinder Kaur to intimate about acceptance of bribe money from the complainant. That call was recorded and was “an important evidence” in the case, the inspector said.Public prosecutor for CBI, KP Singh, stated that further investigation “very much depends upon the specimen voice sample of accused Jaswinder Kaur”. Kaur was asked but she refused to give consent without consulting her advocate Terminder Singh, who said that she will only give a sample if the court passed an order.The court directed Kaur to give her voice sample in the presence of an independent witness. Jaswinder Kaur gave in writing that “she has no objection to giving specimen voice samples to the CBI. However, I deny the transcript.” Following this, Sushil Kumar Garg, special CBI judge, allowed the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/court-allows-cbi-to-take-voice-sample-of-suspended-sho-jaswinder-kaur/story-tYu6wncRCvxxgusOFJ47bK.html
26-07-2020||Gurugram||Homebuyers meet with civic officials to discuss delayed projects, lack of infrastructure||A day-long meeting of home buyers from around 90 odd residential projects and societies was held in Gurugram on Sunday. The meeting, which was called by Badshahpur MLA Rakesh Daultabad, saw the participation of nearly 300 people and included officials from various government departments. The participants discussed a host of issues concerning home buyers and residents, including the status of delayed projects, lack of civic facilities, excess charges, lack of infrastructure, etc. Officials from Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), Municipal Corporation of Gurgram (MCG), Dakskin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam(DHBVN), Town and Country Planning Department (DTCP), the Gurugram Police, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation(HSIIDC) and other agencies were present at the meeting. After hearing the problems of the residents and home buyers, it was decided that cases would be registered against builders who do not respond to their concerns and fail to implement the directions given by government departments . It was also decided that three committees would be formed to look into specific projects that have been much delayed, said officials present at the meeting. The meeting, which was held at John Hall in the city, saw home buyers complain about the excess charges being demanded by developers of affordable housing projects. Residents of around 40 projects also complained about the structural deficiencies and the poor quality of construction material of various real estate projects. A large number of buyers raised issues pertaining to the delay in the completion of projects. “We have been waiting for almost 12 years for our apartments but the developer is not completing the project,” said Mukesh Kamboj, who has bought an apartment in a project in Sector 37D. Similarly, residents said, despite repeated complaints about poor quality of construction, developers were not ready to pay heed to their problems. Residents of new Gurugram complained about the lack of connecting roads, no access to supply of power and water, and the lack of adequate patrolling by the police. They also demanded setting up of more police check posts. Rakesh Daultabad, MLA, Badshahpur, who had called the meeting said that they have decided to form three special committees for specific projects that have been much delayed and need a multipronged approach for resolution. “This is a start and hopefully we will work to resolve the problems of the home buyers” he said. RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram who was present at the meeting said that it has been decided that police cases would be registered against developers who do not resolve problems being faced by home buyers, particularly in much-delayed projects. “The matter of 24-metre sector roads has been raised repeatedly in this meeting and we working on this issue. The recommendations for the same would be sent to government. He also said transfer of development rights (TDR) policy will be extensively used and land, wherever needed, will be purchased at market rates to provide connectivity. We will also seriously pursue the matter of excessive charges in affordable housing projects,” said Bhath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/homebuyers-meet-with-civic-officials-to-discuss-delayed-projects-lack-of-infrastructure/story-1wjdobwu1xoDpac27xBICK.html
26-07-2020||City||Vashi police arrest 3 youths for vehicle thefts||Vashi police on Wednesday arrested three youngsters in separate vehicle theft cases and recovered three scooters, a motorbike and one autorickshaw from their possession. The youngsters robbed the vehicles for joy rides and dumped them at unknown locations. The arrests came after a 70-year-old autorickshaw driver approached the police with a complaint three weeks ago, following which the police began a probe. During their investigation, police found leads in different vehicle thefts and reached Vashi slums where one suspect was hiding. Police further learnt that the accused, Amol Pawar, 20, used to steal bikes, take it out for a ride and then dump it. On Wednesday, the police nabbed Pawar and recovered three Activa scooters. “Two of the vehicles were stolen from Vashi, while another was stolen from APMC Market over the past few weeks,” said Sanjeev Dhumal, senior inspector, Vashi police station. The police also arrested two teenagers identified as Yunus Shaikh, 19, and Anas Shaikh, 18, in connection with the autorickshaw theft and recovered a motorbike from their possession.“We have arrested all three persons and cracked four cases,” said Dhumal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vashi-police-arrest-3-youths-for-vehicle-thefts/story-H6KPPssBnXrlZiV0LvPPCN.html
26-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram reports 121 new cases; recovery rate climbs up to 86%||The district reported 121 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, taking the total tally of known infections to 8,612. Just a week ago, on July 19, the total count was 7,748 cases, indicating an average growth of 123 new cases per day, over the past week. At the beginning of the month, on July 1, the district had 5,463 cases.Of the current tally,1,084 patients were classified as active cases as on Sunday, down from Saturday’s tally of 1,133. While 116 of them are currently hospitalised, the majority — 919 people — are under home isolation, while 49 patients with mild symptoms are under observation at various district Covid centres.Gurugram on Sunday also recorded 170 new recoveries, up from 128 the previous day, taking the district’s cumulative recovery rate to 86%. The district recorded no new deaths on Sunday. The mortality rate in the district is 1.39% with a total of 120 fatalities so far.Gurugram on Sunday also collected 1,668 new samples for testing, down from 2,250 samples collected on Saturday. Of these, 354 samples were taken by private labs for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, while the majority of remaining samples are those of RT-PCR and antigen tests being conducted by the health department. The district’s test positivity rate(TPR) on Sunday was about 8% and has been fluctuating between 7-9% for close to three weeks now.Gurugram’s daily growth rate of new cases, on Sunday, was 1.4%. The doubling rate now stands at 47 days, while active cases continue to make up only 13% of the reported caseload — down from 21% three weeks ago.Meanwhile, Haryana reported 794 new cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 31,332. Of these, 6,556 are active cases and 24,384 patients have been discharged so far. The state also reported 3 new deaths on Sunday, taking the toll of Covid-19 disease in the state to 392.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-reports-121-new-cases-recovery-rate-climbs-up-to-86/story-JXo9Ssdh6cP11gBJUfQs6O.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Premium for extra storey: Chandigarh estate officer’s order quashed||The chief administrator has quashed the order of the estate officer wherein an appellant was directed to deposit additional premium on account of an extra floor.The decision will have direct bearing on 83 similar cases from Sector 17 pending before the estate office.The chief administrator, in an appeal filed by M/S Kapsons Agencies Pvt Ltd, with respect to SCOs 136, 137, 138 in Sector 17, set aside the order issued by the estate office on October 6, 2017.“The building plans of the site were sanctioned in 1975 and the temporary sewerage connection was taken in 1976, prior to the issuance of the 1981 notification regarding extra floor, then how the composition fee is demanded in the case,” states the chief administrator’s order.The Punjab and Haryana high court had earlier also noted that “architectural control designs of SCOs in Sector 17 were introduced only in 1981, which permitted the construction of five number of floors on payment of extra charges but such conditions cannot be applied retrospectively to the building plans already sanctioned”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/premium-for-extra-storey-chandigarh-estate-officer-s-order-quashed/story-PBd5ovWf1lfhciofWnN45H.html
26-07-2020||City||After five deaths, Bhiwandi hospital loses DCHC status||The Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) cancelled the recognition of a private hospital as a dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) as it did not have adequate doctors, did not follow treatment protocol and registered high fatality rate. The hospital can now treat only non-Covid patients. In a review meeting called by BNCMC commissioner Pankaj Ashiya with the Covid-19 task force, Ashiya cancelled the permission to treat Covid patients at Shree Varhaldevi Multispeciality Hospital. The 22-bed hospital, which was recognised as a DCHC on June 1 to treat moderate patients, has recorded five deaths in July itself. “A hospital which is a dedicated Covid health centre that treats moderate patients should not record deaths as it is supposed to shift critical patients to a dedicated Covid hospital. The hospital has failed to follow the protocol. The hospital management has also accepted the fact that it does not have a physician or proper staff to treat patients,” said Ashiya.The task force set up by the civic body is tasked with checking on Covid patients admitted at private hospital-turned-Covid hospitals or care centres and studying the cause of death of patients. As per the task force, Varhaldevi hospital recorded a high fatality rate in July with five deaths while no other DCHC private hospitals recorded a single death till date. “Initially the hospital had claimed they have a physician, but during the meeting it was revealed that there is no physician in the hospital. The hospital will not admit any new Covid patients and the existing four-five patients will be shifted to Indira Gandhi Memorial Covid hospital,” added Ashiya. “There have been several complaints from patients about lack of proper treatment at the hospital. As of now, the civic body has cancelled its permission to treat Covid patients. They can treat other patients. We have also issued a show-cause notice for closing it permanently, but the process will take a month. Depending on their reply, we might also register an offence against the hospital,” said Nitin Mokashi, medical officer of health, BNCMC. Mrunal Suryavanshi, owner of the hospital, said, “The civic body never asked us to have a physician while it asked us to treat Covid patients. We have an intensivist who can look after ICU.” He futher added, “We have treated 120 Covid patients till now, some of whom were severe. We cannot avoid admitting patient when there is lot of pressure from local leaders and people.”On Saturday, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) cancelled the registration of Horizon Prime Hospital for a month and its recognition as a Covid hospital for allegedly charging 56 Covid patients an additional of over ₹6 lakh.Bhiwandi currently has 13 hospitals which have been converted into DCHCs with a total of 560 beds. Bhiwandi city recorded 38 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 3,678 and deaths to 249.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-five-deaths-bhiwandi-hospital-loses-dchc-status/story-1l2kLLu4AP2y1E00kw8emL.html
26-07-2020||Gurugram||Recovery rate remains neck and neck with growth of new positives; situation under control, says health department||Over the past week, Gurugram has witnessed a discernible rise in the number of active cases -- for the first time since flattening early this month. From 1,029 cases on July 19, Gurugram’s tally of active patients grew by 10 percent, touching 1133 cases on July 25. With Sunday’s 170 recoveries outweighing the day’s 121 new positives, however, Gurugram’s recovery rate has ensured that the district has just 1,084 active cases.District health department data going back three weeks show that Gurugram’s daily recovery and growth rates have been neck and neck, a trend which officials cited as favourable. While active cases grew by 10 percent over the past week, the total tally of patients who recovered from Covid-19 grew by 12 percent, from 6,603 patients discharged on July 19 to 7,408 on July 26.Health department officials also pointed out that the share of active cases to Gurugram’s total caseload has remained stable. “In early July, active cases were about a quarter of total infections. This came down to about 13 percent in mid-July, and is still around 13 percent only,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, Integrated Disease Surveillance Program’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram.Officials also said that the uptick in active cases, until Saturday, was comprised largely of asymptomatic patients who have been put under home isolation. “While growth of active cases can put more pressure on the healthcare system, we are getting mostly mild cases who are capable of recovering at home. Enforcing home isolation strictly has been central to our response and its success,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.Yadav added that the district’s recovery rate on May 31 was just 36.7 percent. “When we began focusing on home isolation as a strategic intervention, the recovery rate rose to 64 percent at the end of June, and is now close to 85 percent,” he said. However, challenges in enforcement still persist. A doctor with the district health department, on the condition of anonymity, revealed that complaints about patients violating home isolation rules are frequently received. “In at least four cases, where the violations were very blatant, FIRs have also been filed and the persons booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act,” the official said.District health department data, meanwhile also showed a slight increase in the number of hospitalised patients over the past week. From 98 who were hospitalised on July 19, there were 128 patients hospitalised across Gurugram till Saturday. It then fell to 116 cases the next day. “Not only is the recovery rate climbing, the percentage of positive cases that end up requiring tertiary care has remained stable, at between 9 and 10 percent, throughout July. We are in control of the situation,” Sharma said.When asked whether it would be possible to slow the district’s current daily average growth rate — about 1.7 percent at present — even further, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said, “That will depend on community participation as much as our interventions. In theory, yes, we could perform even better at containing the virus, reducing active cases, increasing the doubling rate and so on. But there are challenges to on ground interventions which mathematical models don’t capture. Our approach is to respond to the situation as it arises, and if cases surge we will take necessary steps.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/recovery-rate-remains-neck-and-neck-with-growth-of-new-positives-situation-under-control-says-health-department/story-3I7CpvsC7alP8w08ASuHvJ.html
26-07-2020||City||Bhayander housing society converts office into quarantine centre||In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, residents of Om Sundaram Housing Society in Bhayander have converted its office into a 2-bed quarantine centre for 188-odd residents living in 47 flats in the complex. The step was taken to provide the residents with a space other than government isolation wards, said Pramod Tambe, chairman of the society.Tambe said, “We have also waived three months’ maintenance fee from the members due to the national lockdown since March.”Independent MLA of Mira-Bhayandar Geeta Jain inaugurated the centre last week. “This is a good project by the residents and we should appreciate the society for taking such a step,” said Jain.“Covid-19 cases are increasing daily and the civic body is struggling to increase the beds for patients of the twin cities. There is also a shortage of ambulance. Hence, housing societies which have enough space should take a lesson from this society,” said Jain.The isolation room is equipped with oximeters, thermal guns, sanitiser, oxygen cylinder, de-humidifier and also has an attached toilet.Sambhaji Waghmare, deputy commissioner of Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation, has appreciated the effort saying, “Such a facility for asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms are allowed provided the conditions and protocols laid out by the state health department including safety of other residents are maintained.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhayander-housing-society-converts-office-into-quarantine-centre/story-dbJ5jarWSmQETqCGIrPV5N.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Army men to help Covid staff and frontliners commute safely||In a unique initiative that looks at supporting frontline workers, a Bengaluru-based company run by ex-servicemen has initiated a mobility service called ‘Sainik for Doctors’ exclusively for Covid hospitals.Through this initiative, MotherPod Innovations Private Limited, is looking at providing a safe, secure and comfortable transit service for frontline workers. While the initiative has already been launched in Bengaluru, the company is in talks with several players in Mumbai to launch the service.Captain Sanjay Kumar Singh, head of partnerships, MotherPod, said, “In the current scenario, heightened security measures and standards have become critical for safer commutes — whether you consider healthcare workers, or people travelling for business or leisure. Ex-defence personnel are ideal for this challenge since they are disciplined and trained to follow the highest standards of safety protocols. Over time, MotherPod will expand its community of sainiks and provide many more veterans a supportive ecosystem to move ahead in their careers.”The company aims to re-skill and resettle 100,000 veterans in civil society in the next three years and has partnered with defence organisations across the country for the same.In terms of commute, ‘Sainik for Doctors initiative will follow a stringent protocol, said Singh. “The maximum number of passengers per ride is fixed at two. A secure acrylic partition of the highest quality will be installed in every vehicle. In addition, a single-use PPE kit with gloves, a sanitiser and mask will be given to every passenger before the ride commences. The interiors will be completely sanitised after each journey,” he added.The fleet will be managed by sainik control rooms across India that will also monitor the standard operating procedures. The dashboard on the availability and schedule of the fleet will also be shared with the hospitals that partner with the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/army-men-to-help-covid-staff-and-frontliners-commute-safely/story-5v8BtjpLRQKxdljI5SrCPM.html
26-07-2020||Gurugram||MCG serves notices to 326 RWAs for not setting up composting plants||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has served notices to 326 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of various condominiums and residential societies across the city for failing to set up composting plants, officials said on Sunday. The move is primarily aimed at reducing load at the Bandhwari waste plant, they said. The notices have been issued to the RWAs of only those societies that produce a minimum of 50 kilograms of municipal waste every day.The officials said that the RWAs have to inform MCG the reason for not establishing such a facility, and based on their replies the civic body will decide whether to issue fines to them.“As per the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, each residential area needs to have a composting plant of its own. We observed that 326 such RWAs have not obliged with this rule and have given them two weeks to respond to our notice. If their replies are found to be unsatisfactory, we will be levying ₹25,000 fine on each of them,” said Inderjit Kulharia, joint commissioner, MCG.Kulharia said that it is an “ongoing process” and MCG officials have been tasked with finding more such RWAs that have not established composting plants in their respective areas.A senior MCG official privy to the matter said that most RWAs are likely to end up paying the penalty to the civic body. “As per our observation, an individual produces 400 grams of waste per day. Hence, it is unlikely that any RWA can take refuge in the fact that their residential area does not produce 50 kilograms of waste per day,” said the official.The residents’ bodies have said that the civic body should have given more time to set up a composting unit. “We have received the notice from MCG and have passed on the information to our builder which is looking after the maintenance of the society presently. Regardless, two weeks’ time is too short for any society to establish a composting unit. The MCG should make this as a mandatory provision in building plans as some societies like ours simply do not have the space for setting up a composting plant,” said Puneet Goyal, president, Tulip Violet RWA.Goyal said that a more feasible option is that MCG can lease their own land in every residential sector where a large-scale composting plant can be set up, and waste from all residential areas can be dumped and accordingly processed, with each RWA bearing the operational costs for it.As per official records, there are more than 6,000 registered RWAs in the city. The MCG’s move holds importance as the civic body has been struggling to find an alternate site for dumping and treating waste generated by the city, which produces around 1,000 tonnes of daily waste.Last year, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed MCG to stop dumping waste at the Bandhwari landfill and temporarily find an alternate site to dump and treat Gurugram’s waste until 26 lakh tonnes of legacy waste is cleared at Bandhwari, which was leading to environmental hazards.Just a week before it was scheduled to dump and start treating Gurugram’s waste at a 25-acre site at Farrukhnagar in June, protests by nearby villages and some political groups led to MCG terminating its decision. After this, the civic body has identified a nine-acre site in Nuh to do the same, but this too is facing opposition from locals.Amid the uncertainty, officials said that MCG wants to ensure reduction in the daily waste load at Bandhwari plant by establishing more composting plants in residential areas.MCG officials also said that compost plants will also help residents know the method of segregating waste. They said that this will help in ensuring that bio-medical waste does not get mixed with dry and wet waste, a problem the corporation is facing at many locations.“Until we find an alternate site for dumping and treating city’s daily waste, we are exploring various ways to reduce the daily load of waste that ends up at the Bandhwari landfill, one of which is to increase the total number of composting plants in the city. In addition, composting plants are also useful in getting people into the habit of segregating waste. In several areas, we have found bio-medical waste being mixed with dry and wet waste. We are also working towards ending this issue,” said another MCG official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-serves-notices-to-326-rwas-for-not-setting-up-composting-plants/story-bMexgIlZLacisNtuw9DlwM.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||30 Covid-positive specially-abled residents of Mankhurd facility admitted to Sion hospital, BKC Covid centre||Thirty specially-abled residents, including four children at the Mankhurd Mentally Deficient Children’s Home (MDCH), who tested positive for Covid-19, were shifted to Sion hospital and Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) Covid centre on Sunday.Prerna Deshbhratar, commissioner for persons with disabilities, Maharashtra, confirmed the development to HT.On Saturday, 29 residents of the Mankhurd MDCH tested positive for Covid. On Sunday, one more child’s report came positive.“Three high-risk patients who have comorbidities have been shifted to Sion hospital. The remaining patients who have mild symptoms were taken to the BKC Covid care centre on Sunday,” said Vikrant Gondane, in-charge designated at the facility by the commissionerate for persons with disabilities.Mankhurd MDCH, which is run by the NGO Children Aid Society with funding from the state, houses 268 individuals with mental disabilities up to 70 years of age. Since 2012, only specially-abled children below 18 years are allowed admission.Doctors at the facility say it is difficult for them to ensure that the inmates follow social distancing norms and hygiene. Facility authorities have requested Mumbai Police to provide personnel to chaperone patients, to ensure that they follow social safety norms and are taken care of sensitively, Gondane said.“We have also decided to send all our staff, including doctors, nurses, and guards at the children’s home for rapid antigen testing,” he added.Authorities suspect that the residents may have been infected by some of the staff. Those working at the children’s home live in the same quarters as staff from another child care institute at Mankhurd, which recently reported three cases of Covid-19.Shiv Sena member of Parliament Rahul Shewale on Sunday said that two weeks ago, the administration of the Mankhurd children’s home had complained to the assistant municipal commissioner about some of the children suffering from cough. A fever camp was organised at the facility during which 268 children were screened, and 84 were found with Covid symptoms. After testing the residents, 30 of them were found positive for the coronavirus.Two of the infected children have tuberculosis (TB) and are undergoing treatment at Sion Hospital. The rest have been admitted to BKC’s Covid centre, Shewale said.“Spread of the coronavirus at the children’s home is a serious incident. I have asked the administration to carry out an inquiry on how the kids got infected and who is responsible for the serious lapse,” he added.The campus has been sanitised and sealed to prevent the spread of the virus to other children, the MP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-covid-positive-specially-abled-residents-of-mankhurd-facility-admitted-to-sion-hospital-bkc-covid-centre/story-DTQ9lApkBKtgtBlGTWfaGM.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Constable succumbs to Covid; Mumbai Police toll at 54||A month after his mother and sister lost the battle to Covid-19, a 40-year-old police constable attached with Wadala Truck Terminal (TT) police station died of Covid-19 on Sunday morning. He was undergoing treatment in Gurunanak Hospital in Bandra (East) for more than a month-and-a-half. The toll in Mumbai Police has now reached 54. “He was on duty when he fell sick on June 10. He was admitted to St George Hospital on June 12, but was shifted to Gurunanak Hospital on June 14,” said senior inspector Shailesh Pasalwar of Wadala TT police station.The constable’s sister and mother tested positive for Covid-19 a few later. They were admitted to Somaiya Hospital but succumbed to June 26 and 28, respectively. Later, the constable’s condition deteriorated and he was kept on a ventilator support. He, however, succumbed around 7.15am on July 26, said Pasalwar. So far, a total of 94 policemen died of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, of whom four have succumbed in the past 24-hours. A total of 8,483 policemen — 877 officers, 7,606 constables — from across the state have contracted the virus till date. Of them 6,471, including 660 officers and 5,811 constables, have recovered and many of them even joined duty. There are now 1,919 active cases including 210 officers and 1,709 constables who are undergoing treatment at various hospitals and Covid care facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/constable-succumbs-to-covid-mumbai-police-toll-at-54/story-pXCQPwIpOPcpiWanmgk21I.html
26-07-2020||City||31 cops from Ambernath, Badlapur tested positive||Thirty-one personnel across five police stations in Ambernath and Badlapur tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. In the past seven days, 83 police personnel and 18 accused in the two cities tested positive, and two constables succumbed to the virus in the past week.There are a total of five police stations in Ambernath and Badlapur, with a collective force of 500 personnel. According to official records, around 83 personnel tested positive for Covid-19 while on duty. All those infected are receiving treatment at nearby Covid-19 centres.In Ambernath, 20 police tested positive, and two constables died last week. The deputy commissioner of police has made arrangements for all personnel to get tested. Most of the personnel were on bandobast duty due to which they caught the infection. They have been provided food and essential drinks to boost their immune system. DCP Pramod Shewale said, “On Sunday, 31 police personnel tested positive for Covid. Since July 19, 83 personnel and 18 accused tested positive. Most of them had come in contact with the general public while performing their duty and got infected. Some of them were subjected to rapid antigen tests, while others underwent RT-PCR tests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/31-cops-from-ambernath-badlapur-tested-positive/story-NMynMiumj44DWBue798bLM.html
26-07-2020||City||Delhi govt forms panel to implement law to protect women from harassment at workplace||New Delhi: Delhi women and child development minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Sunday said the department will constitute a five-member committee to prevent sexual harassment of women at workplaces in the national capital. The committee will include members from the government, civil society and NGOs. The decision was taken after the minister chaired a review meeting on implementation of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, according to a statement issued by the Delhi government on Sunday. “The minister also directed department officials that a meeting should be convened through video conferencing with heads of various government departments, in the first phase, in order to have an interface regarding implementation of the Act in their respective departments,” it said. To create awareness about the same among citizens, Gautam also asked the department to ensure advertisements were issued in the form of display and text notices, with all government and private sector entities on the provisions, and penalty clauses of the Act. The department has been organising workshops along with social media campaigns to take the message across to the people. The department has also issued instructions on regular intervals to all departments of the city government, autonomous bodies and private sector companies for constitution of internal committees under the Act, the statement said. All district magistrates have also been instructed to constitute local committee as a statutory requirement under the Act, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-forms-panel-to-implement-law-to-protect-women-from-harassment-at-workplace/story-ltSWHXYVYSwqtZPfWwfpfK.html
26-07-2020||City||55-year-old cop dies of Covid; third death in Palghar||A 55-year-old sub-inspector attached with Waliv police station died due to Covid-19 early morning on Sunday at Unnati Hospital, Panvel, confirmed Sachin Navadkar, public relations officer of Palghar Police. This is the third Covid-19 fatality in Palghar police. Earlier on July 13, a naik attached to the same police station died in Nallasopara, and on June 9, a 40-year-old hawaldar had succumbed to the disease.The sub-inspector was admitted to a hospital in Alibaug on July 24 and was later shifted to Unnati Hospital on July 25. So far, 184 cops in the district have tested positive for Covid-19, of whom 40 are admitted in various Covid care hospitals, and 141 have been discharged, said Navadkar.According to official data, around 11,190 people have tested positive and 227 have died so far in Palghar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/55-year-old-cop-dies-of-covid-third-death-in-palghar/story-BBDN7tne9XHVy9EbmxilAK.html
26-07-2020||City||DMRC starts casting piers on Metro Phase-4 corridor||New Delhi: While the construction work of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s Phase-4 started in December last year, the body started casting piers on the Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor on Saturday.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC said the pier was cast at Keshopur on the elevated stretch between Keshopur and Mukarba Chowk.A pier is a large column that supports the platform and rail structures.While the average height of the piers on this corridor will be 10 metres, Dayal said the height of piers at Madhuban Chowk and Haiderpur Badli will be 20m and 25m respectively as the under-construction corridor will pass over two other corridors which are currently operational.“At Haiderpur Badli Mor, the rail level is going to be the highest in Delhi at 28 metres. Presently, the highest point is at Dhaula Kuan where the Line 7 viaduct passes at a height of 23.6 metres. The approximate distance between each pier will be about 28 metres,” said Dayal.The 28.92-km long Janakpuri West–RK Ashram Marg corridor is an extension of the Magenta Line and will have 22 stations. While 21.18km of this corridor will be elevated, 7.74km will be underground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dmrc-starts-casting-piers-on-metro-phase-4-corridor/story-XCKDlGO8PrFdVBaJXNLn7L.html
26-07-2020||City||Hospital files plaint against man for not paying ₹1.5-lakh bill||A patient who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a Virar hospital fled after he got a ₹1.5-lakh bill from the hospital. The incident took place last week, but the management of Vijay Vallabh Hospital approached Arnala coastal police to file a complaint on Saturday night citing that the patient used foul language when the hospital authorities called him to clear the bill. He allegedly also threatened the hospital saying he would spread the infection in the neighbourhood.The patient, a Virar resident, was admitted to the hospital on July 12. “He was set to be discharged on July 19. We handed him a bill of nearly ₹1.5 lakh. He said he would talk to the HR department of the hospital. Believing him, the staff got busy in other administration work, and the patient took this chance to flee,” said Dr Shailesh Pathak, owner of the hospital adding, “As we could not find him, We called on his mobile but it was switched off.”“A few days later, we managed to contact him and asked him to clear the bill, but he refused to pay and started to use foul language over the inflated bill. He also threatened to spread the infection in the neighbourbood,” added Dr Pathak.Following this, the hospital approached the police. A hospital administrator said, “We will recover the money as per law, but we are worried about the patient spreading the infection.”Arnala police in Virar said they have received the complaint and are studying the documents submitted by the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hospital-files-plaint-against-man-for-not-paying-1-5-lakh-bill/story-joEWU6kF8C5U1YR9pkgCBP.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Jumbo rapid antigen testing drive: 76 of 7,962 frontliners test positive in 2 days||Since Saturday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has tested 7,962 frontliners – police and civic employees – using the rapid antigen testing kits, of whom 76 (0.98%) have tested positive, data shows. The overall positivity rate of rapid antigen tests in the city stands at 8.4%, with 1,460 of the 17,331 tests positive. So far, more than 3,600 police and 2,000 civic officials have contracted the infection in the line of duty. For months, BMC has been widely criticised for not running universal tests on them for early diagnosis. After receiving promising responses in the antigen tests done in different wards, BMC started the jumbo antigen testing. Of the 17,331 people tested, 6,437 are workers from the solid waste management department, of whom 45 (0.69%) came positive. Of the 1,525 policemen who were tested, 31 (2%) have come positive. “We were concerned that the positivity rate would be high among frontliners. But thankfully, the infection rate is low. From the beginning of the infection, we gave proper protective kits to them, which helped stop the spread,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. Like RT-PCR, rapid antigen kits detect the presence of molecular pathogens of the coronavirus. But RT-PCR takes almost eight hours to give results, while reports of the antigen-based test that uses nasal swab samples are out within 30 minutes. According to BMC officials, as the solid waste management employees have to go to containment zones and work in close proximity with infected people, they are more susceptible to the virus. “These employees can’t stop collecting garbage from contaminated buildings. Similarly, police officers have to work in containment zones to keep an eye on people. They are breathing in areas filled with pathogens of the virus. This makes them the most vulnerable group,” said Kakani. “All positive BMC staff were asymptomatic, so there was no need to run an RT-PCR test for a second diagnosis. They are stable and most of them have been kept under home observation,” said a senior official from BMC. Antigen testing has given a huge boost to the per-day testing capacity in the city. Till the end of June, BMC was testing around 4,500 people daily. The average testing rate has now increased to 6,000. On July 24, the city made a record by testing the highest number of people — 7,609 people in a single day for the first time since March. “The testing number will rise over 10,000 now. But, as data shows, the positivity rate is still constant and hasn’t shown any sudden spike,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jumbo-rapid-antigen-testing-drive-76-of-7-962-frontliners-test-positive-in-2-days/story-1seCAy2MBEa67TbjPgN9sO.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Agencies yet to do third party audits of plantations held in previous years to check survival rate||At least 18 of the 20 afforestation agencies that carry out plantation drives every monsoon are yet to submit third-party audits of the drives held from 2016 to 2018 to the forest department, which is the nodal agency for all plantation activities in the national capital, officials said. Third-party audits of plantation is needed to assess the survival rate of saplings and the exercise was made mandatory for all greening agencies last year by then Delhi environment minister Imran Hussain, who had asked agencies to submit audit reports to the state forest department for the years from 2016 to 2018.Among the 20 agencies that carry out large-scale plantations are the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), the three municipal corporations, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and the public works department (PWD). The other agencies include the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), Northern Railways and the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), among others. “We have written to all agencies to submit a status report of their third-party audit. We haven’t received a single report so far. We have written to the Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun, to carry out an audit for the plantation done by our different divisions for the same period. They are expected to send a team for the audit post-monsoon,” a senior official from the forest department said. The NDMC and the DDA are the only two agencies which have got the audits conducted so far. “We have been getting a third-party audit done since 2015. We are yet to approach an agency for the audit of the year 2018-19. The survival rate of our plantation was 65.83% in 2017-18; 73.5% in 2016-17; and 61.88% in 2015-16,” S Chellaiah, director, horticulture, NDMC, said. DDA officials said they got the audit done for the year 2018-19 by FRI, Dehradun. “The survival rate of the plantation for the year stands at 80%-95%. The institute also suggested some measures to address sapling growth issues, which we will implement in this year’s plantation drive. The 86-page report was submitted to lieutenant-governor (who also heads the DDA). We have written to the FRI to carry out the audit for 2019-20 as well,” DDA’s director (horticulture) Ashok Kumar said. A senior PWD official said they have sent a request for the audit to the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), Pusa. “We have written to them and the IARI has agreed in-principle. The audit will be done this year,” the official, who did not wish to be named, said. Officials at the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) also said they have approached an agency to get the audit done. “We have approached an agency, but the corporation is already under financial duress. The government must fix an agency for the audit,” a senior SDMC official, who did not wish to be named, said. The East Corporation too said that it has approached IARI, Pusa, for the audit and the modalities are being discussed. A senior North corporation official said they have approached the FRI, Dehradun, for the audit. “There are some financial problems because of Covid-19, but we are trying to collaborate FRI in this matter,” the official said.This year, the Delhi government has set a target of planting 3.1 million saplings. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had said that they have roped in FRI, Dehradun, to conduct third-party audit for the year 2019-20. According to experts, third-party evaluation is important to ascertain the survival rate as well as fix accountability. C R Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystems, Delhi University, said, “Third-party evaluation is useful to assess the survival rate, know the drawbacks where growth is not up to the mark and implement strategies to improve the efforts in the following years. Massive plantation drives are undertaken every year and hence it’s important to know how many of the saplings survived and fix accountability of various agencies. It is crucial for the sustained growth of saplings, which is ultimately needed for increasing the city’s green cover.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/agencies-yet-to-do-third-party-audits-of-plantations-held-in-previous-years-to-check-survival-rate/story-vktfzjbV2JKj1opPuK1EiL.html
26-07-2020||Lucknow||Sultanpur SP dons face cover, makes cops chase him in bid to test their alertness||He wanted to check the alertness of policemen on duty during the weekend lockdown here, so the Superintendent of Police donned plain clothes and a face cover, tried to jump a barricade in front of them and started to run when asked to stop, prompting a chase.Unaware of the exercise, the police personnel chased him down within minutes, only to realise he was their senior officer.The events unfolded near the Daakghar Chauraha around 6.30 pm on Saturday. Shiv Hari Meena, Superintendent of Police of Sultanpur district, said he removed the ‘gamchaa’ covering his face after the policemen caught hold of him.They were taken by surprise when they recognised him, the SP said.Meena, subsequently, announced a cash reward of Rs 2,100 each for the eight police personnel posted on duty at the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sultanpur-sp-dons-face-cover-makes-cops-chase-him-in-bid-to-test-their-alertness/story-bjL71LJbl1uc9SuHOH4Y8L.html
26-07-2020||City||DU to start registration for ECA admissions from Aug 1||New Delhi: Delhi University (DU) on Sunday issued notification for undergraduate admission process under the extra curricular activities (ECA) quota. Students will be allowed to apply under the category between August 1 and August 31.The university had earlier announced that it won’t take admission under the ECA quota this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, following objections from students, teachers and activists, the university had on July 20 said that it allow admission under the category on the basis of merit and participation certificates this year, but won’t hold any trials. There are 14 recognised activities under ECA — creative writing, dance, debate, fine arts, music, music instrumental (such as tabla, harmonium, sitar, dholak, drums, guitar and sarod), theatre, NCC, NSS and yoga, among others.In DU colleges, 5% supernumerary seats are reserved under sports and ECA categories collectively in each course.According to the notification issued on Sunday, applicants can register under the ECA quota between August 1 to August 31. “Applicants who have already registered and now wish to apply under ECA category can also do so at the same time after paying the requisite additional fee of Rs 100. Applicants may register for a maximum of three ECA categories,” it read.The applicants can upload a maximum of best five certificates of preceding three years (1st May 2017 –30th April 2020) on the university’s admission portal. “Certificates uploaded by the applicant shall be scrutinised and evaluated out of a maximum of 100 marks.“Applicants scoring 20 marks and above in uploaded certificates shall be eligible for final merit list of admission on the basis of ECA. The marks under ECA category will be awarded based on the sum of the total marks awarded in the three best certificates uploaded by the candidate,” the notification reads.Forensic tests will be conducted to check authenticity of the certificates submitted by all candidates under the ECA category, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-to-start-registration-for-eca-admissions-from-aug-1/story-BXscduZUgheIhFZiUxozgI.html
26-07-2020||City||52 Ludhiana students to get cash prize for scoring 98% above marks in PSEB Class 12 exams||As many as 52 students from Ludhiana will be getting a cash prize of Rs 5,100 for scoring above 98% in the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) Class 12 exams.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday had announced a cash prize of Rs 5,100 each for 335 students across the state who scored more than 98% marks in their PSEB Class 12 examinations. He also lauded the efforts of the government school students for their excellent performance in the exams. Out of 52 students from the district, 45 are from private schools and seven from government schools. Out of the seven students, five are from rural areas. Balwinder Kaur of Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Rajewal, scored 99.78% and topped the district; Akashdeep of Government Senior Secondary School, Sawaddi Kalan, scored 99.33% marks; Shiva Kumar of Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, and Amanjot Kaur of GSSS, Panj Garaiyan, scored 98.89% marks each. Kuljeet Kaur of Shaheed-E Azam Sukhdev Thapar GSSS, Bharat Nagar, scored 98.44 %; Jasdeep Kaur of GSSS, Talwandi Kalan, and Sunita Kumari of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Gill, scored 98.22% marks each. Swaranjit Kaur, district education officer, secondary, said, “Students have excelled in Class 12 board exams and the cash prize will help them pursue higher studies. This is a great move by the state government.” TOPPERS WISH TO UTILISE CASH PRIZE FOR FURTHER STUDIES Akashdeep Singh said, “I got to know about this last night and have decided to keep the amount in my savings account. I aspire to become a lawyer and will utilise this cash prize for further studies.” Jasdeep Kaur said, “Due to financial constraints at home, I am confused whether to pursue law or do some other course. The cash prize will help me take admission but I am worried about how I will pay the semester fees.” National level SQAY martial arts player Sunita Kumari aspires to become a physical education lecturer. “I used to get up at 4 am to study and then reach school at 6 am for practice and then attend classes from 9 am and then again go for practice sessions from 3 pm to 6 pm. After reaching home, I used to help my mother in the kitchen and then study for one hour after dinner,” said 17-year-old Kumari. After coming to know about the CM’s announcement, she said she’ll use the cash prize to pay her college fee and plans to pursue BA, BEd, and MEd and become a teacher. She thanked her teachers and principal Smriti Bhargav for supporting her and said, “My parents are working as laborers in a private company and earning Rs 10,000 per month. I face financial problems at home. My physical education teacher will help me get admission in Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Model Town.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/52-ludhiana-students-to-get-cash-prize-for-scoring-98-above-marks-in-pseb-class-12-exams/story-XbxarMDoIGa6Q8ZY9u0sAJ.html
26-07-2020||City||Boy, 16, dies in east Delhi after falling off terrace while flying kite||New Delhi: A 16-year-old boy was killed after he fell off the terrace of his home in east Delhi’s Dilshad Colony while flying a kite on Friday afternoon. He was a Class 11 student in a private school in Brij Vihar in Ghaziabad. The family does not suspect foul play, and no case has been registered in connection with his death.A police officer privy to the incident said the police control room had received information that a boy had fallen off a four-storey building at F Block in Dilshad Colony. The injured boy was rushed to Swami Dayanand hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. The police spoke to the boy’s family members, who told them that he was flying a kite on the terrace of the building when he accidentally fell down.The boy’s father, who works in a private company in Okhla, said his son was alone on the terrace at the time. “We do not suspect any foul play, as nobody else was on the terrace at that time,” the father said.The boy is survived by his parents and grandfather, and was a single child. According to the police, the terrace from where the boy fell down has a railing but its height is not more than two feet. “Prime facie, it appears that the boy lost balance after his body hit the railing while flying the kite. By the time he could be admitted to the hospital, the boy had died,” the officer mentioned above said.His grandfather said that his grandson was a promising badminton player and had won many medals participating in district-level tournaments. “He had also represented the school in many inter-school sports events,” the grandfather said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/boy-16-dies-in-east-delhi-after-falling-off-terrace-while-flying-kite/story-x5DZZLzHHTodnNVetGVEeJ.html
26-07-2020||City||Delhi govt to launch job portal for those who lost employment due to Covid lockdown||New Delhi: The Delhi government is likely to launch a portal next month to make job opportunities available to those who have lost employment due to the Covid-19 lockdown, a senior government official said on Sunday.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has planned to announce a series of initiatives next week for the economic revival of Delhi. With the turnaround in Delhi’s Covid situation, the focus is now on getting the economy back on track and generating jobs. The chief minister has received several suggestions from business groups, economists, and representatives from trade and industry, among other stakeholders, in the last two weeks,” said a senior government official, who did not wish to be identified.The official further said, “With a large number of migrant labourers returning to Delhi now, the Delhi government is all set to launch a job portal next month to connect job-seekers with potential employers. The portal will help in the recruitment of skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled employees. A detailed action plan is being prepared based on the recommendations of all experts and industry representatives, and a series of announcements are expected next week.”Earlier this month, a similar job portal was launched by the Maharashtra government.Several representations were also received by Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi, an advisory body to the Delhi government, which has recently formed a 12-member committee to suggest measures for economic recovery in the Capital. “Several industry associations such as CII, Automotive Parts Merchant Association, Delhi Textile Merchants Association, National Restaurants Association of India, and Handicrafts Exporters Association have given their suggestions on measures Delhi government should take to revive the economy,” said a member of the committee who did not wish to be identified.The member said, “Focus will be to get all business activity in Delhi to restart including opening malls, hotels, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-to-launch-job-portal-for-those-who-lost-employment-due-to-covid-lockdown/story-tFKR72Jx78cjMF07V2xEoJ.html
26-07-2020||City||Won’t allow SDMC to levy new taxes: Gopal Rai||New Delhi: Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will not allow the BJP-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to levy “anti-people” new taxes and accused the civic body of “indulging in corruption”. The Delhi BJP, however, said that it has urged the civic body to “rollback” the proposal and not levy the proposed taxes. Speaking at a press conference, Rai said at a time when the common man is going through a financial crisis and facing loss of job and business because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP-ruled corporation wants to add to their misery. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta tweeted on Sunday that he has urged the SDMC mayor and other civic body officials to rollback the proposal of new taxes. “I have spoken to the South Corporation mayor and urged civic officials to rollback the proposal of introducing new taxes. The mayor has agreed. I request Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to release funds due to the civic bodies under the 4th Delhi Finance Commission so that they can overcome their financial crisis,” Gupta tweeted in Hindi. South corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh said that they have agreed to not levy the proposed professional tax, electricity tax, unauthorised colonies house tax and property transfer tax for the “time-being”. “We will postpone levying of the professional and electricity taxes for the time being, till the situation improves. About other taxes, we will present a detailed report in the House on Monday,” the mayor said. The new tax proposals have already been cleared by the SDMC standing committee and would to be tabled in the House on Monday for approval. Rai said, “People are struggling to come to terms with the economic slowdown. Levying new taxes will add to their financial liabilities. The corporation does not provide any facilities in the unauthorised colonies, but is eager to levy new tax on the residents. Similarly the property transfer tax, professional and electricity taxes will be an additional burden on middle-income groups. We will not let this happen. Our councillors in opposition will sit on protest but will not let these be approved in the SDMC House,” said Rai. The professional tax is proposed to be levied on self-employed professionals such as doctors, lawyers, chartered accountants and architects, among others. However, those earning less than ₹ 20,000 a month will be kept out of its ambit. The Corporation had planned to hike the electrify tax from existing 5% on thr billing amount to 6%. The tax is collected by distribution companies on behalf of the corporation. The SDMC generates electricity through solar power panels in many buildings, which it further sells to power companies. The South civic body has proposed that if those living in unauthorised colonies pay up the house tax for the financial years 2019-20 and 2020-21, their previous years house tax will be waived off. The civic body has been collecting house tax from unauthorised colonies falling in G-category since 2004, but officials said that people have not paid the dues. The property transfer tax is an additional fee that will go to the corporation on the sale and purchase of a property. Rai said that the corporations have been getting funds to the tune of Rs 4667 crore, which is much more than what they used to get during the previous Sheila Dikshit-led Congress government’s tenure of around Rs 3343 crore. Besides, the Delhi government has given them a loan of Rs 3,815 crore. “Where has all this money gone? The corporation must put in public the expenditure done by them so far and why do they need to introduce such taxes. It is only because the BJP leaders want to indulge in corruption,” said Rai. To this the South civic body mayor said, “What else can we do without funds, if not find new means to generate revenue. We have been trying to generate our own revenue so that we don’t have to depend on Delhi government to release our dues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/won-t-allow-sdmc-to-levy-new-taxes-gopal-rai/story-3U1mE0NaUvx6AFPApWeBtJ.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Liberal policy gives slight push to testing numbers: BMC data||Two weeks after testing was liberalised in the city, allowing citizens to get tested without a medical prescription from July 7, the daily testing numbers have increased marginally in Mumbai. From July 1 to July 7, the average number of daily tests was 4,978. The number went up to 5,673 tests daily between July 8 and July 14, and further to 5,976 between July 15 and July 21. Mumbai’s highest single-day number was 7,609 tests, conducted on July 24. Between July 1 and July 24, Mumbai has conducted 1.31 lakh tests, taking the average to 5,482 tests. The city is conducting 36,000 tests per million people, lower than Delhi’s 44,000 tests per million people. In the past one week, Pune has also increased its testing, bringing the number on a par with Mumbai. Meanwhile, citizens complained of at least two-day waiting period to book tests and another 48 hours to get the results. Sneha Sedani, a Kandivli resident, said, “We lost our grandmother last week. Her results were negative. However, we wanted to get tested, considering my grandmother had pneumonia. The lab had two-day waiting period and allowed home testing only for senior citizens.” Another Lower Parel resident, Chaitanya Dhargalkar, said, “My sister had fever for four days, and we thought of getting tested for Covid-19. On calling private labs, we came to know there was two-day waiting period, and it took two days more to get results.” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We have 17-18 private labs and additional government labs. We have been focusing on increasing our testing for a few days now, using rapid antigen kits. The number of daily testing is also crossing the 7,000 mark. We plan to test carry out sero-surveillance to cover maximum population…There is a possibility that citizens are wary about getting tested. Earlier, those not having symptoms also wanted to get tested, but now there is awareness.” Experts said stigma deters people from getting tested. Siddarth Paliwal, a private health consultant from Mumbai, said, “There is still stigma or fear in the minds of citizens to get tested. Also, liberalised testing policy does not mean BMC should leave it on citizens to get tested. The number of private labs should also be increased.” On Sunday, Mumbai recorded 1,101 fresh cases and 57 new deaths, taking the city’s case tally to 109,161 and toll to 6,093. The number of discharged patients in Mumbai was 80,238 with a recovery rate of 73.5%, and active cases stood at 22,536. The fatality rate was 5.58%, and doubling rate 66 days. One hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement – Dharavi – recorded only two new cases on Sunday, bringing the area’s case count to 2,531, of which 2,168 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/liberal-policy-gives-slight-push-to-testing-numbers-bmc-data/story-bz8YyKOdENnYyyDdE3oUSM.html
26-07-2020||City||Four held with 60 cartons of illicit liquor in Ludhiana||The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) staff, Jagraon, on Sunday booked four liquor smugglers and recovered 60 cartons of illicit liquor from a hidden compartment of their mini truck. The police seized the mini-truck and a car from the accused who have been identified as Shubham alias Kaka of Raikot, Harvinder Singh alias Lali of Banganwala village of Dhuri, Gurwinder Singh alias Guddu of Guru Nanakpura of Raikot and Hardeep Singh alias Happy of Mahal Kalan of Barnala. Ludhiana rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vivek Sheel Soni said that the accused had hidden the liquor in a mini truck. Two of them were plying in a car ahead of the truck on the Raikot Road to keep a tab on police check-posts, he added. A case has been registered under sections 61, 1, 14, 78 (2) of the Excise Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-held-with-60-cartons-of-illicit-liquor-in-ludhiana/story-fzZTqXkNjWVrEO7d4m93ZO.html
26-07-2020||City||Man hit by Delhi police vehicle dies during treatment||A 25-year-old man who was allegedly hit by a Delhi police vehicle on July 20 died during treatment at a private hospital on Saturday night. The family on Sunday protested demanding swift action in the case.On the afternoon of July 20 two brothers, Surajpur residents Pawan (in his 20s) and Rahul, were on a motorcycle when the accident happened. A minivan sporting the sticker of “Delhi Police” crashed into them. They were rushed to a nearby private hospital for treatment by onlookers while the driver fled with the vehicle.On Saturday, Rahul died during treatment and his family members protested outside the hospital on Sunday morning alleging that the police had not taken any action in the matter.“They were on their way to Pari Chowk to refill a gas cylinder around 12.30 pm when they were hit. The driver was speeding and dragged them for about 100 metres before stopping. The boy had lost his father a few years back. His family is in very poor shape after his death. Meanwhile, Noida police has not taken any appropriate action in the case. No statements have been taken from the other brother or onlookers,” said Satyendra Bhati, a family friend.The younger brother was discharged, while the family was asked to pay a bill of ₹1.19 lakh.“The bill has been waived. The body was sent for an autopsy and handed back to the family,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.He said that a probe in the matter is underway.Police said that they managed to track the vehicle and the driver identified by his first name as Mohan, a Delhi resident, had surrendered at Surajpur police station. He was deployed at the police training college in Jharoda Kalan, Delhi. “He was released on bail,” said the DCP.When contacted, a spokesperson for Delhi police said that the investigation is being handled completely by Noida police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-hit-by-delhi-police-vehicle-dies-during-treatment/story-jbLuHiqbRUP7ZmUNZoOIzM.html
26-07-2020||City||Out of work, SDMC contractual teacher sells pakoras, jalebis to make ends meet||New Delhi: Abdul Qadir, who worked as an assistant primary teacher on contract basis in a South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC)-run school in Khizrabad till May 8, has been selling pakoras (fritters) and jalebi (sweets) for the past two weeks, to make ends meet.The 41-year-old, who has 80% locomotor disability in his legs, was among the 2,500-odd teachers employed on a contract basis in around 1,678 primary schools run by three civic agencies -- east, north and south -- in Delhi till May 8. Their contracts were supposed to get renewed in the first week of July.Qadir had been working in SDMC primary school in Khizrabad since 2003. He has a diploma in elementary teacher education—an essential qualification for being a primary teacher-- and has also cleared the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET). He used to earn around Rs 40,000 a month through teaching.However, due to the delay in the renewal of contracts, as schools remain closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, many like Qadir have been forced to look for alternative modes of livelihood after being rendered out of work.“I had to return to my village in Bihar’s Siwan district after I was relieved from work. It was difficult to survive without work in Delhi with my wife and two children. I had to find some work to feed my family of five. I can’t do physical labour either because of my leg, so I decided to sell pakoras and jalebis in my village,” he said.He now earns ₹200 to 300 a day. “We are not getting any positive response from the SDMC. I have written to many officials in the last few days but nothing has happened. I do not know till when we can survive like this,” he said.A spokesperson for the SDMC said: “Regular teachers have been appointed by the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board in all our schools and they have joined as well. There are no vacancies available right now. Contractual teachers will be called whenever it is required.”Neelu Devi, president of the Contractual Teachers’ Welfare Association of the three municipal agencies of Delhi, said, “Contractual teachers working in MCDs are struggling to make ends meet. Many of them have not received salaries since April and now the delay in the renewal of the contacts further creates uncertainty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/out-of-work-sdmc-contractual-teacher-sells-pakoras-jalebis-to-make-ends-meet/story-jIoubEpWK7Hglj9Hwhkc6N.html
26-07-2020||City||Realty firm director missing for 30 days, family launches indefinite protest||The family of a 36-year-old project director of a realty firm, Vikram Tyagi, who has been missing for about a month, on Sunday launched an indefinite protest outside their society in Raj Nagar Extension, blaming police inaction . The case has turned cold despite Tyagi’s car covered in blood stains being recovered from Muzffarnagar a day after the man went missing.On the night of June 26, Tyagi went missing closing to his home while returning home from his office in Patel Nagar in his car. His last known location was near a highrise society in Raj Nagar Extension. “We will continue our protest till he is traced. Although the police have taken up an investigation, there was laxity initially which has complicated the case. His car was found in Muzffarnagar on June 27 with a large quantity of blood on it. The blood was later tested and found to be of Tyagi. How did the car go all the way up to Muzffarnagar at a time when night curfew is in place,” said, Sanjay Tyagi, Vikram’s uncle.the family said that on the fateful night, Tyagi’s phone was switched off around 7.45pm. “Later, at a check point in Khatauli (Muzaffarngar district), a policeman on duty had spotted the car and saw two men inside, who told that they were from the police. The police saw blood inside the car and they tried to stop it, but the two men fled. Thecar was driven for about 50 more kilometres before being abandoned. Ever since then, we have not received any ransom or any calls from anyone about him. Every one at home is shattered and I cannot describe their condition,” he added. The family said that Tyagi did not have much cash or any valuables on him on the night of June 26. “There have been cases of carjacking and robberies near Raj Nagar Extension and we suspect that he could be a victim of such an incident. However, we are still hopeful of his return. Senior police officials of Meerut zone are helping and actively working to solve the case. But we will continue with our protest till he returns. After the car was found, there was also delay in picking up finger prints. The reports are yet to be received,” his uncle added. Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, did not take calls for a comment on the issue. The police officials from Meerut range said that investigators from three districts – Ghaziabad, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar – are working on the case besides teams from Noida. Units of the special task force too have been roped in to help in the search. “We have done a lot of work in the case and it would not be appropriate to reveal exact details till we crack the case. We are working on two possible theories as of now. The STF was roped in on request of the family. The case is also being monitored by additional director general (Meerut zone),” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range). Officials of Ghaziabad police said that five teams from the district are involved in the ongoing investigation in the case. The cops have already registered an FIR under IPC section 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) at Sihani Gate police station. On Friday, the SHO of Sihani Gate police station was also sent to police lines after several incidents of crime, including the kidnapping case, took place in areas under his jurisdiction in past one and half months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/realty-firm-director-missing-for-30-days-family-launches-indefinite-protest/story-jOHuOXQDSA2ynabWNmOBmL.html
26-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Three arrested for thrashing CNG station employee||Ghaziabad The police have arrested three men for allegedly thrashing an employee of a CNG filling station in Muradnagar on Saturday evening. The employee was beaten up when he asked the suspects, who had come in a car, to observe the queue, the police said on Sunday. One of the suspects is former office bearer of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJUM) which is youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a local party leader confirmed. According to the police, Monu Tyagi, Shubham Tyagi and Gaurav Tyagi were arrested on Sunday for their alleged involvement in the incident. All the suspects are residents of Guldhar, the police said, adding that the entire incident was captured in a CCTV camera. “We have arrested the three men for attacking the employee at the filling station in Muradnagar. The men had come in a car and the employee had objected when they tried to break the queue. The complainant has stated that one of the men was in an inebriated state and using abusive words,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). The police initially lodged a non-cognisable report in the incident under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code. But later they registered an FIR adding IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others). “A proper FIR was lodged with relevant IPC sections and three men were traced and arrested.There were some rumours that the incident took place when the victim asked the men why they were not wearing masks. But the altercation started when they had tried to break the queue,” Jadaun added. One of the suspects, Monu Tyagi, is former city vice-president of BJYM. “Monu Tyagi was the city vice-president of BJYM in the last term. But the unit was dissolved, and the new team is yet to be formed. The entire incident is in my knowledge and I have informed senior party leaders about the incident,” said Sanjeev Sharma, president of city unit of BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-three-arrested-for-thrashing-cng-station-employee/story-RFv0XVGQcJuboLN6wEFPZI.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Autorickshaw driver arrested for assaulting constable at BKC||A 35-year-old autorickshaw driver was arrested by Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) police for allegedly assaulting a constable. Police said the arrested driver Asif Abdul Maldar is a resident of Bharat Nagar, Bandra (East). The incident occurred on Saturday when constable Pravin Gode was on a night-patrolling duty.An officer from BKC police station said, “Maldar overtook the policeman who was on a motorcycle causing him to lose control of his two-wheeler. When the policeman confronted the driver, the latter allegedly assaulted him and fled from the scene.”Anand Muley senior inspector from BKC police station said, “After the constable had jotted down the registration number of the autorickshaw and informed our detection team, we managed to trace his address with the help of registration number.”Police reached his home and arrested him. Police booked him under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/autorickshaw-driver-arrested-for-assaulting-constable-at-bkc/story-3HXk8llcZe3MZmG3pj8TxH.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Taxi unions demand fare hike after CNG price rise||After the price of Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) was increased on Saturday, the unions have now demanded the hike in fares of black and yellow taxis in the city.The black and yellow taxi unions have demanded the minimum fare to be ₹25 from the existing ₹22.Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL) has hiked the price of CNG by ₹1 in the city. Cost of 1 kg of CNG is now ₹48.95. Earlier the cost of CNG in the city was ₹47.95.The unions have already presented the demand for an increase in fares to the state government. They stated that as the prices of CNG have increased, it is difficult for the drivers to survive. A decision regarding the plan of action by the unions will be taken post lockdown.“It will be difficult for drivers to survive. Drivers are as is not getting any work in the present situation and their families are suffering. We have also demanded funds for drivers from the state government because they had no source of income during the lockdown. After the increase in the price of CNG, we will once again keep forward the demand for increasing the fares. A plan of action will be decided post lockdown.” said AL Quadros, leader, Mumbai Taximen Union. The union has over 25,000 taxi drivers registered with them.The unions have also asked the transport task force (a committee that was formed to resume vehicular movement post lockdown) to allow more passengers to travel by taxis and autorickshaws and waive off their loans taken for the vehicles.MGL on Friday had stated that the increase in the price of CNG was to recover fixed costs due to low sales.“To partially recover fixed costs in the face of lower sales volumes due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and higher gas cost due to depreciation of rupees versus the dollar, MGL is constrained to increase its CNG’s maximum retail price (MRP) by ₹1 kg.” said a statement from MGL.BOXDiesel prices in city touch ₹80 per litreThe price of diesel increased in Mumbai on Sunday by 14 paise a litre. The diesel will now cost ₹80.11 a litre from ₹79.97 a litre.The cost of petrol has remained steady without any increase for over six days. Cost of one litre of petrol in the city is ₹87.19 a litre.On Saturday, prices of Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) were also increased. Cost of one kg of CNG is ₹48.95. Earlier the cost of CNG in the city was ₹47.95||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/taxi-unions-demand-fare-hike-after-cng-price-rise/story-Dd9b2AylpQFxkapvzaPOoO.html
26-07-2020||City||910 challaned in Ludhiana for not wearing masks, flouting social distancing norms||The police on Sunday lodged six FIRs and issued 910 challans for not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms amid the Covid-19 outbreak. According to police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, the police had introduced WhatsApp number: 91156001159 to receive complaints from the public regarding persons violating norms issued by the government. They had asked the public to inform them about large gatherings at social, religious, and political functions; persons violating home quarantine guidelines, night curfew, and those roaming around without wearing masks. He added that the police, daily, had been receiving more than 300 pictures and videos of people violating the norms. Since they have started taking action based on pictures and videos sent to them, the number of violations has come down. Nowadays, they have been receiving only 45 such pictures and videos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/910-challaned-in-ludhiana-for-not-wearing-masks-flouting-social-distancing-norms/story-RAdmxxN8TOZ6ThhX54yMlL.html
26-07-2020||City||Noida: Metals, coliform in groundwater in areas of Hindon river basin, finds report||Noida: It’s not just the Hindon River which is highly polluted but also the groundwater in its basin which is consumed by thousands, as a report has found the presence of metals, high salinity and even the coliforms in water samples from these areas.According to the report, released the by Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research that collected water samples from hundreds of villages across the nine districts falling along the Hindon basin, the water has conductivity, high amount of calcium, iron, manganese and nitrates, as well as faecal coliform, which is basically human or animal waste. The samples were collected from June to July last year through hand pumps and bore wells in the villages, while the detailed report was compiled only recently.The report includes Razapur, Dankaur, Dadri and Bisrakh blocks of Gautam Budh Nagar district that falls under the river basin. High quantities of calcium, iron, conductivity, and coliform were found there, which experts say is not fit for consumption.The report shows that conductivity or presence of ions in the groundwater varies from 1,135 to 295 microsiemens per centimeter (uS/cm), while the standards require the same to be zero. The coliform or bacteria generated from human and animal waste was present at most of points in the district and elsewhere, ranging from 10 to 50 CFU/ml or colony forming units per ml. As per standards, there must not be any coliform in groundwater and its presence indicates that untreated and unregulated sewers are seeping into the Hindon river basin and contaminating the groundwater.“Conductivity directly indicates salinity and makes water completely unfit for consumption. More saline the water is, the more unfit it is for consumption, as it affects the nervous system, causes muscular disorders, heart issues, etc. At the same time, there must not be any coliform present in groundwater, as these are disease-causing bacteria and cause water-borne diseases,” says Rashmi Verma, Policy Fellow (Water), Department of Science and Technology (DST), Ministry of Science and Technology.Calcium levels throughout the district in the groundwater, ranged from 99 to 653 milligram per litre (mg/l), against the standard limit of 75mg/l, while Iron was high as well at several villages along the basin, roughly ranging 1.0 to 4.5 mg/l. At Thairah village in Bisrakh block, for instance, the iron content was 3.6 mg/l, against the permissible range of 0.3 mg/l.“The high content of iron should be a cause of worry and local authorities must locate its source. Calcium levels are high as well and lead to hardness in water,” says Dr DP Gupta, water pollution expert and former environment officer, Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB).The Hindon originates from Saharanpur and reaches Greater Noida (in the Gautam Budh Nagar district) after passing through Meerut, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, and Ghaziabad. It merges with the Yamuna at Momnathal in Tilwara village of Greater Noida. Throughout its 50 kilometres journey through the district, the river is fed untreated effluent and non-degradable waste from industries and unauthorised settlements nearby, which worsens the situation. As a result, the river has no Dissolved Oxygen (DO), making it a virtually dead river. According to the UPPCB’s assessments, the level of DO in Hindon, at its entry point into the district at Chijarsi, was consistently zero throughout 2019, against a basic standard of 5 mg/l.“The report is an eye-opener as it shows that while earlier it was just the river which is polluted, now it is also the groundwater in its basin, which is consumed by thousands across hundreds of villages along the river, which is polluted. There is an urgent need to check industrial and domestic pollutants flowing into the river and serious efforts are required for its overall rejuvenation,” said city-based environmentalist Vikrant Tongad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-metals-coliform-high-salinity-in-groundwater-in-areas-of-hindon-river-basin/story-Df4kMWBmR9uwcuFaS9EvtM.html
26-07-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Admin forms dedicated team to trace symptomatic patients||Ghaziabad The district administration has formed a dedicated team to trace people affected by influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) who have potential risk of being Covid-19 positive. The move is primarily aimed at early detection of positive cases that will help reduce the fatalities, officials said.The three-member team, stationed at the Covid-19 control room set up on the district headquarters premises, will fetch information of ILI and SARI cases from different sources that include non-Covid hospitals, chemist shops, surveillance teams and surveys conducted by booth level officers (BLOs). “It (formation of a dedicated team) has been done for early detection and faster referral of positive cases to Covid hospitals so that such cases don’t move to aggravated state and result in fatalities. The team will ensure that all the ILI/SARI patients are tested for Covid-19,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. To aid the dedicated team, the administration has asked all the chemists in the district to note down the details of those who come to their shops to buy medicines related to fever, cough, cold, etc, the officials said. The chemists have been told to maintain register with details of purchasers and pass on the information to the dedicated team through the social media group. Till Sunday, 64 patients have died of Covid-19 in Ghaziabad. Official records state that 16 (25%) of them were affected by ILI and SARI symptoms. So far, the district has reported a total of 4,619 positive cases of coronavirus. According to district health department officials, patients affected by ILI constitute about 20-25% of total Covid-19 cases while those affected by symptoms of SARI account for about 2% of the total positive cases. “Although the share of ILI cases is about 20-25%, their positivity rate is about 6%. On the other hand, the positivity rate of SARI cases is nearly 40%. So, we are taking extra precautions with such cases and ensuring that they get detected early before their symptoms aggravate and lead to complications,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has directed for further reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing of only symptomatic patients who turn negative through rapid antigen kits. But the health department is taking no chances with the ILI and SARI cases. “We are getting all ILI and SARI cases tested through RT-PCR testing even if they are found negative with rapid antigen kits,” the health officer said. The chief medical officer has been directed to send mobile van teams to registered non-Covid hospitals and also make available rapid antigen kits to them for testing of ILI/SARI affected patients. The Ghaziabad district at present has three mobile vans which visit different areas for testing, the officials said. “Our surveillance teams who are taking up surveys in containment zones and teams comprising booth level officers have been roped in to detect ILI and SARI cases. About 250 households each have been assigned to BLOs from where they will trace such cases.The required information will be passed on to the dedicated team who will ensure that such cases are tested and referred to L2 or L3 Covid facilities if they are found positive,” Pandey added. The administration has also said that regular health status of asymptomatic patients in Covid facilities will be checked for ILI or SARI symptoms, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-admin-forms-dedicated-team-to-trace-symptomatic-patients/story-vXgv5ozNc6lUMQfCqsQfhN.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ex BJP district chief Ravinder Arora, 126 others test positive for Covid-19, 2 die in Ludhiana||Two persons died while 127 persons, including senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former district president Ravinder Arora, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the count to 2,566 here.Arora is stable and isolated at home, BJP spokesperson Dr Satish said. With this, the city now has reported over a 100 positive cases for the fifth consecutive day, even as it recorded 104 cases on Wednesday, 120 on Thursday, followed by 105 on Friday.The highest single day spike of 164 cases and seven deaths was recorded on Saturday. Sunday’s fatalities include a 51-year-old resident of Choti Dhandari and a 48-year- old man from Bishan Nagar. Both suffered from underlying conditions such as diabetes and high blood pressure and died at the Rajindra Government Hospital in Patiala and the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh, respectively. So far 60- persons have died in the district. Arora is the third party leader to have been tested for Covid-19 in the past one week. The general secretary of the BJP district unit, Sunil Modgil ( 50) tested positive on Friday. Gurdev Sharma Debi, another leader, who was suffering from cough, cold and fever for nearly a week, tested positive July 19. He is currently undergoing treatment at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.Dr Satish said the condition of all the three party leaders was stable. On Thursday, Congress leader Kamaljit Singh Karwal and councillor Rakesh Prasher tested positive. Giving details, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said till date, 57,870 samples have been taken, of which 56,677 had been received with 53,731 testing negative.Reports on 1,193 samples were pending. About 287 persons had been home quarantined on Sunday, Dr Bagga added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-bjp-chief-ravinder-arora-126-others-test-positive-for-covid-19-2-die-in-ludhiana/story-joIcsXnEDWJDVuqcNM7cNJ.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||HC refuses to let families stay in dilapidated building||Observing that three dilapidated buildings have collapsed in the last week in Mumbai, resulting in the loss of 12 lives, the Bombay high court on Tuesday refused to grant any relief to two families who wanted to continue occupying a crumbling building in Juhu.The division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Riyaz Chagla dismissed the petition filed by the two families challenging the action of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to disconnect the water and electricity supply to the dilapidated building.The families had filed the petition through their society, Nav Chetana Co-operative Housing Society. According to the petition, in August 2019, after noticing that the structure had become weak the civic body had issued a notice calling upon the society to undertake a structural audit of the building and submit a report of a qualified structural engineer certifying that the building was structurally sound and fit for human habitation.As the society failed to submit a structural audit report, BMC on September 7, 2019, issued another notice informing the society that the building was in a ruinous condition and was likely to fall. The society was also called upon to take steps to secure the structure building undertaking necessary repairs and put up adequate support, and also put up boards to warn passersby that the building was dangerous.In response to the notices issued by BMC, the society on January 8, 2020, submitted a statement of a consulting engineer stating that necessary propping work in the stilt and balcony area was done under his guidance and that the building was fit for human habitation for next six months.The bench, however, noticed that the period of six months, as mentioned in the engineer’s report was over. Besides, the judges also noted that six of the total eight families residing in the building had vacated their respective premises, and only the two families before the court had not vacated their premises despite several requests and warnings as regards the ruinous and dilapidated condition of the building.In this backdrop, the bench said that the BMC was left with no other alternative but to disconnect water and electricity supply to the building. The two families had challenged the civic action on the ground that it was arbitrary, the court, however, found that it was “not only not arbitrary but was in the interest of the petitioners and the members of the general public.”HC said about a week back during the heavy downpour three dilapidated buildings collapsed in the city, resulting in 12 casualties and injuries to several persons. “We cannot allow the same to be repeated in the present case, only because two of the eight members are adamant and are not wanting to vacate their flats to enable the building to be repaired or reconstructed.”Meanwhile, in a similar petition, the same bench on Friday refused to grant any relief to the occupants of a dilapidated building at Dahisar and directed the 80 families residing there to vacate their respective flats in four weeks. HC granted two additional weeks to a family, whose five members are infected by Covid-19.Members of the Dahisar society had moved HC in June 2020 after BMC threatened to disconnect their water and electricity supply, as the building was dilapidated and was likely to collapse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-let-families-stay-in-dilapidated-building/story-1SdgQmbNo1toAfwRpICmdJ.html
26-07-2020||Dehradun||In a first, India to count snow leopards; process to start in September in Uttarakhand||Delayed due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, Uttarakhand forest department is expected to start snow leopard estimation process with the help of camera traps from September this year. The move has been labelled as the first ever in the country by experts awaiting the exercise. Ranjan Mishra, additional principal chief conservator of forest for wildlife confirmed the development that the forest department will start the estimation of snow leopard in order to understand the ecological factors pertaining to the large cat. “The snow leopard estimation process as part of the national protocol was supposed to start a few months ago but due to nationwide lockdown, the process got delayed. We will now start the project in September and try to understand whether snow leopards are thriving in good numbers or not and how the ecology is where they are found,” said Mishra. He added that the project is not restricted to the estimation but focuses on a holistic approach of understanding the ecosystem of the particular area where the elusive big cat is found. Also read: Third snow leopard death reported from Uttarakhand’s Gangotri National Park in past five years“Snow leopard is at the apex position of the ecological pyramid. Along with estimation, we are also trying to look at the prey population and interference in the habitat by humans. Snow leopards are found in about 23% of the geographical area of the state which is about 13,000 sq km and for preliminary investigation, this area will be divided into 80 grids of 15 sq km each,” added Mishra. He said that as part of the project, camera traps will be set up in grids where the movement of leopard is abundant, like a sample estimation survey, with the help of paramilitary staff and locals from the higher reaches and other information will be gathered from indirect signs like scat. Mishra said that after the sample survey, a range of number of snow leopards found in the state will be released. Last year in October, the first national protocol for snow leopard population assessment in five Himalayan states including Uttarakhand was released by the union environment ministry. The protocol is titled ‘Snow leopard Population Assessment in India (SPAI). S Sathyakumar, senior scientist at Wildlife Institute of India had then said this is the first-ever attempt to count snow leopards in the country. Also read: Snow leopard ‘catwalks’ in Himachal Pradesh’s Spiti, netizens amazed. WatchElaborating about the project, Sathyakumar said the project will be undertaken in two phases. “The first phase would be an occupancy survey while the second phase would be related to camera trapping of the elusive leopards in higher reaches and DNA analysis of scats”. The project will be on the lines of the global project named ‘Population Assessment of World’s Snow leopards (PAWS)’ carried out by 12 countries where the highly rare animal is found. The senior scientist had also pointed out that based on habitat quality and snow leopard density and estimates from different study areas in India, an estimate based on extrapolations has already been made. According to this extrapolation, he said, “India may have about 516 snow leopards.” The current estimated distribution of snow leopards across Himalayan states is, 86 in Uttarakhand, 90 in Himachal Pradesh, 285 in Jammu and Kashmir, 13 for Sikkim and 42 in Arunachal Pradesh. Snow leopard (Panthera uncia) is facing many threats to its existence due to poaching and habitat destruction. It inhabits the Himalayas at elevations ranging from 3,000 to 4,500 metres||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/in-a-first-india-to-count-snow-leopards-process-to-start-in-september-in-uttarakhand/story-Xhbxye5SRpe7m7sOyM8MeJ.html
26-07-2020||Kolkata||Bengal’s Covid-19 death toll rises to 1,372; tally of cases climbs to 58,718||The Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal rose to 1,372 on Sunday with 40 new fatalities, while the tally of cases rose to 58,718 with 2,341 more people getting infected with the virus in 24 hours, a Health department bulletin said.It also said that of the 40 deaths, 39 were because of comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental.Among the fresh deaths, Kolkata reported 17 fatalities, Howrah nine, North 24 Parganas five, South 24 Parganas four, two each from Hooghly and Darjeeling and one from Uttar Dinajpur, the bulletin said.On Sunday, the state capital saw 648 new instances of the viral infections, North 24 Parganas 542, Howrah 291, South 24 Parganas 133, Hooghly 127 and Darjeeling 123, it added.The other 477 fresh cases were reported from other districts of the state. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the state has gone up to 19,595. In the last 24 hours, 2,097 patients have been discharged from different hospitals in the state improving the discharge rate to 64.29 per cent.So far, 37,751 people have recovered from Covid-19 in West Bengal.Since Saturday, 16,045 samples have been tested in the state, the bulletin added.Meanwhile, the broad-based containment zones in West Bengal increased to 1,057 on Sunday evening, according to the state government website ‘Egiye Bangla’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-s-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-1-372-tally-of-cases-climbs-to-58-718/story-L1fZZXxE65EWXIa8scqrlI.html
26-07-2020||City||Mohali traffic cop suspended for assaulting truck driver||Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal on Sunday suspended a Mohali traffic cop after he was caught on camera assaulting a truck driver and his helper with a stick in Zirakpur. “Such behavior in uniform will not be tolerated. Hawaldar Mohinder Singh has been sent to the police lines,” the SSP said. In a video that has been circulated on social media, the truck driver, who was stopped for checking near ‘K’ area in Zirakpur, is purportedly seen pleading to the cop to check his vehicle documents. Turning down his pleas, the cop asked him to wait for the arrival of his senior. This led to a heated exchange. On spotting himself being filmed by the truck driver’s helper, Mohinder objected to it and slapped him twice. He then went inside the beat box and came out with a stick and assaulted both the men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-traffic-cop-suspended-for-assaulting-truck-driver/story-hujVZZs0mlb2AKxekJpruJ.html
26-07-2020||City||Panchkula health dept turns to police to trace source of infection||Unable to establish the source of infection in 20 Covid-19 cases in the district, the Panchkula health department had decided to approach the police for assistance.“Police will check their mobile phone records to ascertain the locations they visited, as it’s important to track down the source,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.Of the total 432 cases so far, a significant number of the patients (176) have contracted the infection from positive patients, who are their contacts.“We have tested 1,460 close contacts of positive patients and results of 101 returned positive. These include 75 ITBP and CRPF personnel,” Dr Kaur said.Patients with travel history are another major group. “After the lockdown was lifted in June, 11,221 people returned from various places. We took samples of 3,185 and 87 tested positive,” the civil surgeon said.MORE CLUSTERS POPPING UPWith Covid-19 cases surfacing steadily in multiple locations, the number of clusters is also increasing in Panchkula. The health authorities have determined at least 11 clusters with seven or more active cases.“Normally, a cluster means an area with 15 or more cases. But in view of the high risk of infection, we are considering even seven cases to term an area a cluster,” Dr Kaur said.She added, “Ashiyana in Sector 19 was declared a cluster after seven close contacts of a positive child were tested positive. Besides, the ITBP complex reported 43 cases and CRPF 32. Another 16 cases surfaced in Sector 9 alone.”Apart from these, 21 cases have been reported in Barwala, 15 each in Kalka and Sector 19, 10 in Pinjore and eight in Sector 25. Sectors 7, 15 and 21 have confirmed seven cases each.ACTION PLANTo contain the spread of infection in these clusters, the authorities claim to be sealing the areas, and conducting extensive testing and sero surveys.“We are doing extensive testing by collecting samples of a large number of contacts. Sero survey is being conducted in government offices due to multiple instances of their employees testing positive,” Dr Kaur said.The sero survey was started last week in government institutes and three slums – Abheypur, Rajeev Colony and Indira Colony. The survey helps map the spread of infection to devise an appropriate action plan.“Out of the 600 samples taken in the past week, 25 tested positive,” Dr Kaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-health-dept-turns-to-police-to-trace-source-of-infection/story-BEq3NXvSzoigRCDQjFLRhM.html
26-07-2020||Noida||Man arrested for killing ‘alcoholic’ brother in Greater Noida||A 37-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly killing his brother, whose body was found dumped in an isolated area a week ago, in Uttar Pradesh’s Greater Noida, police said. The accused told the police he was peeved by his brother’s alcoholism and misbehaviour with women members of their joint family, which led him to the crime, according to officials. The body of Bhisham Singh, a resident of Bisrakh village in Greater Noida, was found near bushes in an isolated area around a week ago. The body bore stab marks and an FIR was lodged at the Bisrakh police station and investigation taken up, a police spokesperson said. “During the probe, evidence led the police to the deceased’s brother Deepak and he was questioned. When quizzed, Deepak confessed to stabbing his brother to death. He told the police that Bhisham would frequently consume alcohol, create ruckus at home and misbehave with women family members because of which he decided to kill his brother,” the spokesperson said. The accused has been arrested and booked under IPC 302 (murder) and related charges, the police said. Further proceedings were being carried out in the case, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-arrested-for-killing-alcoholic-brother-in-greater-noida/story-jhR4uQathzjRk0Hk9RUwjL.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Books, toys, cartoons on the walls, welcome to a child-friendly police station||LudhianaAn activity room with toys at a police station? You bet, for that’s exactly what will happen at Shimlapuri , which is soon be made child-friendly for children involved in crimes or witnesses coming in to record statements.About 40 to 50 cases are reported per year in which children are involved either as victims or witnesses.Officials at the station say spaces will be created for an activity room for children. To make them feel at ease, it will be painted in pleasing colours with cartoon characters and figures added. Toys and books will also be available.A child welfare police officer will be present in civvies to interact with children.The rooms will be fitted with cameras and audio recording systems so statements, instead of being written down, will be recorded. The building was recently developed and designed to fit in with modern day requirements.It is the second child friendly police station established in the state after the one at Mandi Gobindgarh.The Punjab police had sent a proposal to the home department for establishing child friendly police stations in the state in 2018. One police station in every district is to be designated as child friendly.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) - headuarters) Akhil Chaudhary said that the step will be helpful for the police to deal with cases related to children. They will find it easier to open up to police questioning in a congenial atmosphere.The police will also invite schoolchildren to the police station to help them understand the working of a police station after schools open once the Covid-19 pandemic situation normalises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/books-toys-cartoons-on-the-walls-welcome-to-a-child-friendly-police-station/story-j2FRRLRoHZEZ18dYqrR3yJ.html
26-07-2020||City||Badals should explain how dera chiefescaped 2007 blasphemy case: Pargat||Jalandhar Congress MLA from Jalandhar cantonment Pargat Singh has claimed that it was cancellation report filed by the Bathinda police against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim in the 2007 blasphemy case that led him to commit further heinous crimes like sacrilege. His statement comes amid ongoing heated allegations and counter-allegations between the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Congress party over action against Rahim. “Had the Akali-BJP government acted sternly against the dera chief for dressing like Guru Gobind Singh in 2007, then there would be no sacrilege of 2015,” the former hockey Olympian said, adding that the Akali patriarch and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his son, president of the SAD, Sukhbir Singh Badal, should answer truthfully, the people of Punjab, especially the Sikh community, on how Ram Rahim escaped from the blasphemy case. “If the Badals had acted against the dera chief in the 2007 case then he would not have dared to commit the sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib. The Sikh community should connect the dots of sacrilege incidents and 2007 case, how the Badals saved the dera chief and how he committed the heinous act of sacrilege in the 2015,” Pargat, who has also been an Akali MLA, said. He added that was surprising that the matter of the origin of the dress that Ram Rahim wore was not investigated properly in 2007. “The matter would have been cleared, if the case was investigated in 2007, when Parkash Singh Badal was the chief minister; the police department was working under him till 2009 and not even a charge-sheet was filed in the case,” he said. He also accused the Badals of hobnobbing with the Dera Sacha Sauda for the sake of votes during 2009 Lok Sabha polls, 2012 assembly polls and 2014 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/badals-should-explain-how-dera-chiefescaped-2007-blasphemy-case-pargat/story-l2p1JwpD2NVqfNJP3AWmKN.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 14th Covid fatality and biggest single-day spike with 35 fresh cases||A 67-year-old man from Sector 38 became the fourteenth Covid fatality in Chandigarh on Sunday, while 35 new cases surfaced in the biggest single-day spike so far, which took the total to 887.The previous steepest rise was recorded on July 18, when 31 people had tested positive.The elderly man was admitted to the Covid facility in Sector 48 on July 5 and breathed his last on Sunday, confirmed health officials. Meanwhile, cases are being reported from across urban and rural pockets of the UT. Three cases each were reported from Sectors 21, 40, 41 and 47, while two cases each surfaced in Sectors 19 and 37 besides Ram Darbar, Mauli Jagran, Manimajra and Dhanas. Infections were also recorded in Sectors 15, 23, 24, 30, 32, 35, 42 and 48 besides Raipur Khurd and Maloya.As many as 302 cases remain active in the city, with 572 patients recovering so far, including 17 discharged on Sunday, and 13 succumbing to the disease.The recovery rate stands at 64% while fatality rate stands at 1.5% in Chandigarh. Meanwhile, acting on UT administrator’s directions amid the spike in cases, police issued 93 challans to people found without masks in the city on Sunday. At 79, most violators were found at Sukhna Lake. The offence carries ₹500 fine.PGIMER DOCTOR TESTS POSITIVEAmong those tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Sunday is a 30-year-old senior resident doctor of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). He is from gastroenterology department and was on non-Covid duty. According to sources, two more resident doctors from internal medicine and three nursing officers have also tested positive, though these cases were reported after the Sunday bulletin was released. All of them were on non-Covid duty, said sources. So far, around 40 health workers from the PGIMER have been tested positive, including two doctors on Saturday.19 FRESH CASES IN PANCHKULAThe number of Covid cases rose to 432 in Panchkula district, with 19 more people testing positive on Sunday.Those found include two children, aged 3 and 5, from Sectors 21 and 11, respectively. and sector 21. Cases were also reported from Sectors 6, 8, 12 and 19 in the city besides Mansa Devi Complex, Barwala, Kundi, Pinjore and Nada Sahib.Meanwhile, unable to establish the source of infection in 20 cases in the district, the Panchkula health department had decided to approach the police for assistance. “Police will check their mobile phone records to ascertain the locations they visited, as it’s important to track down the source,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.While, 251 cases remain active, 180 people have been cured and discharged and one patient has died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-35-covid-cases-chandigarh-sees-biggest-single-day-spike/story-lCEPSUXuKZhjyGeHyzRx4I.html
26-07-2020||City||Farmers to protest against central policies today||Chandigarh/Amritsar The Punjab State Committee of All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), along with 10 constituent organisations, will hold a protest rally of farmers across the state on Monday. AIKSCC is the largest confederation of farmers and farm-worker organisations of India, with more than 250 constituent members.  AIKSCC Punjab chapter convener Darshan Pal said, “Farmers shall march towards the offices of the elected representatives and prominent leaders of the BJP and the Akali Dal, who are partners in the NDA government at the Centre, in protest against their general anti-farmer policies, and also against the three recent ordinances.” He added 10,000 tractors would be out on the state’s roads in protest. On Monday, ten local organisations like Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), Bhartiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) and Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhuwal) will participate. Meanwhile, in Amritsar, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, on Sunday said it would launch a ‘Jail Bharo’ stir in the state from September 7 against three agriculture-related ordinances. Representatives of 13 districts of the KMSC met at Amritsar’s Chaba village. “The ordinances are neither in the interest of farmers nor of arhtiyas and labourers of Punjab and Haryana and must be revoked. The Centre says these ordinances have been introduced to increase income of farmers, but in reality they benefit the corporate sector,” the farm leaders said. KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “The preparation for ‘Jail Bharo’ will start from July 31 by holding district-level awareness meetings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-to-protest-against-central-policies-today/story-1wgEPZgLRexGNqqscSTDbO.html
26-07-2020||City||Punjab plans big promotional boost for ‘king fruit’ kinnow in country||As kinnow growers are anticipating a sluggish market ahead of harvesting season in October, Punjab Agri Export Corporation (PAEC) has planned a campaign to promote the ‘king fruit’ of Punjab across the country.PAEC general manager Ranbir Singh said on Sunday the states of southern India will be targeted under the ‘Punjab Kinnow’ campaign from September onwards.“Unlock 2.0 is being seen as a business opportunity to boost the mandarin hybrid with focus on its high nutritious value. It is for the first time that the state government is making an organised effort for kinnow promotion,” he said.The top official also informed that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had taken interest in PAEC’s initiative as kinnow growers were concerned about marketing their produce amid the pandemic.“Punjab Agricultural University’s state-supported research had proved that kinnows have anti-oxidant properties that not only reduce chances of cancer, but also lowered the risk of contracting diseases that affect immunity, like HIV. Kinnow seeds contain a high level of limonin, a natural content with medicinal value. The fruit will be marketed while highlighting these facts through social media and conventional strategies,” he added.Besides ensuring freight subsidies for transportation, PAEC is also working to ensure logistic support to transport kinnows to the key states, including Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Gujarat.Earlier, Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had announced that the central government would provide 50% subsidy on storage and transportation of kinnows to the consumption centres.With about 33,000 hectare land under kinnow cultivation, Abohar belt in Fazilka district is the hub of of the citrus variety production. Abohar produces 60% of the state’s fruit. In 2019, it had produced 7 lakh metric tonnes of kinnow. Farmers are expecting a higher yield this year, but they are worried due to low rates being offered for pre-harvest contracts.A leading kinnow orchardist from Bhangar Khera village Raghav Sharda said a contractor has agreed to pay ₹12/kg for harvest from the farm.“In 2019, farmers sold kinnow between ₹15-18/kg in wholesale. This year, we expect up to 50% jump in yield but not many contractors are coming forward to finalise deals,” said Sharda.A second generation kinnow grower, Geet Setia said that till last year, informal trade commitments began from April onwards, after traders assessed kinnow production on the basis of fruit flowering.“Though traders have started approaching, the rates are not encouraging. Kinnow growers are hopeful after PAEC has assured to help farmers in marketing the fruit,” he said.According to kinnow trader Shivam Setia, presently the pre-harvest wholesale rate is between ₹9-12/kg even though a bumper yield is expected this season.“Smooth transportation amid Covid-19 pandemic may be the determining factor for a stable kinnow market this year. Suppliers are not confident of investing at this juncture. The picture may be cleared by October,” said Setia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-plans-big-promotional-boost-for-king-fruit-kinnow-in-country/story-lH9dTvSI0eaqQ7x5jRhHNP.html
26-07-2020||Dehradun||With 143 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand crosses 6,000-mark||Uttarakhand on Sunday crossed the 6,000-mark with 143 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 6,104. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday evening, 143 fresh cases included a maximum 51 from US Nagar district. The other districts reported; Almora (3), Chamoli (1), Dehradun (46) Haridwar (26), Nainital (5), Pauri (3), Rudraprayag (1), Tehri (1) and Uttarkashi (6). Of the 143 cases, 78 cases were found to be close contacts of earlier detected positive patients and travel history was not available (at the time of the release of the bulletin) in 52 cases. Nine persons were also detected positive at flu clinics across the state. A total of 63 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand till now with nine patients dying due to coronavirus, according to the health officials. The rest of the positive patients died due to comorbidities and other causes, added health officials. Seventy-one Covid-19 patients were also discharged from different hospitals in the state on Sunday with a maximum of 43 from Dehradun district. The rate of doubling of cases based on the last seven days now stands at 22.45 days, while the infection rate is 4.60%. The state has so far tested over 1.41 lakh samples of which results of over 6000 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 223 containment zones in four districts including maximum 182 in Haridwar, followed by 26 in US Nagar, 12 in Dehradun in 3 in Uttarkashi district. Meanwhile, 33 jail inmates have tested positive from the state in the past two days informed officials. PVK Prasad, inspector general (IG) jail in the state said that over 120 jail inmates were tested in the past two days and 26 tested positive from Dehradun, while seven tested positive from Nainital district. “From Monday, I have asked all jail authorities to conduct minimum hundred Covid-19 tests in each prison, be it in Dehradun, Nainital or Sitarganj. We plan to gradually increase the number. The positive patients from Dehradun have been currently isolated separately in the prison itself, as they are asymptomatic. If their health condition deteriorates then they will be shifted to a medical facility,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/with-143-fresh-covid-19-cases-uttarakhand-crosses-6-000-mark/story-lYgOavzeSZgrMKLfDIxKZM.html
26-07-2020||Noida||Active Covid-19 cases plunge below 800 in Noida after almost 1 month, recovery rate nears 83%||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 110 new Covid-19 patients on Sunday, even as the number of active cases in the district slipped below the 800-mark after almost a month, official data showed.So far, 4,748 people have tested positive for the infection in the district while the number of active cases stood at 773, according to the data released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department for a 24-hour period.Since Saturday, 225 patients have got discharged, while 3,935 people have recovered from Covid-19 here till date, the highest for any district in the state, the data showed.The recovery rate of patients improved to 82.87 per cent from 79.79 per cent on Saturday, according to official statistics.The district, adjoining Delhi, has so far recorded 40 deaths linked to Covid-19, with a mortality rate of 0.84 per cent among positive patients, it showed.No coronavirus-linked death has been reported in Gautam Buddh Nagar since July 20, official records showed.The last time the district had less than 800 active cases was on June 30 (776) and June 29 (756), while the cumulative death toll on both these dates was 22, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/active-covid-19-cases-plunge-below-800-in-noida-after-almost-1-month-recovery-rate-nears-83/story-zVdLoV1sT92NBWDPXhXmbM.html
26-07-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress calls off its Monday protest in front of Raj Bhawan||The Rajasthan Congress called off its Monday protest in front of the Raj Bhawan, hours after the party gave a nationwide call for agitation to protect the Constitution and democracy. State Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasara said in a tweet, “Tomorrow, Congress workers will protest in front of Raj Bhawans as part of ‘Save Democracy-Save Constitution’ agitation call. But, in Rajasthan we will not do anything like that.” Earlier in the day, Congress leader Ajay Maken said in a show of solidarity with the Rajasthan government, led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, and for the protection of the Constitution and democracy, Congress workers will stage protests in a “Gandhian way” in front of Raj Bhawans across the country on Monday. The Congress government in Rajasthan is facing a political crisis after a rebellion by the now sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs. Dotasara said, “We have sent a revised note of the state cabinet to the Governor and hope that he will soon give approval to call a session of the Assembly.” The Congress government says it wants to hold the session so its majority can be proved. On Friday, Governor Kalraj Mishra had sought clarifications on six points from the state government, after Congress MLAs held a five-hour dharna on the lawns of the Raj Bhawan pressing for an Assembly session. The dharna was called off, according to the Congress, after Mishra said he would abide by the Constitution and not act under any pressure. The Governor asked Gehlot to submit again, with the clarifications, his recommendation for calling a session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-congress-calls-off-its-monday-protest-in-front-of-raj-bhawan/story-zjUVd1aBdG1J8sGDOJWG8L.html
26-07-2020||City||Now 17, conjoined twins Sohna-Mohna want to train as electricians||Conjoined twins Sohna and Mohna, who recently passed their matriculation examination, are ready to take on the next phase of their lives. The 17-year-olds want to become electricians.Abandoned by their parents in 2003, the twins were just two months old when Pingalwara, a home for the destitute situated on the outskirts of Amritsar, took them in.On Sunday, the boys were seen working on a problem in the generator installed at the premises. Helping each other out while using the electricity tools, the brothers seemed to enjoy the work. “Work is worship. It should not be downsized. Instead of getting hooked to drugs, the youth should do engage in productive work of their own liking,” the twins said.“Both have turned 17 and are self-dependent now as they don’t need much help from anyone. The hobby of doing electric repairs has driven their passion and now they are being trained under one of our electricians here. We are trying to get them enrolled in an electrician diploma course as per their wishes. By attaining expertise in this field, both will be able to earn their livelihood,” said Bibi Inderjit Kaur, chairperson of All India Pingalwara Charitable Society which runs the home.The electrician who is guiding them said, “Both have been learning and doing electric repairs for the past year. Earlier, they used to observe my work after school hours, but now they are devoting more time and learning fast. They are able to fix all minor problems related to electricity and electronic appliances.”Notably, after their birth, the doctors at AIIMS had contacted Pingalwara and the babies got a home here on Independence Day in 2003. They were named Sohna and Mogna by Bibi Inderjeet Kaur after the famous piece of historical fiction by Bhai Vir Singh.The twins have two hearts, two pairs of arms, kidneys, and spinal cords, but a single liver, gall bladder, spleen, and one pair of legs. They were born at Sucheta Kriplani Hospital in Delhi on June 14, 2003, and shifted to AIIMS soon after. The doctors at AIIMS said separation would entail the loss of one twin and vascular and neurological loss in the lower limbs of the survivor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-17-conjoined-twins-sohna-mohna-want-to-train-as-electricians/story-x1vgF51FeGvGZOGWqNikTL.html
26-07-2020||Pune||Man loses Rs 13 lakh in SIM swap fraud||A 47-year-old man was duped of Rs 13 lakh by a caller who offered to help him update his sim card but swapped the SIM card instead.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Deepak Suryavanshi (47), a resident of Chikhali Pradhikaran, according to Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The transactions started at 11:50am on May 6 when the complainant received a call from an unknown number. The caller spoke in Hindi and told the complainant that his SIM card was 3G and needed to be updated to 4G or the SIM would stop working, according to the complaint. After he had the complainant believe that his SIM would stop working, he offered to help him update his SIM. In order to update the SIM, he sent a 19 digit number to his phone and asked him to send it to 12345 through SMS. Through the process, the man did what the caller asked him to after which he got a text saying his SIM card will be deactivated starting that day, according to the complainant. However, the caller told him that the number will start functioning again the next day. However, as it did not start, he got suspicious and called up the bank to block his account. That is when he learned that a personal loan worth Rs 10 lakh was approved on his account. The loan amount as well as over Rs 3 lakh that was in his account was also transferred to multiple accounts. A total of Rs 13, 42,499 was siphoned from the account of the complainant. The man lodged a complaint only in the month of July, according to the police. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(d) of the Information Technology Act was registered at Chikhali police station. Senior police inspector Satish Mane of Chikhali police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-loses-rs-13-lakh-in-sim-swap-fraud/story-34L0miZ8Wfu8anLoArBd2M.html
26-07-2020||Pune||Virtual labs to assist Science and Engineering students in lockdown||Most of the colleges and universities in the state have started online lectures for their various courses from June. One of the major hurdles faced primarily by Science and Engineering students is of practical classes which need laboratory and physical equipment. In an attempt to find a solution to this issue, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Mumbai has now come forward and developed a ‘virtual lab’ for Engineering and Science students. Through these virtual labs around 60 to 70 per cent lab practicals can be undertaken and students will be essentially benefited from it. The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will be using this technology of virtual labs for their Science stream students. Most of the Engineering and Science colleges are finding new ways to continue their academic year on the background on Covid-19 pandemic. In the Science stream it is a bit difficult as along with online lectures, lab practical sessions are also equally important. “For all the Science stream courses in the SPPU, there is a need for the virtual lab this academic year, as students cannot come physically to the university premises. And we are working on this issue with several options for it. Through virtual labs, a student can explore many new things during the practical sessions and each student can independently do the experiment by sitting at home,” said Dr Manohar Chaskar, SPPU dean of science and technology department. “Mumbai IIT has appointed PVG Engineering college as the divisional nodal centre for Pune. This centre will help all the Science colleges under SPPU and Engineering colleges regarding the use of virtual labs, its operations and train the faculties on using the virtual lab on a laptop, desktop computer and even on mobile phones. So when the students will actually work and study through this virtual labs it will be an amazing experience for them,” said Dattatray Bormane, principal of AISSMS College of Engineering Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/virtual-labs-to-assist-science-and-engineering-students-in-lockdown/story-JtZKDu7H4Hp7LlceZt7IjK.html
26-07-2020||Pune||Syllabus reduction gets mixed response from teachers, parents and experts||On July 25, the state education department announced a reduction of 25 per cent syllabus from Class 1 to Class 12 in the Maharashtra state board for the current academic year. The decision was made on the background of the Covid-19 pandemic leading to lesser number of online teaching hours to students. This decision has now garnered a mixed response from educations experts and organisations, some of who back the reduction while some question the merit in the reduction. Welcoming this decision, Kiran Sutar, state primary teachers association secretary said, “We welcome this decision taken by the state education department, as already our teachers are overburden by various Covid-19 duties. They need to complete this year’s syllabus for their students. As the schools and colleges are shut, the classroom hours are also reduced as we cannot take long teaching hours on online mode. Through reduced syllabus teachers can now teach only the important part of that subject and complete this year’s syllabus.” On the other hand, Vasant Kalpande, education expert and former chairperson of the Maharashtra state board, called this syllabus reduction unnecessary. “Doing this kind of reduction in the syllabus was absolutely unnecessary and teachers are the ones who are given the most freedom in our country at least for teaching. It was their autonomy and by reducing the syllabus students may suffer. In each standard syllabus, there are some important chapters to be covered like in mathematics, science and even in languages,” Kalpande said. According to Kalpande, teachers while teaching, even online, could have decided for themselves what to teach and what not to teach. The process of reduction of the syllabus was unnecessary and was not at all needed. Whereas parents are a bit relaxed by this decision, Archana Pali, a mother of two children said, “My son is in class 9 and daughter in class 5. We need to plan for their online school lectures and then for their home studies. Due to Covid-19 schools are closed but now there is more burden on children and also on us to manage their studies at home. It is good to know that for this academic year syllabus has been reduced, so we hope that there will be less pressure on our children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/syllabus-reduction-gets-mixed-response-from-teachers-parents-and-experts/story-bgSU5N9gZQntMVbvSqzpSP.html
26-07-2020||Patna||Nearly 15 lakh affected in 11 flood-hit districts of Bihar||Nearly 15 lakh people have been affected by floods in 11 districts of Bihar, and at least 10 have lost their lives in the deluge, the disaster management department said on Sunday. According to the department, Darbhanga is the worst-affected district, as 5.36 lakh people there have either been displaced or are trapped inside their homes. Floodwaters have entered homes in Bishunpur village of Darbhanga district, forcing people to wade through waist-deep water, even as they try and salvage their valuables. “We witness flood every year, but this year all records have been broken,” a resident of the village said. Similarly, many people in Mabbi village of the district and some from the adjoining areas have come out to live on the streets, as portions of their houses have been washed away in the deluge. A total of 131 panchayats of 12 blocks of Darbhanga district have been affected by the flood, the department said in its bulletin. In Muzaffarpur district, over two lakh people have been affected, while the number of sufferers in East Champaran has touched 2.72 lakh, the bulletin stated. Other districts affected due to the flood are Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Gopalganj, West Champaran, Khagaria and Saran. “A total of 14.95 lakh people have been affected by floods at 625 panchayats of 86 blocks in 11 districts of Bihar,” the bulletin said. Seventeen teams of the NDRF and eight of the SDRF are involved in the rescue operations. As many as 1.36 lakh people have been evacuated from the marooned areas so far, the department said, adding that 14,011 people have put up in 26 relief camps. Around 1.77 lakh people were being fed at 463 community kitchens in the state. Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopters have dropped food packets in several flood-hit areas. Each packet contains two-and-half kg of rice, one kg gram, 500 gm jaggery, a match box and packet of candles. Meanwhile, a woman delivered a baby on one of the rescue boats of NDRF’s 9th battalion in East Champaran. The newborn’s mother hailed from Gobari village of the district. NDRF Commandant Vijay Sinha said that the NDRF personnel are trained in handling childbirth during emergencies. The mother and the newborn girl were shifted to a nearby primary health centre. Several rivers such as Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamlabalan, Lalbakeya, Adhwara, Khiroi, Mahananda and Ghaghra are flowing above the danger level, an official at water resources department said. The Ganga is flowing below the danger mark at all locations, but it continues to swell, he said Many trains on the Muzaffarpur-Narkatiaganj and Samastipur-Darbhanga sections have changed their routes, while there are others which have been diverted or short-terminated, East Central Railway (ECR) CPRO Rajesh Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nearly-15-lakh-affected-in-11-flood-hit-districts-of-bihar/story-33nQaY3Zz2cCi4JyHyfRxH.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||No taker for road repairs, Chandigarh MC stares at further delay||The much-needed recarpeting of dilapidated roads across Chandigarh is set to get further delayed.The municipal corporation (MC) had set the “end of rainy season” as the deadline for starting the work. But, with no firm coming forward, a delayed start looks inevitable. During the current financial year, the MC has only carried out pending road repairs. For the new works for the financial year 2020-2021, not even allotment has taken place.MC officials are blaming imposition of more stringent contract conditions for poor response to 13 tenders worth ₹40 crore floated last month.“We didn’t get even one positive response. As per recommendations of the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training (NITTTR), Chandigarh, which were approved by the MC General House, we introduced the clause of five-year mandatory maintenance. It binds the firm that gets the contract to also maintain the stretch for five years. This is discouraging them from coming forward to recarpet roads,” said a senior MC official, requesting anonymity.After the MC had faced severe criticism for poor state of roads, which necessitated frequent repairs, it had sought help from NITTTR and signed a memorandum of understanding in December last year for assistance in quality control during execution of works.BIDS INVITED AGAINMeanwhile, the MC has again invited bids for road recarpeting work. “We have not changed the terms and conditions in the fresh tenders. These remain same as in the tenders floated in June,” said an official.As many as 105 major and minor roads are to be covered. These include V3 (between sectors for fast moving vehicular traffic), V4 (shopping streets cutting through sectors), V5 (for circulation within sectors) and V6 (providing access to houses) roads spread across the city.On 61 roads, major recarpeting will be undertaken, while on 44, repair and maintenance work will be done. Widening of some of the existing roads will also be carried out.NH-5 REPAIRS TO BEGIN SOONThe UT engineering department by mid-August will start recarpeting work on the 15-km stretch of National Highway 5. “The recarpeting work is being done after a gap of five years. A tender was floated for it recently. Financial bids have been opened and the final approval for the allotment of the work will be given within a week,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-taker-for-road-repairs-chandigarh-mc-stares-at-further-delay/story-pwUah6Ocvv9yuYDhMjIg4M.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 tally grows by 9,431; death toll now 13,656||The Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra reached 3,75,799 on Sunday with the single-day surge of 9,431 cases, the health department said.As the virus claimed 267 more lives, the state’s death toll reached 13,656, it said.As many as 6,044 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the number of recovered persons to 2,13,238, the department said in a statement.Maharashtra now has 1,48,601 active cases, it said.A total of 18,86,296 people have been tested so far, the department said.Mumbai city and its suburban areas on Sunday reported 1,101 fresh cases, which took its total to 1,09,161, while with 57 deaths, the fatality figure reached 6,093. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 3,75,799, deaths 13,656, recovered 2,13,238, active cases 1,48,601, people tested so far 18,86,296.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-grows-by-9-431-death-toll-now-13-656/story-p0xm9to65GFZMkI8zg6EjJ.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Empowered women make nation self-reliant: Smriti Irani||Indian women in the past were equal partners with men, participating in debates and writing treaties. A nation cannot become self-reliant without empowered women, feels Smriti Irani, Union cabinet minister for textiles and women and child development.Speaking at a webinar at Panjab University (PU) on Sunday on the Resolve of self-reliant India: Decisive role of women’s empowerment in its attainment, Irani stressed on the need for Indian society to revert to the ancient way of thinking. This was when a woman was not a mere object or a person in servitude but an equal partner who participated in debates and wrote treaties. They fed the starved and also fought bravely, even carrying their children in their backs. Another webinar participant and folk singer, Padma Shri awardee Malini Awasthi, said it was important to change the thrust of the cultural narrative which had always been against women.PU vice chancellor, professor Raj Kumar, expounded on the increasing but eternal importance of women’s empowerment in any society. “Women have always been able to seamlessly manage multiple responsibilities and challenges and worked effectively to keep their homes, families, communities and society well-integrated and well-organised,” he said.The webinar was organised by PU’s department of history and centre for Swami Vivekananda studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/empowered-women-make-nation-self-reliant-smriti-irani/story-hDS2Ign8i720kqSUA3FKKL.html
26-07-2020||City||Four schoolteachers booked for hurling casteist remarks at Dalit principal in Sangrur||Sangrur: Four teachers of a private school in Bakhora Kalan have been booked for allegedly making casteist remarks at a Dalit principal. The incident allegedly took place on July 19 during a meeting in the school. Following the incident, the principal moved court, which ordered the registration of an FIR against the four teachers. They have been identified as Randeep Kumar, Chanchal Garg, Sompal of Lehra and Gurtej Singh of Khai. The case was registered under Sections 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and the SC&ST Act at Lehra police station.Lehra station house officer Sukhdeep Singh said no arrest has been made so far but investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-schoolteachers-booked-for-hurling-casteist-remarks-at-dalit-principal-in-sangrur/story-zMaqCH1Ed5pI8GBR2G3OUO.html
26-07-2020||City||Candidates with flu-like symptoms to sit in separate room during HPPSC exam||As a precautionary measure to avoid spread of coronavirus, the Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) has decided that candidates with flu-like symptoms will sit in a separate room while appearing for HPPSC examination.The HPPSC issued a special operating procedures (SOP) for conducting exams according to which, candidates and parents may need to move in and out of state due to competitive, selection examinations. Hence, their movement is facilitated by waiving off condition of quarantine, if they exit and re-enter the state or vice versa within 72 hours.Admit card will be a valid document to enter and exit the state and no separate registration will be required by the candidate and parents.HPPSC secretary Ashutosh Garg said that HPPSC exams are scheduled to be conducted from August with the first being exam for HP subordinate allied services, posts (Class 3, non-gazetted), which are scheduled for August 7 and 8. Over 2,000 candidates will be appearing.Exam functionaries are required to submit self- declaration about health status and thermal gun temperature check of staff will be done at staff entrance point.If any functionary fails to meet the self- declaration criteria, or temperature check, he/ she will be asked to leave the exam centre, immediately. They have been advised to wear mask and gloves at all time.Staff and candidates have be advised to download ‘Arogya Setu’ app and to avoid crowding at entry and exit points. Senior staff have been directed to monitor entry and exit points.There should be proper marking with at least two-meter distance where candidates stand while waiting for opening of exam centre and exit of candidates should permitted one-by-one.Candidates should be asked to sanitise their hands before and after signing the attendance sheet. Hand wash stations with liquid soap should be made available.Institutions should have adequate room capacity to meet seating arrangement need for conducting the exam.Adequate arrangements for safe drinking water need to be made on campus and water supply should be ensured I toilets.The exam centres will have to be disinfected and cleaned with sodium hypochlorite solution as per guidelines of state health department, sanitizer with dispenser should be available at entry points, exam rooms and staff room, liquid hand wash or soap should be available in restrooms and entry points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/candidates-with-flu-like-symptoms-to-sit-in-separate-room-during-hppsc-exam/story-FQbBJ2snFMwQvv95aG9KkJ.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Flesh trade racket busted at Chandigarh hotel; 10 women rescued, five arrested||An undercover operation by the police led to the rescue of 10 women and arrest of five persons for immoral trafficking from a hotel in Kajheri village, Sector 52, on Saturday night.Police said the hotel owner and Kajheri resident, Supinder, was running the flesh trade racket. He had rented out the hotel to Gaurav Sharma and Hrithik Sharma, who were arrested, along with Supinder and hotel manager Johanjot. A woman working as an agent was the fifth person to be arrested.A case under the Immoral Trafficking Act was registered at the Sector 36 police station. All five accused were presented before a court on Sunday and sent to judicial custody. The rescued women, who are all in their 20s, were reunited with their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fresh-trade-racket-busted-at-chandigarh-hotel-10-women-rescued-five-arrested/story-daGDB34iJNWiRK7GABGTmN.html
26-07-2020||City||55-year-old woman dies due to Covid-19 in Himachal||One more death due to Covid-19 was reported in Himachal Pradesh taking the death toll to 12.A 55-year-old woman of Mohalla Govindgarh in Nahan, Sirmaur, succumbed to the virus on Saturday night at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in Shimla. She was suffering from kidney ailment and diabetes as well.She was tested positive for Covid-19 on July 19, after which, she was referred to Deen Dayal Upadhaya Hospital, Shimla, from where she was referred to IGMC as her health deteriorated, confirmed IGMC medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj.This is the first covid death in Sirmaur.127 TEST +VE ON SUNDAY, HP CROSSES 2,100 MARKAs many as 127 fresh cases were reported in Himachal on Sunday, taking the state tally to 2,176. Of theses, 949 are active cases. Himachal has crossed the 2,100 mark on the 128th day and this is the highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases in state.Of total cases reported on Sunday, 47 were from Sirmaur, 21 from Kangra, 18 from Shimla, 16 from Sirmaur, 10 each in Mandi and Una and five from Bilaspur. In Shimla, two persons were tested positive from Mehandli, Rohru. Three persons, including a woman, who is an employee at the HP secretariat, were tested positive. The woman resides in a government colony near the Raj Bhawan, said Shimla chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Surekha Chopda. An employee of the MBA department at Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, has tested positive and an employee of the income tax department in the railway board building, Shimla, was also tested positive. Both the departments have been closed for sanitisation till further notice and all employees of theses departments have been directed to stay in home quarantine, said Shimla DC Amit Kashyap.10 persons, including a CRPF personnel, were tested positive in Una. All of them have been shifted to Dedicated Covid Care Centre (DCCC), Khad. In Sirmaur, 12 persons were tested positive in Mohalla Govindgarh at Nahan, while four persons were tested positive in Paonta Sahib, confirmed Sirmaur deputy commissioner RK Purthi. Five persons, including a 34-year-old cop who came into contact of a Covid-19 positive person, were tested positive at Swarghat in Bilaspur district. The patient was shifted to DCCC, Chandpur. In Kangra, seven persons were tested positive in Amb village. All of them are family members of a person who had recently succumbed to Covid-19.Special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal said that so far, 12 covid deaths have been reported in state and 1,198 patients have recovered. Also, 15 patients have migrated out of the state. With 548 cases, Solan is the worst hit district in state, followed by Kangra with 410 cases. Hamirpur has 299 cases, Sirmaur 242, Una 188, Shimla 143, Chamba 93, Bilaspur 69, Mandi 111, Kinnaur 41, and Kullu has 24 cases. With four Covid-19 cases, Lahaul and Spiti is the least affected district. Meanwhile, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), HP, has request the state government to follow a consultative approach and avoid stopping industrial activities before announcing any such lockdowns in future. CII Himachal chairman Col Shailesh Pathak said that announcement of recent two-day lockdown at Baddi, Barotiwala, Nalagarh, and Parwanoo has shattered the pace of economic activity in the biggest industrial corridor in state. “Industries once again suffered huge losses. But CII stands with the state in its fight against Covid-19 and will continue to play a collaborative and constructive role,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/55-year-old-woman-dies-due-to-covid-19-in-himachal/story-3B39djXWjEVknKfb8pxnFJ.html
26-07-2020||Kolkata||241 arrests made in Kolkata for violation of Covid-19 regulations||The Kolkata Police reported a total of 241 arrests for deliberate violation of the Covid-19 ‘Complete Safety Regulation’ from Sunday morning till noon. “A total of four vehicles have been seized in the same period,” the Kolkata Police said.On Saturday, as of 6 pm, a total of 703 people were booked/prosecuted for violating regulations, including 368 for not wearing face masks and 11 for spitting in public places.The number of booked/prosecuted vehicles was 14.According to the West Bengal health department, the total number of Covid-19 cases now stands at 56,377, including 19,391 active cases, 35,654 discharged cases and 1,332 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-241-arrests-made-for-violation-of-covid-19-regulations/story-bzebfubZYCXzHCzqlvSBsL.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi: 44% decline in Covid-19 deaths in early July compared to early June||The national capital has recorded a 44% t decline in the number of Covid-19 deaths in early July as compared to early June, the Delhi government said on Sunday.The city recorded 605 deaths due to the viral disease between July 1 and 12 as against 1,089 fatalities during the same period in June, according to an analysis carried out by the Health Department.The Delhi government’s Covid-19 hospitals saw a 58 per cent reduction in death – from 361 in early June to 154 in early July, it said.Central government Covid-19 hospitals saw a 55% reduction in number of deaths, while private Covid hospitals witnessed a 25 per cent decline.Hospital-wise analysis of data revealed that total deaths vis-à-vis total admissions in the central government’s RML Hospital dropped from 81 per cent in June to 58 per cent in July, according to the Delhi health department. In Safdarjung Hospital -- another central government facility -- the number of deaths vis-a-vis total admissions dropped from 40 per cent in June to 31 per cent in July. In LNJP Hospital -- the Delhi government’s largest Covid-19 hospital -- the rate dropped from 28 per cent in early June to 16 per cent in early July, it said. The city government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital turned out to be among the best Covid-19 facility in the national capital in terms of deaths -- 6 per cent in early June and 7 per cent in early July.The analysis also revealed that a large number of coronavirus-infected people admitted to hospitals in early June arrived in a critical condition and passed away within four days, many within 24 hours.Sixty-seven per cent of the deaths during June 1-12 took place within four days of admission, the analysis showed. During July 1-12, around 35 per cent of the deaths occurred within four days of admission.“This turnaround was possible due to the single-minded focus of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on initiatives that would directly help prevent deaths, as well his daily monitoring of status of critical patients,” a statement said.Health Minister Satyendar Jain said, “CM Kejriwal has been personally monitoring the daily status of critical patients and deaths due to Covid-19 from the beginning.“His emphasis on timely implementation of crucial initiatives to prevent deaths has helped turnaround the situation, and restore public confidence in the Delhi government’s hospitals,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-44-decline-in-covid-19-deaths-in-early-july-compared-to-early-june/story-18yqLt1KqjuBHbsuBunN9L.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi man arrested for duping woman, he met on matrimonial site||A 34-year-old man has been arrested for reportedly duping several women, especially widows and divorcees, whom he met through matrimonial sites on the pretext of marriage, police said on Sunday.  According to the police, the accused Anchit Chawla posed as a businessman and duped the women of several lakh rupees. He changed his name and location many times to prevent the police from catching him. The matter came to light after a woman filed a complaint at Ashok Vihar Police Station alleging she was duped by a man named Mudit Chawla, who approached her in December 2018, through a popular matrimonial site. She alleged that Chawla claimed to own a bed sheet factory in southwest Delhi’s Palam and that he dealt in renting luxury cars to tour and travel agencies. He started interacting with her through e-mails, calls and WhatsApp. He used to demand small amounts from her which he duly repaid to win her confidence. He later convinced her to take personal loans from different banks to recover his business losses, police said. The accused duped the woman of Rs 17 lakh till December 2019 on the pretext of marriage. When she insisted on marriage, he started avoiding her, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Northwest) Vijayanta Arya said based on the information provided by the complainant, intelligence was gathered and required details were collected from the matrimonial website. The accused used many profiles with different names to prevent the police from catching him, he said.“With the help of technical surveillance, our team managed to trace the accused from Palam Vihar Extension in Gurgaon on Friday,” the officer said. During investigation, he was found to be previously involved in four other cases of similar nature, the DCP said.The police said Chawla had in the past posed as security chief of the Special Protection Group in PMO and duped a doctor of Rs 15 lakh on the pretext of getting him a government job. While in another case, he claimed to be the personal security officer (PSO) of a political leader and duped many jewellers, police said. A laptop, two mobile phones, car and Aadhaar cards have been seized from his possession, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-arrested-for-duping-woman-he-met-on-matrimonial-site/story-HzdkFEWX3D88GtLRwBQPFO.html
26-07-2020||City||Road construction on Chinese side of int’l border sends HP villagers into a tizzy||Amid the ongoing India-China standoff over the international boundaries in Ladakh, heightened activities of Peoples Liberation Army along the international border in tribal Lahaul and Spiti, and Kinnaur districts has raised concern for the Himachal Pradesh government . China has accelerated road construction along the villages near the international border.Road construction along the Indo-China border, on no man’s land, came to fore after villagers of Kunnu-Charang in Kinnaur raised an alarm and informed the local administration and border patrol party.China has accelerated work of road construction along the Indian border in Tango and Yamrang regions, which are close to Chitkul and Charang villages on the Indian side. Both Yamrang and Tango in China are controlled Tibetan Autonomous Region (TAR).The villagers have asked security agencies to increase vigil along the border. China stepped up activity in the region after air incursions was reported in the sensitive Kuarik sector in April. Chinese choppers had violated the Indian air space twice in April.The Indian army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police that man the border had increased vigil since then. The ITBP had recently sent a team that also included locals to conduct recce in the high mountainous terrains. The team spotted road construction along the Indian border on the Chinese side.“Two months back there was road construction till Tango village on the Chinese side but this time they have constructed 20km road beyond this village. The construction activity was accelerated after melting of snow,” said Baldev Negi, member of the local team who recce the area.He added that China is constructing the road at a rapid pace at Yamrang village. “There is no mobile network in the region and road connectivity is poor on the Indian side. There is fear among villagers that the Chinese troops could invade the Indian territory,” he said.“The Indian side has also restricted movement of shepherds along the border. There is need to strengthen road and telecommunication network in the border regions,” said Puran Singh Pradhan, Kunnu- Charang panchayat.After 20 soldiers were killed in a hand-to-hand combat between the Indian and Chinese troops in the disputed Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, the ITBP has stepped up vigil along the international border in tribal Lahaul and Spiti, and Kinnaur districts of Himachal Pradesh.ITBP, in its report sent to the Union ministry of home affairs, reported that by and large the situation is peaceful but there is a lot of movement of civilian vehicles.Deputy commandant of ITBP visited the border post at Lepcha to conduct surveillance after Indian-Chinese troop skirmish in Ladakh. Later, army and ITBP, along with other intelligence agencies, took stock of the situation.The Himachal Pradesh Police have also issued advisory to district police chiefs of Kinnaur and Lahual Spiti districts to take precautionary measures, ensure security of locals, and collect intelligence so that it can draw future plan of action.Himachal shares 260km porous borders with China. Of the total border length, 140km is along Kinnaur district, while 80km falls in Lahaul and Spiti district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-construction-on-chinese-side-of-int-l-border-sends-hp-villagers-into-a-tizzy/story-DnNKUCLlDCi2Be4gZvReDN.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||21-year-old ends life, blames brother’s wife for fights at home||A 21-year-old man died by suicide at his family’s store at Ramesh Nagar on Tibba Road on Saturday, leaving behind a note pinning the blame on his sister-in-law for allegedly misbehaving with him and his parents. An FIR was lodged against the woman from Krishan Vihar at the Tibba police station after the note was recovered and on the basis of a complaint filed by her father-in-law.The note said the woman often misbehaved with the victim and his parents and that he found her insults unbearable.The victim’s father said his son had left for their shop at 1 pm and when he followed later he found the place locked. When there was no response to his knocking he was helped by others to break open the door and find him hanging from the ceiling.The man was alive when rescued but died on the way to hospital.Sub-inspector Daljit Singh, SHO at Tibba police station, said a case under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) of IPC had been registered against the woman and she would be arrested..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/21-year-old-ends-life-blames-brother-s-wife-for-fights-at-home/story-xXqVLS4zW8EQlQKXvVaD9L.html
26-07-2020||City||Patiala’s 55-year-old garbage dump to finally go||The city’s 55-year-old garbage dumping ground, where a litter mountain had formed over the years, is finally set to go with the municipal corporation roping in a Karnal-based company to carry out scientific segregation of waste at the site. In the absence of a solid waste management plant, the city’s garbage was being dumped at this site on Sanaur road for the last 50 years, turning the lives of nearby residents into a nightmare. Many have been complaining of foul smell and health issues due to the dump. Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said the Karnal-based firm will segregate and manage 175 lakh metric tonne of waste spread over eight acres. “The company would use conveyer belts to segregate and filter plastics and dry waste. While the plastic waste will be sold to companies for recycling or fuel purposes, the dry waste would be turned into organic compost which will be provided to farmers. The leftover garbage will be used for landfill,” the mayor said.The project is set to start after the culmination of monsoon and the firm has been given 16 months to complete it. It is set to cost the civic body Rs 6.8 crore, of which Rs 3.3 crore will be used to purchase machinery for the project while the remaining will be used on execution. The city generates 120 tonne of waste, including 50% wet waste, 30% recyclable, 15% non-recyclable and 5% domestic hazardous waste, on a daily basis.MC commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said the project envisages to completely clear the dumping ground. She added that the daily garbage of 120 tonne of garbage will be managed at material recovery facility (MRF) centres in Patiala.“The corporation has already set up seven MRF centres in Patiala to manage waste generated in the city. These centres will treat recyclable and non-recyclable waste and the treated bulk will be sold to industrial units,” she said. The mayor added that the dumping ground will only be used as a garbage collection point for the solid waste management project which is expected to be come up at SAS Nagar.NEW PROPOSAL FOR SOLID WASTE MGMT After the Punjab local bodies department scrapped the solid waste management project (SWMP) in 2017, the state has mooted the project with the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA)-Patiala cluster. The project cost is pegged at ₹305 crore.As per the detail project report (DPR), the SWMP has been divided into two parts — compost and refuse-derived fuel (RDF), and Sanitary Landfill Facility (SLF).The main plant, however, will be set up at Samgauli village in Mohali, while the RDF and SLF plants are designed to be set-up in Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-s-55-year-old-garbage-dump-to-finally-go/story-jWpDh59zBaHyuZ4IPkkjXM.html
26-07-2020||City||Mother of five raped by inebriated brother in Ludhiana||A 29-year-old mother of five was allegedly raped by her inebriated elder brother at Kali Sadak on Saturday night.The woman, a slum dweller, told the police that while her husband was away at Jalandhar for some work, her brother, aged 34, visited her house in an inebriated state around 11pm. He forcibly took her to an isolated place on Kali Sadak and raped her.He threatened her against revealing the matter to anyone and dropped her back home. After she shared the incident with her husband, he took her to the police.Sub-inspector Davinder Kumar, SHO, Daresi police station, the accused had been booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code. He said the accused was a labourer and married, adding that they were working to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mother-of-five-raped-by-inebriated-brother-in-ludhiana/story-lcVtM0UXlL0ykCoNkBd6eJ.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||8.5 lakh saplings planted in Delhi, hope to achieve target by March next year: Gopal Rai||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said around 8.5 lakh saplings have been planted across the national capital under this year’s plantation drive.The minister lauded officials of forest and horticulture departments and hoped the government will be able to achieve the target of planting 31 lakh saplings by March 31 next year.“Even in the times of pandemic, officials of horticulture and forest departments, DDA, MCD, PWD, and other agencies have worked with such conviction to save the environment. In the last 15 days, 8.5 lakh saplings have been planted in Delhi,” Rai said.“Our target is to plant 31 lakh saplings till March 31... I am sure we will be able to achieve our target,” he said.The minister said the Delhi government will get a third-party audit conducted to ascertain the survival rate of the plants.“During our audit and analysis to be conducted at the final stage of this plantation drive, best employees from each district will be honoured with the title of ‘Paryavaran Mitra’,” he said.The objective of the drive is to increase the national capital’s green cover from 325 square kilometres at present to 350 sq km by 2021.Various departments of the Delhi government will plant nearly 18,000 saplings.The Delhi Development Authority will plant around 9 lakh saplings, while MCDs and NDMC will plant around 2.5 lakh saplings.As many as 29.37 lakh saplings were planted in Delhi in 2019 against the target of 24.18 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/8-5-lakh-saplings-planted-in-delhi-hope-to-achieve-target-by-march-next-year-gopal-rai/story-VsemkK8ZyJ3TIiYgMYSwVO.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Cricket betting racket busted in Jalandhar, Rs1.23 cr seized from ‘architect bookie’||In a crackdown on an illegal betting racket , the Jalandhar commissionerate police on Saturday arrested a bookie who had civil engineering and architecture diplomas and seized ₹1.23 crore from his residence in the city’s local BSF colony.A laptop and two mobile phones being used by the accused, Sourav Verma (39), for betting have also been recovered. These will be handed over to the cyber cell for further investigations. Commissioner of police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) staff-1 team was tipped off while patrolling near Workshop Chowk on July 25 that Verma was running a betting racket from home and was in possession of a large amount of cash.The CIA team then raided Verma’s house and arrested him when he was betting on the England-West Indies Test match at Manchester, UK. He was operating the racket through a ‘Z-Account’ online application. Z-Account was an online portal for bookies where they struck deals, said additional deputy commissioner of police, Harpreet Singh Beniwal.Beniwal said Verma had a diploma in architecture and designed housing units on contract with a team of building contractors. His qualifications have not been verified.The racket was run purportedly as a business, Sourav Planner, in the colony for the last few years and the money earned through betting was hidden at Verma’s home, Bhullar Added.Police would take action after investigations against persons involved in the racket as the cyber cell was scanning the laptop and mobile phones. The income tax department had also been informed about the cash seizure, he said. Police have registered a case under sections 13-A, 3, 67 of the Gambling Act at police station-2 in Jalandhar. Verma will be on police remand for further investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cricket-betting-racket-busted-in-jalandhar-rs1-23-cr-seized-from-architect-bookie/story-raX6vSkcEs6237S0ym9usJ.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 170 cr collected from builders, but Zirakpur infra not upgraded||Despite collecting ₹170 crore as development charges from builders, the Zirakpur municipal council (MC) has failed to upgrade the city’s infrastructure. As choked drains, missing streetlights and damaged roads remain a problem, the MC has yet to come out with a workable plan to utilise the money it has collected from builders as external (EDC) and internal development charges (IDC).Sandeep Tewari, MC executive officer, said around ₹170 crore had been collected, “of which we have ₹100 crore as fixed deposit and ₹70 crore in bank account.”On upgrading infrastructure, he said there were problems with the designs of drainage and stormwater pipes, which resulted in waterlogging. “The roads have not been levelled property. I don’t want to spend money on laying tiles or paver blocks and will make sure that the drainage problem is sorted out,” Tewari added.He also said the MC would ensure there were no such design flaws. Zirakpur has around 100 group housing societies and 40 commercial establishments. MC collects ₹1crore as EDC and IDC charges from residential group housing societies and ₹1.35 crore from commercial societies.It’s the MC’s duty to ensure that money is spent on building and repair of roads, streetlights, sewerage and drainage system and beautification of the area. DETAILED REPORT TO BE SUBMITTEDCommenting on the matter, Brahm Mohindra, minister of Punjab local bodies, said, “We plan to provide the best possible infrastructure to Zirakpur as it is a gateway to our state. I have already asked the officer concerned to submit a detailed report about all the shortcomings in infrastructure and we will do what is required.” Zirakpur is an island of chaos surrounded by the planned cities of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali. Growth in the town has been haphazard from the word go, with villages giving way to colonies, mostly illegal, and property dealers and realtors tapping into the need for modest housing for those less privileged. After more than a decade of unplanned development, the city finally got a master plan in 2009. But before it could be implemented, the town’s population exploded by 282% between 2001 and 2011. With a population expected to shoot up to 3 lakh by 2021, and 8 lakh by 2030, this urban sprawl stands little chance of orderly development. Harish Gupta, president of Zirakpur Builders Association, said they had met Mohindra and apprised him of their problems. “Even the proposed road-7 (PR-7 or Airport road) aligned with several housing and commercial projects has been approved by local government (MC Zirakpur) but no sewage line or rain water management has been planned. Despite charging an extra ₹5 lakh per acre as PR cess from the builders, the department is providing no facility.” 59 ILLEGAL COLONIES IN ZIRAKPUR According to officials in Punjab’s local government department, there are 59 illegal colonies within MC limits even though unofficial sources say the numbers are higher.Ironically, most of these were developed after the master plan was notified. Additionally, Dera Bassi tehsil, of which Zirakpur is a part, has 57 illegal colonies in an area that falls under the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) jurisdiction. The boundaries of these illegal colonies are not clearly marked, often leading to confusion when it comes to implementing the master plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rs-170-cr-collected-from-builders-but-zirakpur-infra-not-upgraded/story-FfpLc9NFhUJIo8lBAfyUvK.html
26-07-2020||Admission||Unlock campus fashion: Students prep to unleash their vogue for session 2020||Waiting for DU’s cut-off list or verdict on final year exam? The campus life is abuzz , albeit virtually, amid anxiety for future and hopes for the new session to begin soon. Courtesy corona, the day one of new session on campus might get delayed, but that isn’t able to hold back the youngsters from their fav activity, i.e. shopping for that stylish campus avatar! Following social distancing yet scuffling for discounts while wearing face masks, college students are being spotted street shopping at the popular markets of Lajpat, Sarojini, and Janpath. Some are queuing up at the now reopened malls and are gung ho about the seasonal sale. All of this is to put together that coveted campus look that’s a guaranteed head-turner! Accesso-rise the game “Online class ho ya offline, I want to make a good first impression! And what plays a major role in that is how we dress,” says Aatika Choudhary, a DU aspirant from Ghaziabad. She adds that dressing well gives her the confidence to approach new people. “I’ve been shopping from some of my favourite brands at the malls in south Delhi, and have bought some comfortable yet stylish wear to be able to run around the college trying to figure out where the next lecture will take place! I have got mono coloured tops and those staple kurtis in solid black and white, which I plan to play up with accessories like statement earrings or chunky necklaces. Style mantra: Less is more,” she says.Turn up the right type of shade!“A true fashion statement is nothing but the right pair of sunnies! And these are a must, no matter which weather it is. After all, it’s all about style,” says Bhavya Bhatia, a student of Hindu College, DU, adding, “In the bare minimum pocket money that we get, buying multiple branded shades can be a costly affair. So, the trick is to choose stores that have affordable prices and variety. I’ve bought aviators, wayfarers, cat eye glasses and even face shields. In colours I’ve chosen hot pink, black, tinted blue and sea green... Since I bought quite a few of these, I got some great bargain as shopkeepers are keen to make sales right now.” Campus’s next Shoe stopper“Shoes are my fetish. I don’t want to wear a perfect outfit and pair it with chappals,” says Sneha Choudhury, from Jawaharlal Nehru University, who has bought a wide variety of shoes. “I street shopped everything from bellies and platforms to converse. The trick is to pick neutral shades that go with most dresses. And Dilli ki street shopping hai to bargaining zindabad,” she adds.Printing it safe!“Prints brighten any wardrobe almost instantly,” says Akshat Rawat, a student of College of Vocational Studies, DU. He adds, “So I choose the print that best compliments my personality and body type. I recently raided malls and bought a variety of print shirts at a stellar deal! Since I love indigenous prints, I’ve got Bandhani shirts to be paired with skinny jeans and men’s sandals. I’m gonna take my look a notch up, this year.” The giant hair affair“A bad hair day has the potential to ruin the sharpest of outfits, and campus life is replete with assignments that need running around! Who would have the time to blow dry their hair every day? So when I recently got to know that my regular salon, which I had been visiting before the lockdown, is giving discounts on Kera-smoothening, I immediately took up the offer. Plus when I saw that my hairstylist was clad in a PPE gear, I opted to get a haircut as well. With this makeover, bad hair days are here no more,” quips Mansha Khanna, a DU aspirant from Ghaziabad.Bag-ging much more than discounts“Prints brighten any wardrobe almost instantly,” says Akshat Rawat, a student of College of Vocational Studies, DU. He adds, “So I choose the print that best compliments my personality and body type. I recently raided malls and bought a variety of print shirts at a stellar deal! Since I love indigenous prints, I’ve got Bandhani shirts to be paired with skinny jeans and men’s sandals. I’m gonna take my look a notch up, this year.” Making a statement with the right mask and phone coverKanupriya Pandey from Jamia Millia Islamia feels campus fads are all about “standing up for what you believe in”. A regular at protests and street plays, Pandey says, “I’ve developed this new liking for mobile covers that have quirky tagline. There are so many online portals where one can even get a customised message printed on phone cover. But, this time, I’m thinking of getting a face mask customised! I’ve even ordered a few masks with statement one-liners. While some are quite chill, others are informative; and the messages on them are bi-lingual so they have a mass appeal... Since I have shown pictures of these to my friends, they have been after my life to order some for them too!” Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook  and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/college-admissions/unlock-campus-fashion-students-prep-to-unleash-their-vogue-for-session-2020/story-LVD9WHx1IaNowlzAWwXV6M.html
26-07-2020||City||HP guv honours Kargil heroes in Shimla||Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Sunday honoured Kargil War heroes including subedar Maj Visale Lenu, subedar Madan Mohan Pandey, subedar Kenneth Anal, naib subedar Hemant Bisht, naib subedar Basant Chhetri, and havildar Pushkar Singh at Raj Bhawan in Shimla.He said that these soldiers showcased valour and commitment towards safeguarding the nation during the Kargil war. He added that India will always be indebted to their sacrifice.Dattatreya said during the Kargil war, 52 soldiers from Himachal sacrificed their lives to safeguard frontiers of the nation.He said that 15 soldiers from Kangra, 11 from Mandi, seven each from Hamirpur and Bilaspur, four from Shimla, two from Una, and one each from Chamba and Kullu were martyred.The heroes from Himachal were awarded with two Param Veer Chakras, five Vir Chakras, nine Sena medals, one Yudh Seva medal, two Uttam Yudh Sena medals and two soldiers with mention-in-dispatches.Captain Vikram Batra, of Palampur, was posthumously awarded the Param Veer Chakra. The second Paramvir Chakra was received by subedar Sanjay Kumar, of Bilaspur.Kargil war heroes of the Naga regiment shared their experiences of the war and apprised the governor of the adverse conditions they had to face while capturing the point 4875 peak situated at around 17,000 feet height.The regiment presented a unit memento to the governor and expressed gratitude towards him for interacting with them and honouring them on Kargil Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-guv-honours-kargil-heroes-in-shimla/story-RYIpmMelTjqL5nOHbx0etI.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro casts first pier under Phase-4 work||The Delhi Metro has reached a major milestone in the Phase-4 work as it cast its first pier on the under-construction Janakpuri West-R K Ashram Marg corridor, officials said on Sunday.The pier was cast at Keshopur on the elevated stretch between Keshopur and Mukarba Chowk on Saturday night.“The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation took another important step forward in its Phase 4 construction work as the first pier of this phase of Metro expansion was cast on the Janakpuri West-R K Ashram Marg Metro corridor,” the DMRC said in a statement.This “major construction milestone” has been achieved, despite severe shortage of manpower and other logistical challenges because of the pandemic, officials said.The average height of piers on this corridor is 10m. However, piers will be 20m high at Madhuban Chowk (crossing with Line 1) and 25m at Haiderpur Badli Mor where this line will cross Line 2.At Haiderpur Badli Mor, the viaduct level is going to be at 28m, the highest in the history of Delhi Metro, the statement said.Presently, the highest point is at Dhaula Kuan, where the Line 7 viaduct passes at a height of 23.6m.Piers, in terms of civil engineering are vertical loadbearing structures which act as intermediate support for adjacent ends of two spans.They form the vertical support structures on which the elevated metro viaducts stand. Metro piers today dot innumerable road medians in Delhi through which elevated Metro corridors run. Pier numbers are now important landmarks for addresses across the Delhi-NCR.The 28.92-km-long Janakpuri West-R K Ahsram Marg corridor is an extension of Magenta Line and will come up with 22 stations. While 21.18 km of this corridor will be elevated, 7.74 km will be underground. Construction work on this particular section had started in December last year.On July 17, the work on the underground section of this corridor was commenced with the beginning of D Wall construction work at the Krishna Park Extension Metro station. On 24th June, DMRC had started the casting work of u-girders which would be installed on the elevated section of this corridor.Under Phase-4, 61.679 km of new metro lines shall be constructed across three different corridors comprising 45 metro stations. These new sections shall provide interconnectivity among the already operational sections of Delhi Metro. Out of this, 22.35 km will be underground while rest will be elevated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-casts-first-pier-under-phase-4-work/story-Nsa1leAPCBeizXrgMmNaxJ.html
26-07-2020||City||HPU releases UG exam datesheet||The Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, released the datesheet for sixth semester examinations of undergraduate courses as per the UGC guidelines.Exams are scheduled to take place between August 17 and September 8. Three-hour examination will be conducted in two sessions – 9am to 12am and 2pm to 5pm. Around 36,000 students are expected to appear in these exams.HPU controller of examination Dr JS Negi said that 134 exam centres will be established throughout the state and candidates can get their roll numbers through online mode from the university website.Colleges have been instructed to conduct exams in due compliance of the advisories issued by the central and state governments, and the district administrations, in view of Covid-19.Principals and students are directed to check the university website for any changes in the datesheet.All principals are requested to hold exams while strictly adhering to the guidelines and standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Union ministry of human resource development and department of higher education for conducting exams, adopted by the Himachal government and the HPU.It has been decided to allow candidates who may be stranded in their native place to appear for the exam in nearby colleges. Principals have been requested to allow such candidates to take exam at their colleges.Objections, if any, regarding clash in papers should immediately be brought to notice of the university through e-mail at conduct.hpu@gmail.com. No objections shall be entertained after July 30.Principals are requested to ensure that keeping in view the pandemic situation, sufficient seating capacity is available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hpu-releases-ug-exam-datesheet/story-3Xa5d3JijBFceZJcUvacWI.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Light showers to continue in Chandigarh: IMD||After just 0.1mm rain on Sunday, India Meteorological Department is predicting light showers to continue in Chandigarh in the coming days as well, with chances of heavier spells later in the week.“Light rain up to 20mm is likely on Monday and Tuesday, after which moderate rain up to 60mm can be expected. Thunderstorms with wind speeds over 45 km/hour can also be expected during this duration,” said the weatherman.Meanwhile, maximum temperature went up from 34.4°C on Saturday to 35.4°C on Sunday. Minimum temperature went down from 28.1°C to 26.8°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature is expected to remain between 32 and 34 degrees while minimum is likely to be around 26 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-showers-to-continue-in-chandigarh-imd/story-Nao8QQ4nsEFv7LmUGZbYDK.html
26-07-2020||Lifestyle||Parents’ Day 2020: Covid-19 compels parents to turn tutors for kids’ sake||“I will not be sending my son Aarav to school till the time a vaccine is made available in the market. I would rather prefer that he sits at home than risk his life for some grades,” says Gurugram-based Shruti Kakar, an MNC employee, who is certain that schooling has taken a back seat as the world deals with the pandemic. “From commuting to school to being in the classroom, each step is dangerous, and I’m not willing to gamble our lives,” adds Kakar. And, she isn’t alone as parents across Delhi-NCR are concerned about how to make up their mind to send their kids to school, whenever they reopen. For some, the bigger question is about affording their child’s education amid major salary cuts that have already hit the budget of most households. Noida-based Akanksha Arora — whose husband lost his job due to coronavirus leading to an economic slowdown — says they have had to withdraw their kids from a private school in Noida. “We were anyway worried about sending our daughters to school. My business of organising events has suffered massive losses, and with the school not giving a waiver on the fees, we had no choice but to plan to teach our kids at home, for this entire year. It’s not a bad idea to teach kids at home, but this decision has been forced upon us by the circumstances.”Most parents have already doubled up as teachers since the schools had closed for lockdown. As classes continue online, and teachers struggle to adapt to virtual teaching, Deepika Pawra, a sales manager, who is helping her 7-year-old son Unnat with online classes, says, “Till the time the pandemic dies down completely, the idea of schools reopening seems misplaced. It’s very hard to ensure safe social distancing among children. With the general school strength, how will they be seated? How will they interact with each other? A lot of questions need to be answered if the schools mull on reopening.” In fact, parents are now widely discussing the idea of schooling their kids at home to keep them safe. They have been asking for study material online as well as guidance from parents who have been homeschooling their children for years now. Aditi Jain, a Gurugram resident, is one such parent who says, “I’m trying to understand the curriculum, to make my son adjust to it when I teach him at home. The present Work From Home scenario might become a permanent feature of my job, and since coronavirus has put a big question mark on the safety of public spaces including schools, I felt it’s better if I take things in my hand and keep my kid safe!” Author tweets @bhagat_mallika For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/parents-day-2020-covid-19-compels-parents-to-turn-tutors-for-kids-sake/story-aeNnmHcRa9pCrjN3ZsHP1J.html
26-07-2020||City||Centre raises concern on Punjab’s testing of mid may meals, only 6 samples taken last year||Patiala The Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has asked Punjab to work to ensure the quality of Mid Day Meals (MDMs) it provides, after the state education department admitted that only six samples of these meals were taken for laboratory testing in academic session 2019-20. Over 14 lakh children in both primary and upper primary schools are covered under the MDM scheme in the state. It is also learnt that even these six samples were taken from just three districts of the state, with no testing from the rest of the 19 districts. Now, the MHRD has also directed the education department to carry out a social audit of the scheme in all districts. A social audit is a tool for monitoring and reviewing the official record of scheme with public’s participation to ensure proper implementation of scheme.All these issues were raised in the recent meeting of the Programme Approval Board - Mid Day Meal (PAB-MDM) of the MHRD held through video conferencing, to consider annual work plan and budget 2020-21. The meeting was informed that 19 complaints on food grain, quality and quantity of MDM were received and taken care of. The MHRD directed the department to get meals tested through accredited laboratories across the state.On cooks and helpers working without gloves, the education department said, “Due to the scarcity of funds, the cooks- cum-helpers have not been provided with gloves. Head-gear and aprons are being used while cooking of food.”MDM general manager Prabhcharan Singh refused to comment on issue. “I am not authorised to speak, please talk to DPI elementary education.” DPI elementary education Lalit Ghai said, “Let me check,” and disconnected the call. Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla, said, “Currently, foodgrain are being supplied to students at their homes as MDM. Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited (PUNSUP) is ensuring quality. As soon as the situation is normal, we will assign the task of sample collection to health department and will provide gloves to cooks-cum-helpers.”Singla claimed that the state government had also allocated foodgrains and cooking cost for summer holidays for the first time in the history. He also claimed that 8,263 metric tones (MT) of foodgrain had been sent to schools to deliver rice and wheat in sealed packets to students for the first financial quarter of the academic session 2020-21. The state education department told MHRD that they have started social audit in three districts of Amritsar, Jalandhar and Patiala in association with Panjab University. The ministry asked the state to speed up the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-raises-concern-on-punjab-s-testing-of-mid-may-meals-only-6-samples-taken-last-yr/story-xwTTu7Mz9RqNKJlXljSzMO.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali MC to gear up for polls in 50 wards in Oct, submission of details by July 30||Even as the Punjab government has announced municipal corporation (MC) elections in October this year, Mohali MC will be gearing up for polls in 50 wards, ending speculation that the number could be increased.The five-year term of the civic body ended on April 26 this year. In a letter to the MC last week, the local bodies department has asked officials to submit details of the wards with population, blocks and numbering by July 30. Though a poll date is yet to be announced, the notification says elections will be held in 50 wards with 2.36 lakh people voting, of which 25,000 belong to the scheduled caste (SC) category. Five seats have been reserved for SC candidates, two for women (SC) , three for backward classes (BC) and two for women (BC). There are 43 general category seats, of which 23 are for women and 20 for men. Kamal Kumar, MC commissioner, said though dates were yet to be announced, it had been decided that elections would be held in 50 and reservation of candidates had been fixed. The MC mayor is elected for a period of five years. In the last term the Congress had 14 councillors and the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party and Azad group had 33 councillors and two independent councillors. Meanwhile, Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Congress was ready for MC elections. The people of Mohali had seen development in the past few years, he added. The term of former mayor Kulwant Singh had been fairly challenging because of tussles with Sidhu over several issues. In April this year, heated words were exchanged when Sidhu said credit for all development works in Mohali in the past eight months should go to the state government. Refuting the charge, Kulwant Singh had said most of the development took place in his tenure and that in the Congress most of the agenda approved by the house had remained stuck at local bodies’ offices.Former deputy mayor Manjit Singh Sethi said after lockdown norms were eased the state government should make plans for holding the elections so that development works in Mohali could be carried out. “I am thankful to all the wise 50 councillors, who contributed in the development of the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-mc-to-gear-up-for-polls-in-50-wards-in-oct-submission-of-details-by-july-30/story-7csCJi9nq8CZEjY3voT9uL.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||BMC removes notice declaring Amitabh Bachchan’s bungalow ‘Jalsa’ containment zone||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) removed the poster that declared senior actor Amitabh Bachchan’s bungalow ‘Jalsa’ as a Covid-19 containment zone, on Sunday. It has been 14 days since the ‘Don’ actor, along with his actor-son Abhishek Bachchan, was admitted to the Nanavati Hospital after testing positive for coronavirus on July 11. Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and Aaradhya were also admitted to the same hospital after testing positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/notice-declaring-amitabh-bachchan-s-bungalow-jalsa-containment-zone-removed/story-ZYfmJoZ1spz6OECbr0IRpL.html
26-07-2020||Lifestyle||Monsoon ready pooches: Umbrella hat, raincoat, and shoes to walk the dog||Raincoats, rain resistance shoes, umbrellas, waterproof jackets — not just you, your pooches need their monsoon essentials, too! Believe it or not, pet parents are ensuring that their doggos don’t feel left out when it comes to getting rain gear. And why not? Akshay Mahendru, from The Pet Point, Punjabi Bagh, says the variety of rain coats available is huge. “This year we have got a very nice range of rain gear. This includes raincoats, shoes and even an inverted umbrella. We have seen that now people like walking dogs in rains so the variety of rain coats has in terms of colours and patterns. Raincoats range from ₹500 to ₹800 depending on the size. We also have washable walking shoes, which are important so that the pet doesn’t carry muddy feet inside the home. Shoes start from ₹500 and can go upto ₹1,100. One of the most interesting products we have this year is an inverted umbrella, which is very practical for small and medium dogs since the pet parent can carry the umbrella while walking.”Gurugram-based home chef Shahla Ahmad, who wants her pooch to be safe yet look good, says, “There’s heavy rainfall predicted for this monsoon so thinking to buy rain gear for each one of my pets. I’m also looking for an umbrella hat for my big boys.”   It’s raining cats and dogs! #itsrainagain #rain#raincoat #raincoatfordogs #raincoatforpets #walking#crossroadsA post shared by  Aron (@poodlearon) on Nov 16, 2019 at 9:09am PST“Avoid getting your pooches wet in the rain and keep them as dry as possible. Pet Shoes come in handy (specially in this season) as they reduce the chance of pets getting tick infestation; as ticks climb from pets’ paws,” says Hemlata, from Pet Gallery, in Gurugram, which is selling pet shoes, and jackets. Ankit Mehra, a pet groomer, echoes the same sentiment and adds, “Shoes are the most important while taking pets out for a walk. As mostly ticks get on them through feet while strolling in the park. Shoes avoid that from happening, plus they also help in keeping the paws clean. Moreover, they aid in reducing the use of anti-tick medicines. And if a dog can’t bear heat then raincoats can irritate them since dogs can’t perspire. This irritation usually happens to hairy breeds like Shihtzu and Saint Bernard. Wearing a raincoat blocks air that may make them uncomfortable. But if the weather is cold enough then rain coat won’t be a problem for hairy breeds,” he adds.   ⁣⁣ "You can stand under my umbrella," said Rihanna.⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ "No, thank you, I prefer my HUFT Drizzle Buddy Raincoat," replied every smart doggie ever. ⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ 💧Made with light fabric⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ 💧Provides maximum coverage without hindering your pet’s movement⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ 💧Protects underbelly from muddy splashes⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ 💧Hood to keep the ears dry ⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ 💧Elastic drawstrings help it stay in place⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ 💧Leash gap on the back for convenience⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ Take a walk on a cloudy day with your best bud by your side in his HUFT Drizzle Buddy Raincoat. Shop now at our stores, on our website (Link in BIO) or WhatsApp us on +91 97171 75707 for more monsoon recommendations. 🌧️⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ #HUFTforfamily ⁣⁣ #HeadsUpForTailsA post shared by  Heads Up For Tails (@headsupfortails) on Jul 1, 2020 at 6:37am PDTWhile the pet store Heads Up for Tails has introduced a pastel collection in walking rain gear, Scoopy Scrub and Pet Bytes has introduced waterproof jackets. Sanjeev Kumar, CEO, of these pet care brands, says, “We have rain coats in all sizes between ₹300 and ₹800. Waterproof jackets have also been introduced this year and cost between ₹800 and ₹1,500. Sales go up this time of the year as people want these products. Shoes have always been trending but the sales go up in this particular season, and the market for raincoats is still growing. ”Ishan Agarwal, senior marketing manager at Heads Up for Tails, says, “Rain coats can help keep the coat dry in case of unexpected showers or through light drizzles. But please don’t walk your dog in heavy rain. Our Drizzle Buddy Raincoat was designed in-house and made specifically to suit a dog’s body; so it’s cut and styled to suit their needs and movement. It is super light so that it doesn’t bother dogs and will not hinder any regular movement like running or walking. We have a rain friendly dog collar, too. To prevent pets from wearing damp collars or harnesses, these rain friendly ones are waterproof. You could just wipe them dry or even just let them air dry.” Another pet store, Sicons The Pet Safari, in Gurugram and Karol Bagh, has left no stone unturned to make monsoon a fun weather for pets! To enable the pet parents to be able to make their furry buddies relax and feel comfortable while taking a luxury walk in a pram. “It is easy to pull, is well-ventilated and cosy,” says Nitin Chawla, from the store, adding, “ You can also make your buddy wear raincoat, rubber shoes, and carry the umbrella and walk the town in full style. Running stimulates the blood circulation, but lets do that by wearing our bug-free T-shirts.” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/monsoon-ready-pooches-umbrella-hat-raincoat-and-shoes-to-walk-the-dog/story-u2hcg7gU0NRa3BLThEtESP.html
26-07-2020||Lucknow||UP sees record single-day spike of 3,246 new Covid-19 cases; 39 deaths reported||Uttar Pradesh reported its highest single-day spike of 3,246 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 66,988 as 39 new fatalities pushed the death toll in the state to 1,426.Of the new fatalities, eight were registered in Kanpur, six in Ballia, three each from Ayodhya, Bareilly and Gorakhpur, two each from Jhansi, Sultanpur and Varanasi, and one death each was reported from Baghpat, Basti, Bulandshahr, Chandauli, Deoria, Jalaun, Jaunpur, Lucknow, Meerut and Allahabad, a state Health department bulletin said.The number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 23,921, while 41,641 patients have recovered and have been discharged, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-sees-record-single-day-spike-of-3-246-new-covid-19-cases-39-deaths-reported/story-ROmTHfGMZdRPbckK115RnM.html
26-07-2020||Pune||Law students from 12 different colleges in Pune demand fees reduction||The Covid-19 pandemic has had an adverse effect on all sectors of society, including education. Amidst the ongoing crisis, more than 400 first year law students from 12 different colleges in Pune under Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) have come together to demand a reduction of 50 per cent fees for the ongoing academic year. They have written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and also to the SPPU vice chancellor. Most of these students come from rural areas and are currently at their villages or home towns. Of the 12 law colleges they are studying at, six law colleges are only aided under SPPU and rest all other colleges are unaided with huge fees. Due to the lockdown the financial condition of the students is weak and so they are united for the reduction of fees demand. “In the last academic year, the admissions for first year went on till December 2019 and the actual classroom lectures started very late. While the second semester started late in the month of March this year and hardly 10 classroom lectures took place after which a countrywide lockdown was announced. Since then, none of the students have gone to college and the syllabus is covered online. So our demand is to reduce this academic year fee by 50 per cent and give us instalment options to pay the fees,” said Karan Naiknaware from ILS Law College. “During May 19 to May 25, 2020, we conducted an online survey of law students from these 12 law colleges about the fees. The result of the survey was that majority of students which is 99.3 per cent students are in favour of fees reduction by 50 per cent for this academic year.” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/law-students-from-12-different-colleges-in-pune-demand-fees-reduction/story-tC9dTTSftR65CTcf48WbyJ.html
26-07-2020||Pune||Despite 9,435 recoveries, only 38 donors for plasma therapy in PCMC||Even though 9,435 patients have recovered from the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, officials of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal corporation (PCMC) is finding it difficult to find plasma donors. Till July 24, only 38 people have come forward for plasma donation and 35 have recovered via plasma therapy, according to civic officials. On Saturday, PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar via a video message on civic body’s official Twitter handle appealed to residents who have recovered from the virus to come forward and donate plasma. He said, “The patients are getting good treatment facilities at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH), including plasma therapy. To continue this facility we will need to collect plasma from recovered patients,” he said. According to guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), after screening of suitable donors, 500ml of plasma is collected. “Many people have wrong assumptions about plasma therapy. Donating plasma does not cause any health issues. People who have recovered should donate plasma without fear,” said Dr Rajendra Wable, dean, YCMH hospital. Get in touch Interested people can register themselves at YCMH and provide blood group details or one can also register on Smart Sarathi app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/despite-9-435-recoveries-only-38-donors-for-plasma-therapy-in-pcmc/story-j3Td6Hs2bmfii3Z5B6TjHL.html
26-07-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Port Trust moots tunnel under Hooghly river for truck movement||The Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) is weighing the option of constructing a tunnel under the Hooghly river to facilitate container truck movement from one bank to another, a move that will help decongest the city roads, an official said.Buoyed by the success of underwater tunnelling work for East-West Metro corridor, the KoPT, rechristened as the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port, is planning to appoint a consultant to conduct a feasibility study for building a similar structure under the river, he said.“It is just an idea as I saw such tunnels in Antwerp port (in Belgium). So we are appointing a consultant to look into it,” the port’s chairman Vinit Kumar told PTI.This could potentially free city roads of 700-800 trucks daily, he said.Trucks that trudge through Garden Reach Circular Road, Kidderpore Road, Hastings and Vidyasagar Setu, also known as the Second Hooghly Bridge, causing traffic snarls and pollution could cross the river via an underwater tunnel then head to the destination from the opposite bank in Howrah.The port authorities are also exploring RoRo (roll on, roll off) ferry services to facilitate movement of trucks by avoiding city traffic, he said.Asked whether the current Covid-19 outbreak has impacted the port activities, he said, “Eight pilots tested positive for the disease in a day last week and overall 180 cases have been detected among port employees and support workers. We have not stopped operations for a single day as it causes inconvenience to port users.” Meanwhile, speaking at a seminar organised by CII, Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said the Centre has waived off waterways charges.The Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) had levied the waterway usage charges at a rate of Rs 0.02 per gross registered tonnage (GRT) per km for inland cargo ships and Rs 0.05 for cruise vessels on national waterways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-port-trust-moots-tunnel-under-hooghly-river-for-truck-movement/story-5w3c3QLVBp9mxaiWSGl6xI.html
26-07-2020||Pune||Co-morbidities, cardiac arrest lead to 5 deaths at Covid-19 care centres in Pune||Five deaths were reported in July at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) Covid-19 care centres which are reserved for those with no symptoms or mild symptoms, according to PMC data.Of the five deceased, four were senior citizens. Among them, two also had underlying co-morbidities. The five deaths include that of a 61-year-old male, who had been reported dead at the Sinhgad-Kondhwa Covid centre on July 6 and the cause of death as per PMC report is sudden cardiac arrest, Covid-19 infection and hypertension as co-morbidity. Two deaths were reported on the same day on July 17, of an 80-year-old male and a 90-year-old male from College of Engineering hostel, which has now been converted into a Covid centre. For both the deaths, no additional cause or comorbidity is mentioned, except Covid-19 infection. On July 18, a 64-year-old male was declared dead at Nicmar, Baner, and the cause of death is said to be cardiorespiratory arrest, Covid-19 infection and co-morbidities including diabetes and hypertension. In the fifth death, a 47-year-old female was reported dead from Dalvi Hospital, which is now being prepped as a dedicated Covid hospital, on July 22. The cause of death is said to be Covid-19 infection pneumonitis and co-morbidity like diabetes. Covid-19 care centres were started as institutional quarantine facilities mainly for asymptomatic or those with mild symptoms. The centres are being set up in hostels, hotels, guest houses, lodges, stadiums, banquet halls and schools for those who are identified as Covid-19 positive, but need to be kept under observation.As per the data on the dashboard as of Saturday evening, PMC has 20 Covid care centres which has a total capacity of 4,683.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/co-morbidities-cardiac-arrest-lead-to-5-deaths-at-covid-19-care-centres-in-pune/story-hKNfhgTWBGF2xIQQGosoZJ.html
26-07-2020||Pune||Surge in sale of laptops, innerwear after shops reopen in Pune||Shop owners in the city saw a rise in demand for mobiles and laptops, fans, home apparel and innerwear after they resumed business post 10-day lockdown on Thursday. According to Electronics trading association, 10 to 15 per cent sales of laptops was registered and many shopkeepers said innerwear sale picked by 8 to 10 per cent. Parents, teachers and students were seen queuing up outside electronics outlets in areas like Sadashiv peth, Tilak road and Laxmi roads to buy mobile handsets and laptops. Sujit Dawane, manager, HP Computer Showroom on Tilak road said that post lockdown many parents have turned up to buying laptops for their children’s online education. “The situation was different during the previous lockdowns when staff working with IT-related firms bought laptops to work from home. During this period, several parents, teachers and academicians are turning up to buy laptops as education has gone online. Most of them are looking at buying laptops between Rs 35,000 and Rs 40,000, a segment which appeals to the middle class,” he said. ‘Karan Chaturvedi, who had come to the store with his friend said, “My mother is a teacher and has to conduct classes online. Mine is the only laptop at home. I am here to buy a laptop for my mother.” The shoppers also bought smartphones as most of the schools and colleges have started online classes. Pradeep Umardand and his wife Chaitra who bought a Samsung mobile phone from an outlet in Sadashiv peth said, “Our mobile was not suitable for online education of our child. Hence, we bought a new one.” According to Vikram Mande, manager of SR Hosiery Shop on Laxmi road, most customers are opting to buy innerwear from city markets as shops in suburbs are shut. “Maximum customers are male. As cloth takes more time to dry during the monsoon season, there is a rise in demand and we expect more customers in the coming days,” he said. Sanjay Kumar, a petrol pump attendant who had come to buy innerwear, said that shops near his residence in Bhavani peth are shut as the areas have been declared containment zone. So, he had to visit Laxmi road for purchase. A huge crowd was seen at cloth stores in Tulshibaug on Saturday. “The sale of casuals and innerwear has picked up since Friday after the lockdown ended,” said Nitin Pandit, secretary, Tulshibaug market shop owners association. Kavita Shinde, a resident of Wanowrie, said, “We were locked inside for four months. We had limited stock of home wear for my five-year-old son. With uncertainty about future lockdowns, I bought clothes for my kid in bulk.” Kailash Changedia, an electronics shop owner from Camp, said, “We have received inquiries from customers who are seeking office furniture for home set up. Demands for computers, laptops, work stations, dishwashers, washing machines, ceiling fans and stationary fans has risen after the lockdown period. Many people are calling up seeking to book an appointment before visiting our store and the footfall has increased.” “We have ensured that social distancing rules are maintained strictly and business is carried out with care and caution,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/surge-in-sale-of-laptops-innerwear-after-shops-reopen-in-pune/story-JIGbQ7xLCoy36S8EJBK10N.html
26-07-2020||Pune||Kumar: Increasing manpower, better infra top priorities to tackle virus situation in Pune||On July 12, 2020, the Maharashtra government in a sudden shuffle replaced Shekhar Gaikwad as the Pune municipal commissioner and appointed Vikram Kumar as Pune’s civic chief. Kumar took charge at a time when the city is battling an unprecedented pandemic that has affected 49,370 residents. Kumar spoke to HT’s Abhay Khairnar on the challenges that lay ahead, the uncertainty that comes with it and the combat plan by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Q - Pune’s Covid-19 situation is getting critical; the Covid positive patients are not getting beds in private hospitals. How are you going to deal with this situation?A- It is true that there has been a surge in the number of patients and there are complaints that patients are not getting hospital beds, however we are trying our best. My strategy is to tackle the ongoing pandemic at four levels. First, is to improve the infrastructure at private hospitals. Second, is to improve government and PMC hospitals’ infrastructure. Third, is to build a jumbo facility with 800 beds and fourth is to promote home isolation for asymptomatic patients. My efforts are to create more infrastructures considering future demand.Q- Though it was expected that cases will increase and Pune will require more infrastructure, do you think that the government machinery was not prepared to handle it, whether the PMC’s planning has failed?A- The Covid-19 pandemic is a global crisis. Not only Pune but many cities and also developed countries are struggling. Our efforts are ongoing to ensure that each patient gets proper treatment. The government and administration is working hard to improve the infrastructure, testing facilities. Even many NGOs and corporates are coming forward with a helping hand. Q- The physical infrastructure can be created but what would be your action plan about the medical and para medical manpower?A- Along with the infrastructure, we are working on escalating manpower. The doctors and paramedical staff are getting appointed. There is a demand to increase the stipend for intern doctors. We are trying to hire these intern doctors very soon. As testing has been improved, we are requiring more technicians. The PMC had also recruited more manpower for carrying out maximum tests.Q- You spoke about the jumbo facility, an 800-bed hospital. Is it possible to get it ready in a short period?A- The 800-bedded hospital will be ready in hardly 15 to 20 days after issuing work orders. The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) is co-ordinating it. Once ready, the facility will offer a big relief, as all the 800 beds will be reserved for critical patients. The PMRDA has already floated an expression of interest and the contractor will be finalised after following due process.Q- The centre and state government are taking efforts to unlock and start many activities? Will Pune city get more relaxations like public gardens, hotels in the future?A- We have planned to take a review of the situation every week. The state government will also issue fresh guidelines. As per the state government’s new guidelines, we will be taking a call on opening public gardens, and allowing hotels and other businesses to be fully functional in the city.Q- Due to the lockdown and Covid-19 crises, the civic body is not getting enough income. Do you think it would affect projects like the metro in future?A- Despite the Covid-19 crises and financial worries, mega projects like metro will not be affected. Already, these projects are in the pipeline and have received necessary sanctions. Even the financial institutes are finalised. The Centre, state and the PMC has made budgetary provisions for it. In consideration that the metro project will be continued, projects that have not begun and are in the pipeline may be postponed. Q- What is your long term plan for Pune as the municipal commissioner?A - My long term plan and the first priority is to make the city Covid-19 free. This is a big challenge and we all need to overcome this crisis. Covid-19 has given us a lesson and, henceforth not only Pune but everywhere health would be a priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/kumar-increasing-manpower-better-infra-top-priorities-to-tackle-virus-situation-in-pune/story-73Mjwb7zJX4RHowEpGpLfL.html
26-07-2020||Bangalore||No mass prayers in Eidgah for Bakrid; Up to 50 allowed at a time in mosques: Karnataka govt||The Karnataka government has allowed Eid-ul-Azha prayers only in mosques that too with a maximum of 50 people at a time and said mass prayers at Eidgah and other places are prohibited in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. People visiting mosques for the prayers have to wear face masks and maintain social distancing, Minority Welfare and Wakf Department Secretary A B Ibrahim said in an order issued on Friday. It said the Hilal committee has decided that the Eid-ul- Azha, also known as Bakrid, would be celebrated on July 31 in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu districts while it would be on August 1 in the rest of the state. Noting that mass prayers were one of the important rituals Muslims perform during Bakrid, the order said in view of the Covid-19 pandemic such events at Eidgah and other places were prohibited. However, prayers would be allowed in mosques with the restriction that not more than 50 people should take part. If there were more people, the prayers should be performed in batches, the department said in the order. Mass prayers should not be performed in any other places such as halls, community buildings and ‘Shadi Mahal’, the order added. Karnataka has allowed temples, mosques and other places of worship to be open for devotees from June 8 with all Covid-19 preventive measures in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/no-mass-prayers-in-eidgah-for-bakrid-up-to-50-allowed-at-a-time-in-mosques-karnataka-govt/story-VIsY7pYgXsgsLyhFZavSPN.html
26-07-2020||Pune||Demand for food delivery drops in Pune, PRAHA claims losses of Rs 250 crore during entire lockdown period||The city restaurants have barely managed to garner 10 per cent to 15 per cent of food delivery and takeaway business after it reopened shutters post ten-day lockdown on Friday. According to Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) president Ganesh Shetty, the bill counters saw less transaction because of less customers and thin staff. Most of the restaurants were shut due to lack of manpower and guidelines imposed by the state government. Takeaway parcels were being given at important locations across the city like Fergusson College road, Wanowrie, NIBM road, Aundh, Kalyaninagar and other areas of the city. Shetty said, “At least 8,500 restaurants are shut and the total lockdown losses are around Rs 250 crore with more than 2 lakh employees returning to their native places.” “There is a shortage of staff and the government has still not allowed restaurants to open, except food delivery. Small shops can operate on this takeaway model, but bigger establishments are into huge economic loss. The business is around 10-15 per cent and it is quite less,” he said. Ikram Khan, restaurateur, who runs joint ventures with several prominent brands of hotels said, “The restaurant industry was shut during lockdown and reached a point of no return. Currently, the business of takeaways and online-based deliveries is only 10 per cent.” Sanika More ( 21), who picked up her favourite Masala Dosa and coffee parcel at Hotel Vaishali on FC road, said “I felt happy to enjoy my favourite masala dosa and beverage after a long time. Pune has been a city for the youth, but unfortunately, the lockdown has affected the day-to-day life.” Chintamani Mani, owner of Sadguru Snack Centre at Salunke Vihar, said on Saturday, “Not many buyers are coming to pick up parcels as there is fear about the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.” “I barely managed to do 10 per cent business today,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/demand-for-food-delivery-drops-in-pune-praha-claims-losses-of-rs-250-crore-during-entire-lockdown-period/story-BISizGmL7e8YbkHmPIOhFL.html
26-07-2020||Lucknow||Light to moderate rainfall recorded in Uttar Pradesh||Light to moderate rainfall and thundershowers occurred at a few places in western Uttar Pradesh and in isolated areas in the eastern part of the state on Sunday.According to the Meteorological department, there was heavy rainfall at isolated places in western Uttar Pradesh during the day.The weather office said rain and thundershowers are very likely at a few places in the eastern part of the state and isolated places in the western part on July 27. It predicted rainfall and thundershowers at many places in eastern Uttar Pradesh and a few places in the western part on July 28.Rainfall is very likely at most places in the state on July 29, the weather office added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/light-to-moderate-rainfall-recorded-in-uttar-pradesh/story-zb8TXwkaAj0CCTiSdHnnwN.html
26-07-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Must follow Kerala model to control virus spread, say Pune residents||With Covid-19 cases rising in the city and lockdowns apparently not helping in containing the virus spread, what should be the step forward? Pune residents list out actions authorities should take to ensure restriction norms are followed strictly.The city has seen multiple lockdowns, but cases are rising despite that. Is the lockdown a perfect solution? Epidemiologists should explore and explain it to the residents. It is true that lockdown is affecting the economy and people’s livelihood, especially of the toiling masses. The government should transparently explain the aims and objectives of lockdown with scientific evidence, and also its benefits.What needs to be done if lockdown is not working apparently:1) Tracing, testing and treating is very important to prevent the spread of disease. Kerala model of tracing the suspects and contacts in hotspot areas, testing as much as possible, quarantining of positive patients and treating was a five-point strategy followed by the state. We must follow the Kerala model efficiently.2) Due to the fear of isolation in government’s poorly managed Covid care centres (CCCs), people are trying to hide their illness. Hundreds of beds are vacant in CCCs. To prevent this, a properly managed CCC is needed so that people will feel comfortable in these centres. 3) We should provide adequate supply of essential commodities to those living in hotspot areas so that they follow the regulations with wilful participation.4) Despite information overload on Covid, people, in general, are not receiving scientific details about the pandemic and preventive measures. We should take steps towards information, education and communication (IEC) and tell residents the benefits of measures like physical distancing, use of scientifically correct mask and washing. 5) High-risk groups of people need special attention and consideration. This vulnerable population needs screening, tracing, testing and treatment of comorbidities. Preferably, Covid healthcare centres exclusively for suspected high-risk and positive high-risk patients.6) There is tremendous chaos in the overall management of the pandemic. Patients are not getting beds, creating more panic among people. The government should publish a white paper on the projections of cases in coming days and how they are preparing to match the demand and supply of healthcare to both Covid and non Covid patients. Dr Sanjay Dabhade Social distancing, masks, washing hands the gold standard We are going through an unprecedented situation, wherein Pune city recorded the highest single-day rise in patients in the last 24 hours, despite being under strict lockdown. According to epidemiological studies, enforcement of a lockdown is one of the most important measures we can undertake to mitigate the spread of the contagion. It restricts activities and allows administration in capacity building and preparedness. Whether lockdown is helping us or not is questionable, as only a fraction of the society is behaving as responsible citizens. There is a lot of confusion and misinformation regarding the virus. Only we, as citizens, can control the spread of this virus, simply by following basic sanitation guidelines. It is our city and we need to protect it and ourselves. Lack of coordination at the administrative level, where everyone is trying to do things on their own, with very little interdepartmental communication, is responsible for the delay in decision making, implementation and awareness creation. We have to focus on increasing our testing capacity and importantly take action in isolating and monitoring positive patients. Due to variability and lag in the results of tests, patients unknowingly are capable of spreading the disease during this time. With advancements on the medical side regarding diagnosis, treatment and vaccination in the last four months, it is still the public health measures like social distancing, hand washing, wearing a mask that are the gold standard. I would advise all to restrict activities, irrespective of the status of lockdown, and to avoid sharing air space for more than 20 minutes in closed rooms where the air is stagnant. Let us support our local administration in their efforts to control this pandemic because as we know, the season of festivities will soon be upon us. So, let’s gift ourselves and our community good health for this festive season. Dr Sanjay Patil Enforcing lockdown not a Covid remedy nowThe national lockdowns were important because they were an intervention to give us time to get educated and better equipped to handle the Covid-19 infection. The lockdown gave us the much-needed buffer, today the administration is experienced, protocols are refined, Covid warriors are better armed, and more importantly, the citizens are now mentally and emotionally prepared to fight this battle without much panic. But enforcing lockdown across the city after three months of preparation is not a remedy to the virus. The latest lockdown had become a compulsion, which could have easily been prevented with proactive action from the administration to enhance our medical infrastructure. The step forward is that we as a society have to accept that this virus is here to stay and, till a vaccine is found and distributed across the population, we need to learn to live with the virus. I believe the only way to achieve a balance between life and livelihood is to make this a community lead movement. From educating the citizens with hygiene protocols to effective contact tracing and early testing, we can gain control over the pandemic. Education and emphasising on mandatory mask usage, social distancing and other hygiene protocols among your locality, loved ones and friends is by far the best deterrent to the spread of Covid-19 within your community Siddharth Shirole Lockdown is a dearth of visionary planning In Pune, the number of new Covid-19 infected patients is increasing at a rapid pace. At present, the daily count increases by more than 2,100 new patients. The ten-day lockdown initiated on July 13 proved a complete failure. The basic purpose of a lockdown is to impose a stringent restriction on crowding by masses in public, self-isolation of citizens and observing the rules of prevention on one side. On the other side, the ten-day period should have been used for micro-planning to manage the impending surge which is predicted in mid-August. It should have also been used to bring down the spread of infection. The civic administration failed in many aspects. Everywhere, the doors for the admission to hospitals are closed. The government, as well as private hospitals, are overflowing. At any given time as of today, there are no ordinary beds available, no beds with oxygen and a big no for ICU beds. The civic administration is strangling the private hospitals to increase the number of beds and, every day, for every small mistake eager to pitch legal notices on them. There seems to be no attempt to increase the number of beds like Mumbai arranged a makeshift hospital at BKC or the Delhi government turned the train coaches into hospital rooms. There is an acute shortage of doctors to treat patients. The government doctors and residents are overworked and to compensate for the deficiency the private doctors are asked to work, leaving their own practice, causing inconvenience and injustice to their regular patients. The Ayush doctors who are competent in handling Covid patients with moderate symptoms are not used in full capacity. The medical service in all private hospital has already become lame due to unavailability of trained nurses and other healthcare workers. The biggest problem for the government is the inability to pay a decent remuneration or salary to private doctors and the medical or paramedical staff. The field activity in such a situation demands a thorough contact tracing of infected patients. It seems to have taken a complete halt. The testing needs to be increased by five-fold, with the use of recently purchased rapid antigen testing kits, but there is no initiative in this regard. There must be a house-to-house survey in containment zones, to check symptomatic persons, individuals with co-morbid conditions and to perform their testing to find out and diagnose at the early stage and treat them. The lessons of hygiene in using public toilets in slums, which are mostly the hotspots of the pandemic, should be given. The disinfection of these toilets after every use has to be stressed and taught to dwellers. This basic step in the epidemic control is ignored at large. The awareness training about using masks, keeping physical distance and washing hands for the inhabitants in containment areas are like things from a forgotten past in Pune. It is predicted that the pandemic will take a serious turn in mid-August. There is a dearth of a visionary plan to counter it. Dr Avinash Bhondwe Imperative to set up Covid-19 nodal authority in Pune The manner in which the lockdowns are implemented since March 2020 — sometimes on and other times off. Due to this, the public is not taking the restrictions seriously. This is mainly because the Centre did not understand the seriousness of the pandemic. Cut back to the Central government guidelines which states could implement, but not dilute. These should have been framed by experts, not IAS and IPS officers. Some states became over-enthusiastic and gave lockdown, unlock orders which gave a clear message to the public that no one was sure, but we are experimenting with what would work, if at all. Local authorities were also unsure where sometimes more than two authorities were issuing orders which were contradictory to each other. These orders were not posted on a common website, but released as press notes, bits and pieces communicated on social media. All this resulted in people not taking the provisions in the orders seriously, but mocking them by partying, hanging out with friends, not maintaining social distancing and not wearing face masks. At many places, it was seen that masks were hanging around the neck mainly by politicians, which is a damaging vision for the public to see. Hence, it is imperative that the state government must set up a centralised Covid-19 nodal authority in Pune headed by a senior IAS officer since Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) covers authorities such as district collector, PMC, PCMC, three cantonments and two police authorities, district cooperation department. All of them issue orders on micro-management of Covid-19 which are contradictory to each other. It is a reality which cannot be denied that official rising figures prove that we are into stage four that is herd immunity. No amount of lockdowns will help as cases will spike/surge as soon as the lockdown is lifted. The only solution is to have experts frame the guidelines, fine violations heavily, insist on social distancing and ensure corporators to hold workshops in their wards about building immunity levels. Qaneez Sukhrani Lockdown successful, 75,000 tests carried out We have been able to achieve what we wanted to during this lockdown period. We have carried out about 75,000 tests in these ten days which is more than what we even did in the three months. The intention was to increase testing, which we did. It was not that the lockdown was necessary for testing, but these two are parallel things. If people keep roaming out then even one lakh tests per day would not be enough. The intention was that people must not roam out breaking social distancing norms and then this period could be dedicated completely to increasing testing which we did. The chain must break and it depends on how people follow the lockdown norms. Pune has the maximum number of testing in the country. Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner (PMC)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-must-follow-kerala-model-to-control-virus-spread-say-pune-residents/story-7LW99vJAPosJO2JyezdfpN.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput Case: Mahesh Bhatt, Karan Johar’s manager to be questioned||Filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt, Karan Johar’s manager and even Johar, if need be, will be questioned in connection with the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Sunday.Deshmukh said Bhatt will be called for questioning on Monday and Johar’s manager will be called thereafter.“Police will call Johar too if required. Summons have been sent to Kangana Ranaut for her statement in the case,” he said. Police have already questioned more than 30 people from the film industry, including director Sanjay Leela Bhansali and director-producer Aaditya Chopra, among others. Deshmukh had said last week there was no need for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the case and that Mumbai Police were probing it efficiently. The state home minister had reacted after actor Rhea Chakraborty took to social media demanding the probe be shifted to the central agency. Rajput, 34, was found dead in his apartment in Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. Police have said the actor died by suicide. Deshmukh had said on June 15 the police were investigating the angle of professional rivalry if any. The minster had also tweeted the alleged cause of “clinical depression owing to the profession rivalry” behind the death of the Dil Bechara actor were also being probed.(Please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist if you need support or know someone who does. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-mahesh-bhatt-karan-johar-s-manager-to-be-questioned-says-maharashtra-home-minister/story-haGsIrxaceFGtAg3tRgeEJ.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Rains lash parts of Delhi, more predicted||Rains lashed parts of Delhi on Sunday and more showers are predicted, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Thunderstorms and light to moderate rains drenched parts of central Delhi, Northeast Delhi, Shahdara, Mundaka, Rohini, Bawana and adjoining areas, it said.  Sporadic rains will continue in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) till Monday, the weatherman said.  Thereafter, widespread rains are likely in northwest India, including Delhi-NCR, on Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rains-lash-parts-of-delhi-more-predicted/story-l4eJETfiOauW3uHLX3DOoL.html
26-07-2020||Patna||Coronavirus tests per million lowest in Bihar: Tejashwi Yadav||Bihar has conducted the lowest Covid-19 tests per million and has the highest positivity rate in the country, said Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday.Taking to Twitter, Yadav said Covid-19 testing per 10 lakh people in Bihar is the lowest in the country.“In a densely populated state like Bihar, only 0.35 per cent of people have been tested so far. Only 3,508 people are being tested per 10 lakh, which is the lowest in the country. An average of 3,158 tests have been conducted daily in 140 days. Except for Antigen Tests for the last two weeks, there are hardly 3,000 tests in a day,” Yadav said in a tweet (translated from Hindi).The Union Health Ministry had on Saturday said Tests Per Million (TPM) in the country stand at 11,485.In a subsequent tweet, the Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav said that the Covid-19 positivity rate in Bihar is the highest in the country.“The positivity rate of Bihar in July is 12.54 per cent, which is the highest in the country. In the month of July, 159 people died in 25 days. That means six people are dying every day. Those who are dying without testing and treatment are not counted. The government should be serious now,” Yadav tweeted.Union Health Ministry had on Saturday said that the mortality due to Covid-19 stands at 2.35 per cent. As per the Union Health Ministry, there are 36,604 Covid-19 cases in Bihar including 12,317 active cases, 24053 cured/discharged/migrated cases and 234 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/coronavirus-tests-per-million-lowest-in-bihar-tejashwi-yadav/story-NwM5LGUtmkOIY5eqMXogUO.html
26-07-2020||Lucknow||36 inmates of Etah jail infected with coronavirus: Report||As many as 36 inmates of the district jail here have tested positive for Covid-19, an official said. Jailor, Kuldeep Singh Bhadauria, said that in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the district and jail administration have set up a temporary jail at a school here.Chief Medical Superintendent, Ajay Agarwal, said, “As per reports obtained from the Sarojini Naidu Medical College, Agra, 36 inmates of the Etah district jail have been found Covid-19 positive.” Bhadauria said that an administrative officer and deputy jailor have been posted at the temporary jail.“Instead of sending a person directly to the jail, they are being sent to the temporary jail, where they will be tested for Covid-19. If symptoms are found, then they will be first admitted to L1 hospital, and after they are cured of Covid-19, they will enter the jail,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/36-inmates-of-etah-jail-infected-with-coronavirus-report/story-R4RAis2VRggcjVlXJ3knQN.html
26-07-2020||Lifestyle||Covid-19 protection: Right safety gear to use in the pandemic||The country is unlocking really fast and with the coming unlock 3.0, more relaxations will be introduced. So Delhiites have resorted to buying essentials to be extra careful. But, with ample options available in terms of safety gear, many are getting confused. Here’s a guide to what you should buy and what should be its features.Face MasksRight from the cotton masks stitched at home, to the N95 and N99, double-layered, triple-layered and designer ones, the market has a wide range of masks on offer. “Maintaining social distancing norms and wearing a mask when stepping out remain the paramount guideline to avoid contracting the infection. As the new study suggests the virus is airborne, it means people who don’t have Covid-19 patients in their vicinity are also prone to it now,” says Dr Arunesh Kumar, a senior consultant and head of respiratory medicine at a Gurugram hospital. How can one choose a right mask? “One should look at the degree of protection required. We do not need N95 mask for daily use as its breathability is very low. For office and travel, breathability should be good,” says Anuj Prasad, a Delhi-based designer of face armour, desmania aarmr. Masks should be skin-friendly, the outer layer should have a water-resistant fabric. The inner layer should be water-absorbent and the middle layer should act as a filter.PPE Kits There are multiple options available in PPE kits. “When it comes to gloves and overall PPE kits, people prefer only surgical products that can be disposed of after a single use,” says Delhi-based Mandeep Arora, MD of Ubon, a manufacturer of PPE kits, masks, gloves, sanitisers and other safety gear. Rajat Meena, a resident of Dwarka who bought a PPE kit recently, says, “I’m associated with a third-party delivery system, and there are times when we have to travel long distances, so I prefer to wear PPE kits, they are use-and-throw ones. It’s better to be safe than sorry.Face Shields Is it better to use a face shield than using a mask? “A face shield covers the entire face, including the nose, mouth and eyes. So this has extra protection as chances of touching exposed areas are minimal,” adds Prasad. The shields are generally transparent, washable and can be bought keeping the use in mind. For work, travel or leisure, shields which are compatible for the fight against germs, can be used. Medical professionals require shields with extra protection. SanitizersIn sanitisers, right from the alcohol-based variety to the ayurvedic and skin-friendly ones, the variety is endless. But, denizens must remember that cheap sanitisers can burn the skin, or cause allergic reactions. Arora informs, “Sometimes, long exposure to the fragrance of some sanitisers and disinfectants can result in nausea, etc. While buying sanitisers and disinfectants, one should look for the amount of alcohol in them. A safe sanitiser should consist of about 60% to 95% of alcohol in ethanol, propanol or isopropanol form. Also, it should be made according to the formula recommended by the World Health Organisation and certified by government testing labs.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/covid-19-protection-right-safety-gear-to-use-in-the-pandemic/story-JM2sDM4lggiEr8byUeuR3N.html
26-07-2020||Patna||DRDO team visits Bihar to select site for setting up Covid-19 hospital||A two-member team of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) visited Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district to find a suitable location for setting up a 500-bed temporary Covid-19 hospital, an official said on Sunday.The hospital, to be built on the lines of another facility set up by the DRDO in Delhi, will cater to coronavirus patients in north Bihar, he said.The DRDO team, accompanied by district administration officials, explored four sites in Muzaffarpur on Saturday -- Chakkar Maidan, Muzaffarpur Institute of Technology (MIT), Patahi airport and CRPF camp at Jhapahan, District Magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said.Once the site is chosen, work will begin immediately, and the facility is likely to get operational in a matter of 15 days, he said.Of the 500 beds at the hospital, at least 150 will be equipped with ventilators, Singh added.Bihar has recorded 36,314 cases so far. Over 230 have succumbed to the disease, while 24,520 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/drdo-team-visits-bihar-to-select-site-for-setting-up-covid-19-hospital/story-f1WVawfl7uKMWMjp5Gcp7O.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||1,075 new cases push Delhi’s Covid tally past 1.3 lakh, but 1,807 recoveries tell another story||Delhi posted 1,075 new Covid 19 cases on Sunday to take the total number of coronavirus virus cases recorded so far in the capital past the 1.3 lakh mark but this is unlikely to cause any worries since 1,807 recoveries, logged in the same period, means the number of currently infected people in the city-state has actually come down to 11,904.The active cases in Delhi stood at 12,657 aday before and Sunday’s figure marks the continuance of a healthy trend signifying the efficacy of ramped-up containment efforts over the past month or so. Delhi’s recovery rate for coronavirus patients is hovering around an enviable 90% mark with 1,14,875 people having been cured or discharged, the health bulletin released by the government stated. The bulletin added that 21 deaths were registered over the last 24 hour period, taking the total casualties caused by the infection to 3,827 on Sunday. 6,976 active patients have been kept in home isolation in the capital, while over 3,000 people who arrived here on Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights have been accommodated in dedicated Covid care centres. Also read | ‘Much lesser number of people now falling ill’: Kejriwal on Covid-19 in DelhiIn contrast with the number of tests conducted over the week, fewer tests were conducted on Sunday with 5,032 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 12,501 rapid antigen tests being carried out on the day. Delhi is only a fraction short of completing a million tests with the current figure of 9,46,777 accomplished tests. Delhi recorded its first coronavirus case on March 2 this year, over a month after India recorded its first case on January 30 in Kerala. Ten new areas have been added to Delhi’s containment zones on Sunday, pushing the count of restricted areas to 714. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who had claimed last week that Delhi has turned a corner in its fight against the virus, again took to Twitter on Sunday to say that the occupancy of designated hospital beds for Covid-19 has come down sharply in the national capital over the last one month.Also read | In its fight against coronavirus, Capital has turned a corner: CM Kejriwal“Corona bed occupancy has come down sharply from 23 June to 26 July. Much lesser no of people are now falling ill. Most of those falling ill are getting treated at home. Therefore, v(ery) few people are now needing hospitalization,” Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday, attaching screenshots of Delhi Corona app.The chief minister, on overcoming the first wave of coronavirus infections, had said that “in a sense we can say that we have overcome the difficult situation that we saw in the month of June but, we must be prepared if this reoccurs.” “In 1918, the Spanish Flu had seen three peaks and the second peak was much worse than the first one,” Kejriwal had told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-coronavirus-cases-cross-1-3-lakh-mark/story-tGMh7BZAB4914iUBTLvnmL.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police to intensify patrolling, conduct verification drive ahead of Independence Day||Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava has directed officers to conduct a thorough verification drive across the city ahead of Independence Day, police said here on Sunday.The police chief reviewed the security arrangement across the 15 police districts in the city in a meeting held via video-conferencing on Saturday, they said.In view of the forthcoming Independence day, all the district DCPs have been asked to intensify patrolling in their areas and conduct door-to-door verification to ensure safety and security across the national capital to avoid any untoward incident, they police said.Shrivastava laid emphasis on increasing police presence, intensive and coordinated checking at vulnerable points, verification of tenants and servants, sensitisation of cyber cafe owners, security guards, second-hand car dealers and mobile dealers among others in order to strengthen counter-terrorism measures, they said.Even though hotels and guest houses aren’t operational due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the officers have been asked to stay vigilant. “In view of forthcoming Independence day, security arrangements across all the 15 police districts in the city were reviewed via video-conferencing. We have also collected intelligence inputs and are working on it accordingly. A thorough verification drive is being conducted at all places across the city to ensure the safety and security ahead of the big day,” a senior police officer said.Besides, Independence Day security arrangements, issues concerning cybercrime were reviewed and redressal of public grievances was also discussed in the meeting, he said.Shrivastava also rewarded personnel from West, Outer and Dwarka districts in recognition of exemplary outstanding work performed by them during the last few days.Unlike every year, the Centre has asked all states to avoid large congregation, ensure social distancing and webcast Independence Day events as the novel coronavirus cases continue to spiral unabated.Gearing up for Independence Day arrangements, a senior officer from the north district said police personnel have already been deployed and weapons training for over thousands of staff concluded.The staff deputed in checking and frisking teams, which consist of 200 police personnel, have been strictly advised to ensure social distancing in the wake of ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The staff will wear personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and use sanitisers after every checking and frisking, he said.More electronic devices are being installed to avoid close contact during frisking. Over 300 CCTV cameras have been installed in and around the Red Fort, where the Independence Day event is held every year, the officer added.The event this year will consist of a guard of honour by the armed forces and the Delhi Police to the prime minister, unfurling of the national flag, the 21-gun salute, speech by the prime minister, singing of the national anthem and release of tricoloured balloons at the end.In its advisory, the Home Ministry said it was imperative to follow certain preventive measures while organising various programmes or activities for the Independence Day celebrations amid the pandemic.The measures include maintaining social distancing, wearing of masks, proper sanitisation, avoiding large congregations, protecting vulnerable persons and follow all Covid-19 guidelines issued by the ministries of health and home, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-to-intensify-patrolling-conduct-verification-drive-ahead-of-independence-day/story-nvxduKiworA4wP06FkX5AN.html
26-07-2020||Pune||Pune district registers 2,891 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, tally nears 67,000||Pune district reported 2,891 new coronavirus cases since previous evening, taking its case tally to 66,965, a health official said on Saturday. The death toll in the district due to the pandemic reached 1,672 with 47 patients succumbing to the infection, he said.“Of the 2,891 new cases, 1,479 are from the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, which has reported 43,083 patients so far,” the official said.693 patients were also discharged from city hospitals upon recovery, he said.1,041 new cases were reported from neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad industrial belt where the Covid-19 case count now stands at 15,997.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-registers-2-891-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-tally-nears-67-000/story-pq5k8ueUYFthdkm9L7yZQL.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Average office rental in Delhi-NCR market declines 9% in H1 2020||The average office rental in the Delhi-NCR market declined by 9 per cent to around Rs 78 per sq ft a month during the first half of this calendar year as demand was hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a report. In its half yearly report, property consultant Knight Frank India has said that the gross absorption or leasing of office space fell 45 per cent to 21 lakh sq ft during January-June 2020 compared to 38 lakh sq ft in the year ago period. The new supply plunged 86 per cent to 8 lakh sq ft from 59 lakh sq ft during the period under review. “As all business activities had paused during the lockdown, many organisations approached landlords for rent waivers and deferments in the second quarter of 2020. “Businesses are reworking their targets and outlook for the remainder of this CY/FY and want to save on real estate operating expenditure which constitute nearly 3-5 per cent of their operating income,” the report said. The demand for office spaces from the co-working sector has also slowed down considerably in NCR, which was a major occupier segment until H2 2019. “As a result, rents have come under downward pressure as landlords fear exits from existing tenants. In H1 2020, weighted average rentals declined by 9% YoY to INR 844 per sq meter per month (INR 78.4 per sq ft per month),” the report said. Going forward, the consultant said that rents might be further rationalised when leases come up for renewal. At the same time, demand contraction for office spaces in the short term would provide an opportunity for corporates to lock-in long term leases for expansion at cheap rents, in premium office buildings in otherwise expensive locations across NCR. “2019 was a landmark year for National Capital Region (NCR’s) office market as it witnessed huge supply infusion of 123 lakh sq ft, the highest in the past 8 years. Occupier demand, too, remained strong with total office space leasing of 86 lakh sq ft, the highest in a decade,” the report said. The weighted average rentals recorded only 4 per cent annual growth in 2019. Knight Frank said that the market was poised for large scale occupier expansions to materialize in 2020, but the Covid-19 outbreak in March completely altered the scenario. “As the national lockdown was imposed in India from March 25th, 2020, limited gross leasing of 21 lakh sq ft was recorded in NCR in H1 2020 (Jan-June period) as decision making at corporate occupiers’ end came to an abrupt halt,” the report said. Planned real estate space take-ups have been put on hold as occupiers wait for the situation to evolve in the second half of the year before taking decisions regarding real estate occupancies for offices. In line with past trends, Knight Frank said that the two prime office markets in NCR, Noida and Gurugram, commanded the lion’s share of the total leasing pie with a 52 per cent and 44 per cent share respectively. However, unlike the trend witnessed in the past seven years, more office space was leased in Noida than in Gurugram, mainly due to availability of new supply at lower rentals as compared to Gurugram’s key locations. The number of leasing deals in NCR came down from 81 in H1 2019 to 66 in H1 2020. The first half of the year saw its average transacted space decrease to 31,506 sq ft from 46,718 sq ft in the same period in 2019. IT/ITeS and Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI) were the major demand driver. “Like many other businesses, Covid-19 has sent shockwaves to co-working business, which until last year was a major contributor to the overall leasing in NCR. Co-working, which accounted for 12 per cent of the total leasing in NCR in H1 2019 saw its share diminished to 3 per cent in H1 2020. In terms of quantum, the space leased by coworking operators shrunk from 492,983 sq ft to 70,000 sq ft, registering an 85 per cent YoY decline. Vacancy rate might increase as many corporate occupiers have started serving notices to landlords to surrender offices spaces in NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/average-office-rental-in-delhi-ncr-market-declines-9-in-h1-2020/story-xUXkAwJOfSvXhScNblNQyM.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Ram temple ‘bhoomi pujan’ can be done via video link: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said the ground-breaking ceremony for the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya can be conducted through video-conference in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Thackeray, who is also president of the Shiv Sena, said he can go to Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh for the ceremony, but asked if lakhs of “Ram bhakts” can be stopped from going there.According to members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Ayodhya on August 5 for the “bhoomi pujan” ceremony to begin the construction of the Ram temple.“An e-bhoomi pujan can be done. The ground-breaking ceremony can be held through video-conference. This is an event of joy, and lakhs of people would be interested in attending the ceremony. Will we allow the spread of coronavirus?” Thackeray said in an interview published in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ on Sunday.He said the Ram temple issue has a background of struggle.“This is not an ordinary temple. Today, we are fighting the coronavirus pandemic and religious gatherings are prohibited. I can go to Ayodhya for the ceremony, but what about lakhs of Ram bhakts. Will you stop them? You can do e-bhoomi pujan through video-conference,” he suggested.Thackeray recalled that the last time when he had gone to Ayodhya, he was stopped from performing ‘aarti’ at the Saryu river there since the Covid-19 pandemic spread had just started.“Before that I had seen huge crowds on the river banks. Ram Mandir is a matter of faith. How can you stop people from going there?” he asked.Thackeray visited Ayodhya in March to commemorate 100 days in office.He assumed office as the chief minister of the Sena- led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on November 28 last year, after his party joined hands with the NCP and the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-can-be-done-via-video-link-uddhav-thackeray/story-NkQgEuUUSZiGseMSB7xPnM.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Do it if you can: Uddhav Thackeray dares opposition to topple his govt||Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday challenged the opposition to pull his government down as the Maharashtra chief minister emphasised he was at the helm of the three-party coalition government in the state. In the last of the two-part interview to the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Thackeray said the fate of his government was not in the hands of the opposition.The chief minister, while speaking to Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, also targeted the Centre’s ambitious Mumbai- Ahmedabad bullet train project to put his point across.Replying to a question related to the opposition criticism that his government was a three-wheeled vehicle, in a reference to his alliance partners - the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, Thackeray said his Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government represents the poor people.“If it is the choice between a bullet train and a three-wheeler, I will choose the latter as it is the travelling mode of the poor people. It is a strong government and I am at the steering wheel with two other partners,” he said.Thackeray, who will turn 60 on Monday, also pointed at the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre to deflect the criticism.“The ones who have been raising questions about our ‘three-wheeler’ should look at the government at the Centre. How many parties are there as coalition partners? When I attended the NDA meeting last time, there were 30-35 leaders representing ruling parties. It should be called a ‘train’ government then,” he added.Thackeray said that there were no differences between the three parties even though there was a lack of continuous dialogue due to the outbreak of the Covid-19.“Congress had some issues related to the matters on public policies. After our meeting, they have been solved. We have better coordination between us. I take guidance regularly from NCP chief Sharad Pawar Saheb and occasionally speak Soniaji Gandhi,” he said.The Shiv Sena chief also took a dig at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for its alleged attempt to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan. He said Operation Lotus would not reap any success in Maharashtra.“It is strange that the use of money for political gain is not a crime and the opponents are targeted using central agencies. But this would not last for too long. They should also keep in mind that days keep passing by,” he said.“They tried to topple the Rajasthan government perhaps because there is no pandemic spread in that state or in Madhya Pradesh. The leader of opposition [Devendra Fadnavis] criticised the Maharashtra government over the handling of Covid-19 during his Delhi visit, perhaps because the pandemic exists only in our state and not in Rajasthan or Madhya Pradesh,” he said.The chief minister said it was not correct to say that the decision-making process regarding the coronavirus pandemic in the state is driven by the bureaucracy.“Our handling of Covid-19 pandemic, especially in Dharavi, has been applauded at the international level. I was chosen as among the popular chief ministers. If the bureaucracy was at the driving seat, why was the government praised and was it done by the bureaucracy without any control from the government?” he asked.“The government policies are after all implemented by the officers and the bureaucracy and is the duty of the government to stand firm by the efficient officers. I will firmly support such officers,” he added.Thackeray said he has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take a uniform decision over the policies related to China as India is faced with a border standoff with that country.“Our policies related to China should not be deviating as they differ in case of Pakistan. During times of trouble, we boycott these countries and after a few days extend an olive branch before them. During one of our interactions, I requested Modiji to take a firm stand on China and decide finally on the trade with Chinese companies. We have put our memorandum of understanding with them (Chinese companies) on hold,” the CM said.Thackeray said the decision to allow the bullet train between Mumbai and Ahmedabad will be taken on the basis of people’s mandate. He said he would want to a bullet train to run between Mumbai and Nagpur as it will prove more beneficial for the development of the state.“My individual opinion or that of my party’s stand on the bullet train project could be different, but as a state, the government will take its decision at the appropriate time. Currently, it is on hold. The government decision will be based on the people’s mandate about the project and after discussing it with all the stakeholders,” he said. Thackeray added that if the people of Maharashtra decide against the bullet train, he will cancel it.The Shiv Sena leader also suggested a virtual bhoomi pujan ahead of the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya to avoid the crowding at the site, saying it could lead to the spread of Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease. He said lakhs of Hindus from all across the globe worship Lord Ram and would want to flock for the bhoomi pujan.“Instead of putting their lives in danger, the laying of foundation stone could be done online,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/do-it-if-you-can-uddhav-thackeray-dares-opposition-to-topple-his-govt/story-xA7ZxfoUsL3TYnMniIxS1O.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt to launch job portal to help people find employment opportunities||The Delhi government will soon launch a job portal to make job opportunities available to those who have lost employment due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The announcement was made by Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai.He said that the portal will act as common platform for companies looking to hire and job seekers.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government will soon come out with a slew of reforms to revive the national capital’s economy, which has been adversely affected due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, he said, adding that many migrant workers have moved out of Delhi and several people have lost their jobs due to the shutdown.“We have managed to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi. Now there is a need to bring the city’s economy back on the fast track,” said the minister.Rai’s announcement comes weeks after the Maharashtra government launched a similar portal. Mahajobs was launched by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on July 6. It aims at making local manpower and employment opportunities available to companies and workers respectively.The portal will help in the recruitment of skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled employees.According to the description available on the portal, it has been created to meet the manpower needs of the companies which have been facing the challenge of skill gap due to mass migration triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier this month, the Delhi government had formed a 12-member expert committee to explore economic reform measures in order to help businesses recover from the impact of Covid-19.The AAP government had also extended counselling service by its education department to all residents of Delhi. The department has been providing educational and psychological counselling services to students through its YUVA Helpline since 2006.“In a bid to help citizens with mental health amid the Covid-19 pandemic which has limited people’s physical movement and caused several damages in the employment sector, the Delhi government has taken this decision,” the government said in a statement.It further said that people who need support on educational/emotional/psychological/personal issues can call on toll-free numbers 1800116888 or 10580 to get assistance.It also said that identities of these people will be kept confidential.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-govt-to-launch-job-portal-to-help-people-find-employment-opportunities/story-PtrP7KyvOwWmELaNotIeTP.html
26-07-2020||Ranchi||With 7 more Covid-19 deaths in Jharkhand, toll mounts to 83||Seven more persons have succumbed to Covid-19 in Jharkhand, taking the death toll due to the disease in the state to 83, while 214 new cases pushed its tally to 7,841, a health department bulletin said.Of the new fatalities, two each were reported from Ranchi and East Singhbhum districts, while one each was reported from Sareikela, Dhanbad and Ramgarh, the bulletin said.The seven coronavirus patients died on Saturday while undergoing treatment in hospitals.As many as 214 people tested positive for the disease, taking the state’s tally of coronavirus patients to 7,841, the bulletin said.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 4,237, while 3,521 people have recovered from the disease.“The recovery rate is 44.9 per cent,” the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/with-7-more-covid-19-deaths-in-jharkhand-toll-mounts-to-83/story-Tx3l4dk0LIXOrpAZqxhO1L.html
26-07-2020||Viral||12-year-old skater from Chandigarh dances her way into India Book of Records||Twelve-year-old Janvi Jindal from Chandigarh registered her name in the India Book of Records in two special categories --- ‘Marvellous feat to glide downstairs while skating’ and ‘youngest to perform Bhangra on skates’.Janvi also won the national skating championship in 2019.Skates is an art that is all about balance. Her father taught her skating through Youtube and now Janvi performs like an expert.She started her training at the age of eight. Janvi was trained by a Punjabi choreographer following which she learned dancing while skating. Speaking to ANI Janvi told, “I started my training at the age of eight, my father trained me with the help of Youtube. I am taking special training from a choreographer in order to learn dance moves while skating. I want to make records in the future. I feel proud after getting registered in the India Book of Records.”Her family claimed that she is the first in India, who can glide downstairs while skating and also perform Bhangra with skates on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lifestyle/12-year-old-skater-from-chandigarh-dances-her-way-into-india-book-of-records/story-N6SFuWjlN6SGpwKg8oFBIM.html
26-07-2020||Lucknow||4,797 held in illicit liquor trade cases in three months in Uttar Pradesh||As many as 14,732 cases related to illicit liquor trade were registered and 4,07,366 litres of illicit liquor were seized in Uttar Pradesh from April to June this year, said additional chief secretary of the Uttar Pradesh Excise Department Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy on Saturday.From various districts in the state, 14,732 cases were registered in which 3,39,848 litres illegally manufactured liquor, 37,855 litres of country liquor and 29,663 litres of foreign liquor were recovered. The initiative was part of an enforcement drive to stop the sale of illicit liquor and enable liquor consumers to get legal standardised liquor.“In this action, 4,797 accused were arrested and 1,234 accused persons were sent to jail. A total of 119 vehicles involved in the illegal liquor business have been seized. People involved in illegal liquor business are being monitored during the enforcement drive. Besides, the inspection of shops is also being conducted by the officers,” said a press release by the state government. “As a result of the action taken in the districts of the state, after the opening of liquor shops, 64 over rating cases have been caught till June this year. Strict legal action is being taken against them as per rules,” the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/4-797-held-in-illicit-liquor-trade-cases-in-three-months-in-uttar-pradesh/story-vxgzRsganyUhP5dt9guW2O.html
26-07-2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid-19 tally rises by over 2,500, death toll at 232||Bihar’s Covid-19 tally reached 36,314 on Saturday with over 2,500 more people testing positive for the disease in a day, while 11 new fatalities took the death toll to 232, the state health department said.The department, however, underscored that among the cases registered on Saturday, 1,782 were from tests which were conducted on or before July 23 and 1,021 were reported in the last 24 hours.Also read: Bihar Cabinet nod to ‘special family pension’ for dependents of govt staff who die of Covid-19Of the 11 deaths that occurred in the last 24 hours, three were from Munger, two each from Araria and Samastipur and one each from Bhagalpur, Nalanda, Rohtas and West Champaran.Patna district has reported the maximum number of 36 deaths, followed by Bhagalpur 20, Gaya 14, Rohtas 12, Muzaffarpur 11, and Nalanda and Darbhanga 10 each. Patna’s Covid-19 tally has risen by more than 500 in a day. The district now has 2,165 active cases, just under 20 per cent of the statewide total.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt also accounted for the highest number of confirmed cases at 5,894, followed by Bhagalpur 2,172, Muzaffarpur 1,568, Nalanda and Rohtas 1,425 each, Begusarai 1,334 and Siwan 1,219.Altogether, 24,520 people have recovered from the viral infection till date, with 1,688 of them in the last 24 hours, pushing the state’s recovery rate to 67.52 per cent. Bihar now has 11,562 active cases.In the last 24 hours, 12,461 samples were tested for Covid-19, the highest in a day. Efforts were on to meet the 20,000 tests daily target set by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar earlier this week.Altogether, 4.42 lakh tests have been conducted till date in the state where kits have now been made available across all 38 districts to facilitate aggressive testing and contact tracing to contain the spurt in cases which has led to a fortnight-long lockdown, in force since July 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-covid-19-tally-rises-by-over-2-500-death-toll-at-232/story-nzRS3dSw8yHEpUBxLysIBI.html
26-07-2020||Patna||Bihar Cabinet nod to ‘special family pension’ for dependents of govt staff who die of Covid-19||The Bihar Cabinet on Saturday agreed to give “special family pension” to the dependents of state government staff who die of Covid-19 while on duty, according to an official release.The dependent of a government employee, who die of Covid-19 while on duty, will be given the benefit of compassionate ground, for getting a job, besides other existing benefits, Cabinet Secretariat Department’s Special Secretary Mithilesh Kumar Singh said in the release.If the dependent doesn’t want to avail the benefit of compassionate ground, then the family will be given full salary of the staff, who died due to Covid-19, as “special family pension” till the date retirement, he said.This decision will be effective from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021.The decision assumes significance in view of a number of government staff succumbing to Covid-19 infection while discharging their duty.The cabinet meeting, which was chaired by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, took 29 decisions including on 11 legislative matters which are likely to be tabled in the four-day Monsoon session of the Bihar Legislative Assembly beginning August 3.Bihar’s Covid-19 tally reached 36,314 on Saturday with over 2,500 more people testing positive for the disease in a day, while 11 new fatalities took the death toll to 232, the state health department said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-cabinet-nod-to-special-family-pension-for-dependents-of-govt-staff-who-die-of-covid-19/story-HPRPF4VfdN5UIRYHGm2XSN.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||SAD ‘indulging in petty politics’ amid Covid-19 pandemic, says Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday accused Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) of “indulging in petty politics” amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Reacting to the SAD’s remark on Punjab government’s CM Covid Relief Fund, Singh slammed the opposition party, saying, “Never in my political life have I seen such petty politics.” “It (Covid-19 pandemic) is a question of life and death, and the future of Punjab,” the chief minister said.In his weekly #AskCaptain live interaction on Facebook, the chief minister said that Rs 64 crores lying in the CM Relief Fund were meant for Covid-19 relief and will be spent on it.Pointing out that the virus had still not peaked, the chief minister said his government had already spent over Rs 300 crore on Covid-care, treatment, and other related expenses, and expected to spend another Rs 200 crore.The Rs 64 crores will be spent for Covid-19 care, he said.Expressing concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases among frontline workers, the chief minister pointed out that around 250 police personnel in Punjab had been infected so far.“Testing of the frontline workers was of paramount importance and the state government was focusing on that,” he added.According to the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry, there are 12,216 Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-indulging-in-petty-politics-amid-covid-19-pandemic-says-punjab-cm/story-Djs3hiJuIe41emmAPa92SJ.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar remembers martyrs of Kargil war||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said the sacrifices made by soldiers of the Indian Army during the 1999 war will always inspire the country’s youth to become more patriotic. In a statement issued here, the chief minister paid tributes to those killed in the war, saying 21 years ago, Indian soldiers defeated the Pakistani infiltrators and hoisted the Indian flag at Kargil. In this war, 527 Indian soldiers were martyred and more than 1,300 were injured. Khattar said, “Haryana is a land of patriots and even before the Kargil War, during the wars of 1962, 1965 and 1971 our soldiers had fought the enemy with valour and courage.” “We are proud that 69 soldiers, belonging to Haryana, were martyred in the Kargil War. The sacrifice, courage and dedication of our soldiers can never be forgotten and the country will forever remain indebted to the soldiers who sacrificed their lives for the nation,” he added. It was on July 26, 1999, the Indian Army had declared successful culmination of ‘Operation Vijay’, declaring a victory after nearly three-month-long battles on the icy heights of Kargil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-remembers-martyrs-of-kargil-war/story-DaX9jme8U6Sz8GV5LW8G2O.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana has no role in Rajasthan political crisis: Anil Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij has denied the role of the state government in the political crisis of Rajasthan and also refuted allegations of any of Congress MLAs kept as hostages in Haryana. “Haryana has no role in political events in Rajasthan. Haryana has not kept anyone hostage. Governor does what he thinks is good. He cannot be pressurised that’s why if he thinks Assembly session cannot be convened at this time then the session should not be called,” Vij told ANI. The minister’s remarks came in response to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s allegations that his colleagues, apparently referring to Congress MLAs from Sachin Pilot camp, have been held as hostages in Haryana under BJP’s supervision.Gehlot has also demanded that an Assembly session should be convened to discuss several issues including coronavirus situation and political crisis in the state.Rajasthan plunged into a political crisis after differences between former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and Gehlot came out in the open. Pilot was removed as the deputy chief minister of Rajasthan and as the state unit chief of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-has-no-role-in-rajasthan-political-crisis-anil-vij/story-X31ltXAJtbgEue05QKD5KP.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||‘Much lesser number of people now falling ill’: Arvind Kejriwal on Covid-19 situation in Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said that the occupancy of hospital beds in cases of Covid-19 has come down sharply in the national capital in the last one month.He said a much lesser number of people are now falling ill.Click here for full Covid019 coverage“Corona bed occupancy has come down sharply from 23 June to 26 July. Much lesser no of people are now falling ill. Most of those falling ill are getting treated at home. Therefore, v few people are now needing hospitalization,” Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday, attaching screenshots of Delhi Corona app. Corona bed occupancy has come down sharply from 23 June to 26 July. Much lesser no of people are now falling ill. Most of those falling ill are getting treated at home. Therefore, v few people are now needing hospitalization pic.twitter.com/zSEIGABxyPHe had earlier tweeted on Saturday to say that Delhi now stands at the eighth spot in the country in terms of active cases. Sharing a list of states with active number of coronavirus cases on Twitter, Kejriwal said that the situation was “bad” a few days ago, and Delhi was at the second spot in it.“Delhi has reached 8th position in terms of number of active cases. Situation was bad till a few days back. We were at 2nd position. However, there is no room for complacency. Take precautions and stay safe,” the chief minister tweeted.The national capital recorded 1,142 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the city’s tally to over 1.29 lakh, according to state government’s health bulletin.However, the bulletin also said that the recovery rate in the national capital in 87 per cent.The number of cases in Delhi have now started coming down from a peak of almost 4,000 cases recorded in third week of June. Only 3,135 hospital beds in the national capital were occupied as on Saturday, against 15,475 available beds.Kejriwal on Saturday inaugurated a 450-bed Covid-19 centre in a government hospital in Burari. The Burari facility was designed to be a 768-bed tertiary care hospital, which has been under construction since the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s first full term in 2015. The government also plans to open up another 200-bed Covid facility in its under-construction hospital in Ambedkar Nagar.The three new hospitals that the Delhi government is constructing in Burari, Ambedkar Nagar, and Dwarka will add over 2,500 beds to the existing 11,770 beds in Delhi government-run hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/much-lesser-number-of-people-now-falling-ill-arvind-kejriwal-on-covid-19-situation-in-delhi/story-hmtsVn4X4giXwkShhfoGMK.html
26-07-2020||Kolkata||Ambulance driver ‘demands Rs 9,200’ from Covid-19 patients for 6-km journey to Kolkata hospital||An ambulance driver allegedly forced two boys, who are Covid-19 positive, and their mother to get off the vehicle as they could not pay the exorbitant fare he demanded for a six-km journey between two hospitals in the city.However, after the intervention of doctors, the driver settled for Rs 2,000, the father of the boys said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The two brothers -- one of them nine months old and the other aged nine-and-a-half years -- both undergoing treatment at the Institute of Child Health (ICH), tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, after which their father tried hiring an ambulance to take them to a state-run hospital.The father of the boys alleged that the driver demanded Rs 9,200 to take them to the Kolkata Medical College and Hospital in the College Street area from ICH, which is located at Park Circus.“The ambulance driver demanded Rs 9,200 to take my sons to KMCH, which is only six kilometres away from this hospital. I told him that I will not be able to pay him and kept on pleading with him, but he did not pay any heed.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Instead, he removed the oxygen support from my younger son and forced them and their mother out of the ambulance,” said the man, a resident of Hooghly district.“I am thankful to the doctors at ICH. It is because of them that my children could be taken to KMCH for better treatment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/ambulance-driver-demands-rs-9-200-from-covid-19-patients-for-6-km-journey-to-kolkata-hospital/story-XxzjXaXsvkTPJFfCZc7epJ.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi traffic cop dies in accident during duty||An Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) of the Delhi Traffic Police died in an accident while on duty at Rajokri flyover here on Saturday, police said.The accident occurred when ACP Sanket Kaushik was managing traffic at the flyover, police added.He was rushed to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Trauma Centre, where he was declared brought dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-traffic-cop-dies-in-accident-during-duty/story-1z1wr9ZFIvMqgcBncUVy1O.html
26-07-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM Rawat asks officials to increase Covid-19 testing||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday asked officials to rapidly increase Covid-19 testing.He said that adequate stock of essential materials related to Covid-19 should be kept in view of the monsoon season, the safety of the frontline workers should be taken care of.Reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state, Rawat instructed officials to ensure that work in industrial institutions is not affected and the surveillance system is strengthened to prevent the spread of infection.He also directed Intelligence, LIU and Information Department officials to take strict action against those spreading false rumours on social media.“Strict action should be taken against such people who are moving within the state and giving any wrong information or hiding the truth. People who are coming from high-risk areas should be tested,” the Chief Minister said.On the complaint regarding lack of coordination of staff at Haldwani Medical College, Rawat asked Kumaon Commissioner Arvind Singh Hyanki to take the responsibility himself.The Chief Minister said that strict action should be taken against officials who are negligent towards work.He said that effective control of Covid-19 and necessary resources and better facilities should be provided in Covid-19 Care Centres.Meanwhile, Garhwal Commissioner Ravinath Raman said that regular monitoring is needed at the state border and complete information of people coming into the state for official and personal purposes should be recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-cm-rawat-asks-officials-to-increase-covid-19-testing/story-VEeCD9gtO4ihJcl0DmWBML.html
26-07-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru hospital to ramp up bed capacity to treat Covid-19 patients||A city based hospital on Saturday said it would ramp up bed capacity from 340 to 500 in two weeks to treat Covid-19 patients as steps towards tackling the increasing number of cases reported in Bengaluru.The MS Ramaiah Hospital took the decision after a meeting with deputy chief minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, who visited the hospital.He also held discussions with the college staff, Covid wards through CCTV and expressed satisfaction about the facilities, a hospital press release said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Dr Narayan said the hospital’s gesture to voluntarily treat Covid-19 patients and offer additional beds asked was laudable, at a time when many private hospitals were thinking twice about offering 50 per cent of the beds to the government, despite repeated requests.The hospital management also agreed to the minister’s request to increase the number of ventilators from the five to 25 and add a minimum of 50 to 100 Intensive Care Unit beds to the existing 50, the release said.The hospital requested the minister to ensure adequate supply of Remdesivir, crucial in the treatment of coronavirus infected patients, to which he assured that it would be done immediately Dr Narayan agreed to provide 10 ventilators and 10 dialysis units through sponsors.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The hospital said that in spite of taking necessary precautions, around 10 per cent of the staff are getting infected with Coronavirus while treating patients, despite which they were treating them with perseverance In the present situation, the hospital was facing shortage of doctors and paramedical staff, the release said.The management also assured support to the deputy chief ministers request to provide doctors and paramedical staff to the government run K C General Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-hospital-to-ramp-up-bed-capacity-to-treat-covid-19-patients/story-Ljjzgn6lqvnUizd6J8fqAP.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Indian matchmaking hit hard in era of distancing and coronavirus||Few people in the Capital can talk about matchmaking as insightfully as Poonam Sachdev. After all, she runs Connex’on, previously called ‘Rishte hi Rishte’, Delhi’s oldest matchmaking company, which was started in the early 1970s by her uncle Dharam Chand Arora, the city’s legendary matchmaker. Their catchphrase Rishte Hi Rishte: Ek Baar Mil Toh Lein (matches and more matches, meet us at least once) used to be scrawled along railway tracks across north India in the 1980s.Sachdev, 53, who has been in the business of matchmaking for 30 years, says Covid-19 has made her job more complicated than ever before. “Matching two people and arranging a marriage takes endless rounds of meetings and negotiations between two families, most of which used to take place in hotel lobbies. But hotels are closed and families do not want to invite each other to their homes because of the fear of the coronavirus disease, though they continue to press us for finding suitable matches for their children,” says Sachdev. “While my business has gone down by 80%, one positive aspect of the pandemic is that those seeking matrimonial alliances have never before been so flexible about their demands regarding salaries, looks, the family status. Suddenly, a lot of people seem to believe in a simple marriage.”Her sentiments are shared by many other well-known matchmakers in Delhi, who before the pandemic had an estimated 3,000 matrimonial bureaus. While a large number of them have had to permanently shut shop in the past three months, as business has nosedived like never before, those that have survived say finding a perfect match has never been so tough.“Given the constraints of meeting spaces, I tried arranging meetings on Zoom, but it did not quite work out. Zoom, I realised, is not a place where boys and girl can meet, families can discuss budget, and most importantly, the two families can see each other’s houses and lifestyle, which plays an important role in a matrimonial alliance in Delhi. I managed to arrange a few meetings in hotels outside Delhi, but family members want to see each other’s faces during such meetings, but asking everyone to take off their masks is a bit awkward and not safe,” says Shree Garg, who, along with his father RK Garg, and brother, runs Guptaji Marriage Bureau in Shakti Nagar. “We used to charge 1% commission on the total budget of a wedding, but now those who wanted to spend ₹50 lakh wish to spend only ₹5 lakh on a wedding.”Neelam Pathak, who runs Pathak Ji, another well-known marriage bureau, testifies to the ‘downturn in the groom’s market,’ saying the seemingly suitable boys might not actually be as suitable in reality. “He may be working in an MNC earning an astronomical salary, but given the current economic uncertainties, one can never be sure about what might happen in the next couple of months,” says Pathak, adding, “While our income has crashed like never before; the prevailing situation suits families with lesser means, who are now able to find a good match without the pressure of having to spend much on the wedding, which is currently a close family affair.”Sachdev concurs: “There are a lot of middle-class families who want me to find a match for their children as soon as possible so that the wedding takes place before the pandemic is over. I worked over the phones and have already helped a couple of such as families to find the perfect match without obligations as to how and where the wedding should take place. ”The loss of offline matchmakers has worked to the advantage of matrimonial websites, which have introduced newer features such as video profiles and video calling. “We have got 30% new users in the past three months,” says Rohan Mathur, chief business officer, Jeevansathi. “During the pandemic, we have sought to be a match-meeting destination through secure video calls whose use has gone up three times in the past three months.”So, will the pandemic change the fat Indian wedding forever?“In India, weddings have been a way to make a social statement. But right now there is no social pressure on anyone to organise big weddings,” says Anuja Agrawal, associate professor, sociology, Delhi School of Economics, whose specialisations include anthropology of family, kinship, and marriage.Referring to the present trend of people getting married in courts, temples and at home with a small ceremony streamlined live for relatives, she says, “Some of these alternative weddings will survive after the pandemic is over. But a lot will depend on how long the Coronavirus crisis lasts, and also on the experiences of the people who are adopting these alternatives.”But right now Sachdev’s primary concern is to stay safe as she looks for suitable matches for her clients. Giving an example of matchmaking horribly gone wrong, she says, the pandemic has not only made her job difficult, but dangerous. “Last month, I came across the case of a matchmaker who contracted Covid-19 and died a couple of weeks after she visited a prospective groom’s house,” says Sachdev. “ It turned out the boy’s grandfather had been sick for a few weeks and still the boy’s family invited the matchmaker to their house with the girl’s family. Eventually, the grandfather tested positive and died.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/indian-matchmaking-hit-hard-in-era-of-distancing-and-coronavirus/story-J8sKLGxzNk1k28SFVgiAPP.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM hails Canada’s decision to reject ‘Refrendum 2020’||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday hailed Canada’s decision not to recognise the result of the ‘Referendum 2020’ being organised by the pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ).Reacting to a report carried in these columns on Saturday, Amarinder hoped that other countries would also follow Canada’s example and reject the secessionist `Referendum 2020’, which the SFJ was promoting to divide India on communal lines.The CM said the categorical stand taken by the Justin Trudeau government on the issue is exemplary and other nations and governments should also come out openly against the SFJ, which has been banned by India as a terrorist organisation and whose founder Gurpatwant Singh Pannu has been declared a terrorist for actively promoting Pakistan-backed terror activities on Indian soil.Amarinder said failure to openly oppose the separatist SFJ could set a dangerous precedent for any country as it could be seen as a case of covert support to an organisation that is freely propagating secessionist activities. It was in the interest of global peace and security to reject forces that are bent on spreading terror, he said, adding that Sikhs in Punjab had categorically rejected SFJ’s pro-Khalistan movement, which the outfit was spreading at the behest of Pakistan’s ISI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-hails-canada-s-decision-to-reject-refrendum-2020/story-fvJSRRKmtPFvXdE6ZLMLVI.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Nine more die in Punjab, 468 fresh cases take Covid-19 tally to 12,684||Punjab on Saturday recorded 468 new Covid cases and nine deaths. With this, state’s positive patients’ count has reached 12,684 and the death toll to 291.In yet another single-day spike, Ludhiana reported 164 positive cases and seven deaths. The dead include a 66-year-old woman from Subhash Nagar, 80-year-old man from Jamalpur, 58-year-old man from Basant Avenue, 26-year-old man from Punjabi Bagh Colony, Dugri, 47-year-old man form Model Town, 59-year-man from Kadwai Nagar and 69-year-old resident of Model Town. In Amritsar, a 49-year-old woman of Ranjit Avenue died after testing positive for Covid19 at local private hospital on Saturday. The district also reported 46 fresh cases. Among those tested positive are assistant superintendent of Amritsar Central Jail and its seven other employees. Meanwhile, Gurdaspur reported 16 fresh cases and Pathankot seven. In a major spike, Bathinda reported 66 more Covid cases. Civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu said of these 44 patients are migrant workers who had landed here recently for work.They were staying at special quarantine colonies set up by at Guru Gobind Singh Refinery near their near plant at Raman Mandi in the district.A 60-year-old resident of Ferozepur died due to Covid-19 on late Friday night. She was taken to Ludhiana for treatment where she was tested positive. Later, the woman was shifted to Government Medical College in Patiala where she died on Friday night, said health officials.Meanwhile, nine more people contracted the virus. These include a medical officer and two employees of a private bank.A police personnel posted in Muktsar also tested positive for the virus on Saturday. Thirty-two people contracted the infection in Sangrur district. Of these, 16 are from Lehra/Moonak, six each from and Sangrur, two from Malerkotla, one each from Sunam and Kauhrian blocks.Forty-seven people tested positive for the virus in Patiala, taking the tally to 1,313.Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said of the positive cases, 36 are from Patiala, five from Nabha and six are from various villages.Thirty-five people contracted the infection in Jalandhar.The district has reported 36 deaths so far.Faridkot range inspector general of police Kaustubh Sharma tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. District epidemiologist Dr Anita Chauhan said that Sharma has been home quarantined. “The health department will collect samples of his office staff, while we have initiated contact tracing,” she said. According to sources, Sharma visited Chandigarh recently.Meanwhile, Mohali reported one death and 28 fresh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-more-die-in-punjab-468-fresh-cases-take-covid-19-tally-to-12-684/story-vRYZSsAEr55Kwo3ws5bARL.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab fully prepared to tackle any Covid-related exigency: chief secretary||Amid rising number of coronavirus cases in some districts of the state, the Punjab government on Saturday said it is fully geared up to effectively deal with further spread of the disease with requisite bed capacity and ventilators in hospitals, and adequate arrangement of PPEs, masks and testing kits.The government set up 6,190 beds dedicated for the treatment of Covid-91 patients in both government and private hospitals in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala to effectively deal with the further spread the virus.Reviewing medical infrastructure arrangements in hospitals across the state, chief secretary Vini Mahajan said the state government was well prepared with requisite bed capacity, ventilators in hospitals, besides having adequate arrangements of PPE kits, masks and testing kits to deal with increasing Covid cases. Though the situation was under control and people need not panic, the chief secretary urged people to strictly adhere to the health and safety protocols, including social distancing, proper wearing of masks and washing hands frequently to contain coronavirus.The chief secretary said senior officials of the civil administrations have been deputed as nodal officers in all the districts while IAS officers Sumit Jarangal and Tanu Kashyap deputed as state nodal officers to oversee the daily number of cases to make available the requisite medical infrastructure well in time. Mahajan said a dedicated group of medical experts has been constituted in every district to ensure that patients are admitted and treated as per their medical requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-fully-prepared-to-tackle-any-covid-related-exigency-chief-secretary/story-l2XSi3DTbgcxZvCD6SFxjI.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Seven deaths, 783 new infections in Haryana||Seven patients succumbed to Covid-19 while 783 others tested positive for the virus in Haryana on Saturday. Among those who died on Saturday, three were from Faridabad and one each from Sonepat, Rohtak, Ambala and Jind. As per the medical bulletin, 701 persons recovered from the infection on Saturday. The cumulative number of positive cases on Saturday was 30,538 while the total number of recovered patients was 23,654. The state currently has 6,495 active cases. The case fatality rate was 1.27% and the recovery rate was over 77%. About 56 % of the 389 infected patients who have died so far due to the virus had an existing medical condition or disease. Over 60% of the new infections reported on Saturday collectively came from four national capital region (NCR) districts of Faridabad (198), Rewari (125), Gurugram (98) and Sonepat (50). These four most troublesome districts also account for 56% of the total active cases across the state. On the active case count ladder, Faridabad leads with 1,572 infections followed by Gurugram (1,132), Sonepat (532) and Rewari (454). Some other NCR districts with a comparatively lower active case load like Palwal, Panipat and Mahendragarh, also reported a surge in infection on Saturday. Palwal reported 56 new infections, Panipat (50) and Mahendragarh (34). The bulletin said that there were 237 critically ill patients on Saturday, including 97 on ventilator support at 16 medical facilities. The number of patients with mild symptoms was 6,258. Among other districts, Hisar reported 48 new infections followed by Ambala (27), Panchkula (23), Rohtak (15), Jhajjar (18), Jind (11), Kurukshetra (8), Nuh (6), Yamunanagar, Bhiwani and Fatehabad (4 each), Sirsa (3) and Kaithal (1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-deaths-783-new-infections-in-haryana/story-RUX4AiNGv7LoCpQg30j5dP.html
26-07-2020||City||BSEH RESULTS: Haryana govt schools’ pass percentage increases by over 25 % since 2015||Haryana government schools’ pass percentage in Class 10 state board exams has seen a massive improvement in the last five years. From 30.32% in 2015, the pass percentage went up to 59.29%, an increase of nearly 29% this year.On the other hand, the private schools registered only a 12% increase in its pass percentage—from 57.29% in 2015 to 69.51% in 2020, according to the figures provided by the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) on Saturday. The overall pass percentage in the state has risen from 42.94% in 2015 to 64.59% this year.The figures state that the pass percentage for Class 12 in government schools has risen from 50.57% in 2015 to 79.78% this year. In private schools, it was 54.52% in 2015 to 80.97% this year. The overall pass percentage increased from 52.82% to 80.34%.Haryana additional chief secretary (school education) Mahavir Singh said that over 12,000 students are eligible for scholarships as they scored over 80%, which is also a new record in the state. “The government school results in Class 10 and 12 have improved a lot in the last five years. This happened due to the continuous efforts of teachers, students, officials and government policies. The government started online transfer policy, which also helps in the improvement of board results,” he added.He further said that the Class-12 board results show that government schools have given a tough competition to private ones and their difference in pass percentage was less than 1.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bseh-results-haryana-govt-schools-pass-percentage-increases-by-over-25-since-2015/story-tkCDZzqOBBTOEjRkTf61XP.html
26-07-2020||City||Committed to increase women cops’ strength to 15%: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the state government is committed to increase the strength of women personnel in the state police to 15% in the coming years. “In 2014, there ere only 3% women cops in the state, we have increased their strength to 10%. Now, our target is to increase the strength of women cops to 15%,” the chief minister said, speaking at a passing-out parade for the recruit basic course at the Haryana Police Academy in Madhuban. He said the state government is planning to open a modern police station in every district. A total 400 probationary sub-Inspectors, including 56 women, took part in the passing-out parade. The 16th batch includes 50 postgraduates, 198 graduates and 152 graduates in professional courses.Rs 42-cr projects for Karnal The CM inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of several development projects worth Rs 42 crore in Karnal. The projects include construction of a new road from Karnal-Munak Road to Bhusli Road, a railway underpass worth Rs 25 crore. Besides, a sports stadium will be constructed on 6-acre land at a cost of around Rs 2.49 crore in Hathlana village in Nissing block. The stadium will have a 200-meter six-lane track, volleyball court, kabaddi ground, basketball game facilities, multipurpose hall and toilets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/committed-to-increase-women-cops-strength-to-15-khattar/story-j14mdFnY3p1GBJ4erkhQrK.html
26-07-2020||City||NGT directs IOCL’s Panipat refinery to pay up Rs 25 cr for environment restoration||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has held the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL)’s Panipat refinery responsible for violating environmental norms and spreading pollution in nearby villages and directed it to pay up Rs 25 crore, in addition to the Rs 17 crore already deposited, to be used for environment restoration.During a hearing via video conferencing, the bench, headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, observed, “The IOCL’s stand shows a lack of sensitivity to the fundamental rights of the inhabitants to have a clean environment.”“A public sector undertaking has to be a model of compliance to environmental norms. But unfortunately, it is found lacking in the present case. The IOCL is either denying its responsibility or delaying performance of its obligation,” read the order.The bench directed the IOCL to deposit Rs 25 crore, in addition to the Rs 17 crore paid in May last year, with the Central Pollution Control Board for restoration of environment and public health.The orders are based on the findings of a joint team comprising CPCB, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) and Panipat deputy commissioner. The team had found that the samples from the effluent treatment plant of the unit were non-compliant and the ambient air quality was exceeding the norms.The orders categorically mentioned that the compensation will not debar the HSPCB from initiating prosecution for violation of provision of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, against the company and its senior officials who failed to prevent commission of crime, as per statutory mandate.The bench directed the joint committee to give its further independent report after site inspection as to the status of compliance and execution of action plan by December 31 by email and fixed February 17, 2021 for hearing.When contacted, HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan said, “The order is self speaking. IOCL has already deposited around Rs 17.31 crore and will pay Rs 25 crore more. We will prepare our plan the environment restoration for the area in consultation with CPCB and the district administration.”When contacted, IOCL’s general manager for corporate communications SK Tripathi said, “We will respond only after studying the orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngt-directs-iocl-s-panipat-refinery-to-pay-up-rs-25-cr-for-environment-restoration/story-37LPRGk0QHjOoYDpH6Sk8J.html
26-07-2020||City||Punjab sets target of 12,000 tests per day||Though the health officials are facing a tough task to achieve the daily Covid-19 testing target due to limited resources and manpower, the health department has increased the state’s testing target by 25%.The state government had earlier set the daily testing target at 9,480, with the highest target given to three hotbed districts—Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar—of 1,050. However, the target was set at 9,480 when the state had the testing capacity of approximately 9,800 per day, with government medical colleges (GMCs) in Faridkot, Patiala and Amritsar testing 9,000 samples daily. The other 800 tests can be done at private labs, private hospitals and PGIMER, Chandigarh.The state government now revised the daily target to around 12,000 tests and directed Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar authorities to test 1,300 samples per day. Also, the state government said in the notice that 915 health workers, in 305 teams, are required to achieve the daily sample collection target. The target has been increased after spike in the testing capacity from 9,000 tests in government institutions to 12,000 tests per day. Besides, four new labs for testing Covid-19 samples have been established at Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Mohali and the capacity of each lab would be 250 per day to begin with, which will be increased to 1,000 per day by August-end.A health official, requesting anonymity, said: “The daily testing target has always remained a challenge. Against the set target of 9,480, the state was only testing 7,000-8,000 patients per day till early July. On June 29, only 6,926 samples were tested and the number was 7,561 on June 30. It was after the sudden spike in cases in Ludhiana and Jalandhar that the daily testing target was being achieved.”As per the state’s Covid-19 bulletin, only 8,705 samples were added to the total tests on July 24. State covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said: “The testing capacity in GMCs of Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot have been increased from 3,000 tests each to 4,000 tests each per day. The revised targets have been set accordingly. We are continuously directing district officers to increase the daily sample collection so that more and more tests can be conducted. We have already conducted more than 5 lakh Covid-19 tests in the state and tests are being done as per capacity.”‘UPHILL TASK TO ACHIEVE TARGET’ “We have limited staff to collect samples as most of them are assigned contact tracing and screening tasks at public places. Different teams are required to conduct antigen tests. We are collecting, on an average, 800-900 samples daily. Efforts are on to achieve the target,” said Amritsar assistant civil surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh.Jalandhar civil surgeon Dr Gurvinder Kaur said: “We are collecting 900-1,000 samples per day but people are reluctant to get themselves tested. Persuading them and then collecting samples takes a lot of time.”The testing capacity of the state is set to increase as rapid antigen testing will start in all districts of the state after the successful completion of its pilot project.The state government started the antigen testing project on July 10 on the symptomatic people, with 5,000 kits at its disposal. “Till now, 109 people were tested positive in Punjab through this testing. The results are accurate and antigen testing has been approved. 10,000 more antigen kits have been ordered for the state”, said Dr Bhaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-sets-target-of-12-000-tests-per-day/story-9AQ3UwIVBPFGmXIfHBNwXK.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Parents in Maharashtra demand uniformity in Class 9, 11 oral exam syllabus, format||A few days after the state education department asked schools and junior colleges to promote Class 9 and 11 students to the next class on the basis of oral exams, parents have now demanded uniformity in the syllabus and format of the exams.Parents said that they want schools to give a question bank through which students could prepare. “Students were not prepared for an oral exam and need to be given some consideration in the current situation. Some schools want to ensure good results for Class 10 and thus implement strict marking system for Class 9 students. At least this year, such things should not be done,” said the parent whose child studies in a Dadar school. On Friday, Shikshak Parishad, an association of teachers, wrote to the education department, urging authorities to come up with some guidelines for schools in this regard. “Some schools have told parents that questions will be asked on the entire syllabus. This can become really stressful for students and add to their existing pressure amid the current situation. The department should give some guidelines to make the process uniform across schools and colleges,” said Shivnath Darade, secretary, Shikshak Parishad. Despite repeated attempts, officials from the education department did not respond to HT’s calls and messages. As per the government resolution (GR) dated July 21, schools have been asked to conduct the oral exams by August 7. “Under the current conditions schools should conduct an oral exam of such students either by calling them to school or via video conferencing,” stated the GR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parents-in-maharashtra-demand-uniformity-in-class-9-11-oral-exam-syllabus-format/story-xMuvoOAFVFAdkJzrh7jK4I.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government slashes 25% syllabus for Class 1-12 students||The state education department on Saturday announced that the syllabus for Class 1 to Class 12 of Maharashtra board will be reduced by 25% for the current academic year. The decision has been taken owing to the loss of teaching hours, as schools are yet to reopen in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. “The syllabus of 101 subjects has been reduced. While some chapters have been reduced from languages, the grammar next to each of these chapters will still be taught and considered for assessments. For practical exams, we have taken care to ensure that they are edited as per the current conditions and concepts to be taught in these exercises will be retained. We have tried to ensure that the original structure of chapters is not disturbed,” said Dinkar Patil, director, Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT). On Saturday, MSCERT uploaded a detailed document on its official website maa.ac.in with the subject-wise details on the revised content. “In the revised syllabus, nothing is omitted because doing that would be detrimental to students. Instead, a few chunks of chapters have been kept for homework or self-study,” said Vikas Garad, deputy director of MSCERT. While schools can download the class-wise documents and convey them to students, Balbharti is soon going to upload a revised set of books which demarcate the old and the revised syllabus. “The syllabus in blue will be the syllabus which stays and the parts in red will be for self-study or homework,” added Garad. Teachers welcomed the move and said that this would provide relief to students and parents. “It was needed under the current situation. However, the relaxation could have been a little more - upto 30% like the central boards,” said Rajesh Pandya, teacher at Fatima Devi High School in Malad. The changes Languages: While some chapters and poems, which are difficult to understand or are lengthy, have been excluded for most classes, while activities that need to be done after reading the chapter have been kept for self-study. Social sciences: While some trivia columns titled “Did you know” have been excluded, for Class 9 and Class 10, some parts in the political science textbooks have been removed. For instance, the chapter on challenges ahead of Indian democracy for Class 10 civics, the board has removed subthemes such as communalism, Maoism and terrorism. Mathematics: Most topics have been retained, but exercises have been drastically reduced. Some sums of moderate and difficult levels are not included in the revised syllabus. Science: Several activities and experiments which require apparatus and detailed guidelines have been kept out of evaluations this year. A lot of extra information on concepts that exist in the textbooks has been kept for self-study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-slashes-25-syllabus-for-class-1-12-students/story-dqEEy0rE9BsTtyB2oCZf0H.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Artificial intelligence helps Mumbai civic body detect 1,255 comorbid patients||To detect comorbidity in patients of Covid-19 and their high-risk contacts, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has been working with companies that use artificial intelligence (AI) to diagnose pre-existing medical conditions and utilise resources effectively. BMC is working with Radical Health-tech Private Limited, a startup that had participated in an AI innovation challenge organised by Maharashtra government and Niti Aayog in March 2019. Ashwini Bhide, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “Some AI entities are working with BMC’s health department for early detection of Covid positivity as well as comorbidities in people by analysing chest X-rays, CT scans as well as retinal images using AI tools. Radical Health-tech is among them. They detect comorbidities among high-risk contacts and mildly-symptomatic [Covid-]positive patients using retinal screening.”In June, Radical Health-tech started screening people at 15 locations, including all the patients at the jumbo facility in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC). Until July 23, Radical Health-tech had screened 3,167 people of whom 1,255 had co-morbidity. Of the 1,255 people, 65% had been unaware that they had comorbidities. The screening led to 259 people being newly detected with glaucoma and age-related macular degeneration; 188 were newly detected with diabetes; 376 with hypertension; and five with other systemic comorbidities like asthma, jaundice, tuberculosis, and kidney stones. Since those with comorbidities are more vulnerable to contracting a serious case of Covid-19, 88 people or 2.78% were placed in high-risk category; 713 people or 22.51% were in the moderate category; and 2,366 people or 74.71% were in the low-risk category. On July 24, BMC’s public health department sanctioned Radical Health-tech to work with the civic body at jumbo facilities (HT has a copy of the sanction letter). Co-founder of Radical Health-tech, Rito Maitra said, “If you have diabetes or hypertension, blood vessels all over the body will show some sign or another. Changes are seen in hands, in legs, in the brain, in the eyes. They are subtle. However, in the eyes they can be noticed non-invasively. It is the only place in the body that allows this [through retinal imaging]. Reports are immediately given to patients and to the doctors of the facilities.” Radical Health-tech is also working with BMC to ensure patients follow up on their comorbidities after being discharged from Covid care centres (CCCs). Maitra said, “All people, but especially those from low-income groups, do not pro-actively do yearly check-ups. Many are not aware of the comorbidities. Many are not even aware of simple facts about human anatomy that we take for granted, for example, the function of the liver. So we are counselling these patients to help them understand what their comorbidities mean and continue treatment with BMC later.” BMC has also been working with the Covid-19 Data Science Consortium since May. The consortium is convened by Wadhwani Institute for Artificial Intelligence, a non-profit based in Mumbai which uses AI for social good and was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Mumbai in 2018. It includes volunteers from prestigious organisations like Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru, and Stanford University in the United States of America.Janak Shah, formerly with the office of the chief minister of Maharashtra and now associated with the Wadhwani group, said the institute is backed by international agencies like Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and Google. “We are helping with future case prediction using machine learning and artificial intelligence, healthcare resource predictions, and human resource predictions,” said Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/artificial-intelligence-helps-mumbai-civic-body-detect-1-255-comorbid-patients/story-z9ips72D65wlrql7ZKklfL.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||3 cops die of Covid-19 in Maharashtra in 24 hours; state police death toll touches 93||Three police personnel have died of Covid-19 in the past 24-hours in the state, taking the death toll of Maharashtra Police to 93. One of the three personnel who died was attached to Mumbai Police, which has now lost 53 of its personnel to Covid-19. Assistant inspector general of police (law and order) Vinayak Deshmukh on Saturday said that the other two personnel who died in the past 24 hours were from the constabulary in Thane and Satara police commissionerates. The three personnel were above 50 years of age. A total of 8,232 police personnel (7,371 constables and 861 officers) from across the state have contracted the virus until Saturday, of whom 6,314 have recovered, with many of them even reporting back to duty. Active cases in the state’s force stand at 1,825. Mumbai Police has the maximum cases (3,600) of Covid-19 in the state, followed by Thane Police which has 896 cases. The police said the department has taken multiple steps to prevent the spread of the virus in the force and has also allowed personnel aged above 55 years to stay at home to curtail the fatality rate. The police also recently decided to send all personnel deployed at containment zones for testing. Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (administration), who is the designated nodal officer for Covid-19 management in Mumbai Police, said that personnel in the 45-55 age group will undergo rapid antigen testing. After their testing procedure is completed, personnel from the age groups below this will also undergo testing. A senior IPS officer had recently admitted that though the police department is taking all the possible measures to protect the lives of its personnel, it was helpless in cases of infected policemen aged above 55 years or those with comorbidities. An internal assessment report prepared by the Mumbai Police to understand the spread of Covid-19 among its personnel till July 1 has found that the fatality rate in the city police is 1.34%.  The fatality rate was the highest at 82% among those personnel aged above 50. The report found that police personnel between 31 and 40 years of age were affected the most. High blood pressure and diabetes were the most common ailments among comorbid personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-cops-die-of-covid-19-in-maharashtra-in-24-hours-state-police-death-toll-touches-93/story-NElaVMMYsBwTYRlBHuTmiK.html
26-07-2020||City||Cop deployed in security detail of Maharashtra CM’s wife tests positive||One of the police constables in the security detail of Rashmi Thackeray, the wife of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, has tested positive for Covid-19.Shiv Sena insiders, however, said that Rashmi Thackeray had not stepped out of the family residence Matoshree at Bandra since the past 10-12 days, and therefore, is safe. Two weeks ago, two police constables in the security detail of Tejas, CM’s second son, had also tested positive for coronavirus and were quarantined at a Covid centre in Andheri.In May, three constables deployed outside Matoshree had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-deployed-in-security-detail-of-maharashtra-cm-s-wife-tests-positive/story-TB0xY4q8B6cVrc98k1wrsL.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Children of a lesser God: Donations dry up, orphanages struggle to stay afloat||BATTLING THE VIRUS Child care homes being run by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in the region are facing a fund crunch due to a dip in donations during the Covid-19 pandemic. The orphanages get limited aid from the government and are seeking financial help to meet educational expenses of children. Many have not taken in new children in four months as they struggle to cope. The Supreme Court has also sought details from the Centre on funds for children homes. The government will file an affidavit in two weeks about funds made available to states and Union Territories to run child care institutions. Setback for children with special needs: Student strength reduced to half, teachers worried break in learning will stall progress  The Covid-19 pandemic has left child care homes run by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) high and dry. With no sign of the situation easing, donations are drying up and the number of children in such institutions is seeing a steady decline as all activities come to a standstill. NGOs are dependent on corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives of the local hosiery and cycle industries. With the economy slowing down, these institutions are not getting enough funds through CSR. Some homes have had to cut staff strength to save cost, while others are struggling to make ends meet. Neelam Sodhi, who runs NGO Ashirwad, an institute for children with cerebral palsy since 1999, says: “Donations are not flowing in. With schools closed, we are relying on one-on-one therapy. These are special children and even a small break in learning stalls their development and takes them back a year in their mental growth.” While the institute’s strength has fallen from 70 to 35 students in this academic session, Neelam had to reduce her staff to manage expenses. “Parents just stopped sending these children to school. We are relying on speech therapy and online classes,” she adds. Rajinder Kumar Sharma, the owner of Noble Foundation that runs 36 schools for slum-children across the state, says, “We have seen a decline in donations by half.” Before the lockdown, there were more than 5,000 students across his chain of schools but now there are 2,200. “Most children were wards of labourers who have gone back to their native places. They have not returned as train services are skeletal,” he says. “We are relying on online classes. Industrial groups who used to pay us under CSR have expressed their inability to do so this year. We owe Rs 34 lakh to our suppliers of books, stationery and uniforms. Times are tough,” says Sharma. Niranjan Kumar, the general secretary of Darpan, a centre for the autistic, says, “We had 75 children until last year but now the centre is closed and we haven’t got any donation this time.” - Aneesha Sareen Kumar No birthday celebration in four months  Covid-19 has robbed children at rescue homes of the simple joy of celebrating their birthday. Managements are in a tight spot as donations have stopped coming with visitors staying home. “We run this centre with the support of people. Now that no visitor is allowed due to social distancing, a few donors contribute to our bank account that is helping us buy food for 70 inmates in the 1 to 24 year age group. We pay shopkeepers in instalments,” says Satnam Singh, a trustee member of Unique Home, Jalandhar. “The children have not celebrated their birthdays in four months. Their annual trip to Manali was also called off,” he says. During the lockdown, the Centre received a new member in a one-and-a-half year old child from Gurdaspur. The Nari Niketan Trust is in a similar state. “With the entry of visitors banned since March, donations have declined. The common man has suffered loss, too,” says Navita Joshi, the CEO of the trust. She says 36 children, ranging from three months to 19 years, stay in the institution but are not allowed outside. Capt Jagdish of Pingla Ghar says donations have been hit as no one is allowed to meet the 350 inmates. Jatinder Mahal With no public dole, orphanage reaches out for funds  Home to 19 children up to the age of 15 years, Sri Anant Anath Ashram at Nathana village is the only NGO-managed child rescue and adoption centre of Bathinda district. Four months after the Covid-19 pandemic, it is battling financial challenges as public contribution has dried up. “Our monthly budget is about Rs 1 lakh, which includes expenditure on salaries of 14 staffers, food and electricity. Earlier, people contributed in cash and kind but visitors stopped coming since March. Young children need baby food daily. We are managing somehow,” says Krishan Kumar Bansal, the chairperson of the society that runs the orphanage. “Earlier, people would donate flour, pulses and ghee to commemorate a family occasion but after the pandemic all such activity has been suspended. As social remittances have stopped, a close family group is planning to pool in funds to keep the institute running,” he says. The 10-year-old institute also got aid regularly from a local corporate house. “We never had to ask anyone for support but now our teams are approaching people for funds,” he says. Residents of the nearby Ganga, Giddar and Poohla villages ensure milk supply of 20 litres a day for the orphanage. District child protection officer Ravneet Kaur said the children and staff have been screened for Covid-19. “The department has informed the state authorities through the deputy commissioner about the difficulties the orphanage is facing. We have yet to get any information,” she adds. - Vishal Joshi Dipping into savings to survive in Amritsar  In these tough times, NGOs in Amritsar are forced to dip into their savings to run child rescue homes. One of the oldest such institutions in Punjab, the Central Khalsa Orphanage is run by the Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD), a 117-year-old organisation with multiple resources. But the pandemic has hit it in terms of donation. “Though donations have dropped drastically, we are dipping into our savings but ensuring children get the facilities they used to,” says CKD president Nirmal Singh, who has donated 51 quintals of wheat during this crisis. CKD member Bhag Singh Ankhi, who is in-charge of the orphanage, says, “We have 250 inmates and our average monthly expenditure is about Rs 15 lakh. The institution has closed new admissions till the situation improves.” The All India Pingalwara Charitable Society is also struggling to cope. Society president Inderjit Kaur says, “We relied on donations and would get about Rs 3 crore a month. We’ve got a negligible amount since the lockdown so we are using savings. We didn’t lay off staff or cut pay, but we appealed to them to donate from their salaries.” The society has, however, continued to get wheat and paddy from people of Amritsar and its adjoining districts. Surjit Singh ‘Need funds to clear education expenses’  For the first time in 106 years, the Yadavindra Puran Bal Niketan, an orphanage and adoption centre in Patiala, is seeking funds to take care of its 32 children. Orphanage chairperson Urmila Puri says, “There has been a 50-60% drop in donations in four months and we are forced to seek help for clearing the educational expenses of the children. Fortunately, we have adequate food stock.” Another NGO running the SOS Children’s Village in Rajpura has been operational since 1996 and houses 106 children at present. Its director Anup Singh says, “The donation has been reduced to 50%. Some of our permanent members have faced job losses and salary cuts, while businesses have been hit during the lockdown so there has been a decline in donations. Now that the school results have been declared, our children need to apply for higher education so we need cash donations to pay their fees.” Child protection officer Roopwant Kaur says efforts are on to help the orphanages. “We have fulfilled the requirements they put before us during the lockdown earlier,” she says. - Harmandeep Singh Shelter homes struggle to make ends meet in Haryana  Shelter homes run by NGOs in Haryana have seen a dip in donations over the past four months due to the Covid-19 pandemic and are stretched for resources. The management of Karnal’s MDD Bal Bhawan Anath Ashram needs about Rs 6 lakh a month for food, clothing, electricity, medical facilities and school fee of the 100 children it houses. In addition, it spends Rs 22,000 on monthly rent for the building and salaries of 30 staff members. “We get Rs 2,000 a month for each child from the government but that is not enough,” says PR Nath, the general secretary and a founder member. “These are uncertain times. People can donate only after meeting their own needs,” he says. 15 NEW INMATES DURING LOCKDOWN During the lockdown, 15 children joined the 100 inmates, including 49 girls. “Besides, we have 15 differently abled boys in a separate building. We don’t get anything from the government for them and they need two attendants round the clock”, he says. It’s a similar situation at Bal Ashram at Ladwa in Kurukshetra district that is home to 30 children. “The government released last year’s funds now. It pays Rs 2,000 per child per month. We used that amount to clear the dues. It’s becoming difficult to even buy ration,” says Shish Pal Mandhan, the ashram director. Baldev Raj Arya of Shradhanand Orphanage in Karnal says, “In such times, people with even two kids are facing problems and we have to take care of 110 children, including 65 girls.” The first two months of the lockdown were worse but donations are picking up gradually. “The government works according to its policies. We will face this situation and ensure the best for our children,” he adds. Neeraj Mohan Donations down by 80%, banking on hope in Himachal  Orphanages being run by NGOs in Himachal Pradesh are facing tough times with 80% of donations affected due to the pandemic. Naresh Thakur, the manager-cum-incharge of Titeli: Home for Children at Samula village near Palampur in Kangra district, says, “Though our orphanage is supported by a trust, we have not received any public donation since the lockdown began. Visitors are not allowed either.” No new child has been admitted or adopted at the centre in four months. The child care institution run by Global Hands for Rural Development was set up in 2016 and is home to 17 children. Navneet Rathore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/children-of-a-lesser-god-donations-dry-up-orphanages-struggle-to-stay-afloat/story-nr4dvFnEf0dIZsh92bvcEI.html
26-07-2020||City||Dereliction of duty will cost the state dear in its fight against Covid-19, says Maharashtra CM||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned officials against dereliction of duty, saying that it would cost us dear in the fight against Covid-19. He also said the temporary healthcare facilities being developed to deal with the ongoing health crisis would be converted into permanent facilities. Thackeray on Saturday launched two dedicated hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 at Dombivli, with a capacity of 210 beds, and at Kalyan, having a strength of 194 beds. He also inaugurated a Covid testing facility at Gauripada, Kalyan, where 3,000 tests can be conducted in a day, once it is functional. “It is necessary for us to remain vigilant until an effective medicine arrives in the market for Covid-19 treatment. We are not in a position to be negligent or careless,” the chief minister said at the launch. “We have developed temporary facilities for Covid-19 patients. However, in the coming days, those have to be converted in to permanent one. Defeating the virus is a big challenge before us, but together we can win this battle,” he added. Thackeray also stressed the fear among people about the pandemic needs to be removed by holding counselling sessions. Meanwhile, the state health department has issued an order to release ₹95 crore for the districts to continue relief work against the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision was taken by the state disaster management authority in its meeting held on July 15, states a government resolution issued on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dereliction-of-duty-will-cost-the-state-dear-in-its-fight-against-covid-19-says-maharashtra-cm/story-lnBTRpVVCdyNhXIT4XGJhM.html
26-07-2020||City||29 from Mumbai’s Mankhurd facility for special people test positive for Covid-19||Twenty-nine people, including four children, staying at the Mankhurd Mentally Deficient Children’s Home have tested positive for Covid-19. Most of them are asymptomatic, while some have comorbidities and are identified as high-risk patients. The institute, under the non-governmental organisation Children Aid Society, houses 268 mentally challenged individuals upto 70 years of age and is funded by the state.Dr Jayesh Vasule, the only doctor at the rehabilitation and shelter facility, told HT that a few days ago, some of those staying at the home had shown Covid-19 symptoms, following which they were tested for the virus. Authorities of the facility suspect that the residents may have been infected from some of their staff. The staff of the facility and those of another child care institute at Mankhurd, which recently reported three cases of Covid-19, live in the same quarters. “Sixty individuals underwent testing. On Saturday, 29 tested positive, including four minors and two above the age of 50. Most of them are asymptomatic and we have isolated them within the home. It is, however, very difficult for us to ensure that the inmates follow social distancing norms and hygiene,” Dr Vasule said.The authorities at the facility are in talks with senior doctors of Sion hospital to shift the five high-risk patients, who have comorbidities, to a Covid facility. “The doctors have assured that the five patients will be shifted to the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC),” said Dr Vasule.Mansi Sawant, the principal and in-charge superintendent of the facility, said the situation is being taken care of and that there is no need to panic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/29-from-mumbai-s-mankhurd-facility-for-special-people-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-xuDhCNVfEGo4Xzl2coO9hJ.html
26-07-2020||Lucknow||15 IPS officers shifted, Kanpur, Ayodhya get new police chiefs||The state government on Saturday night shifted 15 IPS officers, including district police chiefs of Kanpur, Ayodhya, Lakhimpur Kheri, Jalaun and Jhansi. The list includes two deputy inspector general (DIG) rank officers who were posted as district chiefs of Ayodhya and Kanpur Nagar. According to a press statement from the state government, 2004 batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Preetender Singh, who was posted as DIG Aligarh range, has been transferred to the post of DIG /senior superintendent of police (SSP), Kanpur Nagar in place of Dinesh Kumar P. Deepak Kumar, a 2005-batch IPS officer who was posted as DIG Chitrakoot Dham range, has been made the new SSP Ayodhya in place of Ashish Tewari. Kumar has been replaced by inspector general (IG) rank officer K Satya Narain, who had recently returned from central deputation. Dinesh Kumar P has replaced D Pradeep Kumar as SSP, Jhansi. Similarly, 1997-batch IPS officer Deepak Ratan has replaced Preetender Singh as the new IG, Aligarh range. A 2010-batch IPS officer Satyendra Kumar, who was posted as SP Economic Offences Wing (EOW) Lucknow, has been given charge of SP Lakhimpur Kheri. Dinesh Singh, who was deputy commissioner of police (DCP) in Lucknow, has been shifted to the post of SP, Amethi. Yashveer Singh, who was commandant of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), has been sent as SP Jalaun. D Pradeep Kumar-I has been posted as SP EOW, Varanasi, and Satish Kumar, who was SP, Jalaun, has been shifted to the post of commandant, SDRF, in Lucknow. Khyati Garg, who was posted as SP Amethi, has been transferred as DCP in Lucknow. SP, Ayodhya, Ashish Tewari has been shifted as SP Railway Jhansi. SP, Kheri, Poonam has been posted as Commandant of 15th battalion of Provincial Armed Constabulary, Agra. IG, PAC headquarters, Anil Rai has been sent as IG of Basti range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/15-ips-officers-shifted-kanpur-ayodhya-get-new-police-chiefs/story-Xdi8oQ3bFCZIsJ9yDddsBO.html
26-07-2020||City||Will those seeking lifting of lockdown take responsibility for deaths, asks Maharashtra CM||Justifying his decision to not hastily open up the restrictions to contain the spread of Covid-19, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked if those demanding lifting of the lockdown would take responsibility for the fatalities.Thackeray has been criticised for treading cautiously on lifting the curbs in Maharashtra. It is also said that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar intervened to convince him to allow opening up of businesses and industry. In a clear indication that the lockdown could continue after July 31, Thackeray said the government would provide further relaxations in activities.In part one of the two-part interview to Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut for Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Thackeray said living with coronavirus is a tightrope walk that requires balancing the economy and health of the public. He also warned against lifting of lockdown at once, citing several countries have reimposed lockdowns after lifting them all at once. “There are several smart people speaking against the lockdown... Fine, we will open everything for you, but if, unfortunately, people die due to this, will you take the responsibility for it? There is no problem in opening up, but will they take responsibility? I am not using the word ‘lockdown’ now. I will not say that I am lifting the lockdown, but gradually restrictions are being lifted. And my attempt is that once an activity is opened, there should be no need to shut it again,” he said.“Just thinking about the economy too will not work. Those who are only concerned about the health situation, however grave it may be, too, will have to think a little about the economy. Living with the coronavirus is a tightrope walk,” Thackeray said.In the interview published in Saamana on Saturday, Thackeray spoke about various topics, including the first six months of his government, the role of Opposition leader, the government’s measures to tackle Covid-19, and his view on final-year examinations, among others.Saying that people were tired of sitting at home, Raut asked Thackeray when will vada pav, a popular snack in Mumbai, be available and when will the suburban train network resume for common man.“People may be bored [of the lockdown], but we can’t lift restrictions to give them a break from it. If we hastily unlock, and someone loses their life, then what is the use of livelihood? What will happen if this virus spreads in a factory? Then we must decide that no matter how many people succumb to this disease, we do not want a lockdown. Are you prepared for it? I am not. I am not [Donald] Trump, I can’t see my people suffer in front of my eyes… We will start [suburban] local trains and vada pav [stalls on the roads], but first, decide on one extreme. Families are falling ill and dying. Who will open the lockdown in that family,” he asked.Thackeray also remained measured in the success of containing the spread of Covid-19 in Dharavi, India’s largest slum, and in acknowledging the reducing numbers from Mumbai. “I am not going to speak about it. The danger has still not passed. If I appreciate the work now, complacency may creep in.” The ‘Dharavi model’ was praised by the World Health Organization (WHO).The chief minister also took potshots at former chief minister and leader of Opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis. The former chief minister is touring the state to review the Covid-19 situation and criticising the government on its shortcomings. He also visited Delhi earlier this week. Thackeray said, “He [Fadnavis] must have gone to see the Covid-19 situation there, but he did not say anything about the situation there. He is going to Delhi because he has given Maharashtra’s fund to Delhi (Centre).”Thackeray said that Fadnavis might have “stomach ache” after an organisation ranked Thackeray as one of the best chief ministers in India. “He could have a stomach ache because without stepping out anywhere, one organisation ranked me as [one of the] best chief ministers in the country. This must be a cause of stomach cramps because corona has varied symptoms.”Thackeray dismissed the criticism that he has not gone to Mantralaya as much as he should have. He said that he is using technology to take stock of the situation in the state. “Mantralaya is shut now. The technology has advanced to such an extent... If one cannot use technology, then it is really unfortunate. I am meeting officials and public representatives. In one go, I am covering the entire state and taking decisions. If it is important to visit physically, you go to that place, but with video-conferencing, you can cover the state,” he said.The chief minister also remained firm on the state’s decision to not hold final-year examinations, while giving an option to appear for exams after the Covid crisis goes away. “We have taken a decision. I think now the Governor too has understood [it]. Nobody is against the idea of holding exams. I am in favour, but understand there is an option for students to accept the grades based on average of previous semesters or appear for exams. We do not know yet when these exams can be held,” he said.The Sena chief also dodged a question on Pawar’s comments on Ram Mandir being a priority over tackling Covid-19 for the Centre. The CM said this is not “Thackeray sarkar”, but “everybody’s sarkar, especially that of the people of the state, who have accepted this experiment.” “I am not bothered about the political challenges. People have faith in me,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-those-seeking-lifting-of-lockdown-take-responsibility-for-deaths-asks-maharashtra-cm/story-xzmm8Ae3U8gR43SYd7XV2L.html
26-07-2020||Ranchi||Lalu’s swab samples taken for Covid-19 test as precautionary measure||The swab samples of jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad, currently admitted in a Ranchi hospital, were taken for Covid-19 test on Saturday, a senior doctor of the facility said.He said that the test report is expected to come on Sunday.Prasad’s samples were taken as a precautionary measure as Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), where he is admitted, is a Covid-19 designated hospital, Dr Umesh Prasad said.The former Bihar chief minister, who is serving jail sentences in cases of multi-crore fodder scam, has been under treatment at RIMS for multiple-ailments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/lalu-s-swab-samples-taken-for-covid-19-test-as-precautionary-measure/story-rStjf3uQP1bliagZkzdkyN.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal crosses 2,000-mark, lockdown in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh||Himachal continued to witness a spurt in Covid-19 cases as the state’s tally crossed the 2,000 mark on Saturday, with 95 people testing positive for the virus.So far, 2049 people have tested positive for the virus. Thirty-five cases were reported in Solan ,25 in Sirmaur,15 in Mandi and seven people, including an army personnel and an asha worker, tested positive in Chamba district. Four persons have tested positive in Kangra district, six in Una, two in Hamirpur and one in Shimla. In Solan,most cases are from the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) area. Given the surge in Covid-19 cases, the district authorities have announced a lockdown in the BBN area from Saturday till Tuesday. The police station in Baddi was sealed for 48 hours after a policeman tested positive.Deputy commissioner KC Chaman has urged people to stay indoors during the lockdown period. The district authorities will ensure the smooth supply of essentials.The lockdown in Baddi, Barotiwaala and Nalagarh came into force on July 26 from 12am to July 28. However, the area will continue to remain a containment zone thereafter. Solan deputy commissioner KC Chaman said there will be no movement of within, into or out of the BBN, except for medical emergencies. All central and state government offices, public corporations, banks, commercial and industrial activities will remain closed, except for emergency services such as fire services, health services, chemist shops and industries, which require continuous process. Petrol pumps, LPG gas, oil agencies and their godowns and transportation-related activities have also been ordered to close.Transit through national highways has been permitted with a condition that no one will be permitted to stop anywhere in the area while transiting.He said that during the lockdown, health authorities will ensure that maximum numbers of teams are deployed for conducting door-to-door screening of people residing in the BBN, especially in high load areas. Further, completion of active case finding (ACF) will be done as soon as possible.Meanwhile, 15 cases have been reported in Govindgarh locality of Nahan town, the administrative headquarters of Sirmaur district. Among the patients 11 are women and four men.More than 100 people have tested positive for the virus in Govindgarh locality in the last one week. Sirmaur deputy commissioner RK Pruthi said there will be a complete lockdown in Nahan till Tuesday.Fifteen people were tested positive in Mandi district. Six cases have been reported in Pandoh town while three in Sundernagar. Other cases are from Balh, Nachan, Mandi town, Drang and Dudar.Shopkeepers in Seraj, Nachan, Janjheli have decided to keep their shops shut due to a surge in Covid-19 cases.1,000 cases in 23 daysThe Himachal Pradesh tally crossed 2000-mark on 127th day of reporting the first case, which was March 20. The 1900- mark was crossed on Friday. The first 1,000 cases were reported on 105th day on July 2. A thousand more cases were added to the tally in just 23 days.Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal said so far 11 people had succumbed to Covid-19 in the state and 1,173 patients had recovered while 15 people had migrated out of the state.With 507 Covid-19 cases, Solan is the worst hit district in the state, followed by Kangra with 389 cases, Hamirpur has 293 cases, Sirmaur 226 , Una 178, Shimla 125, Chamba 93, Bilaspur 68, Mandi 101, Kinnaur 41 and Kullu has 24 cases. With four Covid-19 cases, Lahaul and Spiti is the least affected district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-crosses-2-000-mark-lockdown-in-baddi-barotiwala-nalagarh/story-F8h30oEOPlPoduARjLZydK.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Sector 33 residents peeved over dumping of rubble, overgrowth of wild grass||On the dividing road of sectors 32 and 33, an empty patch of land is cluttered with malba (construction debris or rubble) and overgrown with wild grass causing major inconvenience to residents.The patch has become a haven for reptiles and insects to thrive, claim the residents of Sector 33, adding that no action is being taken.Secretary of the Sector 33B resident welfare association (RWA) Kuljinder Sra said, “Mounds of malba are mounting and the officials are busy passing the buck. During monsoon, to prevent the spread of diseases it is important that this patch is cleaned. New officers should be appointed who are made accountable for any mishaps happening here.”President of the Sector 33A RWA Jagdish Singh Sarpal added that the situation was similar in other parts of the sector as well. “Dumping grounds have been made near the Landmark Hospital, Tender Heart School and the petrol pump here. We keep complaining to the authorities but no action is taken.”Saying that the malba problem had been created by the residents themselves, local area councillor Rajesh Kumar Gupta said, “We have got the patch cleared numerous times but people are now used to dumping the malba there. Wherever any construction or renovation is carried out in the sector, the malba is taken from the sites and brought to this patch by carts. Recently, two carts were even impounded.”Gupta added that the land belonged to the administration and getting the grass cut was their prerogative. “I have requested the UT administration officials many times to send a JCB here to lift the malba and cut the grass, but they don’t listen to us,” he said.Officials of the UT engineering wing said that they had cut the grass around three weeks back, but it had regrown due to the rain. “We will clear the overgrowth soon,” they said.SOUTHERN SECTORS NO DIFFERENTSector 33 is not the only place in the city where an empty, neglected patch of land has been covered with wild grass and is being used for dumping malba. President of the Sectors 38 (A and B) RWA Joginder Singh said the situation was similar in Sector 38. “There are entire patches of land parallel to Dakshin Marg that are lying neglected and have thick overgrowth. They need to be cleared immediately,” he said.General secretary of the Sector 40C RWA SK Khosla added that in Sector 40 as well, malba was being dumped in empty patches. “Due to monsoon, the spots are filled with long and wild grass. The administration needs to clear the malba here and cut the grass.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-sector-33-residents-peeved-over-dumping-of-rubble-overgrowth-of-wild-grass/story-nKIqX3FN1rNnrzHmHZIv8K.html
26-07-2020||City||Driver killed after container falls off bridge||A 25-year-old container driver, transporting medicines, was killed in a freak accident on Saturday at 2.45am. The container which was transporting medicines was going towards Nashik. The driver, while taking a turn on the Majiwada bridge, on Ghodbunder road, he lost control of the vehicle and it fell of the bridge. The driver died on the spot. Santosh Kadam, chief officer of regional disaster management cell, said, “The driver identified as J Azad, was driving towards Nashik when the container hit the side walls of the flyover and it fell. We have removed the container from the road in the morning to make way for traffic.” The police have registered a case against the driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/driver-killed-after-container-falls-off-bridge/story-N20FFcmRgQnSYuWwQwMYRP.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||PU devises promising method for forensic analysis of wood||A research carried out at the Institute of Forensic Science and Criminology, Panjab University, has revealed a new method which can be used for the forensic analysis of wood and trace it to its origin.The method can be useful in forensic work of crime scenes and creation of a database of wood to prevent its smuggling.The research, which has been published in ‘Vibrational Spectroscopy’ by Elsevier journal on June 27, has been carried out by PU assistant professor Dr Vishal Sharma in collaboration with the Department of Wood Science, Mendel University, Czech Republic.During the study, various hardwood and softwood samples were collected and analysed using infrared spectroscopy. The research was further validated by analysing unknown wood samples to predict their source/origin using the same technique.Stating the applications of the method, Dr Sharma said, “In the type of crimes where wooden objects are pieces of trace evidence or weapons used to commit them, the wood fragments get attached to the perpetrators or victims. These fragments can often be identified and linked to standards from crime scenes using this method.”Even the smuggling of wood can be prevented using infrared lasers for onsite crime scene analysis and this method can also be used in establishing the area of origin of the wood species, he said.The PU faculty is planning to contact the Union environment, forest and climate change ministry about the exploration of further research in this area.Dr Sharma said this method gives better and more accurate results on wood analysis than all the other techniques and the results are readily acceptable for criminal proceedings in the court of law. “Above all it is a non-destructive method. It can be used to create the database of wood samples of any country for future reference and matching,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-devises-promising-method-for-forensic-analysis-of-wood/story-b4YFB6oaFiaDsZOB4yxdSJ.html
26-07-2020||City||Very rare species of mangroves rediscovered after 63 years: Report||A mangrove species, believed to be extinct from city forests, has been documented across Gorai and Charkop mangroves after 63 years. The last documentation of this ‘very rare’ species - lumnitzera racemosa - was in 1957 from Mumbai, according to the mangrove cell. The details were revealed in a report ‘Status of Mumbai’s Mangrove’s, prepared and submitted to the state mangrove cell, by Suchandra Dutta from the department of botany, RD and SH National College, Bandra.“We found less than 10 shrubs of the Lumnitzera racemosa towards the northwestern suburbs of Mumbai,” said Dutta, principal investigator of the project.The cell also released location-wise sapling plantation data for the Konkan coast from 2015 to 2020 with survival rate ranging from 75% to 80%. The mangrove plantations were done over 1,480 hectares (ha) along the west coast including Mumbai at a cost of ₹40.36 crore over five years. “With 20 lakh saplings in our nursery, post-monsoon plantations over 200 ha has been planned this year,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).The reports were shared ahead of the international day for mangrove ecosystem conservation on Sunday.Researchers from National College identified 13 species and 37 mangroves associates from Mumbai while studying 260 plant species belonging to 231 genera and 92 families across 17 locations.Mumbai has 6,600 ha mangrove cover, about 90% of which are dominated by one species, Avicennia Marina or the grey mangrove - a fruiting plant with dark green leaves. The remaining 10% is dominated by other species such as Acanthus ilicifolius, Ceriops tagal, Bruguiera cylindrica, and Aegiceras corniculatum. However, species such as Kandelia candel, Sonneratia caseolaris and Avicennia alba that were documented from Mumbai between 1905-1957 have gone missing. Lumnitzera racemosa was one of them until the latest rediscovery. Though it is common across Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts, it was identified from Bandra and Thane by late Dr Arvind Untawale from National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) in 1957. N Vasudevan, former mangrove cell chief, said, “This is an important find as this is a locally threatened species and brings to the fore the unique biodiversity of Mumbai’s mangroves.”Growing urbanisation and demand for development in the space-starved city had made mangrove forests a target for developers altering their ecosystem, the report said. “Dumping of construction waste, sewage discharge and encroachment are some of the issues behind the depleting cover,” said Dutta. “Mangroves across Bandra, Gorai, Dahisar, Lokhandwala and Mira Bhayander are facing these issues leading to ecosystem changes.”The study also identified the differentiating characteristics among four species of Avicennia, and documented a fifth member (new taxa) as Avicennia marina forma pumila near Tarzan Lake, Charkop. “Distinguishing factors showed this was a dwarf tree having different leaf shape, apex, and fruit,” said Dutta. She is now working on a study to check whether Salavadora alii (a mangrove species discovered in 2016) is present in Mumbai.The National College report recommended mangrove tourism (as developed along the Thane flamingo sanctuary) be replicated across Bandra, Gorai, Mira Road, Virar, and biodiversity-rich water bodies at Nerul (Talawe wetlands), Charkop (Tarzan lake) and Lokhandwala lake. “Apart from establishing a mangrove information centre, locals can act as tourist guides, which help develop awareness and reduce further anthropogenic disturbances,” said Dutta.Tiwari said all recommendations would be considered. “The small grants program by our Mangrove Foundation is being given for similar research with unique findings to help strengthen mangrove and marine ecosystem conservation efforts,” he said.MMR gets first marine animal treatment centreEquipped with two 1000 litre tanks and five 500 litre tanks, an operation table, medicines, equipment and visiting veterinarians, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) will get its first marine animal transit cum treatment centre on Sunday at the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Centre at Airoli, Navi Mumbai. The treatment centre will be catering to cases of cetaceans and sea turtle strandings, injuries, post-mortems, and rescues. Before this, a treatment centre was located only in Dahanu. In 2018, the forest department along with various non-profit groups began a marine respondent network to coordinate a fast response to marine animal treatment cases but a designated centre was not present.Why it matters- Between June and July, 45 sea turtles have been rescued from various beaches along Konkan coast including 40 Olive Ridley, 3 Hawksbill and two Green sea turtles. In all, five died due to injuries.- In 2019, 10 Olive Ridley turtles and a Hawksbill turtle were stranded along the Mumbai coast. Three of the 11 turtles were treated and released back to sea while remaining succumbed to injuries and infections.- Apart from sea turtles, cetacean strandings in 2019-20 around Mumbai include two baleen whales, an Indian Ocean humpback dolphin and a striped dolphin (all these were dead strandings).(Source: State Mangrove Cell)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/very-rare-species-of-mangroves-rediscovered-after-63-years-report/story-D1ujM1QMVZ7RGaNhdFAO0O.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Man running chemist shop caught with heroin in Chandigarh||A 36-year-old resident of Jhampur village was held with drugs from Sector 17, the police said on Saturday.The accused was identified as Narender Kumar of Govind Nagar in Jhampur who had been supplying drugs under the garb of a chemist shop in Dadumajra. The police on Friday recovered 5g heroin, 600 capsules of tramadol hydrochloride IP and 40 bottles of chlorpheniramine maleate and codeine phosphate syrup from his possession.The accused was arrested by a patrolling party near the stadium when he had come to supply drugs to a customer. During questioning, he told the police that he ran a chemist shop in Dadumajra called JC Medicos run on a licence obtained on some other person’s name.The accused told the police that he had taken the shop on rent of ₹6,500 per month from one Gurmeet Singh. The licence was issued in the name of one Gopal Mani, but the accused was selling drugs without prescription and over the counter.A case under the NDPS Act was registered. The accused was produced before the court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-running-chemist-shop-caught-with-heroin-in-chandigarh/story-BhJYNw85YIwR6at75TEVIL.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Thackeray inaugurates 25 ambulances donated by Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Saturday donated 25 ambulances on the occasion of party chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s birthday on July 27. The ambulances donated through two trusts will be used in 12 divisions. Thackeray inaugurated the ambulances at Bandra-Kurla Complex in the presence of ministers Aaditya Thackeray, Anil Parab, and MP Arvind Sawant. Thackeray said the relation between Sena and ambulances is a decades-long one as the party has donated and operates several ambulance services. The CM also lauded the efforts of Parab for adding ambulances fitted with latest equipment required for Covid-19 patients, including oxygen supply, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thackeray-inaugurates-25-ambulances-donated-by-shiv-sena/story-BwnVFbSh7ptFAh4vAryTNO.html
26-07-2020||City||Kharar shoot-out: Gangsters sent to 5-day police remand||The organised crime unit of Punjab Police on Saturday got five-day custody of four gangsters, a day after they were arrested following a brief shoot-out at Aman Homes in Kharar.The accused — Kulwinder Singh, Parminder Singh alias Pinda, residents of Buttar Kalan village in Moga, Amritpal Singh and Amrik Singh of Samrala in Ludhiana — were produced before a court here and sent to five-day police remand.Injured in the shoot-out, gangster Navdeep Singh Navi alias John Buttar of Moga, underwent a surgery in PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Saturday. He had sustained two bullet injuries in both his legs after the police team that had gone to arrest him fired three gunshots at him in retaliation. John Buttar is under treatment and would be arrested after his recovery.TENANT VERIFICATION WAS NOT DONEAs per the police, the accused had rented a flat in Aman Homes through a broker. Though the rent agreement was entered, the broker failed to get the mandatory police verification of the tenants done. The flat is owned by Harcharan Singh, who is unwell, so the broker was handling all the rent dealings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-shoot-out-gangsters-sent-to-5-day-police-remand/story-J5rAJ5nqUJPyEO8GLlmQJL.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||First heart transplant of 2020 conducted at PGIMER, Chandigarh||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) performed the first transplant of the year on Saturday by harvesting the organ from a 10-year-old brain dead girl from Kharar, Mohali.The heart from the donor, whose identity has been kept confidential on the request of the parents, gave a second lease of life to three people with the donation of the kidneys as well.The 10-year-old had had a fatal fall on July 14 at her home. After an initial treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, she was shifted to PGIMER on the same day.This is the sixth heart transplant conducted at PGIMER to date. Among the previous transplants, only one person had died before being discharged from the hospital, and two people had survived for three years and three months respectively; two of them are still alive.The first heart transplant at the institute was conducted in August 2013.Kidneys from another 11-year-old donor were also transplanted to save two other lives on July 22. Donor’s father Amandeep of Chikha village in Rupnagar displayed the rare courage of organ donation of his deceased son who was admitted at PGIMER on July 16 with intracranial bleeding. His condition kept worsening and finally Amandeep was declared brain dead.CHALLENGING IN THE TIME OF COVIDProfessor Jagat Ram, director of PGIMER, describing the challenges amid the pandemic, said, “With the numbers consistently surging, PGIMER is overwhelmed with Covid positive patients. So, introducing those waiting to receive an organ to this environment as well as conducting transplants is ridden with multiple challenges. The credit goes to each and every member of the team whose untiring efforts helped save five lives with the two latest organ donations.”Professor Ashish Sharma, head of the Department of Renal Transplant Surgery, who led four kidney transplants back to back, said, “Special precautions were taken to proceed with the transplants. The deceased donor, as well as both recipients, were tested and confirmed to be negative for Covid-19. Fortunately, all four kidneys have started to function well. The recipients had been on dialysis for more than three years.”Professor Vipin Koushal, nodal officer, Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation, said, “The act of organ donation during these difficult times shows magnanimity on part of the donor families who agreed to donate despite suffering a loss of their young children, both being less than 12 years old. It’s an extremely tough call but ‘spirit of giving’ overcomes all obstacles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/first-heart-transplant-of-2020-conducted-at-pgimer-chandigarh/story-pRT6lTIuNfAAvQZRIBXgjN.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||Need advisory on swearing-in process, Governor writes to RS chairman, LS Speaker||Days after a controversy erupted over the slogans raised by Bharatiya Janata Party parliamentarian Udayanraje Bhonsle in Rajya Sabha (RS), Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Saturday wrote a letter to vice-president and RS chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha (LS) Speaker Om Birla, urging them to issue an advisory that will help to “preserve the sanctity and dignity” of the swearing-in process of elected representatives. “Adding names of party leaders or any other person, to whom members owe their faith or allegiance, to the format of the oath-taking violates the sanctity of oath-taking process”, wrote Koshyari in his letter.“Observing that some of the newly-elected members of Parliament and legislatures are departing from the prescribed form of language for oath-taking and adding the names of their party leaders or venerable personalities while reading oaths, the Governor today urged vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to come up with an advisory to be adhered to in the context of the form and oath being read out by members,” read a statement released by Raj Bhavan on Saturday. Earlier this week, Bhonsle, after taking his oath in the RS, chanted the “Jai Bhavani, Jai Shivaji” slogan, to which Naidu had expressed his disapproval. Naidu’s disapproval over the slogans drew criticism from Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders, who said that the vice-president had insulted Chhatrapati Shivaji. However, Bhonsle downplayed the incident and clarified that the Rajya Sabha chairman had not insulted the Maratha warrior king. Naidu, too, reacted to the controversy and said that he had only reminded the members of the upper House about the conventional practice and meant no disrespect to anyone.In his letter, the Governor also mentioned the December 30 incident where he had to intervene and direct Congress legislators KC Padvi and Varsha Gaikwad, who were being sworn-in as ministers of the Maharashtra cabinet, to repeat their oath strictly as per the prescribed format without any addition or deletion.Padvi, now the tribal development minister, had added a few lines of gratitude to his voters after reading out the written oath text, while Gaikwad, who is the school education minister, had invoked Dr BR Ambedkar’s name while taking her oath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/need-advisory-on-swearing-in-process-governor-writes-to-rs-chairman-ls-speaker/story-FiicPk3JHoTk5Fvvg8LiiJ.html
26-07-2020||City||IIT-B’s GATE test to be held in February||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) on Saturday evening announced that the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) exam for postgraduate admissions will be held over a longer duration compared to previous years and will take place between 5 and 14 February, 2021. One of the biggest changes introduced to the exam this year is that along with science and engineering candidates, students from humanities background will also be allowed to appear for the exam.“Two new subjects are also being introduced starting this year, environmental science and engineering and humanities and social sciences. Candidates will also have the option of appearing for two subjects this year onwards,” said an official statement released by IIT-B.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iit-b-s-gate-test-to-be-held-in-february/story-DrPI1JoInolf4XHQHakYeJ.html
26-07-2020||City||DMCH served notice after 49-year-old patient referred to Ludhiana civil hospital dies||The Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) was served a notice on Saturday after a Covid-19 patient, who was referred to the civil hospital due to paucity of beds, died.“They have been asked to explain within two days as to why the patient was referred to civil hospital, failing which action will be taken,” said Dr Rajesh Bagga, civil surgeon, Ludhiana. The 48-year-old patient from SBS Nagar was admitted to DMCH with fever on Thursday night.His brother said after he was found positive for Covid-19 on Friday evening, DMCH staff asked them to shift the patient elsewhere as they could not accommodate more Covid-19 patients.When they took him to civil hospital, there was no ventilator facility, and his brother died while they struggled to get him medical attention, he alleged. Despite repeated attempts, DMCH secretary Prem Gupta and principal Dr Sandeep Puri were not available for comments. THIRD INCIDENT IN PAST ONE WEEK This is the third such death in the past one week involving a private medical facility referring critically ill patients to civil hospital. A 72-year-old woman from Janakpuri and a 55-year-old man from Islam Ganj, who were referred from Mohandai Oswal Hospital and DMCH, respectively, were declared brought dead at the civil hospital on July 19. As per the health department, both patients, who were suffering from comorbidities, died on their way to the hospital. But, it remains unclear why they were referred to the civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dmch-served-notice-after-49-year-old-patient-referred-to-ludhiana-civil-hospital-dies/story-5iDj7wqMr8exsIhzsvI9eP.html
26-07-2020||Mumbai||4 of gang arrested for making fake e-passes||Officers from crime branch’s unit 3 on Friday busted a gang and arrested its four members for making fake e-passes and medical certificates to travel within the state from Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) during the lockdown. According to the police, the accused would charge ₹3,000 for a fake pass or medical certificate, which is mandatory for every citizen for travel to another other city or state during the lockdown. The accused have been identified as Sindhudurg resident Abdul Karim Mohammad Shaikh alias Aslam, 35; Girgaum residents Samir Shamsuddin Shaikh, 36; and Noor Mohammad Abdul Gani Shaikh, 39; and Vasai resident Vinay Mohan Pate, 36. Shaikh, Samir and Noor run a travel company in Mumbai, while Pate runs a computer class in Vasai. The police received a tip-off about a gang which had been duping citizens who had to travel to other districts in the state from MMR. During inquiry, the police discovered that the accused were operational from Malvan and would send the e-passes from there to citizens on WhatsApp or email. The numbers of their mobile phones were registered on Delhi addresses. “Based on the tip-off, an officer approached Shaikh posing as a customer and asked for a police e-pass to travel to Satara from Mumbai. The documents were sent on WhatsApp,” said senior inspector Ashok Khot of unit 3. After receiving the pass, a police team visited Malvan and arrested the Shaikh Samir and Noor from there, while Pate was arrested from his home in Vasai. The police also seized the laptop, mobile phones and several fake e-passes from the accused. “It appears that someone in authority may have also helped the gang. We are probing further,” said police inspector Nitin Patil. The four were produced in a local court and remanded in police custody till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-of-gang-arrested-for-making-fake-e-passes/story-dwh7lzdUfUxjMPZ9zvM37N.html
26-07-2020||City||4 held for shouting slogans outside activist’s house, released on bail||Four men, including a journalist who runs a news web portal, were arrested on Saturday morning, for allegedly shouting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans outside the house of RTI activist Saket Gokhale on Friday evening. The Thane court released them on a personal bond. Saket Gokhale had on Thursday tweeted about the alleged handling of the social media campaigns of the chief electoral office of Maharashtra by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader. He had also filed a petition in the Allahabad high court to halt the bhoomi pujan for Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, on the grounds that it was in violation of the Centre’s protocol. The court dismissed his petition on Friday. Gokhale on Friday alleged that Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) members shouted slogans outside his house in Kashimira, Mira Road, and threatened his family members. He also alleged that RSS members were giving him death threats over the phone. The state government then provided protection to the activist and announced a probe into the incident. The accused arrested – Ranveer Jaiprakash Vajpaye, 33, Mira Road resident; Vishal Jagannath Patil, 35; Bhayander resident, Harshal Raghunath Davane, 28, Kashigaon resident; and Kashimira resident Roshan Baliram Ghare, 28 – were booked under sections 143 (a) (unlawful assembly), 188 (disobedience), 269, 270 (spread of infection) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Sanjay Hazare, senior inspector of Kashimira police station, said: “We are in search of six others. The accused were arrested on the basis of the CCTV footage from Gokhale’s building.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-held-for-shouting-slogans-outside-activist-s-house-released-on-bail/story-DgO7Rih5k39AVcpBZQHa3H.html
26-07-2020||City||Covid pandemic in Ludhiana: Spike of 1,000 cases in 17 days reinforces need for masks, social distancing||While Ludhiana recorded 200 Covid-19 cases on June 1, over two months after the first case was reported on March 24, the district has seen the cases steadily rise through June and July, already crossing the 2,400 mark.From 1,000 cases in a month (between June 1 and July 5), the cases doubled to 2,000 in just 17 days on July 22.Even thereon, there has been no let-up in cases, with the district witnessing 100 new cases every single day, reaching 2,439 on Saturday. This has once again reinforced the significance of complying with Covid-19 protocols, such as social distancing, wearing masks in public and frequently sanitising or washing hands.“The surge in cases is largely because the public, especially the young and the middle-age group, have ignored government guidelines on social distancing and wearing masks. Public places are teeming with people, with residents even throwing parties,” said Dr Bishav Mohan, a senior cardiologist and member of the COVID-19 task force of the Punjab government.He said which way the graph goes in the near future depended on public’s abidance to the Covid-19 protocols.Dr Mohan also emphasised the need for early testing and treatment to contain the spread of virus, as with the onset of monsoon, dengue cases may also rise and increase the load on the district’s health infrastructure. He urged residents to make wearing a face mask a part of their lifestyle and avoid attending social gatherings to break the chain of infection.Dr Milan Verma, who is supervising the Covid-19 unit at the civil hospital, said, “August will be crucial in containing the virus. Cases began to rise in June as the borders were reopened and residents returned to their routine. Naturally, majority of the patients are from the working age group, as they started venturing out to make a living.” He said majority of the 50 patients, who have so far succumbed to the virus, had comorbidities, such as tuberculosis (TB), diabetes and hypertension, adding that residents with these ailments needed to exercise extra caution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-pandemic-in-ludhiana-spike-of-1-000-cases-in-17-days-reinforces-need-for-masks-social-distancing/story-bdoJCeVBZB6zWWfJKgKv0L.html
26-07-2020||City||Thane hospital loses Covid unit status for overcharging||In a first, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has cancelled the registration of a hospital, Horizon Prime Hospital, for a month and its recognition as a Covid hospital for allegedly charging 56 Covid patients an additional ₹6 lakh. The civic body has stationed a team of two doctors at the hospital around-the-clock to ensure the admitted patients receive proper treatment. The hospital authorities termed the action “unfair”, saying a clarification has been sent to the civic body.The hospital was recognised as a Covid facility on April 2. Last week, TMC chief Dr Vipin Sharma set up an audit committee to check the bills imposed by private hospitals on Covid patients. The committee found 196 patients across the city were overcharged and have sent notices to 15 private Covid hospitals.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “We had received complaints from several patients that this hospital overcharged them. Accordingly, our audit committee set up to look into the bills generated by all Covid Hospitals in the city checked the bills imposed by the hospital. A total of 797 patients were treated at this hospital until July 12. Of the 57 bills submitted by the hospital for the audit, 56 were found to be exorbitant. An excess of ₹6,08,900 was charged in these 56 bills.”The committee issued a notice to the hospital on July 20 to give a clarification in two days. Malvi said, “The hospital did not send any clarification, which suggests they have cheated the patients.”Dr Raju Murudkar, medical health officer of TMC, said: “The hospital has proved to be inefficient to give medical treatment to common Thane residents. It will be no longer recognised as a Covid hospital and we have cancelled their registration for one month.”The hospital has been given a period of 30 days to appeal against the directives before the Thane civic commissioner.Dr Hrishikesh Vaidya, medical director of Horizon Prime Hospital, said, “We have given the clarification on the reason for excessive bills to TMC on Friday, a day before they issued these directives, so it is possible they haven’t read the explanation. We will meet the officials and resolve the issue.”He added the charges on all patients were imposed as per the government rule. Vaidya said, “We have given discounts to 50 patients under the Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Scheme and to over 50 cops under the police schemes. There are many patients who are critical and need extra care for which additional charges might have been imposed and we have clarified that. Moreover, there are sanitisation charges, as the rate of biowaste management has increased three times. We are not a charitable hospital and need money to manage expenses.”He said the hospital was the first private Covid hospital in Thane and had treated over 1,000 patients successfully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-hospital-loses-covid-unit-status-for-overcharging/story-fieoKgi0p52GnbTtnHlvGO.html
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Govt schools in Chandigarh to start pre-nursery to Class 8 admissions from July 31||The UT education department has announced that admissions for pre-nursery to Class 8 will start in government schools from July 31 onwards.Students will have to apply online and submit their applications by August 14. Officials said details regarding the list of clusters, schools under each cluster and tentative vacant seats will be made available on the department website (www.chdeducation.gov.in) from July 27 onwards.In accordance with the Right to Education (RTE) norms, the admission in government schools is done as per the neighbourhood concept (school nearest to the residence).There are total 115 government schools in the city, including 40 senior secondary schools, 53 high schools, 13 middle schools, 8 primary schools and one nursery school.Only those candidates who are presently not studying in any of these government schools will be eligible to apply for admission.Meanwhile, admission for Class 11 is currently open and candidates can apply online till August 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-schools-in-chandigarh-to-start-pre-nursery-to-class-8-admissions-from-july-31/story-VbZ2EZ9aA5ZHBS3lGpK35O.html
26-07-2020||Patna||Flood waters causing damage to heritage structures in Bihar||The flood fury, an annual menace in Bihar during monsoon, has marooned over half a dozen monuments, heritage sites and ancient temples in the northern parts of the state amid growing concern over the loss of these historic structures due to persistent damage and decay. Some of the flood-affected structures include the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and Union Ministry of Culture protected sites such as the Ashokan Pillar at Lauria in West Champaran district; the Buddhist stupa at Kesaria in East Champaran district and the remains of the fort of the ancient ruler Raja Bali at Balirajgarh in Madhubani district. Religious places of interest such as Punaura Dhaam temple, the widely-regarded birthplace of Goddess Sita in Sitamarhi district; Haleshwarsthan, an ancient Lord Shiva shrine in Sitamarhi believed to have been built by mythological King Janak, who was the ruler of the ancient kingdom of Janakpur and the father of Goddess Sita as depicted in the epic Ramayana; and the ancient Bodhaayan temple in Sitamarhi district have also been affected by the flood. The Kesaria Stupa and the Ashokan Pillar are surrounded by water, while the floodwater could enter the Punaura Dhaam temple’s main shrine anytime. The temple campus of Haleshwarsthan has turned into a veritable water pool. “We may lose these monuments and heritage sites for good, if the flood fury persists every year. Prolonged waterlogging and seepage will damage these ancient structures. Many historical remains are in danger of getting washed away,” said CP Sinha, former director of KP Jayaswal Research Institute, a Patna-based institution that works in the field of history and archaeology. “If we lose these ancient structures, then the country will lose its historical evidence,” he added. Local residents have also expressed a similar apprehension. “Little effort is being made to protect these historical monuments from the annual flood fury. The Ashokan Pillar and Kesaria Stupa get inundated by floodwater every year. To make matters worse, even the recently excavated site near the Kesaria Stupa has been flooded,” said Mukhia Chaudhary, a local resident. Ramashankar Shastri from Sitamarhi district said Punaura Dhaam gets submerged by floodwater every year. “Sitamarhi has become a flood-prone district. The authorities need to make adequate arrangements to preserve the ancient historical sites,” he said, HS Naik, superintending archaeologist, ASI, Patna circle, said plans are afoot to preserve these ancient monuments and historical sites. “We will send our engineer to assess the extent of the damage at the Ashokan Pillar and the Kesaria Stupa after the floodwater recedes. Strategies are being worked out to preserve the ancient monuments and sites,” he said. “A wall can be erected around the Ashokan Pillar to protect it from the floodwater. While some other strategy needs to be adopted to preserve the Kesaria Stupa,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/flood-waters-causing-damage-to-heritage-structures-in-bihar/story-VgjL5MqsAfTFx5NXELbX2I.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||JNU student booked over tweets about the Indian Army||The Delhi police have booked a Jawaharlal Nehru University research scholar for allegedly trying to “provoke riots and breach of peace” through his tweets against Indian Army.In the FIR registered at Kapashera police station on July 8, Sajid Bin Sayed has been booked under IPC section 153 (provocation with intent to cause a riot) and 504 (intentionally insulting with intent to provoke breach of the peace).Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya said a case has been registered based on the complaint and further probe is underway.When contacted, Sajid said he was not aware of the case. “I haven’t received any official information and got to know about the FIR through media reports. Criticising policies is a part of democracy,” said the final-year PhD student.The FIR, police said, was registered on the basis of a complaint given by one Tejinder Yadav. In the FIR, Yadav, who introduced himself as a social worker, has alleged that Sayed has termed Army’s anti-terrorist operations in Kashmir as wrong and against the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jnu-student-booked-for-tweets-against-army/story-fhSuhIuc0gzlj1kSsnE7iM.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||18-year-old drowns in water-logged pit while trying to save two children||An 18-year-old man drowned in a pit filled with rainwater in southeast Delhi’s Jasola on Wednesday. Police said the pit was dug up for an ongoing construction work in the area. Police are yet to verify which agency was involved. Quoting eyewitnesses, a police officer said the man drowned while trying to save two children who were playing in rainwater near the pit. Police identified the dead teenager as Mohammad Aamir,18, a resident of Khadda colony near Jasola Vihar. His father is a tailor.According to the police, around 4.30pm Wednesday they received a call reporting that a man has drowned in a pit dug up in Jasola. A police team reached the spot and pulled out the body with the help of fire personnel and local residents. The body was sent for a post-mortem examination and was later handed over to Aamir’s family, police said.“During preliminary probe, witnesses said the streets in Jasola were waterlogged after the rain on Wednesday. Two boys who were accompanying Aamir had fallen into the pit. Aamir fell into the pit while trying to rescue the two kids. Though he safely pulled the two children out, he drowned,” said the officer.Deputy commissioner of police (south east) RP Meena said police have registered a case under section 304A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Meena said police are probing whose negligence led to the death. This is the third rain-related death in Delhi in the past one week. On July 19, a 56-year-old man had drowned in the waterlogged Minto Road underpass near Connaught Place. The same day, a 28-year-old man died after falling in a waterlogged street in Amar Colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-drowns-in-waterlogged-pit-in-jasola/story-nN6ykZD6U4pCCNPoayWkCM.html
26-07-2020||Noida||National consumer commission dismisses complaint against Noida builder||The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) on Friday dismissed the complaint of a homebuyer against a Noida developer as the total value of the suit, including the interest amount, did not exceed Rs 1 crore. Dismissing the complaint, the NCDRC—which only hears cases with value exceeding above Rs 1 crore— stated the flat buyer had demanded excess compensation without any legal basis and directed the complainant to approach the Uttar Pradesh commission instead. The complainant had booked a flat in a Noida housing project on August 7, 2011. The total cost of the flat was Rs 55.97 lakh, and the complainant said she had paid Rs 48.08 lakh to the developer till the filing of the complaint. She had alleged in her complaint that the possession of the flat was not been to her by the builder.Her counsel had pleaded that the national commission should direct the builder to hand over the possession of the flat and pay interest at the rate of 24% per annum on the deposited sum of Rs 48.08 lakh.In her plea, she claimed the interest amount would be around Rs 78 lakh and the total consideration amount would exceed Rs 1 crore.The counsel stated that the complaint was earlier filed before the Delhi state commission and the same was returned on the ground of territorial jurisdiction. Satisfying the territorial jurisdiction, the complaint was then filed before the Uttar Pradesh state commission in 2018. The UP state commission returned the complaint on the ground of pecuniary jurisdiction—referred to the jurisdiction of a court over a suit based on the value of its subject matter—as they only hear cases where the value of compensation is below Rs 1 crore, following which the complaint was filed with the NCDRC.The NCDRC on Friday observed that the main prayer in the complaint was for possession of the flat. In such a case the compensation is calculated from the date of scheduled possession ( which was May 2015 in the case) and not from the date of booking.The commission stated demand for a higher interest would be an exaggerated and inflated claim without any legal basis and cannot be taken into consideration for the purpose of determining the pecuniary jurisdiction.If compensation in the form of interest at the rate of 18% per annum is awarded, it will cover the losses of all kinds, including the financial loss and distress and mental agony caused to the flat buyer, since the financial loss would not be more than 10-11% per annum, considering the rates of interest prevailing during the relevant period, the commission observed.“The NCDRC on Friday stated the consumer complaint is not maintainable before it for want of pecuniary jurisdiction and therefore the complaint is dismissed,” advocate Aditya Bhati, who is also the representative of district consumer forum advocates association, said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/national-consumer-commission-dismisses-complaint-against-noida-builder/story-5FD5aJKIvHatrRvH2IbTGM.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Bhalswa landfill 12 metres shorter, claims North Delhi Municipal Corporation||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Saturday said the height of the Bhalswa landfill, located near the GT Karnal Road, has reduced by 12 metres over the last eight months. According to officials of the north civic body, the height of the garbage pile was reduced with the help of trommel screening machines deployed at the landfill site, to treat the waste. On Thursday, east Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir had said the east civic body had reduced the height of the Ghazipur landfill by 40 feet, by treating legacy waste. In 2019, the landfill had touched a height of 65 metres. Bhalswa is the second biggest dump yard in the national capital, after the Ghazipur landfill. However, on Friday, the AAP said the BJP MP was “lying”, claiming there was a significant increase in the width of the landfill. The AAP, in a statement, said it’s party’s MLA from Kondli Kuldeep Kumar on Friday inspected the Ghazipur landfill site to check the authenticity of the BJP’s claim about reducing the height of the landfill.Apart from its adverse impacts to the ecology of the national capital, the Ghazipur landfill has also proved fatal in the recent past. In September 2017, two persons had died when a portion of the Ghazipur landfill collapsed. Pradeep Bansal, chief engineer, north corporation, said the civic body had in September 2019 decided to use trommel machine-cum-ballistic separators to segregate solid-waste and inert materials at the Bhalswa landfill site. The first mechanical screening machines started segregation of waste at the Bhalswa landfill site on October 6, 2019. The height of the waste dumped at the site was then 65 metres.  “Till Friday, we have segregated 5.6 lakh tonnes of waste and reduced the height of the landfill site by 12 metres. Currently, 15 trommel machines are functional at the landfill site and are lifting and separating 4,500 metric tonnes of legacy waste per day. Two more trommel machines will be pressed into service from Monday. Our capacity per day to segregate waste will further increase to 5,500 metric tonnes,” Bansal said. He said the corporation’s target is to flatten the landfill site in a few years. The Bhalswa landfill site is an open dumping ground created in 1984, and currently spread over 70 acres. It reached a saturation point in 2006, but still receives about 2,100 metric tonnes of mixed waste every day. Bansal said waste is taken from the top of the landfill and put into trommel machines. These machines segregate the waste in three parts — waste usable as RDF, C&D waste and inert soil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhalswa-landfill-12-metres-shorter-claims-north-delhi-municipal-corporation/story-D6vN5IpTAzEglB25uxhraO.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||CAA stir: Sharjeel accused of sedition, cops file charge sheet||The Delhi Police on Saturday charged former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Sharjeel Imam with sedition in a case related to communal riots in north-east Delhi in February following anti-Citizen Amendment Act (CAA) protests.An officer from the Delhi police’s crime branch said the police submitted a charge-sheet against Imam in the Patiala House court on Saturday in the case registered against him on January 25. The police have said that Imam had given a seditious speech at AMU in January. Besides sections of the stringent sections of stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the police have invoked section 124-A (Sedition), 153(A) (Promoting enmity), 153-A (promoting enmity, hatred between different communities), 153-B (Assertion prejudicial to national integration) and 505 (spreading rumors) of IPC in the charge-sheet. “In the garb of protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 (CAA), he (Imam) exhorted people of a particular community to block the highways leading to the major cities and resort to ‘chakka jaam’, thereby disrupting normal life. Also, in the name of opposing CAA he also openly threatened to cut off Assam and other Northeastern states from the rest of the country,” the officer said. Imam’s lawyer Ahmad Ibrahim denied the allegations and said he has faith in the judicial system. He said they are sad Imam has been incarcerated for six months without any offence, especially when he has been found coronavirus positive. “We will soon move a bail application in the concerned court. It is a planned way of keeping him in prison as today six months were getting over had the police not filed the charge-sheet, he could have been released on bail by default,” Ibrahim said.Imam was arrested from Bihar’s Jehanabad on January 28. On April 18, police had filed the first charge-sheet against Imam in connection with the violence outside the Jamia Millia Islamia campus, during which protesters had clashed with the police. In the first chargesheet, police had accused Imam of allegedly instigating riots at the campus during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens. The court is likely to take up the matter for hearing on July 27.Imam is currently lodged in Guwahati Jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sharjeel-imam-charged-with-sedition/story-1Gr28V5f8bXg3LK2QBzZ9I.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Shahrukh Pathan claims threat to life in jail||Shahrukh Pathan, who was caught on tape pointing a gun at a policeman during the riots in north-east Delhi in February, moved a city court on Saturday claiming threat to his life inside Tihar jail. The 23-year-old’s photograph, which showed him with a gun on the streets of Jafrabad-Maujpur road in north-east Delhi, had gone viral. Pathan on Saturday also sought court’s help in issuing directions to Tihar jail authorities to continue his incarceration in the high-risk prisoners’ cell. Inside the prison, a high-risk cell is guarded round-the-clock by armed guards, and inmates lodged in this cell are not mixed with other prisoners. Pathan, who was arrested on March 3, said in his plea that he has been informed by the jail authorities that he would be transferred from high-risk prisoners’ jail to another cell for general inmates/prisoners. The plea stated that the Pathan wants “to continue in the high-risk prisoners’ cell as there is a threat to his life and there is apprehension that any untoward can take place at any point of time if he is shifted with general prisoners”. The plea will be heard on July 29. On May 1, the Delhi Police filed a 350-page charge-sheet against Pathan and two others -- Kaleem Ahmad and Ishtiyak Mallik -- in connection with the case. Also on Saturday, another city court granted one more month to Delhi police to complete probe in a case against the president of Alumni Association of Jamia Millia Islamia, Shifa-Ur-Rehman who was arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the riots. The police told the court that Shifa-Ur-Rehman, being the president of AAJMI, collected funds from suspicious and unaccounted sources. Rehman, also a member of Jamia Coordination Committee, was booked for alleged involvement in the riots and was arrested by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police in April. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana on Friday allowed the special cell to complete its probe by August 24, after the agency sought more time claiming that the case was related to a “deep-rooted and large scale conspiracy behind the riot incidents” and that its searches in other states were being hindered due to the coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-shahrukh-pathan-claims-threat-to-life-in-jail/story-DZh4L8sDVDsdWo5fpFz1SO.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal, Jain inaugurate 450-bed Covid centre in Burari govt hospital||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated a 450-bed Covid-19 centre in a government hospital in Burari on Saturday. “I am very happy to be inaugurating Burari Hospital today. I could not be there due to Covid and various other arrangements. I visited the hospital a few days back to inspect all arrangements that were being made in the hospital. The opening of this hospital will add 450 more beds to the health infrastructure in Delhi. The two crore people of Delhi along with the central and the state government have attained victory over Corona, but it would not be correct to say that the fight is over,” said Kejriwal in a video address. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, who resumed work on Monday after recovering from Covid-19, was present at the hospital for the inauguration. The government had decided to open the Burari hospital in May when the number of Covid-19 cases had started going up, with Delhi recording over 1,000 cases a day towards the end of the month. The number of cases in Delhi have now started coming down with about 1,000 cases being reported each day from a peak of almost 4,000 cases recorded in third week of June. Only 3,135 hospital beds in the Capital were occupied as on Saturday, against 15,475 available beds. So far, 129,531 people have been infected and 3,806 have died of Covid-19 in Delhi, according to Delhi government’s daily health bulletin. The Burari facility was designed to be a 768-bed tertiary care hospital, which has been under construction since the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s first full term in 2015. The government also plans to open up another 200-bed Covid facility in its under-construction hospital in Ambedkar Nagar. The three new hospitals that the Delhi government is constructing in Burari, Ambedkar Nagar, and Dwarka will add over 2,500 beds to the existing 11,770 beds in Delhi government-run hospitals. “The Delhi government is setting up a new world-class hospital having 700 beds. We are currently providing 450 beds for the treatment of corona patients in view of the prevailing situation. Oxygen facility has been installed on every third bed in this hospital. Besides this, oxygen will be supplied from the cylinder on 125 additional beds,” said Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/450-bed-covid-facility-inaugurated-in-upcoming-hospital-in-burari/story-DVFVM24eyw7y3C9Ds2pVJO.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||With limited public transit, cycling picks up speed in Delhi, finds study||Nearly two-and-a-half months after Delhi started relaxing the lockdown norms put in place to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, roads of the national capital have started seeing a surge in the number of cyclists, a study has found. The initial finding of the ongoing study by five researchers—all alumni of IIT-Delhi and IIT-Roorkee—shows that on at least 22 of the 56 stretches monitored, the number of cyclists has increased by 4% to 12%. The reason for the increase vary from limited public transport options to a preference for contactless modes of travel to keep the Covid-19 infection at bay, says the draft report.P Shridhar, the road safety engineer heading the project, said the stretches were studied to find how commuting patterns and traffic volume have changed after the city came out of lockdown, imposed on March 25. The restrictions were eased gradually from the second week of May with public transport resuming in the capital on May 20.“Our study is focusing on commuting patterns since May 18, when the city started unlocking its economy. While the volume of private vehicles has increased, we also observed that the volume of cycles on arterial roads has gone up,” said Shridhar, who is also a consultant for the governments of Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu to make commuter friendly public spaces. He said, “Apart from seeing these cyclists as just numbers, we also did a detailed survey to ascertain if they were new cyclists, and if so, why had they made the switch and what kind of infrastructure problems do they face during their commute.” On 22 stretches, the study found that the increase in the number of cyclists was in the range of 4% to 12%. The 22 stretches included Mathura Road (between Apollo Hospital and Jangpura), India Gate roundabout, Noida Link Road, August Kranti Marg, Sri Aurobindo Marg, Panchsheel Marg, Pankha Road, Aruna Asaf Ali Marg, Dabri-Gurgaon Road in Dwarka, Vedant Desika Mandir Marg (near Ber Sarai), and GT Karnal service road (near Shahdara metro station), among others.While most of these stretches are in the upscale parts of south and central Delhi — roads in these parts are wider and the traffic volume low, making them ideal routes for cyclists — curiously, the rise in cyclists numbers was also seen in many parts of west and north Delhi, both with predominantly working-class populations. “Lower middle-class users are switching to cycles for economic reasons. With a restriction on public transport and given their limited income, many are seeing cycles as a long-term option to save on commuting expenses,” the study draft reads. “For the middle and upper-class cyclists, who mostly own a private vehicle, the reasons for the switch are completely different -- they are using cycles for shorter distances, recreational purposes and also as a means to keep fit amid the pandemic scare,” it said further. Based on their findings, the research team have assessed that in the coming year, road share of cyclists could go up by as much as 20% to 25%. Delhi government estimates show, there are nearly 1.1 million regular bicycle users in the city, but this figure is from before the pandemic. A similar analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) found the share of cyclists of total road commuters will rise from 4% to 12%. “The takeaway from this is that cities will have to be planned to be more cyclist and pedestrian friendly. This is an opportunity,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), CSE. Mehul Srivastava, who leads a cycling group in south Delhi, said new cyclists are joining the team for health reasons and also to reduce contact with other people. “There are those who now prefer to cycle to the local market. Many who were using cabs or auto-rickshaws for short commutes are also switching to cycling because they do not want to risk any exposure to the virus. Health has become a priority among people, but the infrastructure for cyclists is still poor,” Srivastava said. He said most parts of the city do not have dedicated cycle tracks and even in areas where they are located. Cyclists, he said, also often become victims of road accidents and crimes such as snatching and robberies. Delhi traffic police data echoes cyclists’ concerns. Data on road accidents over the past 10 years shows that of the total fatalities on Delhi’s roads, cyclists and pedestrians make up 70%. A senior Delhi traffic police officer said, “In lower income areas, people don’t have a choice. The frequency of buses, which is their primary mode of transport, is low and so they prefer to cycle. Central and south Delhi areas have plenty of cycle groups with professional gear. But for the benefit of all classes, road infrastructure has to be safe. Sadly, that’s not the case now,” the officer said.Experts say similar upward swings in cycling have been observed in cities abroad. Alejandro Schwedhelm, urban mobility associate at World Resources Institute (WRI) Ross Centre for Sustainable Cities, said the surge was seen in cities in China, Germany, Ireland, the United Kingdom and the United States. Aniket Tikoo, owner of Bikers Loft, a biking equipment store in Lajpat Nagar, said the sale of cycles has increased by 10% to 15% over the past two months, but it was too early to say if the rise would remain consistent in the coming months. “People are mostly buying multi-geared comfort hybrids and road bikes. So, business has been good,” he said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-post-lockdown-delhi-cycling-is-picking-up-speed-finds-study/story-pKcgSlEs69JnvHcjEBrkhO.html
26-07-2020||Noida||Man held for ‘accidental’ death of 13-month-old daughter||A 28-year-old man was arrested by the Noida police on Saturday in connection with the “accidental” death of his 13-month-old daughter on July 23.The suspect, identified as Jamshed, is originally from Bihar and lived with his wife, Gulafsa (23), and daughter in Sector 22. Both parents work as daily wage earners.According to the suspect’s wife, the incident took place on Thursday afternoon around 1:30pm. “We were sitting in the courtyard and Jamshed was holding our daughter in his lap. For the past few months, there had been some problems between us, and on Thursday we started arguing again. Suddenly, he became very agitated and started shouting at me. In his anger, he almost threw our daughter at me who then fell from his hands and hit her head on the floor,” said Gulafsa.She said that on hearing the commotion, a few neighbours rushed to her aide and they immediately called up the police. “A PCR team came to the spot and I rushed my daughter to the government hospital in Nithari. But the hospital authorities their said that she should be taken to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi, and it was during the ride that she died,” Gulafsa added. Her husband fled the spot as soon as the police were called.The child’s body was then sent for an autopsy and later handed over back to the family. Gulafsa filed a complaint with the Sector 24 police on Friday following which a case was registered against Jamshed under section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.Police officers said the suspect’s primary intent was not murder and the death of the child was an accident.“We first received a call about the incident around 2pm on Thursday, and from the statement of the mother it seems that the suspect lost control during an argument which led to the child dropping on the floor and hitting her head which led to her death. A search had been on for the father ever since the incident,” said assistant commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajneesh Verma.The suspect was nabbed by the Sector 24 police on Saturday afternoon from the Sector 12-22-56 tri-junction. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-held-for-accidental-death-of-13-month-old-daughter/story-DCz5joiLskAplkejz48XvI.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Centre to draw plan for states to follow Delhi’s Covid-19 model||The Central government will on Monday hold a meeting to chalk out a plan for other states to replicate the ‘Delhi model’ of Covid-19 management, senior government officials said on Saturday. The meeting will be chaired by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla. A senior official in the Delhi government, who did not wish to be named, said, “The high-level meeting has been called to decide the steps that can be taken to replicate Delhi’s success model in other states that are seeing a surge in Covid-19 cases. Apart from this, the Covid-19 strategy for the coming days in Delhi will also be discussed.” According to the agenda, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev will present the key components of Delhi’s Covid-19 management strategy before the top Central government officials. The meeting will also have Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul in attendance along with other officers. Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu were responsible for nearly two of every three new infections reported till early July, but the current spurt in Covid-19 cases are being reported from Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal. In an interview with HT on July 18, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the ‘Delhi model’ was all about testing, home isolation, transparent data, hospital beds and plasma therapy. “But to achieve these five things, we followed three principles - 1) teamwork, 2) acknowledging constructive criticism and fixing what is wrong, 3) not giving up as a government no matter how bad the situation got,” he had said. The Delhi government in a statement on Saturday said,“CM Kejriwal has always said the essence of the Delhi Model is teamwork. At such a critical juncture, it’s very important all states work together to defeat Covid-19. If the steps taken by Delhi government that helped reduce cases can help in other states, it will be a badge of honour for the Delhi model.”As per Saturday’s health bulletin, Delhi’s Covid-19 recovery rate crossed 87% — the best among all states in India and higher than the national average of 63.5%. The Capital’s active cases also dipped to 12,657 on Saturday, the lowest in more than seven weeks, even as 1,142 fresh instances were recorded on Saturday. The national capital has, as on Saturday, recorded 129,531 cases of the disease.A senior official in the state health department said the initial trends suggest Delhi is approaching herd immunity. “Delhi could be one of the first states or cities in India inching towards herd immunity. The serological survey was conducted between June 27 and July 10. Generally it takes around 10-15 days for a recovered Covid-19 patient to generate antibodies. So, the survey mostly showed the trend of Delhi from the first 10 days of June. If it was almost 24% in early June, it must have crossed 30-35% by now,” the official said.Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated the efforts of the Centre and Delhi government in containing the disease outbreak in the city and directed that a similar approach against the pandemic be adopted across the National Capital Region. To get a clearer picture, the government has now decided to conduct similar sero surveys over the first five days of every month, the first of which will be held between August 1 and 5. Schools and colleges, bars, cinema halls, and the metro services are still closed in Delhi. In government buses, the government has rationed the number of passengers inside the bus to ensure social distancing. In government offices, meetings are held over video conferencing, in police stations, the citizens interact with police personnel outside office building. Police in Delhi have also started questioning suspects or meeting complainants over video conferencing. In the three jails — Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli — the authorities are yet to start the bi-weekly family visits. The courts are also conducting holding hearings over video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-to-draw-plan-for-states-to-follow-delhi-s-covid-model/story-JiqrBnBnxXmlyyibf2MEhI.html
26-07-2020||Delhi||Street food that’s ruling the mind of Delhi-NCR foodies||Delhiites have a soft spot for street food, and how! This is evident at the quick queues (with social distancing norms) that have been mushrooming at popular eateries in the city, as soon a place announces that it’s reopening. There’s little doubt that people missed street food during the lockdown. And now that the markets are open and abuzz with din and delicacies, denizens aren’t missing out on the chance to savour their favourite street food at the roadside stall — be it chaat or kebab. “Chole bhature is the most iconic representation of Delhi’s food culture. And everyone truly missed that during the lockdown, which is visible in our sales that have thankfully picked up again after a lull post the lockdown,” says Puneet Kohli from Sita Ram Diwan Chand in Paharganj, which is synonymous with chole bhature.   #Repost @foodama • • • • • • Ganesh Restaurant, Karol Bagh Lovingly called Ganeshi,late mr.Harichand, once proved his dedication to food by immersing his own hands in boiling oil, just to clear his customer's doubts and gracefully succeeded. Cooking is an art, GANESH RESTAURANT respect the art of preparing food by using only fresh and natural ingredients, which ensures authentic flavour and rich quality. Thank you @foodama #fishfry #ganeshi #ganeshrestaurant #fryman #delhifoodieA post shared by  GANESHI KAROL BAGH (@ganeshrestaurant786) on Dec 19, 2019 at 2:47am PSTIf monsoon is here, how can pakode be far! And a rainy day in Delhi-NCR is incomplete without chai and pakoda. “People are coming to buy our speciality, fish pakoda because they know we use fresh fish, always,” says Deepak Kumar, owner, Ganesh Restaurant at Karol Bagh. Vouching for the variety of non-veg pakodas he makes, Kumar adds, “Keeping in line with safety measures, we are preparing food in front of our customers, sanitising our premises every day, and recording the temperature of all employees. Log jaante hain ki hum unki safety ke sath compromise nahi karenge.” When it comes to gorging on momos, even a pandemic can’t stop a foodie! “People are once again coming from far off to order momos, and some eat here and also get them packed for later,” says Dolma Tsering aka Dolma Aunty, from Lajpat Nagar Central Market. “Since I’ve restarted business, I’m unable to produce as per my maximum capacity because there are not enough hands, but the response of customers has been great... Some people came to tell me they tried making these at home during lockdown, but couldn’t get the same taste and were missing these; this was heartening.” With chat vendors back in action, although equipped with face masks and hand gloves, the golgappa fans are rejoicing! Even chowmein and other fast foods now seem to be the “current favourite”, says Varun Puri, owner of IMLY. “During the lockdown people got bored of eating plain simple home food and the chatpata-ness was missed badly it seems. Also, fast food or street food is quick to eat and convenient for customers to takeaway. Our top selling dishes of late are desi chowmein, dahi kebabs, jalebi rabri and tandoori momos.”Foodies in Gurugram are thronging the popular Galleria Market. “People don’t mind sitting on benches and relishing their fav roles. Even biryani and shawarma are being lapped up like anything,” says Anas Qureshi, owner, Lazeez Food informing that they are packed on most of the days. “When people see that we are using sanitisers, gloves, caps, etc toh customer ko lagta hain na ki sab theek hai, fresh bana hai. Jo trust bana hai customers ka humare liye, woh iss wajah se hai ki everything is cooked live in front on them. Barbeque is also live rather then koi backyard mein kitchen hai, aur woh dhaka hua hai... And customers can also see their order getting packed in front of them,” he adds. Authors tweet @bhagat_mallika and @NainaArora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/street-food-that-s-ruling-the-mind-of-delhi-ncr-foodies/story-z94IahYjnt2oBac4hNT6UO.html
26-07-2020||Pune||PMC gets additional health chief after present incumbent goes on leave||For the first time, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) gets two health chiefs after the Maharashtra government appointed the second official when the first went on medical leave on health grounds from July 21. The government through an order on Friday appointed Dr Nitin Bilolikar, chief district surgeon, as PMC health chief, after Dr Ramchandra Hankare, current health chief, goes on medical leave. “I am on medical leave and will join the office on Monday (July 27). Recently the state government had appointed additional IAS officers in Pune to tackle the Covid situation and an additional health chief has been appointed at PMC. Now the municipal commissioner will distribute the work between both of us,” Dr Hankare said.Both Hankare and Bilolikar are from the state service. PMC elected members have many times raised the question in general body meetings of appointing the health chief from the civic body as the elected official will know the ground reality. Health chiefs were appointed from PMC, before a state service official was given the post in 2019.Congress leader Gopal Tiwari expressed unhappiness over Hankare’s leave. “When the city is facing a spike in Covid cases, why did the municipal commissioner approved his [Hankare] medical leave? He could have worked from home.” Meanwhile, at a review meeting with health department staff after taking charge as PMC commissioner, Vikram Kumar instructed the officials to improve performance and carry out more work on the ground by visiting hospitals and other medical centres.Bilolikar, a medical professional, was previously posted as deputy director of health services, Pune region. His appointment comes in the wake of government appointing bureaucrats who studied medicine as municipal commissioners in Mumbai metropolitan regions, including Thane, Mira-Bhayandar and Ulhasnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-gets-additional-health-chief-after-present-incumbent-goes-on-leave/story-J2iMKFZ8KsCpZAYGp5ZVbP.html
